-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Greece Makes ’Good Progress’ on Debt

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-20T21:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/emerging-market-stocks-fall-to-14-month-low-on-italy-downgrade.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
earlier losses, as  Greece  made “good progress” on resolving
its debt crisis and investors speculated the U.S. Federal
Reserve would introduce further monetary stimulus.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.2 percent to 951.15
by 4:31 p.m. in  New York . It had earlier fallen as much as 1
percent after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Italy’s credit rating.
Turkey’s XU100 Index jumped 5.1 percent after its local-currency
credit rating was raised to investment-grade by Standard &
Poor’s. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 1.8 percent in Moscow as oil
rose. The Brazilian Bovespa stock index fell on inflation
concern.  Staying in the euro area is an “irreversible and
fundamental national choice,” Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in a statement today. Venizelos made “good
progress” in a second round of talks with the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  aimed at staving off default,
the EU said in a statement. The Fed started a two-day Open
Market Committee meeting.  “The FOMC meeting starting today will undoubtedly be
investors’ key focus over the next two days, along with progress
surrounding the Greek situation,” analysts at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow including Slava Smolyaninov wrote in an e-mailed
report today.  Monetary Easing  Fed officials tomorrow will probably announce a program for
monetary easing that will do little to help 14 million
unemployed Americans find work, according to economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Open Market Committee will decide to
replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The EU statement said a “full mission” will return to
 Athens  next week after Venizelos’s discussions in coming days at
the IMF annual meeting in  Washington . Greek government spokesman
Ilias Mosialos said in a phone interview that Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  wasn’t considering holding a referendum on
whether his nation should exit the euro common currency, denying
a report in Kathimerini newspaper.  Italy was lowered to A from A+ on concern that weaker
growth and a “fragile” government mean the country won’t be
able to reduce the euro-region’s second-largest debt load, S&P
said.  Tam, OGX  Tam SA, Brazil’s second-biggest airline by market value,
rose 2.5 percent to a two-month high in Sao Paulo after it said
demand for domestic flights rose 0.8 percent last month from a
year earlier while demand for international flights increased
8.3 percent. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil
company  controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , gained
2.1 percent, following crude prices higher.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest crude producer, gained
2 percent.  The Hungarian forint strengthened 1.4 percent against the
 U.S. dollar , the best performer among 25 emerging-market
currencies.  Turkey ’s lira followed, climbing 1 percent. Brazil’s
real gained 0.7 percent after reaching the lowest in more than a
year yesterday. The nation’s consumer prices, as measured by the
IPCA-15 index, rose more than economists forecast this month.  Chile’s peso sank 1.8 percent to the weakest level in
almost eight months, after copper, Chile’s biggest export,
slumped to the lowest since November. South Korea’s won dropped
1 percent to this year’s low on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will spur an exodus from emerging-market assets.  IMF Forecast  The IMF cut its forecast for global economic growth and
predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe fails to contain
its debt crisis or if U.S. policy makers reach an impasse over a
fiscal plan. The world economy will expand 4 percent this year
and next, the IMF said today, compared with June forecasts of
4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 402, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent, climbing
from a 14-month low, as investors speculated recent losses were
excessive. The Shanghai index has slumped 13 percent this year,
extending last year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government
increased measures to cool inflation that’s at an almost three-
year high. The gauge is valued at 11.3 times estimated profit,
after reaching a record low yesterday, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg and dating back to January 2006.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost 2.1 percent, the
most since Aug. 9. Philippine stocks are one of the most
“crowded” trades this year on a net foreign-buying basis,
Credit Suisse Group AG said in a research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  