-- 
EON, RWE Jump in Frankfurt Trading as Court Suspends Nuclear Tax

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-09-20T10:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/eon-rwe-jump-in-frankfurt-trading-as-court-suspends-nuclear-tax.html
EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s
biggest utilities, gained as much as 4.1 percent in Frankfurt
trading as a Hamburg court suspended a tax on nuclear-fuel use.   EON and RWE, the country’s largest generators of atomic
power, rose higher than the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  after the court
ruled against the levy yesterday, saying an unnamed power-plant
operator should be reimbursed the 96 million euros ($132
million) it already paid.  The tax was drafted last year to accompany a German
proposal to extend the life of reactors into the mid-2030s. The
government, which would have earned about 2.3 billion euros from
the levy to trim the  budget deficit , scrapped the extension plan
after the Fukushima disaster in  Japan  in March.  EON rose as much as 62 euro cents to 15.785 euros, and
traded at 15.695 euros as of 12:16 p.m. local time. RWE climbed
as much as 1.03 euros, before trading up 90 cents at 25.895
euros. The DAX Index gained as much as 2.6 percent to 5,556.19.  Court rulings on the nuclear-fuel tax are on a case-by-case
basis and the levy hasn’t been deemed unconstitutional.  While yesterday’s decision confirms legal doubts about the
tax and is “good news” for utilities, “we continue to expect
long-winded legal proceedings through all judicial instances,”
Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
said in a note. He rated the chance of a successful legal
challenge to the levy at “significantly below 50 percent.”  EON, RWE,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  and Vattenfall
AB have extended cost-cutting and asset-sale programs to curb
losses from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s decision to close the
country’s reactors. EON last month reported its first quarterly
loss in a decade, citing costs linked to the fuel tax and the
German nuclear exit. RWE said Aug. 7 the nuclear policy reduced
first-half profit by about 900 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  