-- 
Tepco Bond Risk Surges by Record on Edano Loan Waiver Call: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-09-21T05:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/tepco-bond-risk-surges-on-edano-loan-waiver-call-japan-credit.html
Bond prices show creditors will
have to share the bill for  Japan ’s nuclear crisis after the new
minister responsible for power companies said banks should write
off some loans to Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the utility, whose
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was wrecked by the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, surged a record 271.9 basis points last week to
887.9 basis points after Yukio Edano repeated calls for
investors to help pay for the costs of the disaster, according
to CMA. Contracts on the power company are the most expensive
relative to global peers since June 28, the data show.  Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, faces compensation claims of as
much as 11 trillion yen ($144 billion) after three reactor
meltdowns at Fukushima, about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north
of  Tokyo , and helped tip the world’s third-largest economy into
recession. Edano, 47, the chief of staff for the previous
government, first called in May for banks to forgive some loans
made before the quake. He was appointed head of the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry on Sept. 12.  “We really have to consider the risk that Edano will push
for a loan waiver,” said Hiroshi Nakamura, who helps oversee
3.5 trillion yen in assets as general manager of fixed-income
investment in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co. “He
shouldn’t say anything that might destabilize the market
anymore.”  Bondholder Protection  The cost of protecting Tokyo-based Tepco’s debt from
default surged more last week than in the immediate aftermath of
the temblor, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Contracts rose 239.5 basis points to 280 in
the week to March 18, and peaked at 1,000 on June 7.  Credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, fall as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve and rise as they deteriorate. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of bonds and loans.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the yield on the
nation’s benchmark 10-year bond was little changed at 0.985
percent today, after touching 0.97 percent on Aug. 19, the
lowest since November, according to Japan Bond Trading Co. Ten-
year Treasury yields slid to a record 1.877 percent on Sept. 12.  Corporate Bonds  Spreads on Japanese corporate bonds, excluding the debt of
power companies and banks, rose 1 basis point yesterday to 22,
after reaching a post-quake high of 27 on May 11, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Japan Industrial Index.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps
declined 1 basis point to 187 basis points as of noon in Tokyo,
Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The latest series of the benchmark
started trading yesterday, with contracts on Chubu Electric
Power Co., Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. and Softbank Corp.
replacing ones on Canon Inc., Komatsu Ltd. and Mitsui Chemicals
Inc., according to Markit Group Ltd.  Contracts to insure Japanese government debt for five years
declined 1 basis point to 126 basis points, according to
Deutsche Bank prices.  Tokyo Metropolitan Government hired Bank of America Corp.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc. to help organize a series of
credit investor meetings in  Asia  from Oct. 13. The municipality
is visiting  Hong Kong  and Beijing before deciding whether to
sell five-year, dollar-denominated debt, said Yoshiko Aida, a
director of the bond unit at the government.  ‘Competitive’ Funding  “Based on the market conditions, we have been looking for
currencies in which we can sell bonds,” Aida said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “Funding in dollars after swapping into
yen now will be as competitive as funding in yen. Until
recently, yen was much cheaper.”  The sale would be Tokyo Metropolitan’s first dollar
offering since February 2001, when it raised $170 million in 10-
year, 6.125 percent bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tepco has 4.6 trillion yen of bonds outstanding, or 7.5
percent of the market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A net $505 million of protection on Tepco, the biggest corporate
issuer in Japan, was outstanding as of Sept. 16, the latest  data 
from Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Tepco’s 30 billion
yen of 1.155 percent bonds due September 2020 instead of
similar-maturity government debt rose 40 basis points this month
to a record 467 yesterday, according to Japan Securities Dealers
Association prices. Spreads on Tepco’s 4.5 percent euro
denominated notes due in 2014 widened 198.2 to 1,166.6 over the
euro swap rate, BNP Paribas SA prices show.  Compensation Claims  Tepco may face compensation claims of as much as 11
trillion yen, Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimated on March
29. Legislation approved by parliament on Aug. 3 created a
state-backed entity to pay damages associated with the atomic
accident with “necessary cooperation from shareholders and
other interested parties.”  “The purpose of using tax money to aid  Tokyo Electric 
doesn’t include the protection of creditors and shareholders,”
Edano told reporters in Tokyo on Sept. 13. “They should bear
costs they would have been liable for if there wasn’t support
from the government.”  Edano, who led daily briefings on the disaster as chief
cabinet secretary, will participate in the government’s response
to the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl 25 years ago. He
will oversee reforms at the ministry after former trade
minister,  Banri Kaieda , fired three top energy officials.  Tepco Creditors  Tepco has 3.28 trillion yen of loans due in a year or more,
according to a June 29 filing with the government. The utility
owes Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. 769.5 billion yen in loans,
581.8 billion yen to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and 349 billion
yen to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  “We have repeatedly said we wouldn’t accept forgiveness of
loans to Tepco if we are asked to do so,”  Katsunori Nagayasu ,
head of the Japanese Bankers Association and chief executive
officer of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , said at a news
conference in Tokyo Sept. 15. Banks have already given support
to Tepco after the disaster, including 2 trillion yen of
emergency loans, he said.  The nuclear reactors will be brought under control by the
end of the year, a government official said on Sept. 19 in an
assessment backed by the  United Nations ’ atomic agency.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Tepco’s credit rating by five levels
to B+, the fourth-highest non-investment grade, on May 30,
citing a likelihood that banks may restructure some of the
utility’s debts.  Tepco is considering job cuts and reshuffling some
positions, spokesman Naoki Tsunoda said in a phone interview
today. No concrete details have been decided yet, Tsunoda said,
responding to media reports. Tepco told a government committee
yesterday that it will eliminate as many as 5,000 jobs, national
broadcaster NHK reported, citing an unidentified person.  Government Support  There is a high chance the utility will still receive
“extraordinary government support,” Hiroki Shibata, a Tokyo-
based associate director for S&P covering power firms, told
reporters Sept. 15. Edano’s talk of a loan waiver is “just his
personal view,” Shibata said.  Japan’s economy is still reeling from the earthquake, with
gross domestic product contracting in the second quarter by more
than the government estimated, the Cabinet Office said Sept. 9.  S&P cut its forecast last week for Japan’s growth in 2011
to about zero, saying the yen may undermine a recovery from the
temblor. The currency rose to a post-World War II high of 75.95
per dollar on Aug. 19, threatening to derail any export-led
recovery. It traded at 76.36 at 2:35 p.m. in Tokyo.  Overseas shipments increased 2.8 percent in August from the
same month a year earlier, the first increase since the March 11
earthquake, according to a Ministry of Finance report from Tokyo
today. The gain was slower than the lowest forecast of 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg New, whose median estimate was
for an 8 percent increase.  Default Risk  One-year default-swaps on Tepco’s debt rose 626.2 last week
to 1,756.4, the biggest weekly increase since the five days
ending June 10, CMA prices show. The contracts are pricing in a
29 percent chance of default within a year, assuming a 35
percent recovery for bondholders, Bloomberg data show.  Five-year contracts on  utility companies  worldwide,
including  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke Energy Corp. and
Korea Electric Power Corp., rose 5 basis points last week to
169.3 basis points and were last at 173.4, Bloomberg data show.  “As a minister, Edano needs to be held responsible for his
remarks,” said Tomone Kawachi, chief investment officer at WERU
Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based investment advisory firm.
“I’m not sure if he’s just being stubborn or if he’s really
serious about cutting debt, but I don’t think he can do it in a
practical sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  