-- 
Metcash Franklins Buy Wins Approval Over Australian Regulator’s Objections

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-20T05:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/metcash-s-franklins-buy-approved-over-antitrust-opposition-1-.html
Metcash Ltd. (MTS) , Australia’s biggest
grocery wholesaler, can complete its acquisition of the
Franklins supermarket chain from  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK)  over the
objections of the country’s antitrust regulator.  Federal Court Justice Peter Jacobson in Sydney refused
today the  Australian Competition & Consumer Commission’s  request
to block the sale until it gets a ruling from an appeals court,
clearing the way for Metcash and Pick n Pay to complete the
A$215 million ($219 million) deal by a Sept. 30 deadline.  Federal Court Justice Arthur Emmett rejected on Aug. 25 the
regulator’s argument that the purchase would give Sydney-based
Metcash a monopoly in supplying independent grocery stores and
allowed the sale to proceed. The ACCC, which has argued Emmett’s
ruling makes it more difficult to block mergers and acquisitions
in the future, said today it would still pursue its appeal.  “The sale agreement provides Pick n Pay with the ability
to make a certain exit from the business,” Jacobson said in his
ruling today. “I do not see why it should be further delayed.”  Metcash gained 1.5 percent to A$4.14 as of 2:49 p.m. in
Sydney trading. The stock was the best performer today on the
eight-company S&P/ASX 200 Consumer Staple Index, which rose 0.9
percent.  Emmett said last month the ACCC must prove that its view of
what a market would look like with and without a proposed
acquisition must be more probable than any competing argument.
The regulator had failed to prove, in the Metcash case, it would
be more likely than not that an alternative buyer would be found
for Franklins, he said at the time.  ‘No Alternative’  “It’s the ordinary civil standard,” Sharon Henrick, a
partner at  Mallesons Stephen Jaques , said in a phone interview
today. “No alternative has emerged and you’d think if one was
there, now would be the time.”  She said she expected ACCC to lose its appeal because
Emmett employed the correct standard.  The ACCC had argued that it only had to establish there was
“a real chance” another buyer could be found.  Emmett also said  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s
Coles stores provide enough competition and the acquisition by
Metcash might provide a boost to stores operated under the IGA
banner.  “Some weight should be given to the primary judge’s
finding that the transaction is pro-competitive,” Jacobson
wrote.  Appeal Hearing  Jacobson agreed to speed up the appeal process and
scheduled a three-day hearing before a full court from Oct. 24.  “A speedy resolution will be in the best interests of all
the parties,” the regulator said in a statement today.  Pick n Pay,  South Africa ’s second-biggest food retailer,
said last week it will sell Franklins even if a deal were
blocked. In its annual report released in May, Pick n Pay said
sales at Franklins fell 3.9 percent in the year ended Feb. 28 to
A$827 million, resulting in a net loss of A$18.1 million.  The South African company agreed to sell Franklins to
Metcash in July 2010. The agreement was extended to Sept. 30 as
the companies awaited the initial court ruling.  Franklins has 80 stores and 10 franchise outlets in
 Australia .  The case is: Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
v. Metcash Trading Ltd. NSD1714/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  