-- 
EU Commission Orders Hypo Real Estate to Find Buyers by 2015

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-09-20T14:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/eu-commission-orders-hypo-real-estate-to-find-buyers-by-2015-1-.html
Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, the
German lender bailed out during the financial crisis, has been
ordered by the  European Commission  to privatize its two
remaining units over the next four years.  The Munich-based lender’s biggest operation, pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank, has to be sold by the end of 2015 at the latest
and its Depfa Bank Plc unit by the end of 2014, Hypo Real Estate
said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  The EU Commission, the European Union’s executive arm in
Brussels, is examining the restructuring of lenders that needed
state aid during the financial crisis including Hypo Real
Estate,  Bayerische Landesbank , WestLB AG and HSH Nordbank AG.
While regulators today approved  Germany ’s 30 billion-euro ($41
billion) bailout package for HSH, EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said that talks over the restructuring of
BayernLB are “taking much longer than I wish.”  Hypo Real Estate, led by Chief Executive Officer Manuela Better, in July got the commission’s approval for its German-
government rescue and is fully owned by the state. It moved
about 176 billion euros in assets to the FMS Wertmanagement bad
bank on Sept. 30, 2010. FMS, also based in Munich, has the task
of winding down the assets over a period of 10 years.  Depfa Bank Plc is closed to new business, while pbb
Deutsche Pfandbriefbank reported its fourth consecutive
profitable quarter last month.  Debt Guarantees  The sale should seek to return “as much of the support
provided by the German state as possible,” Hypo Real Estate
said in today’s statement.  Hypo Real Estate needed 10 billion euros in capital and 142
billion euros in credit lines and debt guarantees from the state
and financial institutions to save it from collapse after
Dublin-based Depfa couldn’t raise financing in 2008 following
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  