-- 
Europe Faces Bank Crisis Amid Sovereign Risk, Katainen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-20T07:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/europe-faces-banking-crisis-with-sovereign-risk-katainen-says.html
Europe  faces the threat of a
region-wide banking crisis if it fails to contain its sovereign
debt crisis, Finland’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “There’s real doubt whether all countries can manage their
debts and how the European banking system can withstand the
crisis,” Katainen said in a  television interview  on Finland’s
MTV3 today. “We’re working every day to bring as much stability
to euro area citizens as possible.”  The worsening debt crisis is eroding confidence among the
region’s lenders, crimping liquidity and pushing the spread
between secured and unsecured interest rates to the widest since
December 2008. The  European Central Bank  said on Sept. 15 it
will lend dollars to euro-area banks with the  Federal Reserve 
and other central banks to ensure access to the U.S. currency.  ECB council member Erkki Liikanen yesterday called for a
recapitalization of the region’s banks, saying it is “the most
effective tool for restoring confidence” in the financial
system amid a “systemic” crisis. Shareholders should assume
the burden of raising new capital, he said.  “Debt reorganization that keeps getting offered as a
remedy isn’t unproblematic,” Katainen said. “It’s an extremely
dangerous and risky measure. If a country one day had to take
this course, we’d have to ensure the problems wouldn’t spread.”  Tackling contagion is key to averting a global recession,
Liikanen said. Italy’s credit rating was cut to A from A+, with
a negative outlook today at  Standard & Poor’s  and  Greece ’s
government plans another call with its main creditors today as
it seeks to stave off default.  Finland’s parliament today begins discussing the expanded
powers of the region’s temporary rescue fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, and a vote by the lawmakers is
scheduled for Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  