-- 
Euro Will Stay Above $1.30 on Central-Bank Buying, FxPro Says

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-20T12:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/euro-will-stay-above-1-30-on-central-bank-buying-fxpro-says.html
The euro is likely to stay stronger
than $1.30 this year as central banks and sovereign-wealth funds
seeking an alternative to the dollar keep buying the shared
currency, according to FxPro Group Ltd.  The 17-nation euro will trade between $1.30 and $1.40 for
the rest of 2011 as buyers led by the  Swiss National Bank  and
its Asian counterparts purchase assets denominated in the
currency as a substitute for the greenback, said Michael Derks,
chief strategist at the foreign-exchange broker in  London .  “There are just too many natural buyers of euro who are
keen to hoover it up at these cheaper levels to push it
dramatically weaker,” Derks said in a telephone interview.
“The central banks and sovereign-wealth funds have very deep
pockets so I don’t see where the selling pressure on the euro is
going to come from.”  The euro traded at $1.3707 at 8:31 a.m. in  New York , after
falling to $1.3495 on Sept. 12, the weakest level since Feb. 16.  Concern  Greece  will default on its debt as  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis worsens has pushed the euro to a 10-year low against the
yen and seen it lose 4.6 percent this month against the dollar.
Even so, the euro has weakened just 1.6 percent in the past 12
months against a basket of its nine developed-market peers,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  “I do appreciate that the euro is facing great difficulty,
but if you look at the price action, the pain it has suffered is
meager in light of the events that have unfolded,” Derks said.
“It has been remarkably resilient.”  Franc Ceiling  Switzerland ’s central bank said it will buy “unlimited
quantities” of foreign currencies including the euro to stop
the franc from strengthening. The SNB imposed a ceiling of 1.20
francs per euro on Sept. 6 to protect exporters such as food
maker Nestle SA and limit an economic slowdown.  China ’s government and other Asian investors may purchase
bonds issued by the European Financial Stability Facility to
bail out indebted euro-area nations, the  Financial Times 
reported in May. The newspaper said this month Italy may sell
bonds and strategic assets to China in an attempt to shake off
its fiscal debt burden.  China is the world’s biggest holder of foreign-exchange
reserves and the largest overseas investor in  U.S. debt , with
holdings of $1.174 trillion, according to Treasury data.
Officials including People’s Bank of China adviser Li Daokui
have urged diversification of the nation’s currency reserves
away from the  U.S. dollar   “There’s too much financial interest in the euro from
investors who want to diversify away from the dollar,” Derks
said. “I don’t see how a dominant seller can emerge in that
environment.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said his nation may
buy more bonds issued by Europe’s bailout fund provided the
region’s leaders reach a consensus on how to deal with the
sovereign-debt crisis, the Wall Street Journal reported today,
citing an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  