-- 
European Stocks Advance as Greece Calls Debt Talks ‘Productive’

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-20T16:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/european-stock-futures-drop-as-s-p-cuts-italy-s-credit-rating-on-debt-woes.html
European stocks climbed as Greece
described its debt talks with the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund as “productive” and investors
speculated the  Federal Reserve  will provide more stimulus.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s biggest utilities, climbed
more than 3.5 percent after a court suspended a nuclear-fuel
tax.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  surged 5.7 percent after Citigroup
Inc. advised buying the shares.  SAP AG (SAP)  rose 2.3 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 1.8 percent to 229.1 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The Federal Reserve, led by Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , will decide tomorrow to replace short-term
Treasuries with long-term bonds, according to the majority of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The move is known as
“Operation Twist,” for its goal to bend the yield curve.  “Markets are up because they chose to see developments in
 Greece  as a positive,” said Mads Koefoed, a market strategist
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “If the Fed only announces an
‘Operation Twist,’ switching the duration of its bond holdings,
there’s a good chance equity markets will not be very
impressed.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to replace
short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-
term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The move will probably fail to trim the 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, 61 percent of respondents said.  Slowing Growth  The Stoxx 600 has fallen 21 percent from this year’s peak
on Feb. 17 amid speculation that global economic growth is
slowing and as Europe’s debt crisis spreads. The slide has
dragged the price-earnings ratio on the measure to 9.6 times
estimated profits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes rose in every western-European
market except Greece and Iceland today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index advanced 2 percent, Germany’s DAX Index gained 2.9 percent
and France’s CAC 40 Index climbed 1.5 percent.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held
“productive and substantive” discussions with European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  officials yesterday about the
country’s bailout. Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government
will hold another call today as European leaders squabble over
the terms of a July agreement and the prospect that they will be
forced to channel more money to keep Greece in the currency
union.  Greek Aid  The IMF said that the program carried out by the government
had produced “impressive fiscal consolidation,” while EU
economics spokesman Amadeu Altafaj told reporters in Brussels
yesterday that the European Commission has not demanded more of
Greece than was agreed to in the international aid program for
the country.  RWE and EON jumped 3.7 percent to 25.93 euros and 4 percent
to 15.77 euros, respectively, as a Hamburg court suspended a
federal tax on companies that use nuclear fuel. The court said
that the government should reimburse an unnamed power plant
operator, which asked that the tax be suspended, the 96 million
euros ($131 million) it had paid on the levy.  Barratt Developments rallied 5.7 percent to 82.2 pence as
Citigroup upgraded the shares to “buy” from “hold,” saying
the company trades at too great a discount to the value of its
assets.  SAP Shares Gain  SAP, the world’s biggest maker of  business software , gained
2.3 percent to 37.35 euros after a U.S. judge asked Oracle Corp.
to consider revising its request for a review of a court order
overturning a damage award against the German software maker.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , on Sept. 1 granted SAP’s motion to throw out the
copyright-infringement verdict against it. She ruled that SAP
should get a new trial for damages if Oracle rejects her
decision to reduce the amount to $272 million, which she said
should be the maximum in damages based on the evidence at trial.  NKT Holding A/S, the Danish maker of industrial vacuum
cleaners and power cables, surged 12 percent to 214.30 kroner
after saying it may sell its flexible pipeline joint venture
with Norwegian offshore engineering group Subsea 7 SA. Subsea 7
rose 5 percent to 122.80 kroner.  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC)  rallied 6.2 percent to 58.30 euros after
announcing that annual sales climbed 38 percent to 2.75 billion
euros in the year ended August. The company confirmed its full-
year current operating margin target of more than 13 percent.
The company, which sells airplane equipment, said that 11
percent of the full-year sales growth came from recent
acquisitions.  French Banks Fall  Declines at some banks limited gains on the Stoxx 600.
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA sank 3.1 percent to 17.15 euros and  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA declined 6.5 percent to 24.92 euros.  Italy had its  credit rating  cut to A from A+ by  Standard &
Poor’s  on concern that weakening economic growth and a
“fragile” government mean the nation won’t be able to reduce
the euro area’s second-largest debt burden.  S&P said Italy’s net general government debt is the highest
among A-rated sovereigns, and the company expects it to peak
later and at a higher level than it had estimated.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
declined 4.4 percent to 10.32 euros, its largest slide in two
weeks, after saying operating profit in 2011 will fall short of
last year’s 876 million euros. International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, the owner of British Airways and Spain’s
Iberia, declined 2.6 percent to 150.2 pence, while Air France-
KLM Group fell 3.7 percent to 5.74 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  