-- 
Swiss Franc Falls on Cap Speculation; Dollar Fluctuates as Fed Deliberates

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-20T21:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/euro-strengthens-0-2-percent-against-dollar-ending-two-days-of-losses.html
The Swiss franc fell against the
euro by the most since the  Swiss National Bank  put a ceiling on
its currency’s strength and dropped against the dollar amid
speculation policy makers may impose a tighter target.  The dollar fluctuated against the euro as the Federal
Reserve meeting is forecast to produce additional economic
stimulus and the International Monetary Fund predicted severe
global growth repercussions if Europe fails to contain the
sovereign debt crisis. Swiss central bank spokesman Walter Meier
in Zurich declined to comment when asked about speculation that
policy makers may adjust the franc ceiling against the euro.  “The market is scared,” said Yra Harris, chief trader and
analyst at Praxis Trading in  Chicago . “There’s no question
foreign exchange markets are scared of the Swiss bank and what
its intention are.”  The franc weakened 0.7 percent to 1.2160 per euro at 5:01
p.m. in New York. It fell 0.6 percent to 88.78 centimes per  U.S.
dollar .  The euro was little changed at $1.3707. The dollar was
little changed at 76.45 yen.  The Swiss central bank imposed a 1.20 ceiling for the franc
versus the euro on Sept. 6 with the central bank saying it would
defend the level with the “utmost determination.” The SNB
doesn’t plan to hold a briefing or issue a statement today,
Meier told Bloomberg News by telephone.  Franc Strength  The franc has risen 7.2 percent during the past 12 months
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has fallen 2.4 percent
and the dollar weakened 5.9 percent.  “People don’t want to fight the Swiss National Bank
anymore,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
online trading firm GFT Forex in New York. “The big move in the
franc is all because of the talk of the Swiss National Bank
possibly re-pegging the franc to 1.25 per euro.”  The dollar weakened earlier today against most its major
counterparts after the IMF said the  European Central Bank  should
lower  interest rates  if risks to growth persist. The ECB’s
current benchmark rate is 1.5 percent.  The IMF also said the world’s largest economy will expand
1.5 percent this year, down from the 2.5 percent projected in
June and lowered its forecast for 2012, citing unresolved debt-
reduction concerns and waning confidence among consumers and
businesses.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, fell as much as
0.4 percent before trading at 76.984.  The Fed began its two-day meeting today amid speculation
the central bank will act to increase holdings of longer
maturities to keep borrowing costs down. The action will do
little to help 14 million unemployed Americans find work,
according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed View  “People are still trying to guess at this point what
surprises the Fed is capable of,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “For the euro, people were
already so far into the negative camp that there not much else
but upside. You can argue that after a slew of negative
headlines, some things that aren’t so negative can be a relief
and give the euro a little bit of a breather.”  Australia ’s dollar was the biggest winner against the U.S.
currency, rising 0.5 percent to $1.0276.  The Aussie pared a loss of 4 percent this month against the
greenback as RBA policy makers failed to discuss lowering the
central bank’s 4.75 percent overnight cash rate target,
according to minutes of a Sept. 6 meeting released today.  Europe  Measure  German investor confidence fell to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years in September as Europe’s debt crisis and a global
slowdown damped the outlook for growth.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to minus
43.3 in September from minus 37.6 last month, the lowest since
December 2008. Economists expected a drop to minus 45, according
to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos made “good
progress” in a second round of talks with the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  aimed at staving off default, the EU
said. A “full mission” will return to Athens next week after his
discussions in coming days at the IMF’s annual meeting in
 Washington , an EU statement said.  The EU comments suggest the next payment for  Greece , the
latest from a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout agreed
upon last year, is likely to be released next month as Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  fights investor doubts that he can
avoid default.  “These days, when it’s not downright negative, it’s seen
as positive,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency
strategy at Nomura International Plc in  London . “The trend is
still down for the euro. We’re predicting $1.30 for the euro by
year-end and that seems to be where it’s heading.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  