-- 
Euro Approaches 10-Year Low Versus Yen After S&P Downgrades Italian Bonds

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-20T09:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/euro-approaches-10-year-low-versus-yen-after-s-p-downgrades-italian-bonds.html
The euro approached a 10-year low
against the yen after Standard & Poor’s cut  Italy ’s credit
rating, adding to concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will raise
borrowing costs for the region’s largest economies.  The 17-nation shared currency fell for a third straight day
versus the dollar as  Greece  resumed discussions with creditors
today aimed at staving off default. The dollar gained versus
most of its major peers before the  Federal Reserve ’s policy
meeting today. South Korea’s won fell to its weakest this year
as Asian stocks slumped.  “Investors are still pricing in the possibility of a Greek
default and that’s weighing on the euro, particularly against
the dollar and yen which seem to be benefiting in this
environment,” said Chris Walker, a foreign-exchange strategist
at UBS AG in  London . “The crisis in Europe is going to get
worse before it gets better so we would recommend selling the
euro at these levels. We think it’ll go to $1.30 by year-end.”  The euro was 0.2 percent lower at 104.61 yen as of 10:07
a.m. in London after reaching 103.99 yen, within 0.09 yen of the
least since 2001. The shared currency was 0.2 percent weaker at
$1.3664. The dollar bought 76.56 yen.  The rating for Italy, which has Europe’s second-largest
debt load, was lowered to A from A+, S&P said yesterday in a
statement. The firm said Italy’s net general government debt is
the highest among A rated sovereigns, and now expects it to peak
later and at a higher level than it previously anticipated.  European Stocks Rise  Asian equities extended a two-week decline, with the
region’s benchmark index falling 0.8 percent following news of
Italy’s downgrade. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index still gained 0.7
percent led by advances in technology and construction
companies.  “European stocks are a touch up; these days when it’s not
downright negative it’s seen as positive,” said  Geoff Kendrick ,
head of European currency strategy at Nomura International Plc
in London. “The trend is still down for the euro. We’ve
predicting $1.30 for the euro by year-end and that seems to be
where it’s heading.”  Italy follows  Spain , Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and Greece
as euro-region countries having their credit ratings cut this
year. The  European Central Bank  last month started buying
Italian and Spanish government bonds after the region’s debt
crisis pushed their yields to euro-era records.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government will
hold another call with European Union and International Monetary
Fund officials tonight in a bid to secure a sixth installment of
rescue funds, amid concern the austerity measures demanded are
deepening a three-year recession and making it harder for the
government to meet its deficit goals.  ‘Selling Into Rallies’  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “substantive”
discussions with the officials, the finance ministry said in an
e-mailed statement after a teleconference last night.  “There’s a lot of event risk for the euro and it should
stay weaker over the next few weeks,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a
senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The
euro at current levels is probably quite a bit higher than what
the market sees as fair value.”  Papandreou is considering holding a referendum on whether
his nation should remain in the common currency, the Kathimerini
newspaper said, citing people it didn’t name. Greek government
spokesman Ilias Mosialos denied the report.  The dollar advanced before Fed officials begin a two-day
meeting. Policy makers may decide to replace some of the short-
term Treasuries in the Fed’s $1.65 trillion portfolio with
longer-maturity debt in a bid to lower borrowing costs,
according to economists at Wells Fargo & Co., Barclays Plc and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘More Aggressive’  The Fed may go further by reducing the  interest rate  paid
on reserves, according to  Adrian Foster , head of financial-
market research for  Asia  at Rabobank Groep NV in  Hong Kong .  “Everyone is worried about all the risks, so this time
around when we see a central bank actually taking more
aggressive action than the average market expectation, you may
get a bit of a boost to the dollar,” Foster said.  The euro pared declines against the dollar after data
showed  Germany ’s investor confidence fell less than economists
expected this month.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to minus
43.3 in September from minus 37.6 last month, the lowest since
December 2008. Economists expected a drop to minus 45, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Australian Rates  The yen strengthened against all but one of its 16 major
peers.  Japan ’s trade minister  Yukio Edano  said the country will
deal with any speculative currency moves.  Australia ’s dollar rose as the nation’s central bank said
it was well positioned to respond to global and domestic risks
or the threat of an acceleration of inflation, according to
minutes of a Sept. 6 meeting at which policy makers kept its
cash target unchanged at 4.75 percent.  The so-called Aussie traded 0.2 percent stronger at
$1.0239. It earlier fell as low as $1.0149, its weakest since
Aug. 11. It gained 0.1 percent to 78.36 yen.  South Korea ’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit reached 2011 lows
as the European debt crisis damped demand for higher-yield
currencies.  “Risk aversion has gone to the next level and the losses
are justified, given that European officials have not been able
to reassure the markets on the default risk,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “Asian assets are getting sold off in favor of cash.”  The won dropped 1 percent to 1,1148.90 per dollar after
earlier touching 1,156.50, the weakest since Dec. 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit retreated 0.3
percent to 3.1235 per dollar. It earlier reached 3.1412, the
weakest since Dec. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  