-- 
Europe May Spark Global Rout If EFSF Stalls, Urpilainen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-20T13:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/europe-needs-effective-tools-to-avert-crises-urpilainen-says.html
Europe  risks sparking a global
recession if it fails to implement credible tools and bring an
end to the region’s debt crisis, Finland’s Finance Minister
Jutta Urpilainen.  “The global economy faces a serious risk of a new
recession,” Urpilainen told lawmakers in Helsinki at the start
of a debate on the expanded powers of the European Financial
Stability Facility. “The escalation of the European debt crisis
can be stopped with controlled measures. We must work hard with
other European countries to that end.”  Urpilainen reiterated AAA rated Finland’s demand for
collateral in exchange for its contribution to a second Greek
bailout and urged lawmakers to pass the amendments even as the
collateral question faces opposition in Europe. All alternatives
for ending the debt crisis carry a high risk, Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen  told lawmakers.  “The EFSF is a tool,” Urpilainen said. “Finland’s
collateral demand relates to the use of that tool, not the
mechanism itself.”  European efforts to end the region’s debt crisis suffered a
setback today as Standard & Poor’s cut Italy’s credit rating one
level to A, fueling concern that the euro region’s third-largest
economy may be engulfed by contagion. Credit default swaps on
German and Italian government debt rose.  Euro-Skeptic  Timo Soini, the euro-skeptic leader of the biggest
opposition group “The Finns” party, said more bailouts won’t
help solve the crisis. He was backed by the opposition Center
Party.  “The funds will be used to recapitalize banks that took
unmanageable risks,” Mauri Pekkarinen, Center Party lawmaker
and former Economy Minister said. “This is absolutely the wrong
route to go.”  Finland ’s parliament is scheduled to vote on expanding the
EFSF on Sept. 28. The country’s parliament must approve any
payments made from the fund.  Collateral in exchange for the second Greek bailout will be
“conditional,” as decided by the euro group last week,
Urpilainen said. The model and conditions, which must be
acceptable to Finland, are being negotiated, she told lawmakers.  Euro area finance ministers on Sept. 16 agreed on the
principle that collateral must carry a cost, with the goal of
limiting its use to Finland. Countries willing to bear the extra
cost will have access to collateral, they agreed.  Katainen, who leads a six-party coalition that took two
months to form following April elections, told lawmakers “there
is no cost-free option for solving the euro crisis. We are doing
all we can to ensure the survival of the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  