-- 
Hewlett-Packard Shows Hazard of Sharing LinkedIn Profiles: Tech

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/hewlett-packard-executive-proves-hazard-of-sharing-linkedin-profiles-tech.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Vice President
Scott McClellan gave away more than his job status when he
mentioned the computer maker’s new Web-storage initiative in his
profile on LinkedIn Corp., a professional-networking site.  McClellan inadvertently tipped off competitors earlier this
year to previously undisclosed details of Hewlett-Packard’s
cloud-computing services. The information was later removed,
though not before rivals got a look at the plans.  As workers put more information about their lives online
through status updates, location check-ins and resume changes,
employers are more at risk of competitors watching their every
move. Investigators at  Kroll Inc. , the 40-year-old corporate
sleuthing pioneer, are known for scanning deleted computer files
and monitoring surveillance cameras to help large companies
uncover rivals’ secrets. Now they’re trawling the social Web.  “Social media has become a much more efficient way of
getting information that could only be gotten in the past by
things like surveillance,” said Kroll  Senior Managing Director 
Rich Plansky.  In a  Forrester Research  survey last year of more than 150
companies that monitor social media, more than 82 percent said
they use this data for competitive intelligence -- the most
cited reason for the monitoring. With good reason: A single
insider’s Twitter Inc. post can be more valuable than a stack of
analysts’ research.  “Competitors obviously watch each other in social media
just as they have historically monitored each other in the media
and in public presentations,” said Shel  Israel , an  author  and
consultant on online networks. “Social media is a new data-
abundant source that is here to stay.”  Prowling Social Sites  Corporate investigators including Kroll,  Nardello & Co.  and
Risk Solutions & Investigations are prowling social sites for
oversharing insiders like McClellan. Michael Thacker, a
spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard,
declined to comment on the matter.  At Kroll, a division of  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Altegrity Inc., social sites such as LinkedIn, Twitter and
Facebook Inc. aid in investigations of employee misconduct,
background checks and suspected cases of data breach.  “Who a person’s friends are, what bars they go to, which
groups they are interested in, what they look like,” Plansky
said. “All of those information sources are a potential gold
mine for us in developing intelligence for our clients.”  Play-by-Play  When one client asked Kroll to find out how a potential
acquisition target got leaked to a competitor, investigators
found a series of social media posts in which a member of the
client’s mergers-and-acquisitions team publicly discussed doing
diligence on a company in a specific city.  “Twitter can give you a play-by-play about a person’s
activities,” Plansky said. “‘A lot of these posts are time-and
date-stamped.”  For another client, Kroll began building a case against a
fired executive by seeing whom in his LinkedIn network he might
be sharing  trade secrets  with, a violation of his termination
contract. Plansky declined to name any of Kroll’s customers.  Sean Garrett , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter,
said in an e-mail that posts made on Twitter are publicly
available. Erin O’Harra, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based LinkedIn, declined to comment.  The amount of data on social networks relevant to corporate
investigations may be declining as users get more sophisticated
about protecting their online privacy, said Michael Walsh,
managing director of London-based  Nardello , which gathers
intelligence for companies and governments.  ‘Glass House’  “We will check” social sites, he said, “but it is
increasingly becoming less a real source of information because
people are becoming all too aware that this is a vulnerable spot
for them.”  The people closest to a company’s sensitive information may
be the most likely to leak it online, said Abhilash Sonwane,
senior vice president of  product management  at Indian
cybersecurity firm  Cyberoam . Beginning in June 2010, his firm
selected 20 companies and set out to track them across social
media sites for several months. For each company, Cyberoam
identified all the employees with a profile on LinkedIn, then
subscribed to their feeds on Twitter and other sites.  “You can actually feel yourself inside that company --
what’s happening, what’s the morale of the employees, how the
business is doing, where top management go on vacation, did the
CEO have a fight with somebody,” Sonwane said. “It’s a glass
house.”  ‘Edgy’ Before Bankruptcy  At one of the companies, workers began to indicate in their
postings that business was slow around October 2010.  “We could sense that they were edgy about something,”
Sonwane said. A few months later, a vice president wrote in a
LinkedIn status update that he was looking for a new job. When
his followers asked why, he responded that the company was about
to file for bankruptcy -- which it did less than six months
later, Sonwane said. He declined to identify any of the
companies in the study.  Preventing such leaks can be difficult, said  Josh Bernoff ,
a social-media analyst at Forrester Research.  “Employees will post, regardless of whether the company
endorses it or not,” he said. “It is far better to have a
policy about what you can and can’t say than to try to stop
it.”  Reputation.com Inc., a  Redwood City , California-based
service for helping individuals and organizations monitor what’s
being said about them online, has been enlisted by one client to
track activity related to the company’s top 300 executives.
Michael Fertik, Reputation’s chief executive officer, wouldn’t
name the client.  Managing Internet ‘Footprint’  “Everybody who is in business with you, in a personal,
professional, romantic, transactional relationship with you, is
looking up information about you, is finding information about
you, and then, most importantly, making decisions about what
they find about you on the Internet,” Fertik said. “That’s why
everybody has a need and obligation to themselves, to their
family members, to their shareholders, to manage their footprint
on the Internet.”  More and more businesses are going on the offensive,
collecting information about their own rivals. That has led
companies including Bellevue, Washington-based  Visible
Technologies LLC  to develop tools that detect competitive
intelligence on the Web. For about $4,500 a month, Visible’s
customers get a dashboard that identifies conversations
happening about their industry in blogs, message boards and
social sites including Twitter and Facebook.  Corporate Alerts  If there is a conversation with a negative sentiment, such
as someone complaining about a rival company’s product, people
monitoring the dashboard might intervene and offer a discount on
switching to their own product or service.  LinkedIn has added tools to its networking site that send
users alerts when competitors hire employees, or when its
executives change roles.  “On LinkedIn, above all other social networks, people are
very connected with their employer,” said Edd Dumbill, program
chair for  Strata Conference , a technology event hosted by
O’Reilly Media Inc. focused on the use of online data.  As the generation of workers in their 20s and 30s take more
senior roles in organizations, their greater exposure on social
sites can make them more prone to investigations, said  Steve
Vale , a former Kroll managing director who is now a principal at
Los Angeles-based Risk Solutions & Investigations.  During a recent background check on someone whose company
was being acquired by a private equity firm -- a man in his mid-
30s -- Vale discovered numerous videos and online posts he
created that raised additional questions and necessitated extra
interviews with him.  “You just wouldn’t believe the amount of social networking
this fellow did,” said Vale, who wouldn’t disclose the name of
the client or the subject being investigated. “In the end,
everybody was fine with it, but it begged a question you would
never have posed just a short time ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  