-- 
Afghan Assassination Threatens Talks With Taliban, U.S.-Pakistan Relations

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-20T23:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ex-afghan-president-head-of-peace-council-rabbani-killed-by-suicide-bomb.html
The assassination of Burhanuddin Rabbani, chairman of  Afghanistan ’s High Peace Council, dealt a
blow to the government’s negotiations with the Taliban and
fraying relations between the U.S. and  Pakistan .  Rabbani, a former Afghan national leader, was killed and
his deputy wounded as “they met two men who said they had come
from Quetta, Pakistan, with a peace message from the Taliban,”
said council member Habibullah Fawzi. Kabul police spokesman
Hashmatullah Stanekzai said the men hid at least one bomb in
their turbans, which guards failed to search when the men
entered the home.  Two U.S. intelligence officials said the Islamic militant
Haqqani group, which U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ,
Ambassador to Pakistan Cameron Munter and other officials have
said has links to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency,
was the leading suspect behind the attack.  Another U.S. official cautioned that so far there is no
hard evidence linking the Haqqani group, and that others allied
with the Taliban might be responsible.  “Of course it was Haqqani,” said Christine Fair, a
professor at  Georgetown University  in Washington and an expert
on Pakistan.  The two intelligence officials, who like the third official
spoke on the condition of anonymity because intelligence matters
are classified, said yesterday that the attack on Rabbani
appears to fit a pattern.  Embassy Attack  Most recent was last week’s attack on the U.S. Embassy, in
the same Wazir Akbar Khan neighborhood of walled villas and
armed guards where Rabbani lived. U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan
 Ryan Crocker  has said the Haqqani network was responsible for
the embassy attack, which killed more than 15 Afghan civilians
and police.  Rabbani’s killing will further complicate efforts by
President Hamid Karzai’s government, the U.S. and Pakistan to
start a  peace process  with the Taliban, said Waheed Mujda, a
political analyst at the Kabul Center for Strategic Studies who
formerly was a Taliban official. The three governments are
competing to shape such talks and any deal that might emerge,
Waliullah Rahmani, director of the research group, said in an
interview last week.  Karzai, who appointed Rabbani and the 70-member peace
council, canceled plans to address this week’s UN General
Assembly session in  New York  to fly back to Kabul, said his
spokesman, Hamed Elmi. All those interviewed spoke by phone.  International Condemnation  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. will
“support the Afghan government as they pursue the ones
responsible for this cowardly attack and bring them to
justice.”  Pakistan’s foreign ministry issued a condemnation by
President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani .  Karzai appointed Rabbani and the peace council 11 months
ago, including former Taliban officials among its members.  Rabbani was an ethnic Tajik from northeastern Afghanistan,
and Pakistan’s archenemy  India  historically has had its closest
relations in Afghanistan with Rabbani’s and other ethnic and
political groups in the north.  Rabbani was making little progress, in part because he was
an old enemy of the Taliban, who are from the rival Pashtun
ethnic group, based in the south and east, and was unable to win
their trust, said Mujda, who served in the former Taliban
government as a foreign ministry official.  No Cooperation  The Taliban also “did not respect or accept the High Peace
Council because they saw it as dependent on the Afghan
government and the U.S.” Mujda said.  While the council made informal contacts with members of
the Taliban, it hadn’t won cooperation from the guerrilla
movement’s leadership, council members such as former Taliban
diplomat Abdulhakim Mujahid have told reporters.  Rabbani’s assassination now poses two problems for the
U.S., said Georgetown’s Fair and Frank J. Cillufo, director of
the Homeland Security Policy Institute at George  Washington 
University in Washington.  First, said Cillufo, peace negotiations are critical to the
Obama administration’s efforts to reduce U.S. combat forces in
Afghanistan. “I don’t see how we can successfully wind down our
presence in Afghanistan without being able to point to a
credible peace initiative,” he said.  In addition, said Cillufo and Fair, Pakistan’s
unwillingness to combat the Haqqani network, which is based on
its soil, reveals the bankruptcy of the U.S.-Pakistan
relationship.  ‘Litmus Test’  “The litmus test for Pakistan is whether they are willing
to sever their ties with proxy groups such as Haqqani,” said
Cillufo in a telephone interview. “The U.S. and its coalition
partners’ patience is wearing thin.”  “There’s really no alliance there,” said Fair, also in a
telephone interview. “Our allies are their enemies, and their
enemies are our allies. As we go into the endgame in
Afghanistan, it’s becoming increasingly clear that our interests
are different. The only good thing about that is that as it
becomes clear that our military and intelligence relationship is
going to pot, it may force us to focus more energy on the
civilian side of the relationship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  