-- 
Expert-Networking Executive Fleishman Convicted at Insider Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/expert-networking-firm-executive-found-guilty-in-u-s-insider-trading-case.html
A former executive at expert-
networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, James Fleishman,
was convicted at trial of helping pass confidential information
to fund managers as part of an insider-trading scheme.  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara ,  California , was found guilty
yesterday by a Manhattan federal jury of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . The jury
deliberated for about six hours before reaching a verdict.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff set sentencing for Dec. 21.
Until then, Fleishman, who faces as long as 25 years in prison,
remains free on bond. He and his lawyer,  Ethan Balogh , declined
to comment as they left the courthouse.  “We had enough evidence to find the defendant guilty of
both counts,” said jury foreman Ben Stein, who works in the
information-technology sector of a financial services business.
“It was not easy, but we had lots of evidence.”  Since November, 15 people have been charged by federal
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a probe of expert networkers and hedge fund managers.
Twelve have pleaded guilty, including Noah Freeman, a former
portfolio manager with SAC Capital Advisors LP, and Samir Barai,
the founder of Barai Capital Management LP.  Winifred Jiau  Fleishman, 42, was the second to go to trial. Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant who was convicted at
trial in June of securities fraud and conspiracy, is scheduled
to be sentenced today in Manhattan federal court.  Prosecutors said Fleishman obtained and passed confidential
data from technology company employees who were moonlighting as
consultants for  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global.
The secret tips were given to fund managers who paid Primary
Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said.  “He knew confidential information was being passed
repeatedly to members of the investment community,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  David Leibowitz  told jurors in closing arguments
yesterday. “He not only knew it, he helped make it happen.”  Prosecutors cited dozens of Fleishman’s e-mails and his
phone conversations with cooperating witnesses that were
secretly recorded by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Paid for Calls  Primary Global matches investors with specialists who
provide insight into specific markets. Fleishman earned more
than $800,000 from 2008 to 2010, according to records shown by
the U.S. Consultants were paid as much as $300 a call, with some
earning as much as $200,000, the government said.  Juror John Velasco, 26, a loan manager from Westchester
County,  New York , said the secret FBI recordings were key
evidence, especially that of Karl Motey. Motey, an independent
consultant, wore a body wire and secretly recorded calls with
Fleishman and expert networkers.  The jury also heard calls recorded by the FBI of Primary
Global’s conference line in which consultants passed
confidential information about technology companies to Motey.  “Some of the tapes were point blank, where the defendant
is pretty much giving incriminating evidence,” Velasco said.  Balogh said Fleishman relied on the expert networkers’ own
representations about their ability to do consulting outside
their companies. He cited an agreement the consultants signed
and submitted to Primary Global confirming they had permission
to do such consulting and agreeing not to pass confidential
information during calls.  Confidential Information  Bob Nguyen, a former Primary Global analyst who pleaded
guilty, testified that he knowingly passed confidential company
information to Fleishman from consultants.  Others who testified for the U.S. during the 2 1/2-week
trial were Daniel Devore, a former global-supply manager of
Round Rock, Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL) ; Mark Anthony Longoria, a
former  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  manager; and Steven Hwang, an
ex-Samsung Electronics Co. employee. All except Hwang pleaded
guilty to passing confidential information to fund managers
during Primary Global consulting calls.  Hwang testified that during a December 2009 lunch in
California with Fleishman and a  fund manager , he passed
confidential shipping data for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad components, four
months before the iPad made its U.S. debut.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  