-- 
Facebook Tells Regulator User Data Isn’t Given to Advertisers

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-20T15:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/facebook-tells-regulator-user-data-isn-t-given-to-advertisers.html
Facebook Inc. takes data published
on its users’ pages to target advertising without passing the
information on to other companies, the owner of the world’s
largest social network told the Norwegian privacy watchdog.  Facebook said only wall posts, photographs and personal
information that users decide to share with third-parties gets
passed on, the company said in a  nine-page letter  published by
 Norway ’s data protection agency today. The letter follows
questions regulators in Norway,  Sweden ,  Denmark  and  Finland  sent
to Facebook to quiz it on how it collects and handles people’s
data.  “Facebook has, for certain areas, to a great extent
confirmed our assumptions, while they in other areas state that
‘this is not the case’,” said Bjorn Erik Thon, Norway’s data
protection commissioner. “This is useful feedback.”  A group of privacy watchdogs from the European Union’s 27
nations will probe possible violations in a feature on Facebook
that uses face-recognition software to suggest people’s names to
tag in pictures without their permission, Gerard Lommel, a
Luxembourg member of the so-called  Article 29  Data Protection
Working Party said in June. Authorities in the U.K. and Ireland
said they are also looking into the issue.  Facebook said targeted advertising based on data from its
more than 750 million users “provides users with the most
engaging and relevant advertisements possible.”  “Importantly, no user data is ever shared with
advertisers,” the  Palo Alto , California-based company said in
the letter. Facebook said it considers itself subject to
European privacy rules because its European base is in Ireland.  The Norwegian agency aims to have a follow-up meeting with
Facebook before the end of the year, Thon said in a statement.  “In the continuous dialogue with Facebook, we will aim to
argue the company should give their users the opportunity to
‘opt in’ to new features when they are released, rather than
being signed on automatically and then having to ‘opt out’
later,” Thon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  