-- 
Facebook Revenue Will Reach $4.27 Billion, EMarketer Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-20T19:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/facebook-revenue-will-reach-4-27-billion-emarketer-says-1-.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking service by number of users, will generate
$4.27 billion in revenue this year, more than double the $2
billion made in 2010, according to research firm  EMarketer Inc.   The company will get $3.8 billion from advertising this
year, up 104 percent from $1.86 billion in 2010, New York-based
EMarketer said today in an e-mailed statement. The company
should make $470 million from Facebook Credits, a virtual-
currency program that lets users buy items in games, more than
triple the $140 million it made last year.  “Facebook’s revenue streams will continue to diversify,
with ads representing a decreasing proportion of total revenue
while other sources such as Facebook Credits will grow,” said
Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at EMarketer, in the statement.  The company, looking to benefit from its more than 750
million users, is trying to draw more ad dollars and spending on
its service as it competes with rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Yahoo!
Inc. for online attention. Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , is expected to become the top seller of display
advertising in the U.S. this year, surpassing Yahoo, which was
No. 1 in 2010, EMarketer said in the statement. Google is
expected to be No. 3 this year.  The new estimates are a revision from what EMarketer said
earlier this year. In January, EMarketer said the company would
reach $4.05 billion in ad sales this year, or $205 million more
than the new estimate.  Revised Estimate  Williamson said the lower sales shouldn’t be taken as a
sign that the company’s “overall business is losing momentum.”
Facebook has taken steps in recent months to streamline
advertising inventory, which contributed to the revision.  “Even though Facebook has spent several years wooing
marketers, many of them still believe the ads aren’t effective
at driving clicks and other actions,” said Williamson.
“Facebook must either work to improve its click-through rate or
show advertisers that advertising on the site is effective even
without a click or other action.”  For 2012, Facebook should reach $5.78 billion in ad revenue
globally, up from the earlier estimate of $5.74 billion.  Separately, Facebook announced it was trying to make it
easier see content on the site that’s important to users. Under
the changes, the service will put the most interesting posts
from friends, such as photos and status updates, at the top of
the News Feed on home pages. In addition, the company is
starting a new “ticker” feature that makes it easy to see
friends’ updates, and also allows them to interact quickly with
those friends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  