-- 
Fed May Extend Duration of Treasuries With ‘Operation Twist,’ Survey Shows

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-20T14:49:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/fed-may-extend-duration-of-treasuries-with-operation-twist-survey-shows.html
Federal Reserve officials tomorrow
will probably announce a program for monetary easing that will
do little to help 14 million unemployed Americans find work,
according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to replace
short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-
term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 surveyed economists.
The move, known as “Operation Twist” for its goal to bend the
yield curve, will probably fail to reduce the 9.1 percent
 unemployment rate , 61 percent of the economists said. Among
those, 15 percent predict it will be “somewhat harmful.”  Operation Twist is among a few untested policy tools that
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the Fed could use as risks to
the U.S. recovery rise and unprecedented easing falls short of
fulfilling the Fed’s mandate for full employment. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note already fell to a record low this
month on concerns global growth is flagging and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis will intensify.  “It’s better than nothing but it’s obviously not going to
be a knockout blow or a game changer for the economy,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York. The FOMC began its meeting at around 10:30 a.m. in
Washington and plans to release a policy statement tomorrow at
about 2:15 p.m.  Feroli estimates the Fed will reduce longer-term yields by
about 0.1 percentage point by announcing a swap of $300 billion
to $400 billion in Treasuries, selling securities with one to
three years remaining maturity, and purchasing mostly those with
seven to 12-year maturity.  FOMC Dissenters  Bernanke faces resistance to more dramatic easing from
three policy makers who dissented against the Aug. 9 FOMC
decision to keep the main interest rate near zero until at least
mid-2013. It was the first time since 1992 that three FOMC
members dissented.  “Operation Twist may not provoke the hawks on the FOMC,
and it does not antagonize those members of Congress who are
concerned about potential inflationary pressures from further
expanding the size of the balance sheet,” said  Dana Saporta ,
U.S. economist at Credit Suisse in New York.  Republican lawmakers, including House Speaker  John Boehner 
of  Ohio , criticized a $600 billion Fed program to buy Treasury
securities through June, saying the plan would create asset
price bubbles.  Bernanke extended this week’s meeting to two days to give
the divided FOMC more time to discuss the merits and costs of
its policy options. A “few” Fed officials favored additional
easing at their Aug. 9 meeting, according to minutes from the
gathering.  Asset Purchases Unlikely  The Fed tomorrow probably won’t announce a new round of
asset purchases, or quantitative easing, according to the Sept.
14-16 survey of economists. Seventy-nine percent of the
economists said the Fed won’t make such a move this year.  An economy that’s in danger of stalling will prompt the Fed
to take action even if the results are modest, said Roberto Perli, a former economist in the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs.  “When you have an economy growing under 1 percent in the
first half you probably take every 10th of a percent of GDP
growth that you can” through a policy such as Operation Twist,
said Perli, a managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington  Growth in the first six months of this year was the weakest
since the recovery started in 2009. Gross domestic product
expanded at a 1 percent annual rate in the second quarter after
0.4 percent in the first three months of this year.  Bond Traders  Speculation the Fed will announce a plan to favor longer-
term debt has prompted Wall Street’s biggest bond traders to
stockpile Treasuries at the fastest pace since 2007. The 20
primary dealers held $15.1 billion of  Treasury securities  due in
more than one year as of Sept. 7, up from a $75 billion bet
against the debt on May 6, central bank data show.  All but one firm expects the announcement of some type of
Operation Twist, according to a separate Bloomberg News survey.
 U.S. debt  due in 10 years or more has returned about 17 percent
this quarter, the most since the last three months of 2008.  The yield on Treasury 10-year notes fell on Sept. 12 to
1.877 percent, the lowest ever. Its highest point this year was
3.77 percent on Feb. 9. The yield rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.96 percent at 10:43 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “Doing nothing at this point with the type of expectations
they’ve allowed to form would be risky because it would cause a
tightening in financial conditions, rates would go back up, and
that goes in exactly the opposite direction they want,” Perli
said.  Evans Strategy  None of the 42 economists surveyed said the central bank
will adopt a strategy proposed by Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  to announce an explicit target for the unemployment rate
and inflation rate as conditions for keeping the benchmark fed
funds rate near zero.  Also viewed as unlikely is an option outlined to Congress
by Bernanke in July testimony to cut the  interest rate  paid on
excess reserves kept by banks at the Fed. Eighty percent of
economists in the survey believe the central bank won’t cut the
rate on excess reserves at this week’s meeting, with 60 percent
believing the Fed won’t adopt this strategy at all and 20
percent believing it will take the step at a later meeting.  The Fed has held the benchmark interest rate near zero
since December 2008 and expanded the central bank’s assets in
July to a record $2.88 trillion. That has done little to boost
 consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult for
consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs,” Rick Dreiling, chairman and
chief executive officer at Dollar General Corp., said on an Aug.
30 teleconference with analysts. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based company is the biggest dollar discount chain in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  