-- 
Marchionne Targets Breakeven for Fiat European Car Opearations by 2014

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-20T14:28:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/fiat-ceo-marchionne-targets-ultimate-break-even-in-europe-by-2014.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said he targets a break-even result for the
carmaker’s European business by 2014 and confirmed financial
targets for this year, even as sales slow down in the region.  “We have actually dropped forecasts for 2011 car sales in
 Italy ,” Marchionne said today in an interview in  London .
Italian government austerity measures “will ultimately impact
2012 volumes. Northern and central  Europe  is doing relatively
well.”  Marchionne, who runs both Fiat and U.S. automaker Chrysler
Group LLC, is struggling to boost European sales as Fiat posts
losses in its biggest market and continues to lose ground to
competitors. The company’s market share in the region shrank to
5.8 percent in August from 6.8 percent a year earlier as
deliveries fell 7.6 percent. Marchionne in July promoted
purchasing chief Gianni Coda to run the two carmakers’ European
operations.  Marchionne, 59, said last week he may delay introduction of
new models globally and won’t consider selling shares in sports-
car specialist Ferrari SpA as markets deteriorate. A plan to buy
the remaining stake in Chrysler is also on hold, Marchionne said
Sept. 13 in  Frankfurt . Fiat currently owns 53.5 percent of
Chrysler and expects to get another 5 percent by the end of this
year in exchange for developing a fuel-efficient model.  Fiat revised its full-year earnings targets in July after
consolidating Chrysler from June 1. Fiat forecasts 2011 earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time items, which it calls
trading profit, of about 2.1 billion euros ($2.87 billion) and
revenue of more than 58 billion euros. Fiat confirmed the
targets today, according to a slide presentation posted on its
website for an investor meeting in London.  Balanced Budget  Marchionne said today that Italy must “reinforce” its
commitments to balancing its budget, as it must convince the
rest of the world that it’s “serious.”  “The time for nebulous, unspecified and non-detailed
commitments is gone,” Marchionne said after meeting investors.
“The whole question about austerity is crucial,” he said, when
asked what Italy should do to boost credibility after  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the country’s credit rating late yesterday.  Fiat rose as much as 6.7 percent and traded at 4.20 euros in
Milan at 4 p.m., giving the company a market value of 5.1
billion euros. Fiat shares have lost 37 percent since the
beginning of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 