-- 
Filth-Loving Doctors Doomed Garfield After He Was Shot: Review

-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/filth-loving-doctors-doomed-garfield-after-he-was-shot-review.html
Even most American history buffs
know only the broad outline of the crime: On July 2, 1881, four
months after taking office, President James A. Garfield was
gunned down in a Washington train station by a man named Charles
Guiteau.  Gravely wounded but not killed, Garfield was set upon by
doctors.  The first probed the wound with his finger in an attempt to
find the bullet. A second, who had cared for the wounded  Abraham
Lincoln  almost 20 years before, used an unsterilized probe to
dig for the offending slug of lead -- again, unsuccessfully.  Only then did it occur to anyone to cart the president back
to the White House. He lingered for three months before
succumbing to profound septic poisoning.  Candice Millard  recounts the whole sorry episode in
illuminating if sometimes excruciatingly detailed fashion in
“ Destiny of the Republic: A Tale of Madness, Medicine and the
Murder of a President .”  America’s Gilded Age has been fairly well picked over by
historians, except for the bewhiskered triumvirate who succeeded
President Ulysses S. Grant.  Between Rutherford B. Hayes and Chester A. Arthur was
Garfield. He may have been the standout in an otherwise
unpromising bunch, but the truth is we’ll never know. The
samples of Garfield’s writing Millard uses to preface each
chapter don’t quite close the deal.  ‘Surgical Stink’  This is a book of horrors. The chief one is that American
medicine at the time refused to acknowledge the existence of
germs, and so resisted “antisepsis,” or the practice of
disinfecting and sterilizing everything that came in contact
with patients in order to give them a fighting chance.  “Not only did American doctors not believe in germs, they
took pride in the particular brand of filth that defined their
profession,” Millard writes. “They spoke fondly of the ‘good
old surgical stink’ that pervaded their hospitals and operating
rooms, and they resisted making too many concessions even to
basic hygiene.”  This was in spite of the work of Joseph Lister, the British
doctor who had championed antisepsis for more than a decade. The
American old guard, epitomized by the physician who took over
Garfield’s care (named hopefully by his parents Doctor Willard
Bliss -- yes, he was Dr. Doctor), would have none of it.  As Millard observes, had Garfield been shot 15 years later,
he probably would have survived. Had he just been left alone, he
might have served out his term, no worse than the many veterans
who carried similar reminders of their Civil War service.  Pistol-Packing Lunatic  Another horror featured here, and one that’s still with us
today, is the lunatic with the pistol.  Garfield’s assassin, Charles Guiteau, is described by
Millard as someone who had descended into “delusion and
madness” years before. Invariably described outside these pages
as a disappointed office-seeker, he was really just a nut.  Shiftless and cunning, Guiteau is nevertheless a profoundly
uninteresting character, which is too bad because Millard has
him carry about one-third of her narrative. The only curious
thing about the man is that he was at large.  This was, after all, the age of the madhouse. Guiteau, who
made a practice of skipping out on his rent in a day when
thieves were dealt with in a harsher style than today, was a
prime candidate for institutionalization.  Did you know the first air conditioner was concocted by
navy engineers in an effort to keep the dying president cool?
That’s a good story.  Less compelling is Alexander Graham Bell’s invention of
what he called the “Induction Balance,” designed to locate
metal bullets. It didn’t work on Garfield, though that wasn’t
entirely Bell’s fault.  Last Word  “Destiny of the Republic” will probably be the last word
on the Garfield assassination. Still, there are some issues the
author might wish to address in future editions.  On page 138, Millard states that the bullet “missed his
spinal cord.” In the acknowledgments, she says, “I held in my
gloved hands the section of Garfield’s spine which the bullet
had pierced.”  Finally, the author states that Garfield’s secretary of
war,  Robert Todd Lincoln , earned “the dubious distinction of
being the only man to be present at three of our nation’s four
presidential assassinations.” Lincoln was waiting on the
platform for Garfield when he was shot and was visiting the Pan-
American Exposition in Buffalo when William McKinley was shot in
1901. He wasn’t, however, present in Ford’s Theatre when John
Wilkes Booth targeted his father.  “Destiny of the Republic” is published by Doubleday (339
pages, $28.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s Municipal Market.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 