-- 
Five Questions for Mutual European's Brugere-Trelat

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-20T20:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/five-questions-for-philippe-brugere-trelat-mutual-european-fund.html
Philippe Brugere-Trelat’s home base in  New Jersey  puts him
thousands of miles from the center of the European sovereign
debt crisis, even as the $5.5 billion fund he manages feels
its effects. The Mutual European Fund (TEMIX), which
Brugere-Trelat has managed since 2004, is down 16.5 percent
since July 22. The MSCI AC Europe stock index has falen 18.8
percent in that time.  Concerns about government debt in Europe, which started
with Greece, should not paralyze investors, Brugere-Trelat
says. "You need to be careful, you need to be patient and you
need to know what you are buying," he said in a Sept. 16
interview. The following are edited excerpts of his
conversation with Bloomberg.com’s Ben Steverman.  1. Are Europe's stocks attractive -- or dangerous?   There is no doubt that the  euro zone  is at a critical
juncture. The euro was created 13 years ago and was born with
the original sin of one common currency and 17 different
budgetary and fiscal policies. That issue was swept under the
rug, but now it has come back to the surface with a vengeance.  Any long-term solution to the sovereign credit issue is a
European-wide system, and that requires a much greater degree
of coordination of fiscal and budgetary policies. Therefore
you’re impinging on the sovereignty of the various members. So
obviously, this is a political issue: The man on the street in
 Germany  does not want to help the man on the street in  Greece .
It is up to the European political leaders to come up with a
long-term credible solution. Until that happens, you are going
to have uncertainty -- high volatility -- and nobody will know
where stocks are going to go.  That said, there is a striking difference between the
problems at the government level and the pretty good health of
the corporate world. In certain regions companies, consumers
and even governments are in relatively good shape, with not a
lot of debt. Those include  Switzerland , Germany,  France , the
Benelux, Scandinavia and even the  United Kingdom . Corporations
particularly have gone through 10 years of restructuring. They
have solid balance sheets [and] access to global capital
markets and don’t need the banks to finance them. At the same
time, they are trading at extraordinarily low valuations, deep
values which we haven’t seen in decades.  2. So this a good time to be buying European stocks?   It is a good time to buying European stocks if No. 1, you
do your homework very carefully. And No. 2, if you are
patient. Because nobody knows what’s going to happen over the
next two, three or six months.  I believe that the euro is not going to disappear and
European banks are not going to disappear. I also believe that
the region is going to be faced with mediocre growth prospects
for the next three-to-five years because of all the austerity
measures which are being implemented. Therefore you want to be
very selective. You should stay clear of all European banks
because the uncertainties there are far too big.  The big, big risk in the European banking sector is not a
Lehman Brothers-style bankruptcy because we know now that the
governments and the central bank will not allow that. The risk
is massively dilutive recapitalization of those
banks, following a write-down of their sovereign holdings. And
that makes being an equity holder in those banks the worst
place to be.  On the other hand, there has been an indiscriminate
devaluation by investors of all European stocks, including
global companies with very solid balance sheets which are
deriving very significant percentage of their profits from
other regions than  Europe . A number of industrial companies
have been totally bombed out in valuations.  Germany was severely affected and has created valuation
levels for a number of those global exporters which we haven’t
seen in decades. That is where I would go: Look for solid
balance sheets, solid management, solid dividends and solid
global footprint. My fund holdings include German auto and
truckmaker Daimler AG (DAI:GR), Switzerland-based Schindler
Holding AG (SCHP:VX),which is a global manufacturer of
elevators, and Rexam PLC (REX:LN), the United Kingdom-based
maker of packaging materials.  3. What’s the best-case scenario? What would a solution
look like?  The best-case scenario would be the establishment of a euro
bond, which would be backed by the sovereign credit of the
whole region. Don’t forget the European region is the largest
economic bloc in the world, with over $15 trillion in gross
domestic product. At the overall euro zone level, the public
finances are in much better shape than here in the  United
States . The problem is that you have excellent countries and
countries that have been fooling around for a long time. A
euro bond system needs a political push. It needs Germany to
agree. It’s not going to happen very soon.  4. What’s the worst-case scenario?  The worst-case scenario is the default by not so much
Greece, because Greece is 2 percent of European [gross
domestic product]. Greece is a rounding error. All the banks
holding Greek debt can manage a default. That’s not the
problem. The problem is really Italy. If Greece defaults, the
problem would be that the focus of investors would switch to
bigger fishes like  Spain  and mostly,  Italy . No bank in Europe
would be able to sustain a significant write-down of their
Italian sovereign debt holdings.  Both the French president and the German chancellor have
said they will not let any member country default or leave the
Euro and will do what it takes. So far it’s only been
words, but there seems to be an emerging political momentum
toward agreeing on a long-term solution. In Europe nothing is
straightforward, so it takes a while.  5. What's it like to be a European stock manager at a time
like this, particularly one based in Short Hills, N.J.?  It’s interesting in the Chinese sense of the word. Being a
stock manager is the best job in the world. There’s always
something different. You always learn something every day. It
can be intensely frustrating, intensely stressing, intensely
exhilarating. It’s never boring, I can assure you of that.  In New Jersey, you’re kind of removed from the short-term
static on the radio. We’re long-term value investors here.
That helps us take a longer-term view and not be swayed by a
day of panic or a day of exhilaration.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net  