-- 
Food-Inflation Concerns Will Persist, FAO’s Abbassian Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-09-20T06:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/food-inflation-to-remain-a-concern-for-governments-fao-says.html
Food-price inflation concerns for
policy makers are set to persist even as rice declines and wheat
trades below this year’s peak, according to the  United Nations ,
which said that importers are still paying more than a year ago.  Another year of bumper wheat and rice harvests, as well as
a continued surplus in corn, is needed to bring stockpiles back
to “healthy” levels and reduce inflation concerns, Abdolreza Abbassian, senior economist at the UN Food & Agriculture
Organization, said in an interview in Singapore today.  Costlier food may worsen the lives of the 1.1 billion the
 World Bank  says live on less than $1 a day, adding to pressure
on central banks to raise  interest rates  even amid increased
concerns that the global economy may slip back into recession.
Global food prices reached a record in February.  “ Food security  is the number-one priority of governments,
followed by food inflation,” Amit Gulrajani, general manager
for rice trading and shipping at  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , said
at a conference in Singapore today. Olam, based in the city-
state, is one of the world’s three biggest rice shippers.  The World Food Price Index, a 55-item gauge compiled by the
Rome-based FAO, rallied 26 percent in the year to August. Wheat
in  Chicago , which peaked at $9.1675 per bushel on Feb. 14, has
shed 14 percent this year and traded at $6.80 at 1:10 p.m. Rice,
trading at $16.86 per 100 pounds, has lost 9.1 percent since
reaching the highest level since 2008 earlier this month.  No Relief  While the World Food Price Index may decline for a third
month in September, the gauge will remain above last year’s
level and provide no relief for food-deficit countries that rely
on imports for supplies, Abbassian said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  warned in June that the
world must take action to avoid another food crisis, saying
policy makers risked making this a “century of hunger” unless
there were new rules on global supplies.  Food prices will remain higher in the next decade than the
past 10 years as farm production slows and demand increases, the
OECD and the FAO said in a joint report in June. Global output
is forecast to grow an average 1.7 percent a year through 2020,
compared with 2.6 percent in the previous decade, they said in
their annual Agricultural Outlook report.  Food inflation “has replaced gasoline price as the most
important household expense concern,” William Simon, chief
executive officer of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest
retailer, said in an earnings conference call on Aug. 16.  Worldwide Reserves  Global inventories of cereals including rice, wheat and
corn will meet about 20.8 percent of demand, or 76 days, in the
2011-2012 season, the smallest level of coverage since the 2007-
2008 season, the FAO said in a Sept. 8  report .  Tightening corn supply, which the FAO described as a “cause
for concern,” was already reflected in high prices, the agency
said on Sept. 8. Corn futures in Chicago traded at $6.9725 per
bushel today, 37 percent higher than a year ago.  Rice prices in Chicago gained in July and August after a
new Thai government said that it planned to pay above-market
rates for supplies from farmers to boost rural incomes.  Thailand 
is the world’s largest exporter of the grain.  The rice-buying policy may “create problems” for the
government as it will inflate the nation’s stockpiles and the
state may be unable to sell them on the open market without
incurring losses, Abbassian said at the  Singapore  conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  