-- 
Ford Plans to Add Models, Increase Share in Indonesia

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-09-20T10:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ford-plans-to-add-models-increase-market-share-in-indonesia.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  will offer eight new
models in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations over the
next five years as it seeks to take advantage of rising vehicle
sales in Indonesia.  Ford plans to add four dealerships in Indonesia by the end
of the year, for a total of 40, as well as adding models to grow
market share from its current 1.9 percent,  PT Ford Motor
Indonesia  Managing Director Bagus Susanto said in an interview
on Sept. 16.  “We will enter new vehicle segments,” Susanto said,
without specifying which models it will release or setting a
target for market share. “Adding retail outlets is also an
investment even though it is not as fancy as building a plant.”  Ford’s  Indonesia  sales in the first eight months of 2011
rose 170 percent from a year earlier to 10,681 units, driven
partly by the Fiesta subcompact, which was introduced in
November and accounted for about 40 percent of vehicles sold,
Susanto said. Expansion in  Asia  is part of Ford Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally’s wider plan to boost annual global sales
by 50 percent to 8 million vehicles by 2015.  Ford’s attention to the region follows  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
which aims to spend as much as $150 million to start producing a
new model at a plant in West Java, and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which
plans to build a second factory in Indonesia at a cost of 26.3
billion yen ($344 million).  Thailand  Manufacturing  Ford vehicles sold in Indonesia are built in Thailand,
where the company secured 15.5 billion baht ($506 million) worth
of loans from three Thai financial institutions in July to fund
a new passenger car manufacturing plant.  “Indonesia is interesting for car manufacturing,” Susanto
said. “However, we want to maximize our plant in Thailand.”  Auto sales in Indonesia may grow as much as 15 percent to
850,000 units this year, Sudirman Maman Rusdi, chairman of the
Indonesian Automotive Industry Association said by text message
on Sept. 19. Less than 1 percent of Fiesta buyers in Indonesia
have chosen the cheapest model, while the top-of-the-line model
has accounted for 40 percent of its sales, Susanto said.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, expects that by
2020, 55 percent of vehicle sales will be small cars and a third
of sales will be in Asia,  John Stoll , a spokesman, said in an e-
mail on June 7.  “Indonesia will play a significant role for Ford’s
strategy in Asean,” Susanto said. The regional group is made up
of 10 countries including Indonesia, Thailand and  Malaysia .  Rate Boost?  Car buyers may benefit if Indonesia’s central bank lowers
 interest rates , as at least 60 percent of Ford customers take
out loans to buy vehicles, Susanto said. Indonesia’s central
bank signaled last week it may join Brazil and  Turkey  in cutting
interest rates due to  Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S.
recovery.  Susanto said he expects Indonesia’s auto market to keep
growing in 2012. Sales of the Ford Ranger rose 68 percent in the
first eight months of the year, while those of the Ford Everest
rose 31 percent, he said.  “Nine years ago, Indonesians didn’t know about Ford,”
Susanto said. “Now, people’s perception is changing. So many
people know Ford. People starts considering Ford as one of the
brands when they want to buy a car.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  