-- 
Foreign Donors Fund 90 Percent of Afghan Expenses, GAO Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-20T21:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/foreign-donors-fund-90-percent-of-afghan-expenses-gao-says.html
Afghanistan  remains dependent on
foreign donors to finance its public services, with the U.S.
funding 62 percent of all Afghan public expenses, including 90
percent of its security costs over the last five years, U.S.
federal auditors found.  The U.S. has allocated more than $72 billion to secure and
rebuild Afghanistan since 2002, the Government Accountability
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said in a report
issued today. President Barack Obama has requested more than $18
billion for that effort in the fiscal year that begins on Oct.
1, the GAO said.  The Afghan government’s domestic revenue was $1.66 billion
in 2010 and its total expenses that year were $14.3 billion. The
U.S. paid almost $9 billion, with other nations covering the
remaining gap, the report said.  “We have also raised concerns about Afghanistan’s
inability to fund planned government expenditures without
foreign assistance and raised questions about the sustainability
of U.S.-funded efforts to build and enhance Afghanistan’s road,
agriculture, and water infrastructures,” the GAO report said.  The auditors found public expenses in Afghanistan rising
from $5.5 billion in 2006 to $14.3 billion in 2010, an increase
of 160 percent.  The GAO presented its data in Afghan solar years, which
usually begin on March 21 and end on March 20 of the following
year, the GAO said.  Management Shortfall  The GAO, in a separate report, also took aim at the U.S.
Agency for International Development for not doing enough to
measure the progress of the Afghan government’s financial
management capacity.  The lack of performance targets and data means the
effectiveness of U.S. efforts to improve Afghanistan’s financial
management “cannot be fully determined,” the GAO said.  Improving the Afghanistan’s financial management is
critical because the U.S. and other international donors have
pledged to provide at least 50 percent of their development aid
through the Afghan government’s budget by next year, the report
said.  USAID, in written comments, said it agreed with the GAO and
pledged to improve its performance measurements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  