-- 
France Telecom Swiss Sale Said to Exclude Rival Owner CVC

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-20T17:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/france-telecom-swiss-business-sale-said-to-exclude-rival-owner-cvc.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s effort to find
a buyer for its mobile-phone unit in Switzerland excludes CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., the owner of a Swiss rival, due to
possible antitrust hurdles, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Details of the sale were sent to potential bidders for
Orange Switzerland last week, with first-round bids due in mid-
October, the people said, declining to be identified because the
talks are private. CVC, which bought Swiss operator Sunrise last
year, didn’t receive documents, they said.  Private-equity firms including Apax Partners LLP, and EQT
Partners as well as cable operator  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  are among
companies considering bids in a sale that may fetch about 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) for Paris-based  France Telecom ,
people familiar with the matter said last month. Providence
Equity Partners and Bain Capital LLC may also make offers,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  France Telecom declined to comment. A spokesman for CVC
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  CVC will only be allowed to bid by agreeing to acquire
Orange without conditions and assuming responsibility for
winning regulatory approval of a possible merger with Sunrise,
the people said. Competition regulators last year blocked a
proposal by France Telecom and Sunrise’s previous owner,
Denmark’s TDC A/S, to merge their Swiss businesses.  France Telecom shares rose 1.9 percent to 12.02 euros in
Paris trading today, valuing the company at 31.8 billion euros.
The stock has declined 23 percent this year.  Congo Deal  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is
looking to shed European assets to focus on expanding in the
 Middle East  and  Africa , where sales are growing at almost 10
times the pace of some European markets. The company is nearing
a deal to enter the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, one of
Africa’s poorest countries, by buying local operator Congo-China
Telecom, people familiar with the situation said last week.  A combination of Orange Switzerland with Sunrise would
leave the country of about 8 million residents with two mobile
operators: the merged entity and  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , the former Swiss
phone monopoly. By comparison, the U.K., Germany and Italy all
have four full-service mobile-network providers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris via 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  