-- 
Swiss Franc Falls Versus Euro Amid Speculation SNB May Adjust Trading Band

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-20T15:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/franc-weakens-versus-euro-amid-speculation-currency-band-will-be-widened.html
The franc fell the most in two
weeks against the euro on speculation the  Swiss National Bank 
will widen the currency’s trading band to help protect exports.  Switzerland’s franc depreciated versus all but one of its
16 major peers, declining for a third day against the dollar.
The franc’s decline against the euro was the steepest intraday
loss since the central bank imposed a ceiling on the franc for
the first time in more than three decades on Sept. 6. Swiss
central bank spokesman Walter Meier in Zurich declined to
comment when asked about speculation that policy makers may
adjust the franc ceiling.  “There is a rumor that the Swiss National Bank is going to
raise the lower limit of the band to 1.25 and as a consequence
we’ve seen euro-Swiss come up,” said  John McCarthy , managing
director of  currency trading  at ING Groep NV in  New York . “That
talk is the factor behind the Swiss right now. In this market
people are nervous enough that anything can get them to jump.”  The franc slid as much as 1.1 percent versus the euro to as
weak as 1.2214 per euro before trading at 1.2165 as of 4:39 p.m.
in  London . Against the dollar, the franc weakened 0.7 percent to
88.84 centimes.  Switzerland’s currency plunged the most ever against the
euro on Sept. 6 after the central bank said it would no longer
tolerate an  exchange rate  below the minimum of 1.20 francs per
euro. The SNB said it would purchase “unlimited quantities” of
foreign currencies including the euro to stop the franc from
strengthening beyond that level.  ‘Jumpy’ Market  “The last time there was a rumor that the Swiss central
bank would introduce a currency peg it turned out to be true
months later,” said  Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Standard Bank Plc. “That’s got the market a bit
jumpy.”  The intervention, last introduced in 1978 to stem gains
versus the deutsche mark, came after the central bank’s August
liquidity boost to the money market and the reduction of
 interest rates  to zero failed to curb gains in the currency. The
franc surged to a record 1.00749 against the euro on Aug. 9 as
investors flocked to purchase the currency as a haven from
financial turmoil sparked by the euro-region debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  