-- 
Full Tilt Poker Website Used Players’ Money to Pay Directors, U.S. Claims

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/full-tilt-online-poker-website-used-player-money-to-pay-board-u-s-says.html
Full Tilt Poker  paid board members
more than $440 million using funds that it pledged to make
available for withdrawal by its online poker players at any
time, U.S. prosecutors said.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office yesterday
asked U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand for permission to add
the new allegations to an April civil forfeiture case against
Full Tilt, PokerStars, Absolute Poker and other businesses.  “Full Tilt insiders lined their own pockets with funds
picked from the pockets of their most loyal customers while
blithely lying to both players and public alike about the safety
and security of the money deposited with the company,” Bharara
said in a statement. He called it “a global Ponzi scheme.”  The forfeiture action parallels criminal charges by Bharara
against the poker companies and 11 people, alleging bank fraud,
 money laundering  and illegal gambling. Two white-collar
criminal-defense lawyers who have no stake in the case
questioned whether the proposed new allegations could withstand
a legal challenge.  “This is gambling,” said ex-federal prosecutor  James
Montana , now a partner in Chicago’s Vedder Price LLC. “People
are constantly putting money on deposit. It’s almost a
guaranteed  cash flow . It’s a little different than your normal
Ponzi scheme.”  No Loss  The government hasn’t alleged that any player lost money,
said Montana, a former general counsel at the casino operator
Bally Entertainment Corp.  According to prosecutors, after a 2006 U.S. law barred
banks from processing payments to offshore gambling websites,
Full Tilt, PokerStars and Absolute Poker worked around the ban
to continue operating in the U.S.  Ireland-based Full Tilt,  Absolute Poker  of  Costa Rica  and
PokerStars, based on the  Isle of Man , were the leading online
poker sites doing business with U.S. customers, Bharara said in
April.  Bharara’s office said in yesterday’s filing that Full Tilt
management’s payment processing had so degraded by last year
that it was crediting website players with money never collected
from their accounts.  “Full Tilt Poker allowed players to gamble with -- and
lose to other players -- this phantom money that Full Tilt Poker
never actually collected or possessed,” according to a
government court filing.  Bank Account  By the end of March, the company owed players worldwide
about $390 million, $150 million of which was owed to gamblers
in the U.S., Bharara said in yesterday’s statement. Full Tilt
had only $60 million in its bank accounts at the time, he said.  Four of its directors, Raymond Bitar,  Howard Lederer ,
 Christopher Ferguson  and Rafael Furst, were paid from player
funds since 2007, Bharara said.  One of the 11 criminal defendants, Bitar, is charged with
bank fraud, illegal gambling and money laundering.  L. Barrett Boss, an attorney for Full Tilt, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  No lawyer has appeared for Bitar in the criminal case,
according to the court’s electronic docket.  Jeff Ifrah, an attorney in  Washington , has represented
Lederer and Ferguson in other proceedings in federal court in
Manhattan. Ifrah said he couldn’t immediately comment on the
proposed amended complaint.  A Full Tilt web page for Furst identifies him as “ Rafe ”
and links to his own site, www.rafefurst.com. Furst didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mailed request for comment.  No Ponzi Scheme  “It’s fundamentally unfair to call this a Ponzi scheme,”
said  Melinda Sarafa , a  New York  criminal-defense lawyer who has
previously worked on Internet gambling cases.  “This was a poker business that had a legitimate business
model but ran into processing disruptions,” she said. “It’s
not clear to me that this was an intentional plan to defraud
customers and line pockets.”  A careful review of the facts is needed, said Sarafa.  “We only have half the story at this point,” she said.  Vedder Price’s  Montana  said prosecutors may have the better
argument solely because the Full Tilt operators are alleged to
have promised bettors their money was secure when it was not
and, had everyone demanded their money at once, there would not
have been enough to go around.  “If this thing had just continued on, given the constant
interest, they probably would have continued to go on and no one
would have known the difference,” he said.  The civil forfeiture case is U.S. v. PokerStars, 11-cv-
02564, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-cr-00336,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  