-- 
GE Energy Infrastructure Gets Orders Worth as Much as $3 Billion

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-20T11:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ge-energy-infrastructure-gets-orders-worth-as-much-as-3-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
biggest provider of power-generation equipment and services,
said it won contracts from Brazil,  Egypt ,  Australia  and other
countries valued at as much as $3 billion.  The projects include $1 billion from Brazil for wind and
gas turbines and subsea oil-and gas-exploration equipment, as
well as $1.5 billion for the 1.6 megawatt wind turbine, which
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company touts as the world’s
most efficient, according to a statement today.  John Krenicki, GE vice chairman who is president and chief
executive officer of GE Energy Infrastructure, leads an investor
meeting today to outline growth prospects. The company said in
July it expected  total shipments to rise  in the second half for
turbines. The division has more than doubled its investment in
research to about 5 percent of sales, Krenicki said in an
interview in August, to add new products.  GE Energy  is also integrating about $12 billion in
acquisitions as it builds its oil- and gas-exploration equipment
division and increases its products for electricity grids. Other
countries named in the statement include Egypt, Australia,
Ecuador, Italy, Indonesia and Canada.  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is working to
boost GE’s share of profit from industrial operations and shrink
the percentage contribution from the finance division in part
because investors value manufacturing companies more highly than
finance.  In the second quarter, profit in the energy infrastructure
segment slid 19 percent to $1.55 billion amid lower prices for
wind and gas turbines, even as sales and orders increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
  edufner@bloomberg.net  