-- 
SAIC Motor Shares Rise on Plan to Build Electric Cars With GM

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T11:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/general-motors-to-develop-electric-cars-in-china.html
SAIC Motor Co., China’s biggest
domestic automaker, rose to a five-week high in  Shanghai  trading
after saying it will develop electric cars with  General Motors
Co. (GM)  in the world’s largest auto market.  SAIC rose 5.3 percent to 16.47 yuan at the 3 p.m. close of
trading, the highest level since Aug. 15. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index gained 2.7 percent.  Electric cars will be “a key component in our current
five-year plan in China,” Tim Lee, head of international
operations at GM, said at an event in Shanghai yesterday to
announce the joint initiative.  Automakers including  Daimler AG (DAI)  and Nissan Motor Co. have
announced plans to add alternative-energy vehicles in China, the
world’s largest polluter, as the country seeks to reduce
emissions. The government aims to have 1 million electric-
powered vehicles on the road by 2015, according to the Ministry
of Science.  GM and SAIC will design the electric cars and develop
components for them at an existing joint venture in China, the
two companies said in a statement yesterday.  GM plans to introduce 60 new and upgraded models in China
during the next five years, the company said during the Shanghai
auto show in April. GM and SAIC operate 10 joint ventures in the
nation. Their mini commercial vehicle partnership sells the
Wuling Sunshine minivan, China’s best-selling vehicle last year.  Volt  Intellectual Property   GM will not give SAIC or the Chinese intellectual property
for the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid as part of the agreement,
GM Vice Chairman Steve Girsky told reporters on a conference
call yesterday. GM hasn’t received any “request for
intellectual property around the Volt,” he said.  The Detroit-based automaker will export the Volt from the
U.S. to China, according to Girsky. GM expects to sell small
volumes of the model because of tariffs on imported vehicles
while locally made electric cars and plug-in hybrids get
government subsidies, he said.  General Motors will introduce the Volt in China in the
fourth quarter, GM Senior Vice President Mary Barra said in
Shanghai today.  GM fell 2.7 percent to $22.43 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The shares have slid 32
percent from GM’s initial public offering price of $33 in
November.  Vehicle sales are forecast to slow this year in  China ,
after sales-tax breaks and rebates for rural buyers ended in
January and following central bank interest-rate increases.  Vehicle sales in the first eight months of the year rose
3.3 percent to 12 million units, with passenger-car sales
gaining 6.1 percent to 9.2 million units, the China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers said on Sept. 9. Deliveries climbed
32 percent last year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  