-- 
German Investor Confidence Drops to 2 1/2-Year Low on Debt Crises, Economy

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-20T09:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/german-investor-confidence-drops-to-2-1-2-year-low-on-debt-crises-economy.html
German investor confidence fell to
the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in September as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a global slowdown damped the outlook for growth.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to minus
43.3 from minus 37.6 in August. That’s the lowest since December
2008. Economists expected a drop to minus 45, according to the
median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s benchmark DAX share index has plunged 25 percent
since late July as the global outlook worsens and Europe’s debt
crisis erodes confidence in its banking sector. The European
Commission last week cut its euro-area growth forecasts for the
second half and warned the economy may come “close to
standstill at year-end.” Standard & Poor’s today lowered
 Italy ’s credit rating, saying weaker growth may mean the nation
won’t be able to reduce the region’s second-largest debt load.  “There’s almost only bad news at the moment,” said
Carsten Klude, head of investment strategy at M.M. Warburg & Co.
in Hamburg. “The sovereign debt crisis and the global economic
slowdown both continue to burden sentiment. We don’t expect
Germany to slide into recession, but growth will be much weaker
in the months ahead.”  ZEW said its gauge of current conditions fell to 43.6, the
lowest since July last year, from 53.5. The euro rose slightly
after the report to trade at $1.3693 at 11:40 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Second-Quarter Slowdown  German gross domestic product rose just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter after jumping 1.3 percent in the first three
months of the year. Growth in the euro area,  Germany ’s main
export market, slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.8 percent as
governments from  Greece  to Spain cut spending to rein in budget
deficits. The 17-nation economy will expand 0.2 percent in the
third quarter and 0.1 percent in the fourth, the European
Commission predicted on Sept. 15.  “The decline in the ZEW clearly reflects the risk of the
economy deteriorating further if policy makers do not succeed in
solving the sovereign debt crisis,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “Indeed, we see a
considerable risk of the economy falling into recession if
policy makers remain lethargic.”  Shares in SMA Solar Technology AG, Germany’s biggest solar-
power company by market value, yesterday dropped to a two-year
low after it reduced its profit forecast amid weaker-than-
expected demand for rooftop systems.  ‘Robust’ Third Quarter  Still, Germany’s  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of
heavy-duty vehicles, said it expects truck sales to keep growing
even as economies show signs of cooling. “So far we’re not
feeling a strong impact” from slowing growth,  Andreas Renschler , head of the Daimler Trucks division, told reporters
yesterday.  Germany’s Bundesbank said in its monthly bulletin yesterday
that it expects “robust” growth in Europe’s largest economy in
the third quarter as private consumption rebounds from a second-
quarter slump. The central bank last month reiterated its
forecast for growth of about 3 percent this year.  German unemployment at a two-decade low of 7 percent may
boost household spending and help offset slowing exports.  Volatile Sentiment  Rudolf Besch, an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt, said
last week’s announcement by the  European Central Bank  that it is
cooperating with the  Federal Reserve  to lend dollars to euro-
area banks may also boost investor sentiment.  “Still, we expect a significant growth slowdown,” he
said. “Sentiment is likely to remain volatile on both sides of
the Atlantic due to the high uncertainty associated with the
sovereign debt crisis.”  Greece’s ability to avoid a default hangs in the balance as
international monitors prepare to assess whether Prime Minister
George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue loans.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “substantive”
discussions with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials about securing a sixth installment of rescue funds,
the Athens-based  finance ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
after a teleconference last night. A second call will be held
tonight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  