-- 
Germany’s AAA Rating Affirmed by Fitch on Ambitious Fiscal Plan

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-20T16:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/germany-s-aaa-rating-affirmed-by-fitch-on-ambitious-fiscal-plan.html
Germany’s top  credit rating  was
affirmed by  Fitch Ratings  after the government agreed on
“ambitious” fiscal plans to reduce its debt load.  Fitch kept Germany’s long-term foreign and local currency
issuer default ratings on AAA, the highest investment grade, and
maintained a stable outlook, it said in a statement in  London 
today.  “In a show of commitment to euro-area fiscal discipline,
Germany adopted an ambitious fiscal consolidation program aiming
to reverse budgetary imbalances and place debt on a declining
path,” Fitch said. At the same time, “the resolution of the
euro-area crisis remains a key factor needed to ensure stability
in the German economy.”  European leaders are struggling to contain a sovereign-debt
crisis in the 17-nation region that started in  Greece  and is
threatening to engulf Spain and Italy, which last night had its
credit rating cut by Standard & Poor’s. The  International
Monetary Fund  today predicted “severe” repercussions if
governments fail to contain the fiscal crisis.  Fitch said that while German banks’ exposure to peripheral
euro area economies is “relatively small as a percentage of
total assets, it is concentrated in a number of banks which
could pose greater systemic risks if called on.”  “The risks of spillovers from the sovereign-debt crisis to
Germany remain high,” Maria Malas-Mroueh, director of Fitch’s
sovereign group, said in the statement. While the economy’s
“strong performance is set to continue for 2011,” growth “is
expected to moderate in the medium term.”  Fitch predicts Germany’s deficit will fall to 1.5 percent
of gross domestic product this year and sees public debt
declining to less than 80 percent of GDP by 2013.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  also have
Germany on the highest credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  