-- 
Germany’s ‘Las Vegas of North’ Entices Online Gambling Companies

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-09-20T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/germany-s-las-vegas-of-north-entices-online-gambling-companies.html
The German state of Schleswig-
Holstein, likened by opposition groups to the “ Las Vegas  of the
North” after passing online gambling rules last week, may lure
companies seeking to tap betters throughout the country.  Last week’s 46-to-45 vote is a break from Germany’s other
15 states, which had sought a nationwide framework for betting
after the European Union’s top court ruled last year that the
country’s betting monopoly didn’t comply with European laws.  The more restrictive rules proposed by the other states
have been dismissed as unworkable by Internet gambling companies
 Betfair Group Plc (BET)  and Bwin.party digital entertainment Plc. At
stake is as much as a quarter of Bwin sales, and more than 40
percent of its profit, according to  Goodbody Stockbrokers . Both
companies have said they would consider using Schleswig-Holstein
as a base for their German operations, a tactic one German
company is already pursing.  “We want to make the same business as we do now, just we
do it in  Germany , instead of in Malta,” Stefan Zenker, a
spokesman for  Jaxx SE (FXXN) , an Internet betting company based in
Schleswig-Holstein. The company plans to offer Web-based sports
betting, poker and casino games to all Germany from the
country’s northernmost state starting March 1, Zenker said.  Schleswig-Holstein’s rules allow for an unlimited number of
web-gambling licenses, plus a less onerous tax regime than that
proposed by the other states. The rules proposed by the 15
states would limit licenses to seven and place a 16.7 percent
tax on betting stakes, while the Schleswig-Holstein rules are
for a 20 percent tax on gross profit.  ‘Las Vegas’  On the day of the vote, Robert Habeck and Detlef
Matthiessen, members of the opposition  Green Party , stood in
front of a Vegas neon-style sign that said, “Welcome to the
betting-paradise, Schleswig-Holstein” to warn that the state
was in danger of becoming the  “Las Vegas of the North,”   Ari Last, a spokesman for London-based Betfair, said it was
“certainly a possibility” companies would offer bets to
Germans from Schleswig-Holstein. In April, Bwin.party Co-Chief
Executive Officer Norbert Teufelberger told analysts such a move
was “one of the possibilities we are looking at.”  Betfair may generate about 5 percent of its sales in
Germany, with gambling software maker  Playtech Ltd. (PTEC) , 10 percent,
and  Sportingbet Plc (SBT) , 4 percent, according to Collins Stewart.  Schleswig-Holstein’s legislation is ambiguous enough to
allow Jaxx, Betfair or Bwin.party to begin pitching customers
all over Germany using that state’s license, according to an
attorney specializing in European gambling legislation.  “It’s not permission, it’s not prohibition,” said Joerg
Hofmann, who works for  Melchers  law firm in Heidelberg. ‘If I
were an operator, I would say, the legislation offers the
opportunity, I would say, just do it.”  German Law  Currently, publicly traded companies offer online gambling
in Germany through a grey area -- it’s “technically illegal,
but unenforceable,” according to a report by a  Collins Stewart 
analyst,  Simon Davies .  The other 15 states’ proposals, if unchanged, would force
Betfair and Bwin.party to pull out, because they couldn’t make a
profit, said Michael Haile, an analyst at Isle of Man-based
Global Betting and Gaming Consultants. They couldn’t keep
offering bets to Germans from outside Germany, because investors
wouldn’t tolerate a clear breach of German law, he said.  Internet gambling companies will probably be able to take
advantage of the “‘chaos” as any German court objection to the
Schleswig-Holstein move could take years to resolve, according
to Hofmann.  A fully unrestricted German licensing regime could vault
Germany to first place in European online gambling gross win,
from fourth, at 773 million euros ($1.05 billion) last year,
said Joel Keeble, head of mobile, poker and special projects at
H2 Gambling Capital, a Manchester, England-based consultant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  