-- 
Benchmark DAX Index Rises; Utilities Gain as Court Suspends Nuclear Tax

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-20T15:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/german-stocks-rise-utilities-gain-as-court-suspends-nuclear-tax.html
German stocks climbed for the fifth
time in six days amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
announce new stimulus measures tomorrow to buoy the ailing U.S.
economy.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s largest utilities, climbed
more than 3.5 percent after a court suspended a tax on companies
that use nuclear fuel.  SAP AG (SAP)  gained 2.3 percent after a U.S.
judge asked Oracle Corp. to consider revising its request for a
review of a court order overturning a damage award against the
German software maker.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 155.77, or 2.9 percent, to
5,571.68 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge climbed
last week as Germany and France said  Greece  will remain a euro
member and the  European Central Bank  announced measures with the
Fed to ensure banks have enough dollars. The measure has still
retreated 26 percent from this year’s high on May 2. The broader
HDAX Index rose 2.7 percent today.  “As expectations build for more action from the Fed to
kick start the world’s biggest economy again, some investors
want to get in and buy stocks now before it’s too late.” said
 Angus Campbell , the head of sales at Capital Spreads in London.  Fed Operations  The Federal Open Market Committee will decide tomorrow to
replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 surveyed
economists. The move, known as “Operation Twist” for its goal
to bend the yield curve, will probably fail to reduce the 9.1
percent unemployment rate, 61 percent of the economists said.
Among those, 15 percent predict it will be “somewhat harmful.”  German stocks gained even as the nation’s investor
confidence fell to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to minus
43.3 this month from minus 37.6 in August. Economists expected a
drop to minus 45, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Italy had its  credit rating  cut to A from A+ by  Standard &
Poor’s  on concern that weakening economic growth and a
“fragile” government mean the nation won’t be able to reduce
the euro area’s second-largest debt burden.  RWE and EON jumped 3.7 percent to 25.93 euros and 4 percent
to 15.77 euros, respectively, as a Hamburg court suspended a
federal tax on companies that use nuclear fuel. The court said
that the government should reimburse an unnamed power plant
operator, which asked that the tax be suspended, the 96 million
euros ($131 million) it had paid on the levy.  SAP, Siemens  SAP, the world’s biggest maker of business software, rose
2.3 percent to 37.35 euros. A U.S. federal judge asked Oracle to
consider revising its request to seek a review of a court order
overturning a $1.3 billion damage award against SAP.  Siemens AG (SIE)  gained 2.4 percent to 70.22 euros.  Europe ’s
largest engineering company withdrew an unspecified amount of
short-term deposits from Societe Generale SA in the first half
of July, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Siemens withdrew the deposits from the Paris-based bank
before the results of the European Union stress tests were made
public on July 15, the person said, declining to be identified
because the matter is confidential. The funds may have been
transferred to the European Central Bank, the person said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  slumped 4.4 percent to 10.32 euros,
the biggest drop in two weeks. The airline cut its earnings
forecast and said it will deepen capacity cuts for the winter
timetable after last month’s results were weaker than expected
and forward bookings slumped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  