-- 
Giants Defeat Rams 28-16 to Avoid Their First 0-2 Start in Four Years

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-09-20T05:47:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/giants-defeat-rams-28-16-to-avoid-their-first-0-2-start-in-four-years.html
Michael Boley returned a fumble 65
yards for a touchdown and New York Giants defenders harried the
 St. Louis  Rams into another turnover on the way to a 28-16 win
in the National Football League team’s home opener at MetLife
Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  Boley, a linebacker who also recovered a fumble in last
week’s loss to the  Washington Redskins , scooped up a lateral
pass that bounced off the hands of Rams running back Cadillac
Williams in the second quarter for a score that Coach Tom Coughlin called critical to helping the Giants get their first
win of the 2011 season and improve to 1-1. New York also stopped
the Rams three times inside the 10-yard line.  “No question, when you score on defense that’s a huge
play,” Coughlin said. “In addition to that, the number of
times we turned them back and they had to kick field goals, that
was something as well.”  Giants defenders held the Rams to field goals of 21, 25 and
27 yards, while limiting St. Louis to 59 rushing yards without
the injured Steven Jackson. Rams quarterback  Sam Bradford 
completed 22 passes for 331 yards, while throwing one touchdown
pass.  “I thought we shot ourselves in the foot,” said Rams
coach Steve Spagnuolo, who was the Giants’ defensive coordinator
when they won the  Super Bowl  after the 2007 season. “It’s very
difficult to beat these football teams or any football team in
this league when you are finding a way to beat yourself.”  Giants quarterback Eli Manning recovered from an
interception on his team’s first possession to complete 18 of 29
passes for 200 yards and two touchdowns. He connected on six
straight throws during one drive just before halftime that ended
in a juggling, one-handed touchdown grab by receiver Domenik
Hixon that gave the Giants a 21-6 halftime lead.  “It was a heck of a play by him,” Coughlin said. “The
drive right before the half was crucial.”  Momentum-Changer  It was Boley’s play, however, that changed the game’s
momentum, Coughlin said. The Rams trailed 7-6 and had advanced
to the Giants’ 25 yard-line when Bradford threw a backward pass
that bounced off Williams’s hands.  “It looked like he just dropped it,” Boley said.  While Williams stopped running, Boley grabbed the ball and
sprinted up the right sideline, pursued by Bradford all the way
to the end zone.  “That was a big momentum shift,” Boley said. “Any time
the defense scores it’s a bonus.”  Bradford said the play was supposed to be a screen to
Williams. He hurried and threw the pass backwards, making it a
free ball.  “In hindsight, I probably should have called a timeout and
gotten out of the play,” Bradford said.  Coughlin said it was important for the Giants to avoid
falling to 0-2 when the team’s three division opponents all have
at least one win. The Giants play the 1-1 Eagles in Philadelphia
next week.  Defensive Injuries  The Giants, who have lost at least five defensive players
to season-ending injuries, also suffered attrition on offense.
Receiver  Mario Manningham  left the game with a concussion, while
Hixon went to the sidelines with a knee injury.  Coughlin said the team is still developing, and that he was
disappointed by the offense’s inability to pick up short yardage
in some situations.  “Obviously there is much to be improved upon, which is
OK,” he said. “We’ll get the medical report and we’ll do the
best we can with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in East Rutherford, New Jersey at   akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  