-- 
Glam Media Said to Pay $150 Million for Andreessen-Backed Social Site Ning

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-20T23:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/glam-media-said-to-pay-150-million-for-andreessen-backed-social-site-ning.html
Glam Media Inc., a provider of
Internet-advertising services targeting women, will pay about
$150 million to acquire social-networking site Ning Inc.,
according to two people familiar with the transaction.  Glam agreed to purchase Ning and have co-founder  Marc Andreessen  join its board, the two companies said today. Glam
will pay mostly in preferred stock, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the terms haven’t been made
public.  With the acquisition, Glam will gain Ning’s software tools
that let people build their own social networks for a monthly
fee. Ning’s social software may be valuable to the thousands of
bloggers and other online publishers who are part of Glam’s
network, Glam Chief Executive Officer  Samir Arora  said in an
interview.  “What we like about Ning is that it had a platform that
included all of the features of a Facebook Inc. -- I like to
call it a ‘Facebook in a box’ -- but was targeted at the
professional publishers, social-network creators and brands,”
Arora said. He declined to comment on terms of the deal.  Glam has relationships with more than 2,000 publishers,
including female-focused blogs such as  Hostess With the Mostess 
and  StyleBakery , and shares the revenue from sales of ads on
those sites.  Charging Customers  Founded in 2004, the same year as Facebook, Ning last year
began charging all customers for its tools after failing to turn
a profit by offering free tools and charging for extras. Gina Bianchini, Ning’s co-founder and first CEO, resigned in March
2010, and 42 percent of the staff was fired the following month.  Ning’s 100 employees will all go to work for Glam,
the companies said. Ning has raised a total of $120 million from
investors including Andreessen.  Glam has recently held preliminary talks with bankers about
a potential initial public offering, people with knowledge of
the discussions said earlier this year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen’s venture capital firm, Andreessen
Horowitz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  