-- 
Goldman Critic Sides With Buffett to Shut Futures Tax ‘Loophole’

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/goldman-critic-sides-with-buffett-on-futures-tax.html
A U.S. senator known on  Wall Street 
for taking on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has a new target -- a tax
benefit for derivatives traders that has also been derided by
 Warren Buffett , the billionaire investor and  tax-code  critic.  The special congressional committee set up to cut $1.5
trillion from the federal deficit should consider taxing futures
and other derivatives at ordinary income rates, Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the  Permanent
Subcommittee  on Investigations, wrote in a letter to the panel.
The Office of Management and Budget has estimated that a similar
administration proposal could raise about $2.8 billion in
revenue.  Futures, non-equity options and other types of derivatives
transactions are currently taxed at a top rate of 23 percent;
ordinary income is taxed up to 35 percent.  The tax system “encourages bets on derivatives over direct
capital investments that are key to economic growth,” Levin
said in a Sept. 15 letter. “Closing this tax loophole would put
a stop to that market distortion.”  Levin’s reputation for expertise in financial matters was
enhanced by his committee’s investigation of the 2008 credit
collapse, which was released in April and criticized Goldman
Sachs for its role.  Since 1981, some types of derivatives traded on exchanges
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange,
and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  have been taxed at a blended rate. The
split allows 40 percent of a gain or loss to be taxed at short-
term rates and 60 percent at long-term rates.  Eliminating Shelters  Congress passed the system in an effort to eliminate tax
shelters popular in the late 1970s that were used to lower
rates. The futures industry opposed changing the system at the
time, leading Congress to adopt the blend as a compromise.  The system has been criticized this year, including by
Buffett, 81, the chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. and self-made billionaire, who called it part of a series
of “extraordinary tax breaks” that benefit the mega-rich.
“Others own stock index futures for 10 minutes and have 60
percent of their gain taxed at 15 percent, as if they’d been
long-term investors,” Buffett wrote in an Aug. 15  op-ed in the
New York Times .  In his fiscal 2012 budget, President  Barack Obama  proposed
requiring ordinary tax treatment of income for day trading for
certain dealers in equity options and commodities. Dealers in
other types of property treat income as ordinary, the
administration said in the budget proposal. “There is no reason
to treat dealers in different types of property differently,”
the proposal said.  Increasing Revenue  The provisions in the president’s budget would raise $144
million in 2012 and $2.75 billion between 2012 and 2021. The
increase relies on an assumption that the value of derivatives
will rise over the decade,  Yoram Keinan , shareholder at
Greenberg Traurig LLP law firm, said in an interview.  Derivatives exchanges have opposed changing the tax system
when it has been proposed in the past. When Obama pitched a
related change in the 2010 fiscal budget,  CBOE said  the proposal
would “adversely affect the entire marketplace, including the
investing public.” Changing the tax system would lead dealers
and other market makers to pass on costs to clients, the group
said.  In a statement yesterday, CME Group spokesman Chris Grams
said “the exchange continues to oppose any change to the
existing tax rule, which was instituted in 1981 for futures
transactions as part of a conscious Congressional policy.”  Heavy Lobbying  Proposals to change the tax system have failed to advance
in Congress, in part because of heavy industry lobbying, said
Viva Hammer, a partner at KPMG LLP and formerly a member of
Treasury’s office of  tax policy  responsible for tax law on
financial products.  “Clearly the lobbyists protecting that bailiwick, that
benefit, are extremely effective, and they will not let that go
unless they rip apart the entire internal revenue code, I can
promise you that,” Hammer said in a telephone interview.  “People have been calling for years and years saying that
this whole 40-60 thing is ridiculous,” Keinan said. “But no
one took action.”  Last week, the  Internal Revenue Service  proposed
regulations to help define which types of derivatives fall under
the blended  tax rate . Trades subject to the blended system are
known as “1256 contracts,” named for the section of the tax
code.  Dodd-Frank Act  The IRS proposal follows the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial
overhaul enacted in July 2010, which aims to increase regulation
of derivatives, which helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are leading U.S. efforts to complete
regulations required under the law that will govern trades
conducted by firms including Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Cargill Inc.  The law aims to have most of the $601 trillion over-the-
counter market -- transactions directly between buyers and
sellers -- guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges
or other platforms. Interest-rate swaps, currency swaps, equity
swaps and other types of swaps are excluded from the list of
1256 contracts.  In the proposal, the IRS clarified that credit-default
swaps, which traders use to wager on the credit quality of a
company or a country, will not be taxed at the blended rate.  The deadline for public comments is Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  