-- 
Goldsmith-Backed Wheb Plans $342 Million U.K. Clean-Tech Fund

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-20T08:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/goldsmith-backed-wheb-plans-342-million-u-k-clean-tech-fund.html
Wheb Venture Partners LLP, a clean-
technology investor backed by Ben Goldsmith, the son of late
billionaire financier Sir James Goldsmith, is looking to start a
third fund targeting 250 million euros ($342 million).  Wheb Venture Partners, the private equity arm of Wheb
Group, is closing its second fund to new deals next year, Ben
Goldsmith, a partner in Wheb, said in an interview in  London .
Investors in the second fund include family offices such as the
Bamfords, who own JC Bamford Excavators Ltd., Lord Jacob Rothschild and Simon Robertson, the chairman of Rolls-Royce Plc.
Following this, the company plans to start a third fund,
targeting new and existing investors, he said.  Goldsmith owns about a quarter of Wheb Group. Its private
equity arm focuses on businesses developing technologies that
can help industries become more efficient. Potential deals in
the pipeline include a U.S. company with technology for removing
phosphorus from sewage waste and an efficient hydraulics
business for mobile machinery such as diggers, he said.  “We prefer technology which is an obvious sell today,
rather than the slightly sexy, slightly overhyped areas of
renewable energy,” Goldsmith said.  Wheb is also looking at a company that has developed
software for measuring the timber content of a forest. Each of
the possible deals are in the early stages, he said.  Wheb backs companies with at least 5 million euros of sales
and generally invests no more than 10 million euros in one
transaction, he said.  Green Industrial Revolution?  “Our view is that there is a green industrial revolution
going on at the moment and it is getting bigger every year,”
Goldsmith said. “At the heart of this is efficiency, but not
just  energy efficiency , efficiency across the use of energy,
water, raw materials and waste.”  Wheb already has invested in companies including AquaSpy
Inc., which developed technology that helps farmers know when
their crops need irrigating, and Bowman Power Group Ltd., which
designed a system that captures and uses waste energy from large
diesel engine exhausts. It has only invested in one renewable
energy technology, Green Energy Group AS, a Norwegian geothermal
power company.  “What we really like is the bucket and spades approach,
the people that made money out of the gold rush were the people
selling buckets and shovels,” he said. “We’re interested in
technology that services renewable energy as opposed to
investing in someone developing a new design for a turbine.”  ‘Nearer to Market’  The technology tends to be “less capital intensive and
it’s nearer to market than some of the stuff we see in renewable
energy.” Funding renewable energy is better left to companies
with bigger balance sheets such as utilities, he said.  The company is aiming for a portfolio of about 12 companies
in its second fund, or 110 million pounds, so it will likely
invest in two more businesses before its close. Its next fund
will follow a similar strategy, he said.  “The thematic green equity investors are starting to do
really well,” Goldsmith said. “I think we are at a tipping
point this year, next year and the following year. I think
investors are really starting to look at this in a serious
way.”  “To get big institutional pension fund managers and big
investors pouring capital into these areas we need returns, we
need to demonstrate to investors that we can make money in these
areas,” he said.  ‘Green Blackstone’  “I don’t think we really need to wear the hair shirts that
people talk about in order to solve the environmental problem,”
Goldsmith said.  His family has a passion for the environment. He credits
his uncle, Edward Goldsmith, as being an environmental visionary
in the 1960’s and ’70s. It was his Uncle Teddy, as Ben calls
him, who started The Ecologist magazine in 1970.  His brother Zac, the Conservative member of Parliament for
Richmond Park and North Kingston, took over editing the magazine
in 1997 and has been involved in various environmental
campaigns.  It was Uncle Teddy who asked Ben to quit his job working in
a private client brokerage to look for investment opportunities
in environmental markets. This venture led him to meet Rob Wylie
and Kim Heyworth, who owned Wheb. He joined Wheb in 2003 and the
company raised its first dedicated venture capital fund focused
on clean technology in the U.K. in 2004-2005, which was 25
million pounds in total.  “I hope that by 2020 Wheb will be something of a ‘green’
Blackstone,” Goldsmith said of Blackstone Group LP. “I hope
that we will be a multibillion-dollar leading specialist green
investment business in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  