-- 
Google Opens Social Network to All Users, Adds Tools to Challenge Facebook

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-20T21:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/google-opens-social-network-to-all-users-adds-features-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which started its
Google+ social network in June as an invitation-only service, is
opening the site to all users and rolling out new video-chat and
search tools to attract more members.  The company is making its Hangouts feature, which enables
group videoconferences, available on mobile phones and for live
broadcasts on the Web, wrote  Vic Gundotra , senior vice president
of engineering, in a  blog post .  Mountain View , California-based
Google also is adding new search capabilities to the social
site, which had about 29 million visitors in July, according to
ComScore Inc.  With the changes, Google has boosted the number of Google+
features to 100, an effort to woo users and compete with  Palo
Alto , California-based Facebook Inc., the biggest social
network, with more than 750 million members. Google unveiled an
online-game service last month with developers such as Zynga
Inc., maker of the Facebook game “FarmVille,” and Rovio
Entertainment Oy, creator of the hit “Angry Birds.”  “For the past 12 weeks we’ve been in field trial, and
during that time we’ve listened and learned a great deal,”
Gundotra wrote. “We’re nowhere near done, but with the
improvements we’ve made so far we’re ready to move from field
trial to beta, and introduce our 100th feature: open signups.”  The new search service will find content such as photos
from within Google+ and around the Web, he said. More than 1
billion items are shared daily on the site, he said.  As part of the improvements to Hangouts, the company is
planning to enable new ways to share content. That includes
showing friends what’s on a user’s computer screen, such as
photos or lesson plans; sharing drawings on a digital sketchpad;
and incorporating Google Docs, including word-processing
documents.  Google fell 5 cents to $546.63 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has declined 8 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  