-- 
Google, Oracle Ordered to Meet Again Tomorrow in Android Patent Dispute

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/google-oracle-ordered-to-meet-again-tomorrow-in-android-dispute.html
Google Inc. and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  are
scheduled to meet again tomorrow after a daylong session
yesterday in an attempt to resolve a lawsuit alleging the search
engine company’s Android technology infringed Oracle’s patents.  Larry Page , Google’s chief executive officer, and  Larry Ellison , Oracle’s CEO, spent yesterday in closed talks before a
federal magistrate judge in  San Jose ,  California , after they
were ordered to meet over a dispute that may pose the biggest
threat to the Android mobile software, now running on more than
150 million devices.  Oracle claimed in court papers that Google could owe as
much as $6 billion while Google suggested at a hearing that a
reasonable royalty would be $100 million. Jim Prosser, a Google
spokesman, declined to comment on the talks.  Deborah Hellinger ,
an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment after regular business hours yesterday.  “It could be that they are truly making progress and need
time to go back and look at the numbers,” Chris Renk, a patent
attorney at Banner & Witcoff who isn’t involved in the case,
said in a phone interview. “They may also be trying to show the
judge presiding over the case, hey, we made a good faith effort
at settlement talks.”  Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal, who ordered the two
executives to attend the settlement conference yesterday, said
they should be prepared for further meetings beginning tomorrow,
up until Sept. 30. A trial in the case is scheduled for
Oct. 30.  Java Copyrights  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, sued last
year, alleging  Mountain View , California-based Google didn’t
obtain a license to use its Java technology patents that it says
are infringed by the Android mobile-device operating system.
Besides seeking billions of dollars in damages,  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle wants the court to order destruction of
all products that violate its copyrights.  The two companies have made previous efforts to settle,
including private discussions, which lacked “follow-through,”
Oracle’s attorneys said in a court filing.  Oracle’s suit may represent a bigger menace to Google’s
software than challenges from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which has already won
patent decisions against Android device makers. In settlement
talks, Page aims to avoid having to pay Oracle licensing fees
that analysts at Citigroup Inc. said could be as high as $15 per
device. That sum might slow the adoption of the software, which
Google gives away.  Hardware Sales  Ellison is under pressure to wring profit from the
acquisition of Sun Microsystems Inc. and its Java software after
a report in June showed falling hardware sales, raising concern
that Oracle may not be making most of the $7.3 billion deal,
which closed last year.  Oracle initially estimated that damages from allegedly
unauthorized use of Java technology would amount to as much as
$6.1 billion. Alsup threw out the tally, calling it “wishful
thinking,” according to a July 22 order.  In the same order, Alsup also took Google to task for what
he called “Soviet-style negotiation” in suggesting that a
reasonable royalty would be at most $100 million.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in federal court in San Jose, California, at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  