-- 
Greece Default Would Leave German Taxpayers Facing Bills From ‘Bad’ Banks

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-09-20T14:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/greece-default-would-leave-german-taxpayers-facing-bills-from-bad-banks.html
Germany ’s bad banks, backed by the
state to prevent the collapse of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG and
WestLB AG during the credit crisis, would be the hardest hit in
the event of a Greek default, leaving taxpayers to shoulder the
bill a second time.  Hypo’s FMS Wertmanagement, with 8.76 billion euros ($12
billion) in Greek sovereign investments and loans, and WestLB’s
 Erste Abwicklungsanstalt , with 1.21 billion euros, bear more
than half of German banks’ Greek debt, according to data
compiled from company reports and statements. By contrast,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s two biggest
lenders, hold a combined 3.35 billion euros.  The specter of a Greek insolvency was raised this month by
members of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition, when Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler said there can be no “taboos” when
considering action “to stabilize the euro in the short term.”
The German government is considering a “Plan B” to help shield
banks and insurers from losses if Greece defaults, three
coalition officials said on Sept. 9.  “A Greek haircut or default will especially hit both
state-owned bad banks,” said Klaus Fleischer, a professor for
banking and finance at the University of Applied Sciences in
Munich. “Their bills are ultimately being paid by the German
taxpayer. Private lenders have an advantage because their
exposure is comparatively small.”  Greek Bonds  Under Germany’s financial stability act, bad banks were
created to take over bad loans and risky assets to help shield
lenders from losses that threatened their solvency. The bad
bank, which is backed by the government, winds down the non-
strategic assets while the lender focuses on its central
operating business.  Greek 10-year bonds are trading about 60 percent below face
value. By comparison, financial companies including Deutsche
Bank, Commerzbank and  Allianz SE (ALV)  agreed in July to write down
the value of their Greek securities by an average 21 percent as
part of a bond exchange and debt buyback program for the debt-
stricken country. Some of the companies have made additional
markdowns on their holdings.  As the biggest contributor to bailouts of Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal , Germany is trying to shield its own financial
institutions from fallout from the sovereign debt crisis.  On Sept. 14, Germany joined  France  in signaling support for
Greece with Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  saying
they’re “convinced” Greece will stay in the euro area.  Default Chance  Merkel’s coalition is showing a less united front, with
Roesler’s comments prompting the chancellor to warn against
allowing a Greek default because of the risk of contagion for
other euro-area countries and recommend that “everybody should
weigh their words very carefully,” in a radio interview.  Investors see a 94 percent chance  Greece  will default on
its debt in the next five years, according to CMA, which
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
credit-swaps market.  The Greek government will hold another call with its main
creditors today after a “productive” round of talks aimed at
staving off default. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held
“substantive” discussions with European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials about securing a sixth
installment of rescue funds, the Athens-based  finance ministry 
said in an e-mailed statement after a teleconference last night.  ‘Severe’ Repercussions  Greece’s woes have contributed to a decline in the euro in
recent days. The euro approached a 10-year low against the yen
after Standard & Poor’s cut Italy’s credit rating one step,
adding to concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will raise borrowing
costs for the region’s largest economies.  Separately, the Washington-based IMF today cut its forecast
for global economic growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions if Europe fails to contain the risks or if U.S.
policy makers reach an impasse over a fiscal plan.  Moves to protect the banks are being discussed as Germany’s
lower house, the Bundestag, prepares to vote Sept. 29 on
amendments to the European Financial Stability Facility as part
of a revised Greece rescue program laid out on July 21.  “With the EFSF we’re trying to build a fire break,”
Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in Berlin on Sept. 15.
“If we don’t succeed in extinguishing the fire, then we must
seek to protect those neighboring states. We’re working on that
building site too. We are pursuing a double strategy.”  Bailed Out  Hypo Real Estate, state-owned since being bailed out by the
German government during the financial crisis, moved about 176
billion euros in assets to FMS on Sept. 30, 2010. FMS, owned by
Germany’s Federal Agency for Financial Market Stabilization, has
the task of winding down the assets over a period of 10 years
and of minimizing losses tied to the sale of the securities.  Hypo Real Estate said today that the European Commission
ordered the German lender to privatize its pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank unit by the end of 2015 and its Depfa division by
the end of 2014, ensuring “as much of the support provided by
the German state as possible” is returned.  The EAA, created in December 2009 to stabilize WestLB and
the financial market, is winding down WestLB’s risky assets and
non-strategic businesses with a total volume of approximately 85
billion euros as of June 2009.  ‘Plan B’  “It’s right to have a Plan B, especially as the market is
increasingly convinced that it will be needed,” said Michael Seufert, a banking analyst at NordLB in Hannover. “The banks
will prepare themselves as well, developing cushions for
absorbing writedowns if they need them because the chance of a
haircut is getting bigger.”  Germany’s biggest lenders and insurers had total risks
related to the Greek government of about 17.5 billion euros at
the end of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
individual bank figures may vary slightly because of a mixture
of sovereign debt, loans, writedowns and accounting differences.  According to  consolidated banking statistics  from the  Bank
for International Settlements , German banks’ “foreign claims
and other potential exposures on an ultimate risk basis” vis-a-
vis Greece, including both public and private sector, totaled
$23.8 billion at the end of March. That included $14.1 billion
to the public sector.  French lenders top the list of Greek creditors with $56.9
billion in exposure to private and public debt, according to
Basel-based BIS. This includes $13.4 billion in government
claims.  More to Lose  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA had their long-
term credit ratings cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service
on Sept. 14.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, the largest French bank, had its
Aa2 long-term rating kept on review for a possible cut.  Unlike Germany, French lenders haven’t set up bad banks to
hold their Greek investments. France has more to lose in a Greek
default because most risks are held by its private lenders and
markets are already concerned about them, Professor Fleischer
said.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest bank that was bailed
out by the government in 2008, has reduced its Greek holdings to
2.2 billion euros while Deutsche Bank has 1.15 billion euros,
according to company reports.  Commerzbank has paid back most of the more than 18 billion
euros it received in state aid, though the German government
still owns a 25 percent stake.  “A Greek default on its own would be manageable for
Germany’s listed banks,” said  Olaf Kayser , an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, who forecasts a haircut of about
60 percent in such a scenario. “It’ll be painful for the banks
if Greece’s troubles spill over in the euro area.”  Germany’s banking industry is “very stable” after lenders
raised capital levels,  Michael Kemmer , general manager of the
BdB Association of German Banks, said in an interview on Aug.
10. German banks’ capital ratios have increased to about 12.3
percent from 9.4 percent in October 2008, the Bundesbank said in
May.  Following is a table showing the sovereign risk related to
Greece of selected German banks and insurers. The data is based
on company filings, some of which include bond holdings as well
as the value of loans. Figures are in euros.  
* Nominal figure  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  