-- 
Gruebel Meets With UBS Board on Trading Loss After Scolding From Singapore

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-09-21T16:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/gruebel-to-face-ubs-board-after-trading-loss-scolding-by-biggest-investor.html
Oswald Gruebel , chief executive
officer of  UBS AG (UBSN) , may face pressure to cut risk and shrink the
investment bank as the board meets in  Singapore , less than a
week after a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.  The CEO got a scolding yesterday from the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp., the company’s biggest investor,
which “expressed disappointment and concern about the lapses
and urged UBS to take firm action to restore confidence in the
bank,” according to a statement from the sovereign wealth fund
after its senior management met with Gruebel.  The opprobrium marks a shift for the 67-year-old Gruebel,
brought in 2 1/2 years ago to rebuild Zurich-based UBS after
record losses on U.S. subprime mortgage securities led to a
state rescue. Gruebel earned the moniker “Saint Ossie” in
Switzerland for helping to restore  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s
profits and reputation in his previous CEO role, and for a
trading acumen that included spotting the subprime debacle
early. While Gruebel’s own position may be at risk, there’s no
obvious replacement.  “This is a black eye for Gruebel and the bank,” said
 Christian Hamann , an analyst at  Hamburger Sparkasse  who has a
“hold” rating on UBS. “On the other hand, he’s done quite a
few things well and successfully stabilized the bank, which may
have earned him some credit that he hasn’t used up yet.”  Gruebel, reached by phone, confirmed that the company’s
executive board met today and declined to comment further. The
meeting continues in Singapore tomorrow. Tatiana Togni, a bank
spokeswoman, said she wouldn’t comment on “speculation”
regarding succession at UBS.  ‘Normal’ Meeting  Chairman Kaspar Villiger, speaking to reporters in
Singapore today, said it will be a “normal” board meeting.
When asked whether there has been any pressure from investors
following disclosure of the trading loss, he said “thankfully,
no.” The bank is “solid,” he said.  UBS rose 8 centimes, or 0.8 percent, to 10.29 francs in
Swiss trading. The shares declined 33 percent this year,
compared with the 35 percent decrease in the 46-company
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Review of Loss  Gruebel, whose career in finance spans half a century,
returned UBS to profit about six months after arriving, resolved
a dispute with the U.S. over banking secrecy that threatened the
firm’s existence and stemmed nine straight quarters of client
defections at the private bank. Still, his two-year effort to
rebuild profitability at the investment bank had been undercut
by market turmoil and higher  capital requirements  even before
the trading loss.  Gruebel told employees yesterday that UBS will retain its
investment banking division, and that it must be part of the
wealth management business, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing a person who attended the meeting.  The board of Switzerland’s largest bank will review the
loss and possible management changes during the meeting, said a
person familiar with the matter who declined to be named because
the gathering is private. The regular meeting was scheduled
before the loss emerged, and coincides with the Singapore
Formula One Grand Prix, where the firm will be entertaining
clients.  Bilan magazine reported yesterday that Gruebel was asked to
leave, citing an unidentified person close to the board of
directors. Discussions at the board level are underway
concerning Gruebel’s successor, according to Geneva-based Bilan,
which didn’t say how it obtained the information or who asked
him to go.  Plans to Stay  The loss resulted from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500,
DAX and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, UBS
said. While the positions were taken within the “normal
business flow of a large global equity trading house,” the size
of the risk was hidden by phony trades, UBS said in a statement.  The company said it may be unprofitable in the third
quarter after the unauthorized trading. The loss, less than two
months after Gruebel said the firm had “one of the best” risk-
management units in the industry, raised questions about the
bank’s controls.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority and its Swiss
counterpart said they would investigate the trading losses.  Kweku Adoboli, a 31-year-old UBS trader, was charged with
fraud and false accounting by London police on Sept. 16, the day
after UBS first announced the trading loss. He didn’t enter a
plea and his  law firm , Kingsley Napley, declined to comment.  Can’t Blame CEO  Gruebel told Swiss newspaper Der Sonntag in an interview
published Sept. 18 that he doesn’t plan to resign because of the
loss, adding that when “someone acts with criminal intent, you
can’t do anything.” He told Swiss TV in a separate interview
that he’s ultimately responsible and will have to “take the
consequences.”  Lutz Roehmeyer, who helps manage about $14 billion at
Landesbank Berlin Investment, including UBS shares, said it will
probably be up to Gruebel whether or not to resign. If a trader
knows the rules and how to evade them, it’s very difficult to
prevent him from doing so, he said.  “The CEO is the last person who can do something about
that,” Roehmeyer said. “If someone robs a UBS branch or steals
gold from UBS’s safe, you can’t blame the CEO for that. The
scandal has nothing to do with his performance.”  ‘Under Pressure’  The events throw into relief the lack of a  succession plan 
at UBS, analysts said. Gruebel, pulled out of retirement to take
on the CEO role, turns 68 in November. Villiger, 70, is
scheduled to step down in 2013, replaced by former Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber , 54, who lacks hands-on experience running
a commercial bank. The trading loss also reduces the chance that
Carsten Kengeter, the 44-year-old head of the investment bank,
will ascend to the top job.  “Kengeter is probably more under pressure than the CEO
because he’s responsible for the investment bank,” said
Roehmeyer. “He’s closer to the trading loss.”  Sergio Ermotti , UBS’s CEO of  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa , may be a potential successor, analysts said. The 51-
year-old joined in April, after running the investment bank at
UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s largest lender.  Gruebel told staff in a memo on Sept. 18 that he was
“shocked and disappointed” by the unauthorized trading,
describing the events as a setback to UBS’s reputation and its
effort to build up capital. He said the loss won’t affect UBS’s
capital base, and the risk of someone violating the bank’s
controls “always exists.”  ‘All It Takes’  “I and the rest of the firm’s management are fully focused
on thoroughly investigating this issue, and will do all it takes
to determine how this happened and what we need to do to ensure
that it does not recur,” Gruebel said in the memo.
“Ultimately, the buck stops with me.”  David Sidwell, the senior independent director on UBS’s
board and a former chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley,
will lead a three-person board committee investigating the
trading loss and the bank’s controls, UBS said.  For Gruebel, the outcome of the investigations into the
matter may affect his legacy as the only person to have served
as CEO of both of  Switzerland ’s biggest banks.  Born in the eastern part of  Germany  during World War II, he
was orphaned before his first birthday. He crossed into  West
Germany  with his grandmother on foot at the age of 10 to live
with relatives. On the advice of a grandfather, he abandoned an
ambition to study engineering and joined Deutsche Bank AG in
1961 as a 17-year-old trainee straight out of school.  ‘Career Risk’  He moved to Credit Suisse White Weld Ltd. as a Eurobond
trader in 1970. By 1991 he had become Credit Suisse’s head of
global trading. Under Gruebel’s leadership as CEO, Credit Suisse
started cutting its exposure to subprime mortgage bonds in 2006,
when UBS was still buying them, according to disclosures from
both companies. UBS eventually booked losses and writedowns of
more than $57 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gruebel
joined as UBS’s third CEO in less than two years.  “It was obviously quite a career risk for Gruebel to come
back in 2009 and take over the UBS helm,” said Emily Adderson,
a London-based  fund manager  at  Henderson Global Investors , which
oversees $117 billion. “You can understand his motivation to
continue the job he started. Of course, you want to have the
vote of confidence from the board that the right plan is going
to be implemented going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 