-- 
Gryphon’s Kenneth Marsh Gets Eight Years in Prison for Stock-Tip Fraud

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-20T21:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/gryphon-s-kenneth-marsh-gets-eight-years-in-prison-for-stock-tip-fraud.html
Kenneth Marsh, the “ringleader”
behind the Gryphon Holdings Inc. boiler-room operation on New
York’s  Staten Island , was sentenced to eight years in prison for
his role in defrauding almost 5,500 people out of $20 million.  Marsh, 44, the last of the 18 Gryphon defendants to learn
his prison term, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn, New York. He pleaded guilty in April to
one count of  securities fraud , admitting he misled investors
into paying for phony stock tips.  “The victims were heard and they told heart-wrenching
stories,” Weinstein said.  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
to a related civil lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The other 17 defendants in the scheme, including
members of its sales force, all pleaded guilty and got sentences
ranging from three to 25 months. Marsh personally made $1.9
million through Gryphon, according to the SEC complaint.  “The court endeavored mightily to balance all of the
factors and came up with a fair and just sentence,” Alan S.
Futerfas, one of Marsh’s lawyers, said after the hearing today.  Futerfas said he would have to discuss with Marsh whether
to appeal the sentence.  Fictitious Names  Marsh, a former stockbroker who had been barred from the
securities industry, used the fictitious names Michael Warren
and Ken Maseka to pose as two investment advisers with
experience working at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Seven former salesmen and Marsh’s ex-wife, Nicole Marsh,
who ran Gryphon with him, cooperated with prosecutors, according
to the government. Nicole Marsh, 32, was sentenced to three
months in prison on Sept. 14.  “The defendant made criminals out of otherwise law-abiding
people,” the judge said today.  Some victims lost life savings, divorced and even
contemplated suicide because of the Gryphon fraud, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Roger Burlingame said in court today. The prosecution
had previously played tapes of Marsh training his sales force in
high-pressure tactics and referring to the customers as trained
dogs.  “The defendant has shown absolutely no acceptance of his
crime,” Burlingame said.  Strip Mall  Marsh was charged in April 2010. He has been in jail since
November, after he was accused by prosecutors of engaging in
conduct similar to actions that led to his arrest and he was
unable to raise the additional bail required.  Gryphon falsely claimed to have a trading desk and a $1.4
billion hedge fund, according to the government. The company
sometimes told investors its office was in the  New York  Stock
Exchange when it was in a strip mall in the New York borough of
Staten Island.  Marsh lied about graduating from  Columbia University  in New
York and the Wharton School of Business in Philadelphia, the SEC
said.  Gryphon’s website also falsely claimed an endorsement from
 George Soros , the billionaire hedge-fund manager, according to
the SEC suit.  Weinstein twice postponed imposing Marsh’s prison term.  At an Aug. 11 hearing, the judge said he leaned toward five
years. After hearing from seven victims and listening to tapes
of Marsh training the sales force, the judge decided to postpone
his decision.  Longer Sentence  Weinstein, at the next hearing on Sept. 14, said he would
impose a 10-year sentence. Marsh’s lawyers protested and said
they wanted an opportunity to argue for a lower prison term or
to accept the judge’s offer to withdraw his guilty plea.  They said it was because of Weinstein’s mention of a five-
year term -- far below the guidelines -- that they didn’t fight
the government’s $10.5 million calculation of the restitution
Marsh and other defendants would have to pay to victims. The
amount of the loss affects the guideline range.  “It’s a very serious crime and he’s the ringleader,”
Weinstein said at the hearing last week. “People have to be
deterred from doing what he did.”  Fraud Amount  Futerfas argued the fraud amount should be limited to the
$99 introductory fee subscribers paid, totaling $539,154 for
5,446 customers.  Using the government’s loss number, nonbinding federal
guidelines put Marsh’s sentencing range between about 11 and 14
years, prosecutors have said.  Futerfas has argued in a court filing that his client
should be sentenced leniently in part because the trades he
recommended were consistently profitable. Prosecutors disputed
that.  The two sides argued the loss-calculation issue again today
before Weinstein imposed the eight-year prison sentence.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 