-- 
IBM Unveils Software Product to Build Cloud Computing Business

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-20T18:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ibm-unveils-software-product-to-build-cloud-computing-business.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, is
offering a new software product that automates marketing and
speeds up sales to entice businesses to use its servers.  If all of a company’s product and customer data is on IBM’s
servers, IBM’s analytics can help it sell more efficiently to
other businesses and consumers, the company said in a statement.
For example, sales campaigns could be based on where products
are geographically located and marketing campaigns could be
automatically generated based on the tone of a customer’s
Twitter post about a product.  The new product, which is the next step in IBM’s Smarter
Commerce initiative, is part of a push to make $7 billion by
2015 from cloud computing, which allows a company to store and
access data from IBM’s servers, the company said. IBM, based in
Armonk,  New York , has made “heavy investments” in the area,
including $2.5 billion in acquisitions and hundreds of millions
of dollars in research, said Craig Hayman, who oversees Smarter
Commerce as general manager of IBM Industry Solutions.  The product “clarifies what these acquisitions in the fall
were about, and gives a clear example of one of the ways IBM
plans to pursue the cloud,” said Josh Olson, a  Des Peres ,
Missouri-based analyst for Edward Jones & Co.  Acquisitions, Competitors  Last year, IBM acquired Unica Corp. and Coremetrics, which
use analytics for online marketing, and Sterling Commerce, which
helps companies manage their relationships with partners and
suppliers. The company has said it plans to spend about $20
billion on acquisitions through 2015, after ending last year
with $10.7 billion in cash.  Competitors  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have
not gone as far as IBM in using cloud technology for business
services,  Gene Alvarez , a Stamford, Connecticut-based analyst
for Gartner Inc., said. IBM’s technology could attract
industries like health care and telecommunications by doing for
business-to-business transactions what  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  does on
its website, providing individualized marketing, he said.  “We now have organizations that you never would have
thought of as e-commerce organizations, wanting a system like
that,” Alvarez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  