-- 
IBM Offers to Settle EU Antitrust Probe, Second Case Closed

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-20T15:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ibm-remedies-in-eu-antitrust-probe-tested-other-probe-dropped.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  offered to resolve a European Union investigation into
claims the company blocked competition from rival providers of
maintenance services for  mainframe computers .  The European Commission, the Brussels-based EU antitrust
regulator, today asked for comments on IBM’s commitments to
ensure the availability of spare parts and technical data. The
commission also  closed a separate probe  over IBM’s mainframe
computers after three competitors dropped complaints.  The commission in 2010 opened investigations into Armonk,
New York-based IBM over possible conduct that may have blocked
competitors in mainframe software and maintenance contracts by
restricting access to parts. While IBM has shifted its focus
away from hardware toward its more profitable software and
services businesses, the mainframe operations have high gross
margins and help pull in revenue for other divisions.  “It seems that IBM has taken a pragmatic approach and
determined that these commitments do not constitute a
significant issue for them and that it’s preferable to get a
settlement and put this probe behind them instead of fighting
till the end,” Christian Riis-Madsen, an antitrust partner in
Brussels at law firm  O’Melveny & Myers LLP , said by telephone.  Non-Discriminatory Terms  IBM offered commitments to resolve concerns it may have
imposed unreasonable conditions for supplying competing
mainframe maintenance-service providers in breach of EU
antitrust rules. IBM will ensure that third-party providers
receive technical information “under reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms,” the regulator said.  The company said in an e-mailed statement that it
“welcomes” the commission’s decision “to close the
investigation of IBM’s mainframe and associated intellectual
property rights.” The company said it also looked forward to
providing the basis for the final resolution of the probe into
maintenance practices.  IBM rose 1.8 percent to $176.30 in New York Stock Exchange
trading at 4:32 p.m. London time.  “IBM does not agree with the commission’s preliminary
assessment” that the company may have abused “a dominant
position on the market for certain inputs necessarily required
for the maintenance of IBM mainframe hardware and software,”
the commission said in an  EU document  published today.  Comments on IBM’s practices can be submitted to the
commission within a month. After that, the agency will either
make the commitments legally binding, without saying whether
there was an infringement, or start another round of market
testing if there are substantial changes to the remedies.  Google Probe  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is another U.S. technology company under EU
scrutiny, with a focus on whether the world’s largest Web search
company has a dominant position that allows it to influence the
behavior of  Internet users .  EU Antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last week
that he is investigating whether  Mountain View , California-based
Google is a gate keeper and able to influence the behavior of
Internet users. A string of antitrust probes against technology
companies by Almunia’s predecessor,  Neelie Kroes , resulted in
1.68 billion euros ($2.3 billion) in fines against  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and a record 1.06 billion-euro penalty against  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
Intel has an appeal pending.  IBM began developing mainframe computers in the 1940s and
1950s and is now among the few companies selling the systems.  “I commend IBM’s readiness to address our concerns about
fair competition in the market for large computers,” Almunia
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  