-- 
Australia Coach Tim Nielsen Steps Down After 1-0 Series Win Over Sri Lanka

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-09-20T14:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/michael-clarke-leads-australia-to-1-0-win-over-sri-lanka-in-test-series.html
Australia cricket coach Tim Nielsen
stepped down from the post after his nation completed a 1-0
series win over  Sri Lanka  today.  Michael Clarke scored 112 to lead the team to victory in
his first Test series as captain.  Nielsen decided not to re-apply for his role after a
decision to revamp the structure of the team management. He’s
due to take up a new Australian cricket role that will be
announced soon, Cricket Australia said  on its website . Nielsen
has been in the coaching post for four years, leading the team
in 15 Test series: nine wins, five defeats and a draw.  “I have spoken to Tim and understand and respect his
decision to now begin a new chapter in his professional life,”
Chief Executive Officer James Sutherland said on the governing
body’s website. “He has contributed greatly to Australian
international cricket in roles as assistant national coach, head
coach at the Centre of Excellence and during four years as
national coach.”  Nielsen said it had been an “honor and a privilege” to
hold the coaching role.  “We have had some great success as well as experiencing
some tough times,” he said “I have enjoyed every minute of
working hard with the playing group, aiming to give ourselves
the best possible chance of representing  Australia  to the very
best of our ability.”  Australia drew the third and final Test today after
amassing 488 in its second innings for a lead of 331 in Colombo.
Phillip Hughes made 126 and Michael Hussey 93. Sri Lanka bowler
Rangana Herath achieved a career-best 7-157.  Moved Up Rankings  Australia’s innings ended 40 minutes before the scheduled
close and Sri Lanka batted for two overs, reaching 7-0, before
it was agreed to end the match.  The hosts had scored 473 in their first innings in reply to
Australia’s 316.  Australia won the series opener by 125 runs, while the
second Test was drawn. The win moves Australia above Sri Lanka
to fourth in the International Cricket Council’s Test rankings,
behind  England ,  South Africa  and  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 