-- 
Middle-Class Americans Suffer in Silence, for Now: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-09-20T00:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/middle-class-americans-suffer-in-silence-for-now-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposed
tax on millionaires has restored the issue of “class warfare”
to the forefront of politics.  The new tax plan follows a week of intense campaigning by
the president for his jobs bill, and of considerable attention
devoted to a Census Bureau finding that poverty rose to a 17-
year high.  Asking the wealthiest among us to pay more, and taking new
steps to help the least well-off -- the jobless and the poor --
are good policy. But politically, and perhaps even economically,
the president can’t lose focus on a group often left on the
sidelines of the political conflict over rich and poor: the
long-suffering middle class.  Recent developments have driven home how urgently middle-
class families need to be put front and center in Washington.  First, there was bad news for middle-class households in
the Census Bureau’s study of poverty for 2010. The news reports
focused on the finding that the average annual income of
households at the bottom -- those in 10th and 20th percentiles -
- had fallen by $1,000 and $1,500 a year, respectively, since
1998. At the opposite end of the spectrum, households in the top
10 percent of the  income distribution  saw their annual income
rise by $3,600, and those in the top 5 percent had a $4,200
increase, over the same period. (All these figures are adjusted
to be constant for inflation.)  Rich Get Richer  But ignored in this story of the poor getting poorer and
the rich getting richer was the less publicized --- but equally
important -- finding of what happened to the household income of
those in the middle of the economic distribution, the 50th
percentile of national income. In actual dollars, these middle-
class families suffered an even bigger drop in annual income
than the poor did over the past 12 years: a decline of more than
$2,500.  Put another way,  American households  in the middle of the
income spread, those making about $50,000 a year, have lost more
than $200 in monthly income since 1998.  The dwindling of middle-class incomes represents a sharp
reversal of our tradition. The earnings of families in the 50th
percentile rose more than $5,000 over the 12-year period from
1967 to 1979; it then edged up only slightly, by $650, during
the tough 1979-to-1992 period; then saw another jump of $5,000
from 1992 to 1998. Thus, looking over the 31-year period from
1967 to 1998, the middle class had periods of strong increases
in annual income, and some periods of lesser increases, but the
trend moved in one direction: upward. One might even say the
fundamental characteristic of middle-class life in America was
steadily increasing income.  Decline in Savings  All that changed over these past 12 years, as the incomes
of those in the middle fell. Moreover, this loss of annual
income is compounded because these families have suffered ---
more than those above them or below them --- a steep decline in
savings due to the collapse of housing prices.  While the richest households have their wealth in diverse
holdings (including stocks, which recovered after 2008), and the
poor have no savings at all, middle-class families have their
net worth concentrated in a single asset: accumulated equity in
their homes.  Many of these families saw this “nest egg,” which they
planned to tap to pay for a child’s college or their own
retirement, wiped out when housing prices plummeted in 2008.  Second Blow  If the news on incomes wasn’t bad enough, the middle class
was dealt a second blow last week when a report by the
 Washington  research organization  Third Way  showed that schools
serving this segment of the population have vastly under-
delivered for their students. (Disclosure: I am a member of the
board of trustees of Third Way, though I didn’t participate in
preparing the report.)  No one should be surprised by Third Way’s finding that,
compared with schools in the wealthiest districts, those serving
middle-class families spend about $1,600 less per student, have
three more students per teacher, and pay teachers $6,000 less
per year.  Sadly, we have come to accept that wealthier districts get
better public schools than middle-class areas. What was
surprising in the  Third Way report , however, was that, compared
with middle-class districts, schools that serve the poorest
students also spend more per pupil (about $1,400 more), also
have fewer students per teacher (about one fewer), and also pay
teachers more (about $1,600 a year more).  Behind the Wealthy  The bottom line: On all three of these critical metrics,
 middle-class school districts  are behind both the wealthiest
school districts (which use their bigger tax bases to fund their
programs) and the poorest school districts (which benefit from
more state and federal aid programs).  Is it any wonder, then, that these middle-class schools --
which educate more children than the wealthiest and poorest
districts combined, and serve a majority of our white, black and
Hispanic children -- are producing results below our national
expectations? Indeed, Third Way found that only about one out of
four graduates of high schools in these middle-class districts
will finish college before they turn 26.  Falling incomes and floundering schools, that is what our
great middle class faces today.  Workers of Tomorrow  Economically, addressing the prosperity of this vast
majority of our citizens is essential, because it is impossible
to build a prosperous America without a strong middle class.
They are the workforce of today and their children are our
workers of tomorrow; they are the consumers who power demand;
they are the small-business people who create jobs and
innovations. They make the cars, build the homes and grow the
food that make up a huge share of our national output. They also
buy the cars, the homes and the groceries that make up a huge
share of our national consumption.  No economic recovery plan can work unless it lifts up the
middle class.  Politically, middle-class voters perennially believe that
Democrats care too much about the poor, and Republicans care too
much about the rich, leaving their hearts and minds up for
grabs. As we approach the 2012 election, these voters are
alienated from both parties, seeing little benefit for
themselves in policies such as the bank bailout; state and local
fiscal relief; and extended  unemployment insurance ; all of which
have consumed so much of Washington’s time and money.  Policy Doubts  Over the past few years, these Americans have developed
doubts about whether Obama-administration initiatives such as
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act really help them,
or mostly help the disadvantaged. At the same time, they are
deeply skeptical about Republican economic policies. Those
misgivings are certain to be reinforced as Republicans race to
protect the wealthiest Americans from paying the same share of
their income in taxes as the middle class pays.  The president should continue to press for his new
“Buffett Rule” to raise taxes on the wealthy, and his jobs
bill to help the unemployed. But he also needs to speak directly
to the millions of middle-class families that have jobs, but are
reeling under the unprecedented income squeeze of the past
decade, and are worried that their children may be part of the
first generation of Americans that didn’t do better than the
preceding one.  Demanding that the wealthiest shoulder the same tax burden
as the middle class is only fair, but by itself, doesn’t address
middle-class anxieties; likewise, pressing policies that provide
jobs and health care to those who lack them is the right thing
to do, but may not lift incomes and reduce costs for those who
are employed and who have health coverage.  Best Opportunities  Education initiatives need to focus not only on fixing the
most broken schools and drawing the best teachers to the most
troubled districts, but also on lifting up middle-class schools,
so that those students can compete for the very best
opportunities in the years ahead.  It is often said that U.S. elections are “won in the
middle,” a statement about ideology that reflects the centrist
leanings of swing voters. But in 2012, that is more likely to be
a true description of the economic profile of the voters who are
up for grabs.  The party that can best address the needs and concerns of
middle-class voters who have jobs, but are enduring flat
incomes, underperforming schools, and shrunken savings, is the
one most likely to win next year.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President Barack Obama on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  