-- 
Millennium Jumps as Portugal’s Banco Comercial Gets Three Bids for Stake

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-20T09:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/millennium-extends-gain-as-banco-comercial-gets-3-bids-for-stake.html
Bank Millennium SA (MIL) , Poland’s
seventh-largest lender, headed for the biggest two-day gain in a
month after  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  said three investors
expressed interest in buying its majority stake.  The stock advanced 2.4 percent to 4.64 zloty at 10:51 a.m.
in Warsaw, extending yesterday’s 7.9 percent rally and valuing
the bank at 5.6 billion zloty ($1.7 billion). Banco Comercial,
which has 66 percent of Millennium, is exploring the sale as
Portugal’s central bank presses lenders to bolster capital.  Banco Comercial has received three written expressions of
interest and other verbal contacts, Portugal’s second-biggest
lender by market value said yesterday, without identifying
potential bidders.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA of France,  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) ,
controlled by UniCredit SpA, as well as PKO Bank Polski SA,
 Poland ’s biggest bank, offered to buy Millennium, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing people close to the talks.  Pekao and BNP “seem the most serious bidders,” Dariusz Gorski, a Warsaw-based analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK SA’s
brokerage, wrote in a note today. “PKO’s presence in the bid
seems opportunistic and unless the price offered is low it is
unlikely to be a serious contender in this game.”  PKO Chief Executive Officer Zbigniew Jagiello declined to
comment on the transaction in an e-mail yesterday. The bank is
looking at Millennium as well as Kredyt Bank SA, which is being
sold by KBC Groep NV, he said on Sept. 7. Jagiello said that
even though PKO, controlled by the Polish government, is open to
participating in industry consolidation, the current market
situation doesn’t support acquisitions.  BRE Bank SA (BRE) , a unit of Commerzbank AG,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
of Italy and OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, may also be
among potential buyers, Gazeta Wyborcza reported on its website.  The sale would be among the biggest in Poland’s financial-
services market after Raiffeisen Bank International AG of
Austria in February agreed to buy EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s
Polish business for 490 million euros ($670 million). Banco
Santander SA, Spain’s biggest lender, this year completed the
purchase of the country’s fifth-biggest lender, Bank Zachodni.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  