-- 
Illinois Leads A+ Debt Poised to Rally on Widening Yield Gap: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/illinois-leads-a-debt-poised-to-rally-on-widening-yield-gap-muni-credit.html
Municipal bonds rated A+, four
levels below the highest grade, are yielding the most compared
with top-ranked tax-exempts since July and may rally later this
year as demand for riskier debt grows, according to strategists
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  Yields on the 10-year debt rated A+ were 3.25 percent
yesterday, about 1.07 percentage point more than top-grade
municipal bonds, according to Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. The
spread reached 1.11 percentage points on July 5, the widest
since at least 1994, when the Bloomberg data begins.  Borrowers rated A+ by  Standard & Poor’s  include Illinois,
where Democratic Governor Pat Quinn said Sept. 8 that he may
have to cut more than 1,900 government workers because the $33.2
billion general-fund budget approved by legislators won’t cover
the cost of state services through the end of the current fiscal
year. The cost of insuring Illinois debt for 10 years has risen
56 percent since May 20, according to credit-default prices,
from CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “The low-yield environment motivates investors to move
down the credit curve to achieve returns that they had typically
achieved in higher interest-rate regimes,” Peter DeGroot, head
of municipal research at JPMorgan said in a telephone interview.  Spreads between AAA and A+ securities may narrow “through
year-end,” DeGroot said. An  Illinois  bond maturing in January
2015 traded at an average yield of 1.28 percent on Sept. 7,
compared with a 0.56 percent rate on typical top-ranked debt due
in four years, according to BVAL pricing data.  Debt sold by Illinois issuers has returned 3.67 percent in
the past three months, the best among states tracked by S&P
Municipal Bond Indices.  Rise From Low  The 10-year index of top-rated municipals was 2.09 percent
yesterday, up from 2.05 percent on Sept. 12, the lowest level
since January 2009, when Bloomberg’s data for the securities
begins.  Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempts were 3.64 percent
yesterday, after falling to 3.56 percent on Sept. 12, also the
lowest since the Bloomberg records start.  “We are still finding good values in A rated and lower
investment-grade municipal bonds such as BBB,” John Flahive,
senior vice president and director of fixed-income at BNY Mellon
Wealth Management in  Boston , said in today’s issue of the
Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market newsletter.  “The continuing concern about the credit quality of
municipal bonds has hampered demand for lower investment grade
securities but we are selectively finding opportunities that
offer historically attractive relative yield in those
categories,” Flahive said.  Narrower Spread  The yield spread between A rated debt and AAA bonds will
probably narrow later this year by about 20 basis points and
further in 2012 as more investors realize that states and cities
are balancing budgets and meeting their obligations,  John Dillon , chief municipal bond strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney in Purchase, New York, said in a telephone interview. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  State budget deficits are expected to drop to $32 billion
next fiscal year, about a third of the level for the current
period, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures  in Denver.  U.S. states have already dealt with four straight years of
imbalances and have closed gaps totaling about $511 billion, the
group said.  The difference between A+ rated bonds and AAA securities
has averaged 25 basis points since 1994, compared with an
average of 82 basis points in 2011.  ‘Passage of Time’  “The simple passage of time without major negative muni
events and the overall tone of the market should facilitate that
spread compression,” Dillon said.  Municipal bond defaults this year totaled $951 million,
compared with $3.6 billion for all of 2010, according to the
Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter, published by  Miami Lakes ,
Florida-based Income Securities Advisor Inc. The number has
fallen as officials cut spending and lawmakers stepped in to
prevent insolvencies.  The total return on municipal debt, including price changes
and interest income, is 8.49 percent this year, 6 basis points
less than Treasuries and 198 basis points more than corporate
bonds, according to Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Municipal
Master Index.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  MASSACHUSETTS, which had its rating upgraded to AA+ from AA
last week by S&P, is set to sell $475 million of tax-exempt
general obligation bonds through competitive bid as soon as
tomorrow. The bond proceeds will finance capital projects.
(Updated Sept. 20)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  