-- 
IMF Sees Deeper Greek Recession This Year, No Growth in 2012

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-sees-deeper-greek-recession-this-year-no-growth-in-2012.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
increased its forecast for Greece’s economic decline this year
as austerity measures required for international financing drive
the economy into recession.  The Washington-based lender expects Greece’s economy to
contract 5 percent this year and 2 percent next year, reversing
a forecast of a return to growth in 2012, according to a
statement on the IMF’s website today. In June, the fund said the
economy would shrink 3.8 percent this year.  The forecasts mean Greece and  Portugal , another recipient
of EU and IMF funds, will be the only two European countries to
contract this year and next. Bob Traa, the IMF’s representative
in Greece, said in  Athens  yesterday that the contraction may
reach 5.5 percent this year and 2.5 percent next year.  Wage and pension cuts and higher taxes imposed on  Greece  by
the IMF and the EU in return for 110 billion euros ($151
billion) in loans to prevent a default have knocked the economy
into its third year of recession. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, who’s negotiating a second financing package with the
EU and IMF, has said the contraction will be 5.5 percent this
year, complicating deficit-cutting efforts and forcing the
imposition of an extraordinary property tax.  The forecast damps hopes that Greece will trim its deficit
to 7.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011. Negotiations
under way this week may further depress spending. Venizelos has
pledged that the government will accelerate further austerity
measures to ensure continued support after EU officials said
payment of a sixth tranche of bailout loans will be withheld
unless Greece meets its deficit targets.  Slowing Inflation  Greece’s GDP shrank 7.3 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter after declining 8.1 percent on an annual basis in
the first quarter, the Athens-based  Hellenic Statistical
Authority  said in an e-mailed statement today. The figure is
based on constant prices and available non-seasonally adjusted
data. Seasonally adjusted figures aren’t available.  The IMF expects inflation to slow to an average 2.9 percent
this year and to 1 percent in 2012. Unemployment is set to rise
to 16.5 percent this year, from 12.5 percent last year, and to
18.5 percent next year, the second-highest of European Union
countries after  Spain . Greece’s unemployment rate rose to a
record 16.3 percent in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  