-- 
IMF Says Commodity Prices to Decrease on Slower Economic Growth

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-20T17:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-says-commodity-prices-to-decrease-on-slower-economic-growth.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
forecast a decline in commodity prices in the second half of
this year and in 2012 on bigger harvests of food crops and as
slower economic growth weighs on demand for base metals.  The IMF’s index of non-fuel commodities is forecast to
slip about 5.5 percent in the second half of 2011 on better
harvests, while base-metal prices are expected to decline
“modestly” in 2012 on improved supply, the IMF said in its
World Economic Outlook report today.  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and the
next, the IMF said today, from June forecasts of 4.3 percent in
2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of commodity prices has dropped 16 percent from its April 8
high this year, and is up 1.7 percent from the end of December.  “Commodity prices already reflect a weaker near-term
global growth outlook,” the IMF said. “For a growing number
of commodities, upward pressure will likely also be contained
by supply responses to higher prices.”  The IMF forecast is for commodity prices to be “broadly
unchanged” this year, it said.  “In the near term, broad commodity price risks seem more
balanced,” the fund said. “Downside risks to global growth
have risen. On the upside, price spikes due to supply factors
remain the main concern.”  Geopolitical Factors  Upside price risks are “most pertinent” for energy and
food, the IMF said. For oil markets, geopolitical factors are
an important part of supply-side risk, and declines in spare
capacity mean “relatively small upward surprises” in demand
for oil can trigger large price increases, the IMF said.  Low inventory levels for agricultural commodities mean any
“significant” shocks can cause food-price spikes, according
to the report. Demand growth for food remains strong, with no
sign in a slowdown in “rapid increases” in emerging-market
food consumption, driven by rising incomes and a dietary shift
towards higher-protein food, the IMF said.  “Food markets remain precariously balanced,” the IMF
said. “Inventory buffers are very low for some important
crops, notably corn, and this will keep prices very sensitive
to changes in the supply and demand outlook.”  Food prices are expected to decline “modestly” in 2012,
assuming more normal weather conditions and stable energy
prices, with supplies increasing in response to higher prices,
the fund said.  “The balance of risk to food prices is still to the
upside, however, and this is reflected in derivative market
prices,” the IMF said. “A combination of low inventories,
volatile weather and demand uncertainties related to  China  and
biofuels raises the prospect of further price spikes over the
next 12 to 18 months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 