-- 
IMF Says ECB Should Cut Interest Rates If Debt Tensions Persist

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-says-ecb-should-cut-interest-rates-if-debt-tensions-persist.html
The  European Central Bank  should
cut  interest rates  if the sovereign debt crisis continues to
hurt euro-area growth, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Given declining inflation pressure and heightened
financial and sovereign tensions, the ECB should lower its
policy rate if downside risks to growth and inflation persist,”
the Washington-based fund said in its World Economic Outlook
today. The IMF cut its euro-area growth forecasts to 1.6 percent
from 2 percent for 2011 and to 1.1 percent from 1.7 percent for
2012.  The ECB raised rates twice this year to curb inflation,
taking its benchmark to 1.5 percent, even as the spreading debt
crisis damped the growth outlook. ECB policy makers are divided
over how best to fight the crisis. Soaring bond yields forced
the central bank to resume asset purchases in August, prompting
Executive Board member Juergen Stark to announce his resignation
on Sept. 9. Bundesbank President and ECB council member Jens Weidmann said yesterday that the purchases blur the line between
monetary and fiscal policy and “have to be judged very
critically.”  The IMF said the ECB “must continue to intervene
strongly” in European debt markets to “maintain orderly
conditions.”  “Unconventional policies should continue until there is a
durable reduction in financial stress, including resolution of
the sovereign debt crisis,” the IMF said.  Standard & Poor’s today lowered  Italy ’s credit rating,
saying weaker growth may mean the nation won’t be able to reduce
the euro region’s second-largest debt load. Investor sentiment
in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, fell to the lowest in more
than 2 1/2 years as the debt crisis erodes confidence in the
banking sector, a report from the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research showed today.  The IMF said Europe’s leaders must “swiftly ratify” the
commitments they made at a July summit and “do whatever it
takes to preserve trust in national policies and the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  