-- 
IMF Cuts Turkey Growth Forecast, Calls for Tighter Fiscal Policy

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-20T12:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-cuts-turkey-growth-forecast-calls-for-tighter-fiscal-policy.html
Turkey  needs to tighten fiscal
policy to defend itself against the risk of an outflow of
capital amid a debt crisis in Europe, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  Gross domestic product may grow 6.6 percent this year,
slower than the 8.7 percent forecast by the fund in a briefing
document for the Group of 20 nations in July, the IMF said today
in its updated World Economic Outlook. The Washington-based
lender also cut its growth forecast for 2012 to 2.2 percent from
2.5 percent.  The Turkish economy has been “experiencing a boom, driven
to a large extent by overly accommodative policies,” the IMF
said. “Stepped-up fiscal consolidation is needed to strengthen
fiscal accounts and build fiscal room in the event of a
sustained reversal in capital inflows.”  Turkey’s central bank on Aug. 4 lowered the benchmark one-
week repo interest rate to a historic low of 5.75 percent, the
second cut this year, saying easier monetary conditions are
needed to shield the economy against a likely slowdown in
 Europe , its biggest trading partner.  The country’s budget had a surplus of 2.1 billion liras
($1.2 billion) in the first eight months, compared with a full-
year goal of a deficit of 33.8 billion liras.  The current-account deficit may widen to 10.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 6.6 percent in 2010,
before narrowing to 7.4 percent next year, the fund said.  Inflation will average 6 percent this year and 6.9 percent
next year, the IMF said. The central bank’s goal for this year
is 5.5 percent and the rate last month was 6.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 