-- 
IMF Predicts Slower U.S. Growth on Debt Concerns, Confidence

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-predicts-slower-u-s-growth-on-debt-concerns-confidence.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
lowered its forecast for U.S. growth this year and in 2012,
citing unresolved debt-reduction concerns and waning confidence
among consumers and businesses.  The world’s largest economy will expand 1.5 percent this
year, down from the 2.5 percent projected in June, the
Washington-based lender said today in its World Economic Outlook
report. Unemployment will average 9 percent or higher through
next year, the IMF said.  Declining sentiment among Americans and a stagnant labor
market threaten household spending, the biggest part of the U.S.
economy. The pace of job growth puts pressure on President
 Barack Obama , lawmakers and the  Federal Reserve  to take steps to
increase payrolls.  “Bold political commitment to put in place a medium-term
debt reduction plan is imperative to avoid a sudden collapse of
market confidence that could seriously disrupt global
stability,” the IMF said in the report. “Downside risks weigh
on the outlook given fiscal uncertainty, weakness in the housing
market and household finances, renewed financial stress, and
subdued consumer and business sentiment.”  Obama yesterday called for $1.5 trillion in tax increases
over the next decade to help trim the deficit, saying U.S.
prosperity depends on paying down the federal debt.  Spending Cuts  In combination with cuts in spending, Obama said, his plan
would reduce the long-term deficit by $3 trillion beyond the $1
trillion that was agreed to as part of a deal to raise the U.S.
debt ceiling. The additional taxes largely would fall on the
wealthiest Americans, drawing criticism from Republican
lawmakers who are opposed to raising taxes.  “The first priority for the U.S. authorities is to commit
to a credible fiscal policy agenda that places public debt on a
sustainable track over the medium term, while supporting the
near-term recovery,” the IMF said. “The fiscal consolidation
plan should be based on realistic macroeconomic assumptions and
should comprise entitlement reform and revenue-raising
measures.”  The fund suggested measures such as gradually closing
loopholes and overhauling  tax deductions .  The jobless rate in the U.S. will average 9.1 percent this
year and 9 percent in 2012, the IMF said in the report.
Unemployment was 9.1 percent in August, according to U.S. Labor
Department data.  Also weighing on the recovery is the housing market, which
precipitated the recession that began in December 2007 and ended
in June 2009. The IMF said the industry may take longer to
stabilize as home-price declines persist.  ‘Loss of Confidence’  “There’s just a risk that if there’s a shock and a loss of
confidence then the economy could enter a very mild recession,”
said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC. “So far, consumers have been very
cautious.”  U.S. consumer confidence held earlier this month at the
second-lowest level of 2011 as the most households in three
years said it was a bad time to spend. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index was minus 49.3 in the period to Sept. 11, near
this year’s low of minus 49.4 reached in May. The buying climate
gauge slumped to the lowest level since October 2008.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1.8 percent next year, compared
with the 2.7 percent forecast issued three months ago, according
to today’s IMF report. GDP will expand 1.6 percent this year and
2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of 63
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7.  U.S. consumer prices will climb 3 percent this year before
rising 1.2 percent in 2012, according to the IMF report. The
cost of living in the U.S. increased 3.8 percent in the 12
months through August, according to the Labor Department in
Washington.  The economy may improve during the second half of this
year, the IMF said, if “financial stability and consumer and
business confidence are restored sooner than anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  