-- 
IMF Cuts Global Growth Estimate

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-20T15:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-cuts-global-growth-estimate-says-europe-debt-woes-may-worsen-outlook.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for global growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said today, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent
in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth projection
for 2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent in June.  “Global activity has weakened and become more uneven,
confidence has fallen sharply recently, and downside risks are
growing,” the IMF said in its  World Economic Outlook  report
today. In Europe “leaders must stand by their commitments to do
whatever it takes to preserve trust in national policies and the
euro” while in the U.S. “deep political divisions leave the
course of U.S. policy highly uncertain.”  IMF chief  Christine Lagarde  last week urged global policy
makers to find “collective resolve” as investors worry  Greece 
may default and European banks will be forced to take losses on
bonds sold by the region’s most indebted countries. Under an
alternative to its growth scenario, the institution predicts the
U.S. and Europe could fall back into recession, with global
output next year 3 percentage points less than now forecast.  “When could things go wrong? Anytime,” IMF Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard  told reporters today at a press
conference in  Washington . “Policymakers don’t have the luxury
of time,” he said, urging Europe to “get its act together.”  Emerging Economies  The Washington-based IMF said it based its forecasts of a
“modest pickup of activity” in advanced economies and of
“robust growth” in emerging counterparts on the premise that
European policy makers implement the measures to reinforce their
bailout mechanism agreed on in July.  It also assumed that volatility in financial markets
doesn’t worsen and that U.S. authorities agree on a fiscal plan
that both supports the economy and outlines fiscal consolidation
over the medium term.  “Key drivers of stronger activity over the near term
include the rebound of activity in  Japan , the drop in oil and
food prices, and solid demand growth in key emerging market
economies,” the IMF said.  The IMF predicts growth of 6.4 percent in developing
economies this year and 6.1 percent next year, down from 6.6
percent and 6.4 percent forecast in June.  Richer Nations  Richer nations will grow 1.6 percent this year instead of
the 2.2 percent expected in June, and 1.9 percent next year
instead of 2.6 percent, the IMF said.  Japan was the only Group of Seven economy to have its
forecast raised for this year, with the IMF now predicting a 0.5
percent contraction, compared with a 0.7 percent decline in
June. Growth in 2012 should reach 2.3 percent, 0.6 percentage
point less than in June.  In the euro area, where the IMF cut its prediction to 1.6
percent from 2 percent this year and to 1.1 percent from 1.7
percent next year, injecting capital into banks and
restructuring or closing down others is “essential,” the IMF
said.  The IMF is “very worried” that banks will seek to
increase their capital buffers “by decreasing the assets that
they hold, by deleveraging, which would lead to a decrease in
bank lending and a credit crunch,” Blanchard said.  The  European Central Bank  should lower  interest rates  if
risks to growth persist from the current benchmark of 1.5
percent.  Bond Purchases  Asked about the ECB’s sovereign bond purchases, Blanchard
said the bank is playing a “very important role” in making
sure Italy’s borrowing rates remain low and its debt
sustainable.  In its downside scenario, the IMF assumes that banks need
to absorb losses resulting in a 10 percent decrease of their
capital as a result of “major financial turbulence in the euro
area, combined with a downscaling of expectations for U.S.
medium-term growth prospects and real-estate-related financial
stress in emerging  Asia .”  In the U.S., where the IMF now sees expansion of 1.8
percent next year as the housing market also weighs on the
recovery, the fiscal plan is a priority, the IMF said. The
 Federal Reserve  should also stand ready to “deploy new
unconventional support for the economy.”  The IMF urged emerging economies to roll back fiscal
deficits and to continue raising interest rates, though
situations vary across countries. It said that  China ’s currency
remains “substantially undervalued.”  The IMF now assumes oil at $103.20 a barrel in 2011, based
on the average prices of U.K. Brent, Dubai and West Texas
Intermediate crudes, compared with $106.30 in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  