-- 
IMF Says Global Debt Concerns Underscore High Degree of Risk

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-20T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-says-global-debt-concerns-underscore-high-degree-of-risk.html
Debt-burdened developed nations
such as  Japan  and the U.S. are susceptible to the same market
sentiments that raised borrowing costs in some euro-area
countries, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The Washington-based lender’s semi-annual Fiscal Monitor
report released today highlighted the “increasing divergence
between developments in fiscal deficits and perceptions of risk
by market participants.” The IMF said some countries that have
taken gradual steps toward reducing deficits are still facing
higher market scrutiny, while others that haven’t taken the
necessary steps are still enjoying lower borrowing costs.  “Borrowing spreads have risen significantly in larger
economies, including Italy and  Spain , showing that  market
sentiment  can change abruptly,” the IMF said in the report
released today. “The speed and severity with which financial
pressures spread in the euro area should serve as a cautionary
tale to Japan and the  United States .”  The borrowing needs of wealthy nations will increase next
year, with Japan’s remaining the largest at almost 59 percent of
its gross domestic product, according to the IMF. The U.S. needs
will rise to 30 percent of its economy, the report showed.  “Despite progress in addressing key fiscal weakness in
many countries, the global fiscal environment remains subject to
a high degree of risk,” the IMF said. “Significant policy
challenges will need to be faced not only in the euro area and
the United States but in advanced, emerging, and low-income
economies more broadly.”  Public Debt  Public debt outstanding will expand to about 109 percent of
developed nations’ economies by 2015, from about 73 percent in
2007, according to the report.  “A failure to respond to these challenges promptly and
decisively, and to maintain clear and consistent communication,
courts the risk that investor concerns will become self-
fulfilling, with rising interest rates and liquidity pressures
driving a worsening of fundamentals,” the IMF said.  Greece , a euro zone country facing the risk of defaulting
on its debt, is undergoing an assessment by international
monitors to see whether Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government can meet the conditions of rescue loans. Fears of the
debt crisis spreading to other European countries are weighing
on Italy and Spain.  ‘Crisis Resolution’  “For the euro area, the challenge is to sustain fiscal
consolidation, minimize its growth fallout, and address concerns
about the adequacy of crisis resolution mechanisms,” the IMF
said. “Countries under severe market pressure have no option
but to implement their deficit reduction plans in full and
without delay.”  The IMF predicted budget deficits in advanced economies
will narrow to an average 6.7 percent of GDP this year from 8.8
percent in 2009. The U.S. will post the third-largest  budget
deficit  among advanced economies this calendar year at 9.6
percent of GDP, behind Ireland and Japan’s 10.3 percent,
according to the report.  “In Japan,  disaster relief  and reconstruction are key
short-term priorities,” the IMF said. “However, a faster
adjustment that would begin reducing the debt ratio by the
middle of this decade, including through further tax reforms,
would be appropriate.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is calling for tax increases
alongside spending cuts to entitlement programs such as Medicare
that he said would reduce the long-term deficit by $3 trillion
beyond the $1 trillion that was agreed to as part of a deal to
raise the country’s debt ceiling.  “In the United States, any credible strategy will need to
include entitlement reforms and higher revenues,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 