-- 
IMF Cuts Latin America 2011 GDP Forecast on Slowing Demand

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/imf-cuts-latin-america-2011-gdp-forecast-on-slowing-demand.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its 2011 economic growth forecast for Latin America as domestic
demand slows on tighter macroeconomic policies and weaker global
growth.  Driven by commodity producers, Latin America and Caribbean
economies should expand 4.5 percent this year, below the
forecast of 4.6 percent made in the IMF’s World Economic Outlook
Update in July, the fund said in a report today. Argentina and
Chile will lead the region, growing 8 percent and 6.5 percent
respectively, while the region’s biggest and second-biggest
economies --  Brazil  and Mexico -- will both climb 3.8 percent.  “The risks to the near-term regional outlook point down,”
according to the report. “A sharper slowdown in advanced
economies, notably the  United States , would dampen growth,
particularly in economies dependent on trade, tourism spending
and remittances,” such as the Caribbean, Central America and
Mexico.  In 2012, the two largest regional economies will grow 3.6
percent, said the IMF, unchanged for Brazil and below the
previous forecast of 4 percent for Mexico, as Latin American
economies move toward more sustainable growth.  The region’s annual inflation rate should end 2011 at 6.75
percent, and fall to 6 percent in 2012, the IMF said.  Venezuela will continue to have the region’s highest
inflation this year at 26 percent, while prices will rise 11.5
percent in Argentina and 6.6 percent in Brazil, the IMF said.  Though the banking systems in  Latin America  and the
Caribbean are strong, “it is important to continue to monitor
potential financial sector vulnerabilities and strengthen
financial sector supervision, including for nonbank financial
intermediaries, to contain the buildup of excessive leverage and
avoid boom-bust credit cycles,” said the IMF.  The report noted that capital controls can provide
temporary relief to strong portfolio investment inflows into
commodity-exporting countries. Still, governments should avoid
pro-cyclical spending and consider adopting structural fiscal
targets and binding medium-term plans, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman@bloomberg.net . 