-- 
India’s Bonds Decline on Concern Rupee Slide Will Fuel Inflation

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-20T12:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/india-s-10-year-bonds-gain-on-speculation-rbi-to-pause-on-rates.html
India ’s 10-year bonds dropped on
concern the biggest slide in the rupee since 2008 will boost
import costs and fuel inflation, prompting the central bank to
add to this year’s six interest-rate increases.  Yields on most-traded debt due 2021 climbed as the Indian
currency fell to a two-year low, extending this quarter’s loss
to 7 percent in the worst performance since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The  Reserve Bank of India  lifted
its repurchase rate last week to a three-year high of 8.25
percent after a government report showed wholesale prices gained
9.78 percent in August, the most in more than a year.  “The rupee’s steep slide wasn’t accounted for and that
means inflation management has now become more difficult and
complex for the central bank,” said Rajender Mohan Malla,
Mumbai-based chairman and managing director at state-owned
lender IDBI Bank Ltd. “The RBI’s tightening stance may have to
continue for an extended period.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.34 percent at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. Ten-year yields in India have climbed 42 basis points
this year, the most after  Vietnam  among  Asia ’s local-currency
debt markets, as the local inflation rate held above 9 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Currency declines are already stoking fuel prices in India,
which buys almost 80 percent of the oil it uses overseas. Indian
Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner, raised local gasoline
prices on Sept. 15 for the second time in four months, citing a
rise in the cost of crude due to a weaker rupee. That will boost
the inflation rate by seven basis points, the central bank said
the next day. Fuel and power make up almost 15 percent of
India’s benchmark wholesale-price index.  ’Above Comfort Zone’  “Inflation remains high and much above the comfort zone of
the  Reserve Bank ,” the central bank said in a Sept. 16
statement. “A premature change in the policy stance could
harden inflationary expectations, thereby diluting the impact of
past policy actions. It is therefore imperative to persist with
the current anti-inflationary stance.”  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
rose three basis points to 7.97 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  