-- 
Indian Officials Said to Lift Curbs on Coal Mining in Dense Forest Areas

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 
2011-09-21T10:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ministers-in-india-said-to-lift-curbs-on-coal-mining-in-dense-forest-areas.html
A group of Indian ministers agreed
to allow companies to seek approval to mine coal in some dense
forest areas, overturning an environment ministry ban, according
to two government officials.  The ministers decided that applications could be considered
on a case-by-case basis, the officials said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is private. The decision will
benefit companies including  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest
producer of the commodity, Essar Power Ltd. and  Hindalco
Industries Ltd. (HNDL)   The environment ministry halted mining in dense forests in
2009 to preserve tree cover and wildlife. The coal ministry
wants more areas opened for mining coal, which is used to fire
more than half of the power generation capacity in  Asia ’s
second-fastest growing major economy.  India’s cabinet referred the issue of coal mining in
forests to the government panel in January.  Hindalco declined 2.9 percent to 145.65 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai. The company is awaiting approval to mine
its Mahan block in Madhya Pradesh state for coal to produce
electricity for a planned 359,000 metric ton aluminum smelter.
 India ’s biggest aluminum maker formed a venture with Essar Power
to develop the Mahan coal mine.  Coal India rose as much as 2.4 percent to 387.45 rupees,
its biggest gain since Sept. 7, and closed at 384.45 rupees.  India’s coal production has trailed demand from utilities,
 steel mills  and cement makers. Domestic coal output in the year
ending March 31 is estimated at 559 million tons, falling short
of demand by 137 million tons, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal
said in parliament on Sept. 5.  Coal India cut its output target for the year ending March
2017 by 16 percent to 556.4 million metric tons because of
delays in environmental approvals and land acquisition, Jaiswal
said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  