-- 
IPO Fees Drop to Record Low in Europe as Bankers Vie for Shrinking Market

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-09-20T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ipo-fees-in-europe-fall-to-record-low-as-more-banks-chase-deals.html
Fees for initial public offerings
in Europe slumped to a record low as investment banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  chased deals in
a shrinking market.  Banks earned an average commission on IPOs in Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa of 1.88 percent this year, the lowest
since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1999. The average
initial stock sale of more than $1 billion in Europe used eight
banks, compared with five a year ago, the data show.  “There’s massive margin pressure in IPO fees due to
overcapacity,” said Viswas Raghavan, the London-based head of
international capital markets at JPMorgan. “Fees have fallen a
lot, which makes it harder to be profitable.”  A total of 89 banks in Europe managed at least one IPO this
year, compared with 35 in the U.S., Bloomberg data show, with
new entrants including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Moscow’s VTB Group
pushing into an already saturated market. At the same time,
concern about the sovereign wealth crisis forced companies to
pull or delay at least 24 IPOs, the most since 2008.  Credit Suisse, the No. 1 arranger of European initial
offerings this year, got an average fee of 1.63 percent, down
from 1.8 percent in 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Milan-
based UniCredit earned the lowest average fee of the top 10
underwriters at 1.04 percent. JPMorgan got 1.32 percent, a drop
from 2.36 percent last year, when it was in first place.  Spokespeople at Barclays, Credit Suisse and JPMorgan
declined to comment. Spokespeople for VTB Capital and UniCredit
weren’t available to comment.  ‘Tipping Point’  Banks struggle to make a profit on initial share sales when
fees are lower than 2 percent because that’s roughly the cost
for due diligence, research and marketing, according to Arif
Khurshed, a senior lecturer at the Manchester Business School.  “We are close to the tipping point,” said Khurshed. “It
makes no sense for them if it’s not profitable at all.”  IPOs in  Europe  generate the lowest fees of any major IPO
market in the developed world, Bloomberg data show. U.S.
companies paid underwriters 5.4 percent on average, while
companies holding IPOs in  Hong Kong  paid 2.2 percent. The global
average is 3.8 percent.  Competition in Europe increased as some banks seized on the
opportunity provided by the financial crisis to get into the
market. After years of focusing on fixed-income, London-based
Barclays began building an equities business in Europe after its
acquisition of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s U.S. business
gave it a foothold in the market. The investment-banking unit
added 1,800 employees last year as it expanded in equities and
advisory outside of the U.S.  Local Players  VTB and Troika Dialog of  Russia  are both building
investment banks from scratch, while the world’s biggest
securities firms also face competition as local players in
 Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and  Spain  -- from Banco Santander SA,
Commerzbank AG to  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  -- vie for deals.  Having more underwriters on an IPO may hurt the performance
of an offering because banks are less incentivized, said Chris
Wheeler, a banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in  London  and a
former IPO banker.  “It’s not a business where you get safety in numbers,”
said Wheeler. “You want to minimize the number of banks
involved to get them to work harder.”  At least 67 IPOs in western Europe are trading below their
initial price this year, or about 62 percent of the total,
Bloomberg data show. Glencore International Plc, which used 20
banks for its $10 billion dual listing in London and Hong Kong,
has dropped about 15 percent since its debut, the steepest
decline of any IPO in the region that raised more than $1
billion. Glencore paid underwriters about 1.75 percent of the
amount raised.  Global Volatility  While the volume of IPOs completed in Europe this year has
risen to $37.1 billion from $24 billion a year ago, deals
stalled in August as the global economic recovery deteriorated
and concern grew that Europe’s banks may need more capital. IPOs
raised $190 million in August and September, the smallest amount
for the period since 2003, Bloomberg data show.  Implied volatility for European equities climbed to the
highest level since 2008 this month, as traders hedge against a
potential debt default by  Greece . The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which
measures the cost of options protecting against Euro Stoxx 50
Index losses, surged 7.5 percent to a 32-month high of 53.55 on
Sept. 12.  Deals Shelved  Siemens AG (SIE)  said on Sept. 14 it’s postponing the IPO of its
Osram lighting unit, joining Evonik Industries AG, a German
specialty chemicals company, which will probably push its
listing to the end of the year or the start of 2012, people
familiar with the plan said earlier this month. Russia’s OAO
 Mechel (MTLR)  yesterday delayed a planned $2 billion IPO of a mining
unit, while Ziggo BV, the cable-television company owned by
Warburg Pincuss LLC and Cinven Ltd., may postpone its IPO until
next year, said people familiar with the matter.  The biggest IPO currently proceeding is the 7 billion-euro
($9.6 billion) sale of Sociedad Estatal Loterias & Apuestas del
Estado SA, Spain’s national lottery operator. The company, which
began sounding out investor interest this week, hired six banks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan, UBS AG, Credit
Suisse,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Banco Santander
SA as lead managers, along with three joint bookrunners.  Advisers on Spain’s last IPO, the 3.1 billion-euro sale in
July of Bankia SA, earned a 1.2 percent fee, Bloomberg data
show. Bankia shares are trading 4.4 percent below the IPO price.  “If you keep cutting underwriting fees, there will be
fallout somewhere,” said Manchester Business School’s Khurshed.
“IPO managers are taking a big hit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  