-- 
Iranian Judge Delays Release of Two American Hikers in Blow to Ahmadinejad

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-20T18:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/iranian-judge-delays-release-of-two-american-hikers-in-blow-to-ahmadinejad.html
The release of two U.S. nationals
detained by Iran on espionage charges was delayed by the
judiciary in a blow to President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who had
announced their release before his trip to attend the  United
Nations General Assembly  in  New York .  Lawyer Masoud Shafiei today failed to obtain a signature on
payment arrangements that he said is needed for the release of
Shane Bauer and  Josh Fattal  because of the continued absence of
a key judge.  “I went to the court this morning, but the judge was
absent,” Shafiei said by telephone in Tehran. “I was told that
I would be contacted when he comes in.”  One judge has already signed the documents. A second
judge’s signature is needed for the release to take place,
Shafiei said Sept. 18. On that day he was told that the second
judge was on vacation and would return today. Shafiei said he’d
be able to get his clients out of prison “within an hour”
after the second signature.  Bauer and Fattal, both 29, were sentenced on Aug. 21 to
eight years in prison for illegal entry into  Iran  and espionage.
They filed an appeal. The men were detained in July 2009 upon
entering Iran and said they had mistakenly crossed the border
while hiking in  Iraq .  ‘No Authority’  The Americans’ detention has added to tensions between Iran
and the U.S. The recent contradictory remarks by Iranian
authorities have also highlighted internal conflicts in the
country, said  William Beeman , professor and chairman of the
Department of Anthropology at the  University of Minnesota .  Ahmadinejad told NBC News in an interview aired Sept. 13
that he was arranging for Fattal and Bauer to be released “in a
couple of days” on humanitarian grounds. The following day
Iran’s judiciary released a statement saying their release
wasn’t “imminent” and that legitimate information on the
matter would only come from the judiciary.  “The president got ahead of himself in advance of his trip
to the U.S.,” Beeman said by email today. “He has no authority
at all over the judiciary, and his statements were taken amiss
by the judicial authorities.”  “In effect they were saying: So, who does he think he is
to announce the release of these individuals?” Beeman said.
“We are the only ones with that authority. They then made him
cool his heels.”  Ahmadinejad left the Iranian capital, Tehran, yesterday to
attend the UN General Assembly meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  