-- 
Israel Urges Palestinians to Abandon UN Recognition Bid in Favor of Talks

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-20T12:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/israel-urges-palestinians-to-abandon-un-recognition-bid-in-favor-of-talks.html
Israel  called on the Palestinians
to abandon their drive for United Nations recognition and
restart peace talks as the U.S. and other countries try to work
out a compromise aimed at avoiding a Security Council showdown.  Israel is ready to “negotiate at the highest level,”  Mark
Regev , Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s spokesman, said
today, hours after the premier urged Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  to return to talks this week in  New
York .  Meeting with Netanyahu in New York is not on Abbas’s
agenda, Husam Zomlot, a spokesman for the Palestinian delegation
said late yesterday. “This is part of Netanyahu’s routine of
playing games,” he said.  Abbas told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon yesterday that
he plans to ask the  Security Council  for recognition of a
Palestinian state as the organization’s 194th member. The  United
States  has threatened to veto any resolution in the Security
Council, a step that would probably alienate the Arab world.  Israeli five-year credit-default swaps, or the cost of
protecting government debt against non-payment for the period,
rose to 189, the highest level in at least two years, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Talks Collapsed  Peace negotiations collapsed last year following
Netanyahu’s refusal to extend a 10-month partial freeze of
construction in the West Bank’s Jewish settlements. Abbas has
said he won’t resume talks while building continues. Netanyahu
has repeatedly said that Abbas should restart direct talks
though he hasn’t offered to resume the freeze in settlement
building.  The EU’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , and former
British Prime Minister  Tony Blair , representing the so-called
Quartet mediating group, are leading a last-minute bid to work
out an agreement that might lure Abbas back into talks and avoid
a Security Council confrontation. The Quartet is comprised of
the U.S., UN, European Union and  Russia .  “The idea is to find a formula to restart the peace talks,
that is something we support, that is something we are willing
to show flexibility to make happen,” Regev said, without giving
further details.  No Change  Asked yesterday whether his government might compromise on
seeking UN membership, Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat , said:
“Nothing has changed.”  “Abbas has very much lost confidence in Netanyahu and his
government’s ability to negotiate seriously and he has made up
his mind to go to the Security Council,” Mkhaimar Abusada, a
political scientist at the Gaza Strip’s Al-Azhar University,
said in a telephone interview. “The only thing that could deter
Abbas from going to the Security Council is if a very serious
proposal is put on the table, which would mean an Israeli halt
of settlement expansion and acceptance of 1967 borders for a
two-state solution and I don’t think Netanyahu will accept
that.”  The U.S. and Israel are pressing members of the 15-nation
Security Council to deny the Palestinians the nine votes they
need for membership so the U.S. would not be forced to use its
veto, according to an Israeli official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak on record.  If the Palestinians don’t succeed in the Security Council,
they can also seek a vote in the larger General Assembly to
upgrade the Palestinian Authority’s observer status from an
“entity” to a “non-member state.” Palestinian officials have
said they expect to gain an overwhelming majority of the vote if
they go to the General Assembly.  “It looks like the Palestinians are determined to go
through with this, come what may,” said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 