-- 
Palestinians Back United Nations Bid for Statehood With West Bank Rallies

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 
2011-09-21T12:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/israel-presses-palestinians-to-resume-talks-warns-of-funds-cut.html
Tens of thousands of Palestinians
rallied in  Ramallah ’s Yasser Arafat Square and other cities
across the West Bank to support their campaign for statehood at
the United Nations.  The festive crowds waved Palestinian flags and chanted
independence slogans as speakers pledged backing for Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas two days before he speaks at
the UN General Assembly and is expected to ask for membership. A
masked youth set fire to a U.S. flag after the speeches and was
detained by police.  “Mr. President, we are behind you,” Laila Ghanam,
governor of the Ramallah region, told the rally from a city
square freshly renamed for Arafat, the Palestine Liberation
Organization founder who died in 2004. “We will continue the
struggle. It is time to close the chapter of suffering and
pain.”  The West Bank demonstrations in Ramallah, Nablus, Hebron,
Bethlehem and other parts of the territory started hours before
Abbas was scheduled in  New York  to meet U.S. President  Barack Obama , who has been trying to sidetrack the Palestinian
statehood effort. Israel is increasing pressure on the
Palestinians to drop their bid for recognition, calling for a
resumption of peace talks and threatening to cut a major source
of revenue if there is a UN vote for statehood.  Israel is ready to “negotiate at the highest level,”  Mark Regev , Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s spokesman, said
yesterday, after urging Abbas to return to talks.  Veto Threat  Israel’s Five-year credit-default swaps, or the cost of
protecting government debt against non-payment for the period,
were little changed at 189, the highest level in at least two
years, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Abbas informed UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon this week
that he plans to ask the  Security Council  to recommend that
 Palestine  become the world body’s 194th member. The U.S. has
threatened to veto any resolution in the Security Council, a
step that might alienate the Arab world.  At the rally in Ramallah, the masked young man tried to
burn the flag during an address by Tayeb Abdel-Rahim, a senior
Abbas deputy, who shooed him away. The youth returned after
Abdel Rahim’s speech and set the flag on fire to applause from
the crowd. He was detained by police and released. Palestinian
officials have said they will act to stop any unrest during
demonstrations.  Ready for Statehood  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, who returned from meetings
with foreign donors in New York, said in a radio address that
the government is ready for statehood.  “ We are determined to move forward in the effort to
reduce dependence on foreign aid and, God willing, we will be
able to do without them as soon as possible,” he said.  In southern  Israel , a rocket launched from the  Gaza Strip 
hit an open area without causing damage or injury, the Israeli
army said in a text message to reporters. It was the second
rocket from Gaza this week.  Israel Minister of Finance Yuval Steinitz said a
declaration of statehood might lead to a new suspension of his
government’s transfer of some of the $100 million per month in
custom fees it collects on the Palestinian Authority’s behalf.  “I think it will be very difficult for us to continue to
collaborate with a hostile Palestinian entity,” Steinitz said
in an interview yesterday. Withholding as much as 40 percent of
the money “is a possibility,” he said.  ‘Misguided and Dangerous’  Israel controls the borders and has withheld the taxes in
the past, during disputes and to pressure the Palestinians. Both
the U.S. House and Senate have called on Obama to reduce the
Palestinians’ annual $500 million in foreign aid if they proceed
at the UN.  For Obama, the pressure to be seen as unwaveringly in
support of Israel is mounting ahead of 2012 elections.
Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry , the governor of
 Texas , yesterday said Obama’s Middle East policy was “naive,
arrogant, misguided and dangerous.”  The European Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , and former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair ,
representing the so-called Quartet mediating group, are leading
a last-minute bid to work out an agreement that might lure Abbas
back into talks and avoid a Security Council confrontation. The
Quartet is comprised of the U.S., UN, European Union and  Russia .  Settlement Freeze  One approach might be to let the UN’s administrative
process slow down a Palestinian application to the Security
Council to give diplomats days or weeks to try to come up with
an alternative that restarts peace talks. The U.S. might use the
time to lean on council members to vote against the Palestinians
or abstain.  “The idea of majorly slow-tracking this is being floated
by multiple officials, including Palestinian officials, American
officials, and it’s being welcomed,” said Hussein Ibish, a
senior fellow at the American Task Force on Palestine, a
Washington-based group that advocates a peaceful resolution to
the Middle East conflict.  Peace negotiations collapsed last year following
Netanyahu’s decision not to extend a 10-month partial freeze of
construction in the  West Bank ’s Jewish settlements. Abbas has
said he won’t resume talks while building continues. Netanyahu,
who hasn’t offered to resume the freeze in settlement building,
has repeatedly said that Abbas should restart direct talks.  ‘No Trust’  “We are all talking about how we can get back into
negotiations, get Israelis and Palestinians back into
negotiations,” British Foreign Secretary William Hague told  Sky
News  yesterday, before meeting with Abbas. “There is no
progress to report.”  Abbas also met yesterday in New York with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy .  “Nobody is budging,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New
York-based research firm Eurasia Group, said in an interview.
“It is likely Abbas will apply to the Security Council for
membership on Friday. There is no trust anywhere. The Israelis,
Palestinians and Americans all distrust each other. It could be
a hot Friday.”  Abbas is scheduled to address the UN General Assembly about
an hour before Netanyahu speaks.  “Cutting off funds to the Palestinians carries with it a
lot of repercussions that are not exactly in favor of Israel,”
said Marwan Muasher, a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, a policy research group in  Washington ,
and Jordan’s first ambassador to Israel. “If the Palestinian
people see that their lifeline is cut off by Israelis, that
might be the trigger for large-scale demonstrations in the West
Bank and Gaza, especially in the context of what’s been
happening in the Arab world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah, West Bank, at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  