-- 
Israel May Hold Palestinian Taxes on UN Vote, Steinitz Says

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-09-21T12:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/israel-may-hold-palestinian-tax-income-on-un-statehood-bid-steinitz-says.html
Israel  may withhold as much as 40
percent of Palestinians’ financial revenue should they persist
in pushing for a vote on statehood at the United Nations,
Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said.  “It will be very difficult for us to continue to
collaborate with a hostile Palestinian entity,” Steinitz, 53,
said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in
New York. “Maybe we will tell the Palestinians, ‘OK, collect
your own tax. Why should we do it for you?’”  Israel collects about $1.2 billion in fees each year for
the Palestinian Authority and has withheld the money in the past
during disputes with the Palestinians. Both the U.S. House of
Representatives and the  U.S. Senate  have called on President
 Barack Obama  to reduce the Palestinians’ annual $500 million in
foreign aid if they proceed at the UN’s September meeting.  “It’s not up to me alone to make the decision, but in my
view, if they want to use their automatic majority in the UN,
then I think we won’t be able to cooperate with such an assault
on Israel’s very legitimacy,” Steinitz said. “We are concerned
about the Palestinian attempt to betray the very essence of the
 peace process .”  Steinitz was appointed finance minister at the end of March
2009, when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government took
office.  Economic Arsenal  Deputy Foreign Minister Daniel Ayalon warned the
Palestinians that a formal request for UN recognition would lead
to Israeli countermeasures. “There must be implications if the
Palestinians realize their threat, because this is a clear
violation of all agreements, it is irresponsible and we can’t
ignore it,” he said on Israel Radio.  Israel’s ability to hurt its neighbor economically is a key
tool the Jewish state has at its disposal to try and dissuade
 Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas from asking the UN
Security Council on Sept. 23 to recognize a Palestinian state
and accept it as a full member. As Israel’s top ally, the U.S.
has said it would use its veto power in the 15-member UN body to
prevent Abbas from reaching his goal.  “Everything depends on continuation of aid and the
Palestinians being able to access their own money from the
Israelis, in terms of stability and keeping things calm on the
ground,” said Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American
Task Force on  Palestine , a Washington-based group that advocates
for a peaceful end to the conflict. “The grimmest scenario is
the U.S. and Israel both deciding to punish the Palestinians.”  Obama Support  U.S. assistance to the Palestinians for 2010 totaled $740
million, directly and through organizations including UN aid
agencies, according to a State Department fact sheet. Israel’s
champions in the  U.S. Congress  have threatened to cut aid to the
Palestinian Authority as punishment for seeking a UN vote.  For Obama, who is scheduled to meet in  New York  with
Netanyahu this morning and Abbas this afternoon, the pressure to
be seen as unwaveringly on Israel’s side is mounting ahead of
the 2012 elections. Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry
said yesterday that Obama’s policy in the  Middle East  was
“naive, arrogant, misguided and dangerous.”  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in an interview on
CNN’s “Piers Morgan Tonight” that Obama “is trying, to the
best of my judgment, to be even-handed with the Palestinians.”  ‘Start to Move’  Barak said that Obama isn’t “part of the problem; he is
part of the solution” and that it was “up to us, and mainly
our counterparts,” including Abbas and Palestinian Authority
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, “to shoulder the burden of
leadership and start to move.”  Palestinian negotiator Mohammad Shtayyeh on Sept. 13
dismissed concerns that the U.S. would cut funding if the
Palestinians go to the UN. He also suggested Israeli threats to
retaliate by holding back tax and customs revenue shouldn’t be
taken seriously.  “Cutting off funds to the Palestinians carries with it a
lot of repercussions that are not exactly in favor of Israel,”
said Marwan Muasher, a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment
in  Washington  and Jordan’s first ambassador to Israel. “If the
Palestinian people see that their lifeline is cut off by
Israelis, that might be the trigger for large-scale
demonstrations in the  West Bank  and Gaza, especially in the
context of what’s been happening in the Arab World.”  Steinitz also said retaliation from Israel won’t go as far
as annexing the West Bank, as called for by some members of
Netanyahu’s ruling Likud party.  “I don’t think that this will be our reaction,” he said.
“Maybe because we always want to leave room for the future
peace process.”  ‘Probability of Friction’  In a separate interview with the British Broadcasting
Corp., Barak said UN recognition of a Palestinian state would
“raise the probability of friction because a state has self-
evident rights.” If the Palestinians try to exercise those
rights “on the ground, that will meet with our effective
control of the area,” he said.  Fayyad is wrapping up a two-year program of strengthening
the courts, roads, schools and other institutions that would
form the basis of a Palestinian state, a process the
 International Monetary Fund  says has largely succeeded.  “We are looking for this week being a week that produces
an outcome that we can use to reaffirm our cause and bring us
closer to our date with freedom,” Fayyad told reporters on
Sept. 19 in New York after a meeting with donors.  Arab Pledges  Saudi Arabia  said on Sept. 20 that it would pay $200
million to the Palestinian Authority to help Fayyad out of a
financial crisis that has left him struggling to pay his
employees in a slowing $13 billion economy and reliant on
foreign aid to narrow a budget deficit of about $1 billion.  Still, Arab donors don’t always follow through on pledges.
In a July 3 news conference at his office in Ramallah, Fayyad
said that only Oman,  Algeria  and the  United Arab Emirates  had
fulfilled foreign-aid commitments.  “Palestinians can expect generous pledges from Arab
states, but must doubt they’ll actually arrive,” Ibish said in
an interview. “There’s a real shortfall between what’s been
pledged and what’s been delivered.”  By contrast, Israel’s economy is “very vibrant,” Steinitz
said in an interview with  Tom Keene  yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “Midday Surveillance.”  Months of turmoil in the Middle East have had a “very
minimal” effect on Israel’s economy, even as diplomatic ties
with Egypt and  Turkey  deteriorate, he said. Trade with Turkey
grew “significantly” in the first half. The IMF raised its
forecast for the nation’s growth rate for 2011 yesterday from
3.8 percent in April.  Economic Growth  Steinitz said the economy will grow 4.5 percent to 4.7
percent this year, more than double the 1.6 percent rate the IMF
predicted yesterday for developed nations.  Still, the cost of insuring Israeli government debt against
non-payment through five-year credit-default swaps rose to 189
this week, the highest for more than two years, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The minister has used his economic arsenal against Fayyad
before. In May, he delayed transfer of the custom fees -- almost
$100 million for the month -- until Palestinian officials
offered proof the money wouldn’t go to the Islamic Hamas
movement, which controls Gaza and is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Two months later, Fayyad said he would have to slash June
paychecks by 50 percent for 151,000 civil-service employees.
International donors have pledged $971 million this year to the
Palestinian Authority, about a quarter of its $3.7 billion
budget.  “It’s not truly independent yet,” said Steinitz, who was
a lecturer in philosophy at Haifa University before he entered
the Knesset in 1999 as a member of the Likud party. “The
economy is surviving only because of influx of funds from
abroad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  