-- 
Israel’s Fischer Says Monetary Tightening Cycle Probably Over

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/israel-s-fischer-says-monetary-tightening-cycle-probably-over.html
Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the
Bank of  Israel ’s monetary tightening cycle has probably ended as
growth eases in the U.S. and  Europe , the country’s main export
markets.  “With very high probability, yes, unless the expectations
we have for very slow growth in Europe and the U.S. this year
and next turn out to be wrong,” Fischer said in a Sept. 18
Bloomberg television interview when asked whether the cycle of
interest rate increases was over. “I don’t think we are going
to see the major central banks raising  interest rates  and if
they are not doing it, then we are probably at the end of the
tightening cycle.”  Fischer has increased Israel’s interest rate 10 times in
the past two years in an effort to rein in inflation, which has
exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range
since the beginning of the year. He kept the rate unchanged at
3.25 for a third month in August amid signs of slowing growth.  The  Bank of Israel  can lower the rate if needed, Fischer
said at a Sept. 18 press conference. The central bank cut its
economic growth forecast for this year and next on Aug. 2,
saying debt-reduction plans in developed countries may lead to a
global slowdown. The Israeli economy will expand 4.8 percent in
2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012, the bank said, compared with an
earlier estimate of 5.2 percent and 4.2 percent.  Rate Swaps  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates, were at 2.99 percent yesterday.  Increasing Israel’s benchmark rate while rates remain low
abroad might lead to a strengthening of the shekel, which would
harm exports, which make up some 40 percent of gross domestic
product. Fischer began buying foreign currency in March 2008 and
has more than doubled reserves in an effort to moderate shekel
gains and help exporters. The shekel has weakened about 4.7
percent against the dollar since the beginning of the year,
after appreciating some 8 percent in 2010.  While the global situation isn’t “as bad” as it was in
2008, it could develop into something “more serious,” Fischer
said in the interview at the central bank’s  Jerusalem 
headquarters.  “We’re feeling OK but worried about the global situation
and our own political situation,” he said.  Turkey , one of Israel’s largest regional trading partners,
expelled the Israeli ambassador and halted defense purchases
after Israel refused to apologize for a commando raid last year
on a Turkish vessel attempting to breach the blockade of the
Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  that left nine dead.  Security Council   Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has said that
on Sept. 23 he will request that the United Nations Security
Council recognize a Palestinian state and accept it as a full
member, a measure that Israel and the U.S. oppose. Israeli
officials have said the country could retaliate by holding back
tax and customs revenue collected on behalf of the Palestinians.  Fischer, 67, became Bank of Israel governor in 2005. He
earned a doctorate in economics at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  in 1969 and taught there over the next three
decades, serving as the thesis adviser to  Ben S. Bernanke , now
the US Federal Reserve chairman.  Fischer’s bid earlier this year to head the IMF following
the resignation of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  failed after he was
disqualified from the race due to his age.  -- Editors: Louis Meixler, Heather Langan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in Paris at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 