-- 
Italian Consumer Groups to Sue S&P After Italian Downgrade

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-20T11:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/italian-consumer-groups-to-sue-s-p-after-italian-downgrade.html
Two Italian consumer groups said
they will sue  Standard & Poor’s  after it lowered the nation’s
creditworthiness, the latest challenge to the rating companies
amid a mounting public backlash.  S&P cut Italy’s credit rating last night to A from A+, with
a negative outlook, on concern that weakening economic growth
and a “fragile” government mean that the nation won’t be able
to reduce the euro-region’s second-largest debt burden. S&P last
downgraded Italy in 2006.  “These agencies are floating mines that work for
investment banks and speculators,” Elio Lannutti, head of the
Adusbef consumer group and a senator with the Italian Values
Party, said in a telephone interview today from Rome.  Adusbef and Federconsumatori, another consumer group, said
earlier this month that S&P and Moody’s Investors Service don’t
have the right to rule on  Italy ’s credit rating as they lack a
license from the European Securities and Markets Authority. Both
groups confirmed today their intention to sue S&P within a week.  ESMA confirmed that the rating company may continue to
operate normally and issue ratings even with the registration
process still ongoing, S&P said today in an e-mailed statement.  The rating companies already face legal challenges in Italy
as prosecutors in the southern city of Trani investigate market-
moving statements by S&P and Moody’s. Rome-based stock-market
regulator Consob questioned both companies in July after they
placed the country on review for a possible downgrade. A small
group of protesters rallied last week outside S&P’s Milan office
against its policies.  ‘Fragile Coalition’  Italy follows  Spain , Ireland,  Portugal , Cyprus and  Greece 
as euro-region countries whose credit ratings were cut this
year. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  passed a 54 billion-euro
($74 billion) austerity package this month that convinced the
 European Central Bank  to buy the nation’s bonds after borrowing
costs surged to euro-era records in August. The plan to balance
the budget in 2013 wasn’t enough to sway S&P.  “We expect that Italy’s fragile governing coalition and
policy differences within Parliament will continue to limit the
government’s ability to respond decisively to domestic and
external macroeconomic challenges,” S&P said in a statement.  S&P’s move seems dictated “more by newspaper speculation
than reality” and influenced by political considerations,
Berlusconi’s office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Responding to the government, S&P said its rating was based
on an independent analysis of Italy’s fiscal and economic
outlook and debt prospects. “S&P’s sovereign ratings are
apolitical” and indicate “how different political initiatives
may impact financial accountability,” the rating company said
in an e-mailed statement.  Moody’s said on Sept. 16 it will strive to conclude its
review within a month. Moody’s last downgraded Italy in 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 vasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 