-- 
Italy Banks Brace for Cut on S&P Downgrade; Enel Affirmed

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-21T17:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/italian-banks-enel-brace-for-rating-cut-after-s-p-downgrade.html
Italian banks including  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  may have their credit ratings lowered by Standard &
Poor’s after the company downgraded  Italy  for the first-time in
five years.  Italy’s rating was lowered yesterday by one level on
concern that weakening economic growth and a “fragile”
government mean the nation will struggle to reduce the euro-
region’s second-largest debt burden. Italy was lowered to A from
A+ with a negative outlook four months after the company warned
of the risk of a downgrade. S&P today cut the creditworthiness
of state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti.  “At this stage a downgrade on Italian banks is likely,”
said Luca Peviani, who oversees about 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of assets as managing director of P&G SGR in  Rome .
“They have a lot of  government bonds  in their portfolios, which
are losing value, weakening their financial positions.”  Italy follows Spain, Ireland,  Portugal , Cyprus and  Greece 
as euro-region countries whose credit rating have been cut this
year as fallout from the region’s debt crisis prompts scrutiny
of rising debt levels. Italian companies whose ratings are
linked to the country’s creditworthiness have been suffering in
markets as concern over the country’s solvency grows.  “Italy is now facing what its peripheral euro-zone peers
are confronted with: the detrimental interaction between
sovereign and financial sector risks,” said Nicholas Spiro,
head of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a consulting firm in  London .  S&P lowered its outlook on Intesa,  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , and two
other banks to negative in May, four days after putting Italy’s
sovereign rating on review, because of “their predominantly
domestic business profiles.”  Bond Holdings  Intesa, Italy’s second-largest lender, held 64.5 billion
euros of government bonds as of June 30.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the
largest bank, owned 38.7 billion euros of bonds. Monte Paschi di
Siena SpA, the third-largest, holds about 25 billion euros.  “One of the possible transmission mechanisms to banks
could have to do with valuation changes on banks’ government
bond holdings,” S&P Managing Director of European Sovereign
Ratings Moritz Kraemer said in a conference call yesterday. A
rating cut of the banks wouldn’t be automatic, he said.  UniCredit has declined 55 percent this year, with Intesa
shedding 49 percent of its value, more than the 30 percent
decline in Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB index.  “We might expect that Italy’s rating downgrade could
trigger a downgrade of Intesa’s credit rating, as the bank would
now have a higher rating, A+, vs. Italy,” analysts at CA
Cheuvreux wrote in a note yesterday.  Giuseppe Mussari, head of Italy’s banking association, said
yesterday that S&P had affirmed ratings on many Italian banks in
recent weeks and he “doesn’t see why they should be changed
now.”  Enel’s Rating  Standard & Poor’s  today affirmed its A long-term rating on
Enel, the country’s state-controlled power company.  “We continue to consider Enel as a government-related
entity but we now assess the link between the Italian sovereign
and the Italian power incumbent Enel as ‘limited’ instead of
‘strong’ because, in our opinion, economic pressures may cause
the sovereign to assign a lower priority to providing any sort
of extraordinary support to Enel, should it be needed,” S&P
said in an e-mailed statement.  On May 25, S&P changed its outlook to negative for Enel,
the biggest electricity company, citing slowing economic growth
and “diminished” prospects for reducing government debt. The
state still controls 31 percent of the former monopoly. S&P
maintained its negative outlook today.  Enel, which became  Europe ’s most-indebted power producer
after the purchase of  Spain ’s Endesa SA in 2007, has cut costs
and sold assets to improve its finances. The company reported a
net debt of 46.1 billion euros at the end of the second quarter
and aims to cut that to 36.5 billion euros by 2015.  S&P said in May that a further debt reduction could lead
the company return Enel’s outlook to stable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  