-- 
Italy Opposition Seeks Finmeccanica Probe, Chairman’s Ouster

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-20T14:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/italy-opposition-seeks-finmeccanica-probe-chairman-s-ouster.html
Italian opposition politicians
called for a parliamentary probe into  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and for
its chairman to resign, as newspapers print leaked information
linking the state-controlled defense company to an inquiry into
a prostitution ring.  Chairman Pier Francesco Guarguaglini “needs to go,” Elio Lannutti, a senator with the opposition Italian Values party,
said today. “The longer he stays the more he damages Italy.”
Lannutti also joined other opposition parties in calling for a
parliamentary investigation into the company’s activities.  Guarguaglini said in an interview with daily Il Messaggero
today that he was approached in December 2008 by Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  and asked to do business with a company linked
to Gianpaolo Tarantini, a businessman arrested and accused by
prosecutors in Bari, Italy of paying dozens of young women to
attend parties with the premier.  “I said no immediately,” the chairman said of the request
from Berlusconi, according to  Il Messaggero . Guarguaglini also
said he’s never met Tarantini. Rome-based Finmeccanica confirmed
Guarguaglini’s comments.  A lawyer for Tarantini, who’s also been charged by Naples
prosecutors with extorting money from Berlusconi, didn’t have an
immediate comment when contacted by Bloomberg yesterday. The
lawyer didn’t respond to calls today.  Berlusconi hasn’t been charged in the case and has denied
ever paying for sex.  Wiretaps  Italian newspapers over the past week have printed leaked
excerpts of wiretaps made by investigators in Bari and Naples
probing Tarantini’s network and outlining his attempts to win
business with Finmeccanica units through meetings with
executives. The authenticity of the transcripts was confirmed by
a person involved in the investigation.  While Finmeccanica hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing,
commercial director Paolo Pozzessere on Sept. 15 offered to
“step aside from his role until all relevant issues are
clarified,” according to a statement from the company.
Pozzessere “categorically denies any wrongdoing of any kind,”
according to the statement. Salvatore Metrangolo, president of
Finmeccanica’s SSI unit, resigned.  “The picture, of compromises, scandals and corruption
emerging from national newspapers on Finmeccanica’s activities
is mind-boggling and unacceptable,” Aldo Di Biagio, a member of
parliament from the opposition Future and Liberty party, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. His party plans to present a
bill to set up a parliamentary commission to probe state-
controlled companies.  Shares Slide  Finmeccanica shares have fallen 39 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent decline for rival BAE Systems PLC and
a 30 percent gain for European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
The stock fell 8.6 percent yesterday after newspapers published
new information from the inquiry, and is down 26 percent since
July 27, when Finmeccanica cut its 2011 revenue forecast.  A consultant to the company was last year named in a probe
into slush funds. Finmeccanica, which wasn’t the subject of that
investigation, has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and said it
never set aside illegal funds.  The company also said July 22 that Guarguaglini was notified
of a request by a prosecutor to extend an inquiry. Guarguaglini
said today that he was never questioned in the probe.  Marina Grossi, chief executive officer of Finmeccanica’s
 SELEX Sistemi Integrati  unit and Guarguaglini’s wife, is also
being probed in a Rome investigation for alleged fiscal fraud
linked to contracts with  Italy ’s air-traffic control agency
ENAV. She has denied any wrongdoing. Italy owns about 32 percent
of Finmeccanica.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 vasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  