-- 
Japanese Stocks Reverse Losses as China Growth Lifts Exporters

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-09-21T06:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/japanese-stock-futures-decline-as-imf-cuts-global-economic-growth-outlook.html
Japanese stocks reversed losses on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will announce new measures to
boost the world’s biggest economy and after a leading indicator
signaled Chinese growth is withstanding a global slowdown.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a maker of factory robots that gets about 40
percent of its sales in  Asia , rose 1.4 percent. Daihatsu Motors
Co., Japan’s largest producer of minicars, jumped 4.9 percent
after introducing a new fuel-efficient model. Sumco Corp., a
manufacturer of silicon wafers, dropped 6.1 percent after Nomura
Holdings Inc. cut a forecast for semiconductor shipments.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.2 percent to 8,741.16
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo after earlier falling as
much as 0.2 percent. The broader Topix index advanced 0.3
percent to 757.13 amid lower-than-average trading volume ahead
of a scheduled Fed statement today in  Washington .  “It looks like  China’s economy  will be steady toward the
end of this year,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $24 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo . “There’s a lot expectation that Fed
will introduce some measures even if they aren’t that
aggressive.”  Stocks gained after the Conference Board said its leading
economic index for  China , a gauge of prospects for expansion in
the world’s second-largest economy, rose 0.6 percent in July.
The result boosted investor confidence after the  International
Monetary Fund  cuts its forecast for global growth this year to 4
percent from 4.3 percent.  ‘Comfort to Investors’  “Any newsflow suggesting China’s growth rate is firm
provides comfort to investors who have been concerned about a
hard landing, alongside worries about a downturn in demand from
the developed world,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than
$300 million at White Funds Management in Sydney. “At the same
time, markets are hanging on for what the Fed is going to do.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent
today on bets the Fed will decide to replace short-term
Treasuries in its portfolio with long-term bonds, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The policy would be
designed to flatten the yield curve and encourage lending to
boost economic growth.  In  New York , the  S&P 500 index  lost 0.2 percent yesterday
after a report that international officials won’t decide on
Greece’s next aid payment until October. Officials plan to
finish a review of Greece’s economy next month, Athens News
Agency reported, without citing sources.  Exporters Rise  The Topix has lost about 16 percent this year amid concern
U.S. growth is sputtering and  Europe ’s debt crisis will damage
the banking system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest
export markets. The decline has cut the price of shares on the
index to 0.91 times estimated book value, near the lowest since
March 2009.  Trading volume fell to its lowest level since June 13 as
investors waited for the outcome of the Fed meeting. The value
of shares traded on the first section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange was 956 billion yen ($12.5 billion), about a third less
than this year’s daily average of 1.4 trillion yen.  Shares of Japanese manufacturers that export to China
advanced. Fanuc rose 1.4 percent to 11,280 yen, giving the
biggest boost to the  Nikkei 225. (NKY)   Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a maker of
construction equipment that gets about a quarter of its sales in
the mainland, gained 1.1 percent to 1,750 yen.  Daihatsu, Sumco  Daihatsu, a maker of minicars 51 percent owned by Toyota
Motor Corp., surged 4.9 percent to 1,380 yen. The automaker
yesterday started selling a model that gets 30 kilometers per
liter (71 miles per gallon) of gasoline.  Makers of semiconductors and chip equipment dropped after
Nomura lowered its forecast for growth in the value of chip
shipments next year to 3.7 percent from 6.4 percent. Prices of
dynamic-random-access memory, the chips used to help personal
computers juggle multiple programs, are unlikely to recover,
Nomura said today in a report.  Sumco Corp. (3436)  slumped 6.1 percent to 765 yen, falling the
most on the Nikkei 225, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
price estimate to 720 yen from 800 yen. Advantest slid 2.6
percent to 841 yen. The maker of chip-testers also fell after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. slashed the company’s price target to 1,000
yen from 2,500 yen and cut its investment rating to “neutral”
from “overweight.”  -- With assistance from Shani Raja in Sydney. Editors: Jason Clenfield, Jim Powell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 