-- 
Japan Land-Price Decline Slows on Pre-Earthquake Housing Demand

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-09-20T07:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/japan-land-price-decline-slows-on-pre-earthquake-housing-demand.html
Japanese land-price drop slowed for
the second year, helped by housing demand before the March 11
earthquake that was driven by tax incentives for home buyers
amid low  interest rates , a government report showed.  The nationwide average price dropped 3.4 percent as of July
1, compared with a 3.7 percent decline a year earlier, the
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said in
a  report  released today. In 2009, prices dropped 4.4 percent.
Prices were affected by the record temblor in the Tokyo and
Nagoya areas, while declines eased in  Osaka  areas due to
increased demand for conveniently located residential
neighborhoods, the report said.  “Government incentives offered for home buyers have
prompted people to start buying,” said Yutaka Iwaki, director
of the land ministry’s price research division. “If we didn’t
have the disaster, we might have seen more land points with
increased or unchanged prices.”  Japan ’s government expanded the rebates in 2009 to boost
home sales, giving a 10-year tax break on properties bought
before 2014. Prospective home buyers in Japan have also
benefited from the world’s lowest financing costs with the Bank
of Japan’s near-zero interest rates.  The annual land price survey by the government is the first
following the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that damaged
and destroyed about 912,000 properties. The tremor also caused
liquefaction in some parts of Tokyo and forced some stores to
shut as the government introduced rolling blackout after the
nation’s record temblor and tsunami in March damaged a nuclear
plant in northeastern region.  Exclusion of Disaster  The survey excluded a total of 93 sites that were affected
by the catastrophe, including 86 in the northeast prefectures of
Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima, the government report said.  Declines in value in  Tokyo , Osaka and Nagoya, the three
major metropolitan areas, slowed to 1.9 percent, from a drop of
3.2 percent a year earlier, the ministry said. Prices in rural
districts fell 4 percent from the 3.9 percent decline a year
earlier, the report showed.  In Tokyo, prices in Nakano ward, a popular residential
neighborhood, eased to a 0.9 percent drop from a 4.4 percent
decline a year earlier, the report said. Land prices for four
residential sites in Osaka were little changed, compared with a
drop in prices for all sites surveyed in the city last year, as
demand rose, the report said. The points that had a gain in
prices more than doubled to 12 in Nagoya because housing demand
remained strong, it said.  Price Drop Continues  While the drop in land values, which are about half of what
they were after the peak of Japan’s bubble economy in the 1980s,
eased this year, it has continued to fall for 20 straight years,
the report showed. Nationwide commercial land prices fell 4
percent and residential land values dropped 3.2 percent.  “Residential land prices for Tokyo Bay fell after
liquefaction was found in some area,” said Iwaki said,
referring to a phenomenon where soil loses its strength after
violent shaking. “For commercial properties, consumers were
reluctant to go shop following the quake that led to a decline
in sales.”  Japan’s retail sales tumbled the most in 13 years in March,
declining 8.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the
trade ministry.  Demand for office spaces in the Tokyo area also waned as
demand from foreign employers declined, Iwaki said.  The number of investors who were bearish or fairly bearish
on central Tokyo’s office sector almost doubled to 11, from six,
after the quake, according to Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. By contrast, those who were bullish fell to 20 from
27, the researcher said, based on a poll of 58 firms surveyed
from April 25 to May 23 in the area.  The most expensive piece of commercial property remained in
Tokyo’s Ginza  shopping district , where land can cost as much as
19.7 million yen per square meter, the report said.  Tokyo’s Chiyoda ward, where the Imperial Palace is located,
had the nation’s priciest residential land at 2.8 million yen
per square meter, the data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  