-- 
Japan May Widen Efforts to Cushion Companies Against Yen Through Subsidies

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-20T06:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/japan-ready-to-take-appropriate-and-bold-action-on-yen-government-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  unveiled his first plan as premier to lessen the pain of a
yen near postwar highs, including a pledge to grant “large”
subsidies for domestic construction of factories.  “We have to establish a strong economic structure that
won’t be affected by movements in currency markets, whether it’s
a strengthening or a weakening in the yen,” Motohisa Furukawa,
the economy minister, told reporters in Tokyo after the
government released its interim report today on measures to
respond to the yen’s appreciation.  The proposed steps follow announcements by companies
including Panasonic Corp. of plans to relocate operations
overseas in the aftermath of the yen’s climb. The measures don’t
directly address the yen’s strength against the dollar, the
primary determinant of whether companies move their factories
abroad, according to economist Noriaki Matsuoka.  “It looks like the yen’s going to stay in the 70s range,
and there’s a big risk we’ll see an acceleration of overseas
shifts next year if that holds true,” said Matsuoka at Daiwa
Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “This won’t lead to a reversal
in the yen’s strength, but this was all that the government
could do for now.”  Japan’s currency traded at 76.52 to the dollar at 3:38 p.m.
in Tokyo compared with 76.58 in  New York  yesterday. It climbed
to a post-World War II high of 75.95 to the dollar last month,
threatening to hurt exports and derail the nation’s recovery
from the March 11 earthquake.  ‘Not Sustainable’  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
“we can not judge, we can only see the results” of government
measures unveiled today. He also said the strong yen was “not
sustainable.”  A trade ministry survey this month showed that about 15
percent of large Japanese manufacturing companies expect
operating profit to drop 20 percent or more if the yen is at 76
per dollar.  Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of rechargeable
batteries, is moving the the headquarters of its $57 billion
procurement operation to  Singapore  from  Osaka  in the year
starting April 2012, Masaaki Fujita, an executive in charge of
the business, said last week.  Elpida Memory Inc., the world’s third-largest memory
chipmaker, said this month it may shift some domestic production
to  Taiwan .  In addition to seeking an increase in subsidies for
building factories in Japan, the government aims to create jobs
and to support the finances of small- to medium-sized companies
hurt by the strong yen, the statement said. It didn’t say how
much spending is planned for the measures.  ’Double Punch’  The government also wants to aid a local  tourism industry 
that’s suffered from a “double punch” of the yen’s
appreciation and the March disaster, it said. Furukawa said he
met with other economic policy ministers today to discuss the
report. Noda’s administration was launched Sept. 2.  Japanese policy makers will take “bold” action if needed
on currencies because excessive moves in exchange rates could
damage the economy and financial markets, the report said. The
Japanese government  sold  4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion) during
intervention in the  currency market  last month, the most since
2004.  The government also said it expects the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to
take “appropriate and bold” measures when needed.  Economic Contraction  Japan’s economy shrank at a 2.1 percent annual pace in the
three months through June, the third straight quarter of
contraction. Government data suggest that the global slowdown
may weigh on Japan’s recovery, with industrial output and
machinery orders both weaker than economists forecast.  “Less resilient” overseas economies and the yen’s swings
are among risks to the outlook of the Japanese economy, which is
picking up even as post-disaster difficulties abound, the
government said in its monthly economic report today.  Japan’s government plans to complete the strong yen steps
as early as this month after receiving feedback from lawmakers
in the ruling  Democratic Party  of  Japan ,  Kyodo News  reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  