-- Gibbs & Bruns, Simpson, Jones Day, Weil: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-20T12:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/jefferies-nasdaq-hynix-primary-global-sap-in-court-news.html
Gibbs & Bruns LLP, the  law firm 
that won an $8.5 billion settlement from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
tied to faulty mortgage bonds said  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  failed to service $73 billion of similar securities,
creating a default.  Gibbs & Bruns cited at least $15 billion of Wells Fargo’s
residential mortgage-backed securities and $5 billion from
Morgan Stanley where holders have 25 percent or 50 percent or
more of the  voting rights , according to a statement yesterday
from the Houston law firm. The dispute also covers $23 billion
of Morgan Stanley-issued RMBS and $30 billion of Wells Fargo’s
RMBS where holders “have significant voting rights, but less
than 25 percent or 50 percent,” the firm said.  Faulty mortgages and foreclosures have cost the largest
U.S. home lenders at least $84 billion since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and have been blamed by
regulators for discouraging banks from making new loans.  Kathy Patrick , a partner at Gibbs & Bruns, led a bondholder group that
reached a settlement in June 2011 with Bank of America covering
mortgage trusts with an original loan balance of $424 billion.  “We will review any communication we receive and respond
appropriately,” said  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman
for New York-based Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  Patrick’s firm said in January it was seeking information
on pools securing more than $19 billion of residential mortgage-
backed securities issued by affiliates of Wells Fargo, which
says it’s the biggest U.S. home mortgage lender and servicer.  Morgan Stanley also received a letter in October from the
law firm, which said it was representing holders of at least 25
percent of voting rights in 17 trusts with more than $6 billion
in outstanding balances, according to a filing.  Bank of America’s  settlement  with 22 bondholders, including
BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co., seeks to
allow it to pay 2 percent of the faulty bonds’ face value to
avoid repurchasing the underlying loans.  While Bank of America’s deal is awaiting court approval,
 attorneys general  from  New York  and  Delaware  have intervened to
seek more information. New York has said there are “serious
questions about the fairness and adequacy” of the accord, which
covers just “a small fraction” of losses.  For more, click here.  Failures by U.S. Officials Plagued Gun Program, Report Says  Management failures and errors by a U.S. law enforcement
agency and the  Justice Department  were pervasive in a federal
operation designed to track guns illegally shipped to  Mexico ,
according to a report by the department’s internal watchdog.  The 471-page report, released yesterday, described failures
by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives,
which ran Operation Fast and Furious, and by the U.S. attorney’s
office in  Arizona . After the report’s release, the Justice
Department announced the retirement of one official and
resignation of a second.  Republicans have faulted Attorney General Eric Holder’s
oversight of Fast and Furious and his responses to lawmakers
queries on the operation. The U.S. House in June cited Holder
for contempt of Congress for failing to turn over documents
related to the operation. ATF is part of the Justice Department.  Fast and Furious permitted illegal gun purchases in the
U.S. in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels.
It took place between 2009 and January 2011 and allowed more
than 2,000 guns to be carried away.  Two of the weapons were found at the scene of the December
2010 murder of U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian Terry in Arizona,
according to a congressional report. Other guns were found at
crime scenes Mexico.  In a statement after the report was released, Holder
announced that Kenneth Melson, the former acting director of
ATF, is retiring from the Justice Department. Deputy Assistant
Attorney General Jason Weinstein, who led violent and organized
crime enforcement efforts, has resigned, Holder said in a
statement.  The inspector general referred 14 officials to the Justice
Department for possible disciplinary or administrative action
for failures in Fast and Furious.  In his statement, Holder said Justice Department leaders
“did not know or authorize the use of the flawed strategy and
tactics.” He also said department leaders didn’t “attempt to
cover up information or mislead Congress about it.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Blackstone Group Agrees to Buy Vivint for About $2 Billion  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP corporate partner Peter Martelli led the team advising  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, in its agreement to buy Vivint Inc.
for about $2 billion to gain home-security, energy-management
and solar-power customers in more than 670,000 homes in  North
America .  Jones Day  New York mergers and acquisitions partners
Bob Profusek and Andy Levine led the team advising Vivint.
Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC’s Hugh Van der Veer and  Robert
Jones  as well as Durham Jones & Pinegar’s Todd Leishman also
provided representation for Vivint and Vivint Solar and 2GIG
respectively, Jones Day said.  Additional Simpson Thacher partners included: Alden
Millard, credit; Igor Fert, capital Markets; Gary Mandel,tax;
Gregory Grogan, executive compensation; and Joseph Tringali,
litigation.  Blackstone is buying a majority stake in the Provo, Utah-
based home-security and solar-leasing company from initial
investors  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Jupiter Partners LLC and
Peterson Partners LP in a deal that should be completed by year-
end, founder and Chief Executive Officer Todd Pedersen said in
an interview yesterday. He plans to keep his minority equity
stake.  “We were a small company when they first invested in us in
2006,” Pedersen said. “They’ve done very well since then and
with Blackstone we’ll have the strong backing in the capital
markets that will help us scale up.”  Vivint started as a home-security and management business
in 1999 and last year expanded into offering solar-power leases.
These home-management services, excluding solar, reached more
than $30 million in recurring monthly revenue this year and
should climb to almost $35 million in the next three months,
Pedersen said.  Lenovo Makes First Software Buy to Expand in Cloud Computing  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP advised  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the
world’s second-largest maker of personal computers, which agreed
to buy Stoneware Inc. of the U.S. to gain cloud-computing
products in its first acquisition of a software vendor. Taft
Stettinius & Hollister LLP was counsel to Stoneware.  Weil’s team was led by Keith Flaum, mergers and
acquisitions, and included partners Helyn Goldstein and Michael
Kam, tax, benefits and executive compensation, and John Brockland, technology and IP transactions.  Taft Stettinius’s Neal Roach, Bradley W. Schwer and Todd C.
Lady were the partners on the deal for Stoneware.  Stoneware  produces software used mainly by governments and
schools to synchronize data across multiple mobile devices, Mark
Cohen, a Lenovo vice president, said in a telephone interview.
The closely held, Indianapolis-based company has 60 employees,
he said, without disclosing terms.  The purchase is Lenovo’s second in less than three weeks as
Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  expands the company to
take on rivals including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.
in smartphones, tablets and Internet-ready televisions. Lenovo
will use Stoneware to build a “public cloud” for consumers,
Cohen said. The service would compete with Apple’s iCloud, which
lets users store music, movies and applications and access them
by the Internet and wirelessly.  The acquisition “helps us access and interface with users
in a way that we haven’t been able to do,” Cohen said. “We are
not trying to remake ourselves into a  software company . What
we’re trying to do is selectively enter the software market
where we can make a difference for our customers, and to support
our overall strategy.”  For more, click here.  Firm News  Morrison & Foerster Names Three New Firm Co-Chairs  San Francisco litigation partners Craig Martin and Anna Erickson White and  Tokyo  real estate partner Eric Piesner, were
appointed  Morrison & Foerster LLP ’s new co-managing partners.
The trio succeeds Pamela Reed, who was managing partner of the
firm for 13 years.  Martin and White, who are both members of the securities
litigation, enforcement and white-collar defense group, share
responsibilities for the firm’s nine U.S. and two European
offices. Piesner, a real estate partner, will oversee MoFo’s
four Asian offices.  They will report to bankruptcy partner Larren Nashelsky,
who was elected chairman of the firm in July.  Nashelsky said in a statement that he was confident the
three leaders “will be a formidable team, with a very broad and
real understanding of the firm’s practices, clients, culture,
and economics, aptly poised to face the competitive challenges
of today’s legal market.”  White acted as firmwide managing partner from 2006 to 2009.
She also heads the Business Review Committee, which advises the
firm on conflicts and strategy issues. In her practice she
represents public companies and their officers and directors in
securities class actions, derivative suits, internal
investigations, SEC investigations, and general commercial
disputes.  Martin represents clients in SEC enforcement and DOJ
matters, corporate investigations, and private securities
litigation.  “By all measures our firm is thriving. Financially we are
having one of our best years ever, and our lawyers are busy with
market-shaping matters across the globe,” Martin said in a
statement.  Piesner is head of the firm’s  Asia  real estate practice,
and is the global co-chairman of the firm’s 550-lawyer business
department. His practice focuses on the representation of funds,
banks, REITs and other institutional clients in real estate-
related transactions in  Japan ,  China ,  India ,  Australia  and other
markets in the Asia-Pacific region.  During Reed’s term as managing partner, which ends next
month, the firm has seen expansion of its global platform,
particularly in Asia.  “As MoFo approaches its 25th anniversary in Tokyo, we’re
incredibly proud of the growth and success we’ve had in Japan,
as well as China,” Piesner said. “The firm’s strategic
objective is to continue to represent the top companies in these
markets in their most significant matters, whether corporate or
litigation, and I’m looking forward to growing our practices to
support client needs.”  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers in 15
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Moves  Crowell & Moring Hires High Profile Partners in Washington  Crowell & Moring LLP announced two high profile partner
hires this week. Former Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. vice president
in the Office of Government Affairs Eric Edwards and Cheryl A.
Falvey, general counsel of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission join the firm’s Washington office.  Edwards joins the public policy group as a partner. He will
provide strategic counseling to firm clients on government
affairs matters in the areas of banking, securities, financial
institutions, and general business, with a particular focus on
the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act and other financial regulatory matters,
the firm said.  At Goldman, Edwards managed a legislative and regulatory
portfolio that included the application of the “Volcker Rule”
to bank-sponsored private equity and hedge funds, and the
broader impact of Dodd-Frank on banks and asset managers, the
firm said.  His legislative experience includes senior staff positions
in the U.S. House of Representatives and the  U.S. Senate , where
he was staff director and counsel for the Subcommittee on
Financial Institutions and  Consumer Credit  of the U.S. House
Committee on Financial Services.  Falvey will join the firm as a partner in the torts group
and product risk management practice on Oct. 1. As general
counsel of the CPSC, Falvey advised the Commission during the
implementation and passage of the Consumer Product Safety
Improvement Act of 2008, the congressionally mandated creation
of the consumer complaint database, as well as enforcement
efforts at the ports, the firm said.  Falvey was general counsel of the CPSC since March 2008.
During that time, the Commission’s regulatory and enforcement
activities focused on toxic substances in children’s products,
performance standards for durable infant products, testing and
certification requirements for regulated products, and emissions
from Chinese drywall.  Prior to joining the CPSC, Falvey headed Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP Washington litigation practice.  Crowell & Moring LLP has about 500 lawyers representing
clients in litigation and arbitration, regulatory, and
transactional matters. The firm has 11 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and the  Middle East .  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s Hires DOJ Partner in Washington  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired a U.S. Justice Department
lawyer from the Antitrust Division, Joshua Soven. He joins the
firm’s Washington office as a partner.  Soven was Chief of the Litigation I Section, where for five
years he was responsible for investigating and prosecuting
merger and non-merger antitrust violations in industries such as
health care and consumer products, the firm said.  Before he worked at the Justice Department, he was an
attorney adviser to the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission
and a trial attorney for the Antitrust Division’s Networks and
Technology Enforcement Section.  At the Justice Department, he oversaw 25 lawyers and 10
professionals who investigated and prosecuted merger and non-
merger antitrust violations in the insurance, health-care,
consumer products, paper and dairy sectors.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 offices the
Americas, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.  Sedgwick Hires Six Lawyers with focus on Land Use, Litigation  Sedgwick LLP hired six attorneys in its Austin office.
Three partners, Alan Glen,  Michael Klein  and Lisa Michaux
Magids, and three associates, join the firm from Smith,
Robertson, Elliott, Glen, Klein & Douglas LLP. Two outside
counsel, law school professors with environmental regulatory
expertise, are also working with the firm, Sedwick said in a
statement.  The members of this group bring experience in
environmental, natural resource and land use issues, including
the Endangered Species Act, National Environmental Policy Act,
 Clean Water Act  and other federal regulatory programs. They also
have health-care and insurance regulatory litigation and general
commercial litigation experience, the firm said.  “The growth of our Austin office reflects our goal of
expanding in the  Texas  marketplace, and we now have the real
estate, construction and land use bandwidth in the state to meet
our clients’ needs in those areas,” Sedgwick’s Commercial
Division Chairman Michael Davisson said in a statement.  Alan Glen represents both public and private entities
across the country and has handled dozens of permits and
consultations under the ESA. Michael Klein is a litigator, with
more than 40 matters tried to final award or judgment in state
and federal courts and arbitration. Lisa Michaux Magids focuses
on litigation matters, including general commercial litigation,
business disputes, premises liability, general tort, insurance
coverage issues, contract disputes, securities class actions,
governmental regulation matters and trade secret litigation.  Sedgwick LLP provides trial, appellate, litigation
management, counseling, risk management and transactional legal
services with more than 370 attorneys in 14 offices in the U.S.
and Europe as well as an affiliated office in  Bermuda .  K&L Gates Lawyer Moves to Barnes & Thornburg in Chicago  Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired Bonita Hatchett as a partner
in the Corporate Department of the Chicago office. She was
previously a partner in the Chicago office of K&L Gates LLP.  Hatchett has more than 15 years of experience counseling
publicly traded, closely held, collectively bargained,
government and tax-exempt employers on employee benefit matters.  Her experience includes all aspects of compliance with the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as well as the
tax qualification and requirements of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, applicable to qualified plans, nonqualified plans,
health and welfare agreements, executive compensation and other
compensatory arrangements, the firm said.  Barnes & Thornburg expects Hatchett to help employers
understand the many implementation requirements for complying
with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in the
short-term and long-term.  Barnes & Thornburg’s has more than 200 lawyers in the
Corporate Department The firm has more than 550 attorneys in 12
U.S. offices.  Sheppard Mullin Adds Labor Lawyer in Orange County  Jason A. Weiss has joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP as a partner in the firm’s labor and employment
practice group, based in the firm’s Orange County office. Weiss
was previously at Allen Matkins Leck Gamble & Mallory LLP in
Orange County.  Weiss specializes in representing employers, from
multinational corporations to startups, on a variety of
employment and labor relations matters, including wrongful
termination and unfair competition lawsuits as well as
preventive counseling and advice. He has handled cases at the
trial and appellate levels in both state and federal courts as
well as in arbitration.  Sheppard Mullin’s labor and employment practice group
includes 90 attorneys firm wide. The firm has 60 attorneys based
in its Orange County office. The firm has close to 600 attorneys
in 16 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Eversheds Hires Banking and Finance Partner in London  Eversheds LLP has appointed CMS Cameron McKenna LLP banking
and finance partner Alex Doughty as a partner in its London
banking team, the firm said.  Doughty has a focus on  emerging markets . As well as
providing general advice on a wide range of banking,
infrastructure and project finance matters, he has been involved
in the structuring of over $50 billion of debt finance-related
deals across several industry sectors, the firm said. His most
recent work was on energy transactions, including the oil and
gas sector.  Eversheds has lawyers in 45 offices in 28 countries around
the world.  Fees  AMR, Committee Lawyers Costing About $5.5 Million a Month  AMR Corp., the parent company of  American Airlines  Inc., is
being charged an average of about $4 million a month by its
primary bankruptcy lawyers since filing to reorganize in late
November,  Bloomberg News ’s Bill Rochelle reports.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, the airline’s chief lawyers,
this week filed a request for court approval of $17.5 million in
fees covering April 1 through July 31. From the start of the
case through March 31, the cost excluding expenses was $14.8
million.  Primary lawyers for the official creditors’ committee from
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP are costing an average of
$1.4 million a month. In the new fee request filed this week,
Skadden seeks $5.6 million. In the prior request, the total was
$5.7 million.  The airline is being forced to reduce the flight schedule 2
percent this month and next because of a shortage of pilots. The
pilots’ union said its members aren’t engaging in a job action.  Last week, the  bankruptcy court  authorized AMR to impose
contract concessions on the pilots. AMR’s other eight unions
negotiated and ratified contracts with fewer concessions.  AMR will be putting about 4,000 mechanics and ground
workers on furlough as the result of their unions’ contract
concessions.  For Bloomberg stories, click here and here.  AMR, based at the airport midway between  Dallas  and  Fort
Worth , Texas, listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 