-- 
Jefferies Profit Rises 53% as Investment-Banking Revenue Climbs

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M a r y e l l e n   T i g h e
-- 
2011-09-20T12:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/jefferies-profit-rises-53-as-investment-banking-revenue-climbs.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the
investment firm that’s been hiring managing directors from the
world’s biggest banks, said fiscal third-quarter profit rose 53
percent as investment-banking revenue climbed.  Net income for the three months ended Aug. 31 was $68.3
million, or 30 cents per share, compared with $44.8 million, or
22 cents, in the same period a year earlier, the New York-based
firm said today in a statement. The average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 20 cents. Net
income excluding the acquisition of Prudential Bache’s global
commodities group was $23 million, or 10 cents per share.  Jefferies, run by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Handler, 50, has been adding staff since the 2008 credit
crisis. The firm hired managing directors from banks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, and Bank of America
Corp. Last week, Jefferies said it added a group of senior
research analysts in its Hong Kong office.  “Management continues to hire in the face of operating
environment deterioration and competitor downsizing,”  Jeff Harte , an analyst for Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said in a
Sept. 8 note. “The real question facing Jefferies shares is
whether or not management can continue delivering revenue
growth.”  Jefferies, which is down 47 percent this year through
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, fell 67 cents, or 4.5
percent, to $14.12 yesterday.  “Although our firm has never had a stronger capital base or
a more diversified business mix, our core revenues and earnings
were directly impacted by the extremely difficult and volatile
operating environment, particularly in August,” Handler said in
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Maryellen Tighe in New York at 
 mtighe6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 