-- 
JinkoSolar Works to Reopen Solar Plant as Authorities Detain 31 Protesters

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T01:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/jinkosolar-aims-to-resume-output-after-pollution-closes-factory.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co. said it’s
working to resume production at a solar cell plant in eastern
 China  as local authorities detained villagers for taking part in
the violent protests over pollution that shut the factory.  “We’ve blocked the polluted river and are cleaning up the
water,” Chief Financial Officer Zhang Longgen said in a phone
interview yesterday. “We are still investigating the incident
and expect to complete it soon.”  JinkoSolar fell the most since its listing in New York on
Sept. 19 after hundreds gathered at its plant in the city of
Haining from Sept. 15 to Sept. 17, accusing it of being the
source of pollution that killed fish in a nearby river. Local
authorities have detained 31 people suspected of taking part in
the protests at the plant that damaged eight cars and four
police vehicles, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing Haining Vice Mayor Shen Xianghong.  “JinkoSolar is cooperating with local environmental
authorities to assess the reasons for the pollution,”  Zhang
said. He declined to comment on a Sept. 19 report by the China
Business News that the environmental protection bureau fined the
Haining plant 470,000 yuan ($73,600).  The manufacturer of solar cells and modules said Sept. 19
that waste containing fluoride was swept from the plant into the
river after heavy rains. JinkoSolar is reworking its systems to
keep rainwater from flowing into the river and aims to “revive
production at its Haining plant soon,” Zhang said. He didn’t
disclose the costs of the changes or the cleanup.  Stock Declines  JinkoSolar’s American depositary receipts fell 9.4 percent
yesterday in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading after a
decline of 28.1 percent on Sept. 19. Its stock has dropped more
than 70 percent this year.  The solar industry had already been suffering from slimming
margins and slowing demand for panels as European nations rein
in subsidies for renewable energy. SMA Solar Technology AG, the
biggest supplier of devices that convert power from solar cells
for use on national electric grids, cut its profit forecast,
citing weaker-than-expected demand for rooftop systems.  “It’s more of the same, unfortunately, with many of these
companies seeing shipments growth with no margin,” said Aaron Chew, analyst at Maxim Group in New York. “I think these stocks
don’t really go anywhere until next year.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. revised its global forecast for
solar shipments, according to a research note published Sept. 19.
The company now expects total shipments of 12,804 megawatts of
panels in the second half of the year, 18 percent lower than its
previous estimate. It downgraded JinkoSolar to “neutral” from
“buy” with a 12-month price target of $13.  Violent Protests  More than 500 villagers near Haining in eastern Zhejiang
province overturned eight vehicles and damaged four police cars
in protests at JinkoSolar’s factory, according to footage from a
local television report posted on the website of the city’s
government.  An initial investigation by local regulators found that the
pollution may have been caused by improper storage of waste
containing fluoride. The facility had the capacity to produce
1,100 megawatts of solar cells a year as of June 30.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  