-- 
New Zealand’s Economy Likely Weakened on Rebuilding Delays, Soaring Kiwi

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-09-21T02:59:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/n-z-gdp-likely-slowed-on-quake-rebuilding-delays-soaring-kiwi.html
New Zealand ’s economic growth
likely slowed in the second quarter on delays in earthquake
rebuilding and a stronger currency, giving the central bank
scope to keep borrowing costs at a record low.  Gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent in the three months
through June from the prior quarter, according to the median of
15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before a government
report tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. in Wellington. The economy grew
0.8 percent in the first quarter.  Investors are betting Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard
will keep the official cash rate at 2.5 percent until next year
as a rising local dollar, aftershocks in Christchurch and
fallout from the European debt crisis curb the recovery. An
extended rate pause may limit gains in the kiwi dollar, the best
performer among Group of 10 currencies in the past six months,
and underpin spending already getting a boost from the  Rugby
World Cup  this quarter.  “The underlying story remains buoyant, although perhaps
less upbeat than initially thought,” said  Jane Turner ,
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “Many of the industries
that will be leading the second-quarter decline are unlikely to
remain weak.”  Construction shrank 6.6 percent in the second quarter to
the lowest in more than 10 years, according to a government
report Sept. 8. It is likely to stabilize in the second half and
rebound in 2012 as Christchurch rebuilding gets under way,
Turner said.  Current Account  A government report earlier today showed New Zealand’s
current-account deficit in the year ended June 30 was 3.7
percent of GDP, less than the 4 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The gap in the second quarter
was NZ$921 million ($757 million), compared with a revised NZ$90
million surplus in the first three months of the year.  There is a 16 percent chance the cash rate will be higher
before Dec. 31, according to swaps prices from Westpac Banking
Corp. Nine of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
the rate will be unchanged until next year.  Bollard on Sept. 15 said momentum in the economy appeared
to have picked up, led by increased farm output, high commodity
prices and rising household incomes.  Still, he left the cash rate unchanged, saying a strong
currency and the risk of a sharp slowdown in global demand could
curb exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy. New
Zealand’s dollar has gained 12 percent the past six months, the
strongest performer among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Currency’s Strength  The so-called kiwi advanced 8.9 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the three months through June, the biggest rise since
the third quarter of 2009. A stronger currency makes exporters’
goods and services more expensive to overseas customers.  Officials expect 95,000 foreign fans to attend the Rugby
 World Cup , which began Sept. 9 and ends Oct. 23. The central
bank has forecast spending will be boosted by NZ$700 million
during the tournament.  First-quarter growth was buoyed by  government spending  on
rescue and urgent repair work after the quake struck
Christchurch, the nation’s second-biggest city, on Feb. 22. The
temblor wrecked homes and roads, closed the central business
district and killed 181 people.  Quake Damage  Continuing aftershocks, including a magnitude 6 quake on
June 13, have caused more damage and delayed demolition
necessary to commence rebuilding. The need to review about
388,000 claims lodged with the state-owned Earthquake Commission,
as well as insurance and regulatory delays, means rebuilding
won’t begin until mid-2012, the central bank said last week.  Finance Minister  Bill English  has said it’s possible the
pace of the economic recovery next year will not be as strong as
he projected in his May budget.  “You can see perhaps lower growth further out,” he said
in an interview on Sept. 14, referring to 2012-13. “When our
growth is export driven and the  exchange rate  is elevated, it’s
going to have an effect.”  Consumer sentiment fell this month, according to an ANZ
National Bank-Roy Morgan index published last week. Business
confidence dropped to a four-month low in August, ANZ said,
citing a survey of 455 firms. Companies were less optimistic on
the outlook for profits and fewer expect to hire more workers,
the Aug. 31 report showed.  “A number of factors both domestic and international,
point to an economic backdrop characterized by continued
uncertainty and volatility,” Graham Evans, chairman of
Warehouse Group Ltd., the nation’s largest discount retailer,
said last week. “The extent of any underlying growth in retail
spending is uncertain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  