-- 
National Australia to Issue Mortgage Bonds in Two Currencies

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-20T04:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/national-australia-to-issue-mortgage-bonds-in-two-currencies-1-.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  said
it plans to issue U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated bonds
backed by residential mortgages, in the first sale of such
securities in Australia in two months.  The Melbourne-based lender is marketing the equivalent of
A$750 million ($765 million) of notes in the first public
offering of Australian RMBS since mid-July, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. The bank plans to issue $202.8 million
of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds and A$555 million of securities
in the Australian currency, according to a separate statement
from  Fitch Ratings .  The lender priced A$1 billion of mortgage bonds in May in
its first sale of the securities since 2006, including A$720
million of notes priced to yield 100 basis points more than the
bank bill swap rate, according to a statement at the time.
 Australia ’s largest banks, including  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  and Westpac Banking Corp., have returned to the
mortgage bond market as it recovers after slamming shut amid the
global credit freeze and then surviving on a government support
package that only smaller lenders were eligible for.  “We have seen continued innovation in the RMBS market with
issuers looking to diversify their investor base,” said  David
Goodman , Sydney-based Westpac’s director of asset-backed
securities.  Soft Bullet  The U.S. dollar floating-rate notes have a so-called soft
bullet structure, meaning investors will receive their principal
in September 2013 if certain conditions are met, according to
Fitch. RMBS holders typically receive principal payments as the
underlying home loans are repaid, which makes it more difficult
for investors to predict cash-flow patterns.  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap, which measures
the cost of switching interest based on the London interbank
offered rate for payments linked to Australia’s bank bill swap
rate, was at 8 basis points today, after falling to 5.3 on Sept.
14, the lowest close since January 2009.  The lower the level, the lower the costs for Australian
borrowers to sell bonds in U.S. dollars and switch the proceeds
into their home currency.  “Given the tightening in the basis seen in recent weeks,
offshore issuance was looking increasingly attractive,” said
Westpac’s Goodman.  National Australia is managing the sale itself and plans to
price the notes as soon as this week, according to its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 