-- 
NBAD Wants to Boost Small-Business Lending, CEO Says

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-29T11:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/nbad-is-looking-to-boost-lending-to-smes-ceo-tomalin-says.html
(Corrects story originally published Sept. 20 to show NBAD
won three project-advisory mandates instead of project-finance
mandates in penultimate paragraph.)  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) ,
the  United Arab Emirates ’ second-biggest bank by assets, plans
to increase lending to small- and medium-sized companies and
said its retail business is “holding up pretty well.”  “Our loan growth hasn’t particularly slowed down,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Tomalin told reporters at an industry
seminar in Dubai today. “We are certainly looking at the SME
space. We are looking to do more business there.”  NBAD, which is 70 percent owned by the Abu Dhabi
government, reported a 12 percent increase in loans in the six
months through June. Overall bank loans in the U.A.E., the Arab
world’s second-biggest economy, have grown 2 percent in the
seven months through July, according to central bank data.  New U.A.E. regulations to curb excessive lending to
individual customers that came into effect in May “did not
affect us directly so much because we have always been a rather
conservative lender,” Tomalin said. “In some ways it is
beneficial, because other banks can’t take those clients away by
offering higher multiples on their salary.”  The U.A.E. central bank capped personal loans at 20 times a
borrower’s monthly salary and said repayment periods can’t
exceed 48 months. Overall monthly installments for all loans,
including housing, auto and credit-card debt, must not exceed 50
percent of a customer’s gross salary and any regular income.  NBAD recently won three project-advisory mandates and
expects “moderate” loan growth for the banking industry this
year, Tomalin said. Project advisory services may include
developing strategy, studying whether a project is viable and
what mix of debt and equity funding a project should use. The
bank will look to sell bonds on an “opportunistic basis,”
although it has no need to raise funds, he said.  NBAD will open a fully owned subsidiary in  Malaysia  in
January and an office in  Shanghai  next year. It closed an office
in  Libya  this year following the nation’s revolution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  