-- 
Netflix Move Sets Up Possible Sale or Spinoff of Qwikster

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-20T21:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/netflix-move-sets-up-possible-sale-or-spinoff-of-qwikster-unit.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s decision to split
its DVD operation from the flagship streaming service isolates
the shrinking mail-order business and paves the way for an
eventual exit, analysts said.  A pure-play online business would be smaller and faster-
growing, with more freedom to experiment, said  George Askew , an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “The separation of online streaming and DVDs will set the
stage for spinning off or selling the DVD business in the
future,” said Askew, who has a “hold” rating on the shares.  Netflix has plunged 38 percent the past four trading days
as investors react to cuts in the  Los Gatos , California-based
company’s subscriber forecast and plans to separate the mail-
order DVD business into a service called Qwikster. Netflix
appears to be “actively trying to push people away” from the
disc business, said  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  The DVD and streaming units have evolved differently, said
 Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  “One business is global, one is domestic,” Greenfield
said. “One is based on physical media and the other on digital.
It’s about aligning the business up and down.”  Netflix said it has no plans to exit mail order and that
the split reflects different growth trajectories. In a weekend
blog post announcing the changes, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings apologized to customers over the handling of a July
price change that boosted the monthly cost by 60 percent for
subscribers who stream movies and rent DVDs by mail.  “It is clear from the feedback over the past two months
that many members felt we lacked respect and humility in the way
we announced the separation of DVD and streaming, and the price
changes,” Hastings said.  Shares Fall  Netflix fell $13.72, or 9.5 percent, to $130.03 at 4:29
p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have declined 26 percent this year after more than tripling in
2010 and almost doubling in 2009.  Not everyone expects a sale. Wible, the Janney Montgomery
analyst, puts the odds of a sale or spinoff at less than 50
percent, because of the difficulty finding a buyer or investors
who would want stock in a mail-order DVD rental company.  The mail-order business is worth eight to 10 times
earnings, or about $20 per Netflix share, said Wible, who has a
longstanding sell recommendation on the shares.  “I think you’d find a lot of skepticism, like the  Postal
Service  trying to do an IPO right now,” Wible said. “There are
issues that are only going to get worse.”  Hastings wants to speed up consumers’ migration from
physical rentals of discs to streaming of movies and TV shows.
About 12 million of Netflix’s 25 million-plus customers use both
the mail-order and streaming service.  Like Music, Like DVDs?  The Netflix CEO also suggested the mail-order business,
while shrinking, has a long run ahead of it. On a July
conference call, he estimated the DVD business may decline by 10
percent a year.  “What we do know is that we are going to maximize whatever
opportunity is there,” Hastings said on July 25.  Netflix cut its third-quarter subscriber  forecast  on Sept.
15, two weeks after the price change took effect. The company
trimmed its estimate of domestic DVD-only subscribers to 2.2
million from 3 million and said U.S. streaming-only users would
total 9.8 million, down from the 10 million seen earlier.  With the split, subscribers who want to remain customers of
both businesses will have to use different websites to order
from each. Qwikster, which plans to offer video-game rentals,
will also bill separately.  More Churn  The division could alienate users attracted to the
convenience of a single site for finding DVDs and streaming,
said Michael Olson, an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis . He has an “overweight” rating on the shares.  Separating the two businesses may also signal Hollywood is
gaining the upper hand in negotiating streaming rights,
according to Bill Gurley, a partner with Benchmark Capital who
blogs at  abovethecrowd.com .  Given studios’ demands to be paid per user, Netflix
probably separated the businesses so it wouldn’t have to pay for
subscribers who don’t stream, Gurley said in a blog post.  The danger is that Netflix may weaken both businesses,
especially after the company lost access to  Sony Corp. (6758)  movies
from Starz, part of  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp. empire.  “If anything, the streaming service is probably weaker
today than it was three months ago,” said Youssef Squali, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. with a “hold” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  