-- 
New Zealand’s Current-Account Deficit Widens to 3.7% of GDP

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-20T23:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/new-zealand-s-current-account-deficit-widens-to-3-7-of-gdp-1-.html
New Zealand ’s current-account
deficit widened as a share of the economy after a surge in
export prices that boosted the trade surplus to a 10-year high.  The deficit was 3.7 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ended June 30, from a 3.6 percent gap in the 12 months
through March,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today.
The series was revised to include new tax data on receipt and
payment of overseas income, narrowing the shortfall in the 12
months to March 31 from a previously reported 4.2 percent, the
agency said.  Rising prices for commodity exports such as milk powder and
wool are sheltering the current-account deficit from weak
tourist spending and an outflow of investment income as
overseas-owned companies increase earnings. The deficit is
likely to narrow as export prices stay near their highs and on a
surge in visitor spending by fans attending the Rugby  World Cup 
in September and October, economists said.  “There will be lagged benefits from the terms of trade
gains and the World Cup will help services,” Doug Steel,
economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said
yesterday. He forecast the deficit will narrow to 3.3 percent of
GDP in the year ending December.  New Zealand’s currency was little changed after the
release, buying 82.12 U.S. cents as of 10:50 a.m. in Wellington,
from 82.21 cents immediately before the data.  Economists predicted the second-quarter deficit would
narrow to 4 percent of the economy, according to the median of
nine forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey last week.  Annual Deficit  The annual current-account shortfall widened to NZ$7.47
billion ($6.1 billion) from a revised NZ$7.2 billion in the year
through March, today’s report showed.  There was a NZ$921 million deficit in the second quarter
following a revised NZ$90 million surplus in the first three
months of the year. Economists predicted the quarterly shortfall
would be NZ$671 million.  The terms of trade, a measure of relative export income,
rose to a 37-year high in the second quarter, led by global
demand for commodities. New Zealand officials expect 95,000
foreign fans will attend the rugby tournament that runs Sept. 9
to Oct. 23, while the central bank forecasts they will spend
NZ$700 million during their stay.  The current-account gap has shrunk from as much as 8.9
percent of GDP in the year through December 2008 as exports rose
and the domestic economy fell into recession, curbing the
earning of foreign-owned companies. Record-low  interest rates 
reduced the amount of interest being paid to overseas lenders.  Rate Outlook  Economists expect the deficit will widen next year as
interest rates rise, earnings of foreign-owned companies
increases and spending on imported materials to rebuild
earthquake-devastated Christchurch accelerates. Steel forecast
the gap will be 6.3 percent by the end of 2012.  Christchurch, New Zealand’s second-largest city, was
devastated by a magnitude 6.3 temblor on Feb. 22 that killed 181
people, wrecked homes and closed the central business district.
That followed an earlier magnitude 7 temblor centered just
outside the city in September.  Estimated reinsurance flows of NZ$3.3 billion for
September, NZ$8.54 billion for February and NZ$680 million for a
further quake on June 13 are in the capital account, the agency
said.  In the second quarter, the  trade surplus  widened to NZ$2.41
billion, reflecting higher prices for meat and dairy products,
today’s report showed.  Trade Surplus  In the year through June, the trade surplus widened to a
10-year high of NZ$3.48 billion from NZ$3.43 billion in the 12
months through March, the report showed. Exports increased 11
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.  In the quarter, the deficit on income, a measure of
international investment income and compensation for employees,
which makes up most of the current-account balance, widened to
NZ$2.53 billion. Profits earned by foreign investors on New
Zealand equity investments increased and earthquake-related
losses reported by insurers were less than in the first quarter,
the report showed.  The deficit on income narrowed to NZ$9.7 billion in the
year ended June 30.  The annual deficit on services widened to NZ$925 million
because of reduced spending by foreign visitors following the
earthquakes and a volcanic ash cloud that affected  air travel ,
the statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  