-- 
Newark Gets $32 Million Short-Term State Loan to Plug Deficit

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-20T22:53:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/newark-gets-32-million-short-term-state-loan-to-plug-deficit.html
Newark,  New Jersey ’s largest city,
will get a $32 million short-term state loan to plug a $57
million hole in its $750 million budget caused in part by rising
pension and health-care costs.  Under terms of the deal announced today, the state
Department of Community Affairs will install a full-time fiscal
oversight officer in  City Hall . It will require Newark to halt
new spending and identify new revenue and budget cuts to close
the remaining $25 million gap.  “The fiscal oversight officer will encourage the city to
take action to address a growing structural deficit in 2012,”
Thomas Neff, director of the state division of Local Government
Services, said in a letter to the state. “The rating agencies
and the financial communities view formal oversight in a
positive manner.”  Moody’s lowered its rating on $500 million in outstanding
 Newark  debt by one level at the end of last year, citing the
city’s weakened fiscal position. Investors demanded a risk
premium of 103 basis points above top-rated municipal debt for
Newark’s bonds yesterday, according to a Bloomberg Valuation
Index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Julien Neals, the city’s business administrator, said in an
e-mail that Newark has cut its deficit by $100 million since
2009 and trimmed its workforce to the lowest level since 1988.  “Our city, as well as the nation, continues to endure the
worst economy experienced in decades,” he said. “As we
continue to explore additional cost-saving and revenue-inducing
measures, we have partnered with the state and will accept
transitional aid as a bridge that will ultimately contribute to
the restoration of our city’s fiscal integrity and prosperity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  