-- 
News Corp. Said to Get U.S. Letter Seeking Information For Bribery Probe

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-09-20T21:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/news-corp-said-to-get-u-s-letter-seeking-information-for-bribery-probe.html
News Corp. (NWS)  was sent a letter by
U.S. prosecutors investigating foreign bribery, requesting
information on alleged payments employees made to U.K. police
for tips, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The letter is part of an effort by the U.S.  Justice
Department  to determine whether News Corp. violated the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public. News
Corp. fell 1.7 percent on the news.  The inquiry advances an existing U.S. probe that is
reviewing claims that victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks had
their phones hacked by News Corp. employees. The letter doesn’t
carry the same legal force as a grand jury subpoena, which would
compel a response under law.  Earlier this year, it was revealed that reporters at New
York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World had hacked the
voicemail accounts of celebrities and a young girl who had been
kidnapped and murdered. Investigators subsequently began looking
into allegations that the tabloid’s staffers made payments to
police officers in return for confidential information.  The FCPA, enacted in 1977, makes it a crime for U.S.
businesses or their employees to pay off representatives of a
foreign government in an attempt to gain a commercial advantage.
Federal prosecutors have broad discretion to interpret the law
and its definition of who qualifies as a government official.  Former Government Lawyer  In July, News Corp. retained attorney Mark Mendelsohn of
Paul Weiss Rifkind & Garrison LLP, according to the Wall Street
Journal, which is owned by News Corp. Prior to joining the  law
firm , Mendelsohn had overseen the Justice Department’s FCPA
investigations.  Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for News Corp., didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the letter. Last
week, she declined to comment on the probe. Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose
office initiated the FCPA investigation, declined to comment.  Last month, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder met with
relatives of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, who had requested
a meeting about allegations of hacking by News Corp.  London ’s Daily Mirror had reported that News Corp.
reporters unsuccessfully tried to have a former  New York  police
officer obtain phone records of victims of the attacks. News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  told U.K. lawmakers in July that
he has “seen no evidence of these allegations.”  New York Post  News Corp.’s New York Post that month told employees to
retain files related to any attempts at unauthorized access to
third-party data, or illegal payments to government officials
made to obtain information, according to a memorandum reproduced
on The Poynter Institute’s Romenesko website.  News Corp. is facing three police investigations in the
U.K. as well as a Parliamentary probe regarding phone hacking by
reporters at the News of the World.  The company shut down the tabloid and scrapped its bid for
the rest of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc after a report
that its journalists deleted voice mails from the murdered
schoolgirl’s phone.  News Corp. fell 3 cents to $16.90 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 