-- 
NIH Budget Cuts May Slow Personalized Cancer Drugs, Group Says

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/nih-budget-cuts-may-slow-personalized-cancer-drugs-group-says.html
Development of personalized cancer
treatments tailored to the molecular makeup of individual tumors
may be jeopardized by little-changed or reduced U.S. funding for
biomedical research, according to a new report.  The  American Association for Cancer Research  instead
recommends an 8.6 percent increase in the  National Institutes of
Health  fiscal 2012 budget, to $33.3 billion. The Philadelphia-based
group, the world’s largest cancer research organization, is
responding to a $322 million cut to the NIH this year.  “With the entire focus in D.C. on  deficit reduction , we
feel it’s time to put a document out there that shows the value
of cancer and biomedical research and the value of that
investment,” said Jon Retzlaff, the group’s managing director
of science policy and government affairs, by phone.  Retzlaff’s group is lobbying Congress this week as a 12-
member congressional committee debates how to trim the  U.S.
budget deficit . The budget for NIH, the biggest public spender
on bioscience, stands at about $30.7 billion.  “It’s the first time in as long as many people can
remember that the National Institutes of Health and the  National
Cancer Institute ’s budgets have declined,” Retzlaff said.  The group's report details how treatment has moved from
“one-size-fits-all cancer care” to customized cures where the
molecular makeup of the patient and the tumor dictate the strategy.  Medicines that had their roots in public-sector research
include Imatinib, currently marketed by Swiss drugmaker  Novartis
AG (NOVN)  as Gleevec. The leukemia drug has helped limit the disease to
a chronic condition with a five-year survival of 95 percent,
said Elizabeth Blackburn, professor of biology and physiology at
the University of  California ,  San Francisco , and the
association’s immediate past president.  Targeted Therapies  The drug represents the future of more targeted cancer
therapies, in contrast to chemotherapy drugs which affect all
cells, the report said. There are now 32 FDA-approved drugs that
target tumor cells with fewer side effects.  “We finally invested enough in the infrastructure to see
an accelerating pace of breakthroughs,” Judy Garber,
association president and director of the Center for Cancer
Genetics and Prevention at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
said in a phone interview.  Garber cited new drugs approved this year to treat
melanoma, including  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Zelboraf.  Such drugs are “the tip of the iceberg,” she said.
“After we’ve finally gotten to this point, do we say, ‘We’ve
got these two, that’s enough?’  We’d be foolish to miss the
opportunity we now have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in Washington at 
 ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  