-- 
Nissan to Buy More Parts in China, South Korea to Cut Costs

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-09-20T07:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/nissan-to-buy-more-parts-in-china-south-korea-to-cut-costs.html
Nissan Motor Co. will buy more
parts from  China  and  South Korea  for use in a Japanese plant as
the strength of the yen makes imports of components cheaper.  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said today that as
much as 90 percent of parts for use in production in its Kyushu
plant in southwest Japan will be sourced from nearby Asian
countries and locally, compared with 70 percent now. The
automaker may buy from Japanese suppliers that are producing in
China to cut costs, he said.  Ghosn spoke to reporters during a factory tour in southwest
Japan, where wages are lower than the national average. The
government released its interim report today on measures to
respond to the yen’s appreciation, including a proposal for
“large” increases in subsidies for companies planning to build
factories domestically.  “With the high yen, producing in  Japan  is obviously not
efficient,” said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting
company Carnorama in Tokyo. “It takes at least three years to
open a factory anywhere, so to make cars in Kyushu for markets
where Nissan doesn’t yet have a factory is a good decision.”  Nissan exports about 79 percent of the vehicles made at its
Kyushu factory, including the Murano and Rogue, to  North
America ,  Europe ,  Southeast Asia  and the  Middle East , according
to company spokesman Chris Keeffe.  “Nissan’s Kyushu plant is one of the biggest in the
world,” Ghosn said. The company aims to make more than 500,000
vehicles there this fiscal year, he said.  ‘Strong Headwind’  The strength of the yen presents a “strong headwind” for
the country and is “not sustainable,” Ghosn said. The yen’s
“abnormal” strength will come to an end, said Ghosn, who said
the automaker is committed to maintain domestic output of 1
million vehicles.  The minimum wage in Fukuoka prefecture, about 1,005
kilometers (625 miles) southwest of  Tokyo , was 692 yen ($9) in
2010, according to the Ministry of Labor. That compares with 821
yen in Tokyo and a national average of 730 yen.  “Prime Minister Noda visited our Yokohama plant
yesterday,” Ghosn said. “I cannot make any comments yet
because he just became PM, but he has been watching the yen
attentively and understands that the high yen is a strong head
wind for Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  