-- 
Norway’s ABG Sundal Says Low Valuations to Trigger Acquisitions

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-09-20T12:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/norway-s-abg-sundal-says-low-valuations-to-trigger-acquisitions.html
ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA (ASC) , a
Norwegian investment bank, expects a slump in stock market
valuations to boost mergers and acquisitions this year.  “It looks like we’ll see as many deals this year as we saw
last year,” when there were 70, ABG Chief Executive Officer
Knut Brundtland said in an interview in Oslo. “There are many
companies with good balance sheets and lots of cash and they’re
looking for expansion as it’s hard to grow organically.”  ABG’s team of 50 investment bankers in Norway and Sweden
aims to generate 100 million kroner ($18 million) to 125 million
kroner of corporate finance revenue a quarter, said Brundtland.
Companies looking to increase revenue may take advantage of the
low valuations, he said.  There have been 301 mergers and acquisitions in  Sweden  and
Norway, ABG’s main markets, this year, according to Bloomberg
data. The price to earnings-per-share ratio of Norway’s 26-
company OBX Index fell 44 percent to an average of 8.45 percent
this year, while the 30-member OMX  Stockholm  30 dropped 45
percent to 9.94.  “We are seeing more interest in public to private deals,
in Sweden and Norway because of the low prices on the stock
exchange and valuations are low,” Brundtland said. “Industrial
players can pay more than the price on the stock exchange so
there’s plenty of room for huge takeover premiums.”  Debt restructuring deals may also pick up as companies
struggle to pay outstanding loans because of the high cost of
refinancing, while the market for initial public offerings
remains closed even though there are a number of potential
projects, he said.  Finland  Presence  ABG, formed in 2001 via the merger of Sundal Collier & Co.
and ABG Securities, has more than 290 partners with offices in
Oslo, Bergen, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Copenhagen,  Frankfurt ,
 London  and  New York . ABG is considering a “presence” in
Finland, Brundtland said.  The company, which posted a 42 percent drop in second-
quarter net income to 35.5 million kroner, was involved with
Hoegh LNG’s IPO this year, plus Eitzen Chemical ASA’s private
placement and Visma AS’s purchase of Mamut ASA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at   mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  