-- 
Norway May Keep Rates Unchanged on Euro Crisis, Krone Strength

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-20T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/norway-may-keep-rates-unchanged-on-euro-crisis-krone-strength.html
Norway ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third
consecutive meeting as it guards against  Europe ’s deepening debt
crisis and protects exporters from krone gains.  Norges Bank will keep its overnight deposit rate at 2.25
percent in a decision scheduled for 2 p.m. today in Oslo,
according to all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers last month abandoned a planned rate raise
after global stocks plunged as investors lost faith in European
efforts to stem the debt crisis and U.S. recovery prospects
faded. Governor Oeystein Olsen this month warned that the bank
may even cut rates to halt gains in the krone, which emerged as
a haven for investors seeking to avoid the euro-area’s debt woes
and after  Switzerland  moved to cap franc appreciation.  “Significantly weaker growth prospects abroad, lower
inflation than expected and higher unemployment justify more
caution in monetary policy,” said  Erik Bruce , an economist at
Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, in a note to clients.  European leaders are struggling to contain a sovereign debt
crisis that has engulfed  Greece  and threatens to spread to Spain
and  Italy . The euro area’s third-largest economy yesterday
became the latest euro country to have its credit rating cut.
The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its growth
forecast for the euro area this year to 1.6 percent from a June
estimate of 2 percent. Norway will grow 1.7 percent this year,
the Washington-based lender predicts.  Largely Shielded  Central banks such as the Riksbank in neighboring  Sweden 
have also scaled back tightening plans as global growth
deteriorates. The U.S. Federal Reserve last month said it will
probably need to keep its rate near zero until the middle of
2013, while the  European Central Bank  scrapped its increases and
resumed bond purchases to counter the debt crisis.  So far, Norway has been largely shielded from the European
crisis because of its oil and gas wealth. The country is the
world’s seventh-largest oil exporter and second-largest gas
exporter. It has stored most its revenue in a $530 billion
sovereign-wealth fund.  Norwegian policy makers in June signaled that rates would
rise to an average of 2.65 percent in the fourth quarter and an
average of 3.87 percent in next year’s fourth quarter. The
country’s mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will grow 3 percent this year and 3.75 percent in
2012, the central bank forecast in June.  Inflation Slows  First Securities ASA, an Oslo-based broker, and SEB AB now
expect the central bank to keep rates unchanged into 2012. The
bank isn’t scheduled to publish a monetary policy report with
new rate forecasts until Oct. 19.  Core inflation  unexpectedly slowed last month, also easing
pressure on rates. Underlying inflation, adjusted for taxes and
energy prices, slowed to 0.8 percent in August from 1.2 percent
a month earlier. That compares with a target of 2.5 percent.  The krone has weakened 3.3 percent against the euro after
Olsen on Sept. 8 warned the bank would be prepared to lower
rates to protect exporters. It jumped to the highest level since
February 2003 after the  Swiss National Bank  on Sept. 6 moved to
stem franc appreciation. It’s still up 0.2 percent this year.  “While the rapid krone appreciation proved short-lived, it
has likely increased the bank’s guard against a too strong
krone,” Stein Bruun, chief economist in Oslo at SEB AB, said on
Sept. 19.  Some exporters may face “challenges” if the krone
strengthened to more than 7.70 per euro, Leif Teksum, an
executive vice president at  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) , said in an interview
last week. Norske Skogindustrier ASA, the world’s third-largest
newsprint producer, said this week it will lay off 56 employees
at a paper mill in Norway as gains in the currency hurt
profitability. A stronger krone makes Norwegian goods more
expensive.  Property Bubble  The bank’s move to limit damage to exporters risks fueling
gains in property prices and a potential real estate bubble in
the world’s second-richest country per capita after Luxembourg.  Europe’s lowest unemployment rate, at 2.7 percent, and an
estimated wage growth of more than 4 percent this year, are
fueling demand for credit and pushing up  house prices .  Home prices  rose an annual 9.4 percent in August,
accelerating from 8 percent growth last year, according to the
country’s Real Estate Brokers Association. Household credit grew
an annual 7.1 percent in July, hovering at a 2 1/2-year high,
 Statistics Norway  said. The central bank estimates consumer debt
burdens will grow to more than 204 percent of disposable income
next year, the highest since at least 1988.  “The longer these developments go on, the further it goes,
the higher is the risk of a bubble,” Morten Baltzersen,
director general of the Oslo-based Financial Supervisory
Authority last month, said in an interview, adding the watchdog
may tighten mortgage lending rules to counter credit growth.  “There is a reason for concern that the sheltered sectors
of the economy shall be fueled by low interest rates,”
Baltzersen said. At the same time, “low international interest
rates influence the room for maneuver in Norwegian monetary
policy,” he said.  -- With assistance by Joel Rinneby in Stockholm, Editors: Jonas Bergman, Tasneem Brogger  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  