-- 
Lending Curbs Help Propel Commercial Paper Yields to Record: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T05:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/loan-curbs-help-push-short-term-yields-to-record-china-credit.html
Companies in  China  face record
interest rates on short-term debt as curbs on lending force them
to rely on commercial paper to pay back loans.  The average yield on top-rated, one-year corporate notes
has risen 101 basis points since June 30 to 5.9 percent, and is
poised for the biggest quarterly increase in Chinabond data
going back to 2007. China Yangtze Power Co. sold 6.5 billion
yuan ($1.02 billion) of one-year debt at a coupon of 6.04
percent on Sept. 8, the first time a AAA rated company paid more
than 6 percent on short-term securities, according to China
International Capital Corp.  The People’s Bank of China has raised borrowing costs five
times since mid-October 2010 to curb inflation in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, with the latest increase in July
lifting the benchmark one-year rate to 6.56 percent. The average
coupon on one-year, AAA rated Indian company debt fell 14 basis
points to 9.49 percent this quarter, while funding costs rose 1
basis point to 0.5 percent for similar-maturity notes in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High yields reflect “the market concern about liquidity
and also the view that monetary policy may not change in the
short-term,” said George Weisi Tan, who oversees about 300
million yuan as head of bond investments at Fortune SGAM Fund
Management Co. in  Shanghai . “It’s hard to get a loan from the
bank these days.”  Commercial Paper Sales  Loan quotas and higher  reserve requirements  are reducing
access to bank credit, helping push sales of commercial paper to
552 billion yuan this year, Bloomberg data show. Sales are
poised for the busiest first three quarters of the year on
record, according to Bloomberg data. Offerings of longer-
maturity corporate bonds are down 33 percent to 71.4 billion
yuan this quarter compared with the same period last year, the
data show.  Yields for longer-term bonds aren’t high enough to
compensate for investors for the risk, so companies have issued
more short-term debt, Tan said.  Beijing-based China Yangtze, rated AAA by China Chengxin
International Credit Rating Co., has 14 billion yuan of
commercial paper outstanding, Bloomberg data show.  The company, which generates electricity at the world’s
largest hydropower dam, will use proceeds from the bond sale to
pay back bank loans, according to documents governing the
offering. It has to repay 31 billion yuan of debt in 2011 as of
August and had 49.7 billion yuan of bank loans as of March, the
document shows.  ‘Greater Pressure’  China Yangtze’s “financing costs are markedly going up,
and there is greater pressure to pay back debt,” according to
the prospectus. Two calls to the company’s main number seeking
comment on the effects of increasing commercial paper rates on
company financing plans went unanswered.  China Power Investment Corp. also paid a 6.04 percent
coupon when it sold 5.8 billion yuan of one-year bonds on Sept.
13, Bloomberg data show. The state-owned electricity generator
uses proceeds from debt sales to pay back loans, it said in the
prospectus.  The company, which has the top ranking from Chengxin, had
total short-term borrowings of 20.3 billion yuan as of March, it
said. Its debt-to-asset ratio was 85 percent at March 31 with 27
percent of its borrowings short-term, according to the document.
Two calls to the Treasury Department of China Power seeking
comment on the increase in borrowing costs were unanswered.  Monetary Tightening  Chinese inflation, which slowed to 6.2 percent in August,
from a three-year high of 6.5 percent, must be stemmed even as
the global economy slows, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Sept. 14.
Monetary tightening has helped temper growth, with the economy
expanding 9.5 percent last quarter, the least since 2009.  “Credit risks will increase if the economy slows,”said
Xide Ma, a Beijing-based fund manager at E Fund Monthly Income
Fund. “There are a lot of companies getting financing and weak
demand so yields are going up. Loans are also tight.”  Yields on Shandong Helon Co.’s 400 billion yuan of 5.8
percent one-year notes rose to a record 8.94 percent on Sept. 19
after the company’s credit rating was downgraded, Chinabond
prices show.  China Lianhe Credit Rating Co. cut the Weifang city,
eastern China-based fabric maker’s ranking on Sept. 15 to A-from
A+ with a “negative” outlook, citing high debt and management
irregularities. Lianhe also said rising costs of raw materials
contributed to the downgrade.  Cash Flow   Shandong Helon sold the bonds in April to lower its cost of
capital, according to the prospectus. The company has borrowed
from all of China’s major banks, including a 5.84 percent one-
year loan from Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., it said in the
prospectus. A person who answered the phone at the finance
department of the company declined to comment on the company’s
downgrade. The person referred questions to company officials,
without providing contact details.  Operating cash flow at Chinese-listed companies fell 6
percent in the first half from a year earlier, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Peggy Chan wrote in a Sept. 5 report.  “Historically, operating cash flow has never been good in
China and has deteriorated since 2010,” she wrote.  Banks are demanding near-record  interest rates  to lend to
one another for six months or more, Shanghai interbank rates
show. The Shibor rate on six-month yuan loans was at 5.2979 as
of 11:30 a.m. local time, after reaching 5.3093 percent on July
14, the highest level since the daily fixing was introduced in
October 2006. The equivalent cost to borrow dollars in  London 
was 0.527 yesterday.  Yuan Advance  The yuan advanced to the strongest level in three weeks on
signs policy makers will tolerate currency gains to fight
inflation. It strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.3776 per dollar as
of 9:54 a.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency has advanced 3.59 percent
versus the dollar in 2011, while  India ’s rupee dropped 6.8
percent,  Russia ’s ruble fell 2.67 percent and the Brazilian real
slumped 6.96 percent.  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year bonds has risen 19
basis points since June 30 to 4.08 percent on Sept. 20. That’s
213 basis points more than the rate for similar-maturity  U.S.
Treasuries .  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s sovereign bonds
rose 53 basis points this quarter to 137 basis points yesterday,
the highest since April 2009, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  “Funds are very tight at the moment so demand for short-
term bonds has fallen causing the issuance coupon to go up,”
said Ouyang Kai, a  fund manager  at ICBC Credit Suisse Asset
Management Co. in Beijing. “But loan rates are still higher
than selling short-term bonds.”  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors: Edward Johnson,  Shelley Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  