-- 
Obama’s Home State Illinois Turns to China for Economic Boost

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-20T08:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/obama-s-home-state-illinois-turns-to-china-for-economic-boost.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn , facing
elevated unemployment and a budget shortfall, held talks with
Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan in Beijing, seeking to boost
exports and lure investment.  “We see exports as a key driver of getting the economy
into a higher gear and so we have to connect to China,” Quinn
said in an interview in the city today after meeting Wang
yesterday. A delegation of business leaders and officials from
President Barack Obama’s home state is on an eight-day visit to
the nation and  Hong Kong .  As governments from  Italy  to  Greece  to the U.S. struggle
with their debt burdens, leaders are eyeing China’s consumption
and record foreign-exchange holdings for bond sales, exports and
investment. American officials may find their task complicated
by tensions between the world’s two biggest economies. U.S.
Ambassador Gary Locke today cited “growing frustrations” at
 China ’s restrictions on foreign companies.  “Over the long haul Chinese companies and investment can
help drive growth in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Patrick Chovanec, an associate professor at Tsinghua University’s School
of Economics and Management in Beijing. “China’s sitting on $3
trillion in foreign exchange and it can invest that in
Treasuries or invest it in building factories and distribution
networks around the world, which would be much more
productive.”  Stalled job growth in the U.S., federal spending cuts and
state budget shortfalls may encourage the Obama administration
to ease the way for Chinese investment after some previous
potential purchases were blocked.  Shedding Jobs  On Sept. 8, Quinn said that he may have to cut more than
1,900 government workers because a budget approved by
legislators won’t fund state services through the end of the
fiscal year. The cost of insuring  Illinois  debt for 10 years has
risen 56 percent since May 20, according to credit-default
prices from CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Around the world, officials are eyeing China’s financial
clout and rising consumption. Italian officials met in the past
month with China Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth
fund, to discuss investments in the European country, an Italian
official familiar with the matter said on Sept 12.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Sept. 14 that China was ready to
increase investment in Europe and to “extend a helping hand.”
Wen also indicated that China wanted concessions, including
gaining market-economy status earlier than the 2016 deadline set
by the  World Trade Organization .  U.S. Tension  Tensions between the U.S. and China span the Obama
administration’s claim that the yuan is “substantially
undervalued” and Locke’s complaint, in remarks prepared for
U.S. business executives in Beijing, that foreign businesses
still face “substantial restrictions.”  China’s complaints include limits on its purchases of high-
technology products from the U.S.  Nearly 30 Chinese companies have already invested in
Illinois, including automotive parts and solar-panel producer
Wanxiang Group Co., according to the state government. Sales of
Asian carp to China are part of efforts to bolster shipments to
the state’s third-biggest export market, Quinn said today.  “We want children to learn the Chinese language, the
history, the culture,” Quinn said. “Our goal is to be the most
Chinese-friendly state in the union.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  