-- 
Obama $8 Billion Solar ‘Betamax’ Undercut as China Backs Rival Technology

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-09-20T17:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/obama-8-billion-solar-betamax-undercut-as-china-backs-rival-technology.html
The U.S. government’s $8 billion
bet on solar energy that would pave the deserts with mirrors
risks following the Betamax into the technological wilderness
because of Chinese backing for a cheaper system.  The  Department of Energy  guaranteed loans to six plants
that will reflect sunlight to boil water for making electricity,
aiming to kick-start commercial projects. Four of those, and a
third of $26 billion pipeline encouraged by U.S. aid, may switch
to standard photovoltaic panels that generate a charge directly
from the sun, said Brett Prior, a solar analyst at GTM Research.  The cost of generating power with panels plunged about 37
percent in the past year as Chinese factories cut prices,
pushing three U.S. makers including Solyndra LLC into  bankruptcy
protection  in the past quarter. Germany’s  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) 
walked away from a $2.1 billion U.S. loan guarantee last month
and ditched thermal devices for a cheaper photovoltaic system.  “If Solar Millennium, a major developer that has the
technology, can’t do it with a loan guarantee, then it’s not
clear who could,” Prior said in a phone interview from  Boston .  While the developers of some of the U.S. guaranteed
projects said they are sticking with mirror-based devices, a
switch by others will drain momentum for the technology and
shift engineering jobs President  Barack Obama  aims to create in
the southwestern U.S. to the panel plants of eastern  China .  Congressional Probe  Congress is probing White House support for Solyndra, with
some lawmakers saying loan guarantees were given without a
thorough vetting of the Fremont, California-based company, one
of many solar-equipment makers in the U.S.,  Germany  and  Japan 
that were weakened by the same Chinese competition. Solyndra
wasn’t in the solar thermal business, focusing instead on
photovoltaics.  Tiffany Edwards, an Energy Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the competing solar technologies.  Photovoltaic, or PV, panels have benefited from tumbling
costs. That in turn fueled demand and allowed manufacturers such
as China’s Suntech Power Holdings Co. to boost capacity and cut
prices for use in fields and on rooftops.  In contrast, thermal developers are struggling to raise
money for what are typically custom-designed plants erected in
deserts on a utility scale, taking years to design and build.
They employ more workers for construction and maintenance than
plants using panels.  Betamax Moment  Solar thermal, at least in the U.S., is approaching a
tipping point that recalls the defeat of Sony Corp.’s Betamax
format to the rival VHS in the videotape war of the 1980s, said
Lee Clements, a  fund manager  at Impax Asset Management Ltd.  “It’s like VHS versus Betamax,” Clements, who co-manages
about 2.4 billion pounds ($3.8 billion) in clean-technology
investments, said in a phone interview. “You’ve seen a big
snowball effect” as cheaper prices fuel more demand for panels.  The biggest losers may be the industrial giants such as
 General Electric Co. (GE) , Siemens AG and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  that make
turbines for both traditional and solar-thermal power plants.
Several have acquired stakes in the last two years solar-thermal
equipment makers.  Siemens bought Solel Solar Systems for $418 million in 2009.
This year GE acquired a minority stake in ESolar Inc. for $20
million and got an exclusive license to sell the California
company’s technology.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest power-grid
supplier, agreed to buy 35 percent of Novatec Solar with an
option to acquire the rest of the German company in March.  Like the Betamax video recorders that offered better
picture quality for a higher price, solar thermal plants are
more valuable than PV because they can store power and send it
to the grid after the sun sets.  Heat Storage  Thermal plants use an array of technologies each aimed at
running a conventional steam turbine. Some have curved mirrors
to focus the sun’s heat on pipes carrying water or synthetic
oils, and others employ flat mirrors to bounce the radiation to
a boiler atop a tower. The latest systems divert the excess heat
of the afternoon into vats of liquid salts and then tap them
during the evening to keep the generators running.  “The big thing with solar thermal is storage,” Cedric Philibert, a solar analyst at the  International Energy Agency ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s cheap and it’s very
effective.”  The value of the technology will spur installations of
plants generating 147 gigawatts by 2020 compared with about 1.3
gigawatts today, and it may be competitive without subsidy at
peak times, the IEA estimates.  Cost Reductions  “That’s fairly optimistic,” said Jenny Chase, leader of a
team of solar analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “I
don’t think solar-thermal will ever be able to compete with
photovoltaic” on cost.  Solar-thermal developers that offered cheaper power than PV
two years ago trimmed the cost of their power by 3.5 percent
since then to 27 cents per kilowatt hour, Chase estimates. That
compares with a plunge to 17 cents today for PV.  The point of government loan guarantees “is to foster
innovation, and you can’t foster innovation by building
whatever’s cheapest,” said Chase. “You’ve got to take a risk
that the private sector isn’t willing to take.”  Developers already switched seven projects with about 3.2
gigawatts of capacity to solar panels, Prior said. Others are
sticking with mirror-based systems.  Abengoa SA (ABG)  said its 250-
megawatt project for the Mojave desert will continue with
thermal technology.  Nextera Energy Inc. (NEE) ’s Genesis thermal
project is fully permitted and under construction.  Thermal Write-off  NTR Plc, the Dublin-based owner of Tessera Solar, last
month wrote off 42.4 million euros ($58.5 million), its entire
investment in solar-thermal, after selling two U.S. projects to
developers who opted to dump the technology.  The solar-thermal business “has not been successful to
date in securing third-party funding, which was always essential
for it to commence high-volume manufacturing,” NTR Chief
Executive Michael McNicholas said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The U.S. developers most prone to switch to panels are
those that have slated 1.6 gigawatts of plants using the most-
established solar-thermal system, which lines parabolic mirrors
up in troughs, Prior said. The picture differs outside the U.S.  In  Spain , where fixed subsidies protect solar thermal from
competition from PV, some 24 trough plants with about 1.45
gigawatts are being built, according to New Energy Finance.  India has approved 470 megawatts of generators, though the
relatively low fixed price it offers may make it difficult for
developers to find financing, New Energy Finance said in an Aug.
3 report. Indian plants will earn the equivalent of 24 U.S.
cents a kilowatt-hour compared with 29.1 euro cents (40.2 U.S.
cents) in Spain.  BrightSource Project  BrightSource Energy Inc., the solar-thermal developer
planning a $250 million stock offering, already decided against
using trough technology. Its former Chairman  John Bryson  is
Obama’s nominee to lead the Commerce Department. Founder Arnold Goldman built the world’s first commercial trough plants in the
Californian desert in the 1980s. They’re still working today.  Backed by investors including Morgan Stanley and Google Inc.
and a $1.6 billion U.S. loan guarantee, BrightSource is trying
to prove a technology it calls the power tower. That uses
mirrors arranged in concentric circles to focus the sun on a
central column.  “We were able to drop costs down significantly,” Chief
Executive Officer John Woolard said at an Aug. 29 briefing at
the site. “Ivanpah is the culmination of two and a half decades
of work and thinking around solar.”  Solar Millennium shares plunged 67 percent since announcing
on Aug. 18 that it was switching to PV panels instead of using
its own parabolic mirrors for the first 500 megawatts of the
Blythe project in  California , set to be the world’s largest
solar plant. Spokesman Hans Obermeier said the company is also
considering switching technologies for its other trough projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  