-- 
Short-Term Stimulus Won’t Help U.S. in Long Run: Glenn Hubbard

-- B y   G l e n n   H u b b a r d
-- 
2011-09-20T00:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/obama-s-short-term-stimulus-won-t-help-u-s-in-the-long-run-glenn-hubbard.html
Joblessness and sluggish growth are
hampering the economic recovery and  Barack Obama ’s political
standing. Raising taxes on the rich, as the president called for
yesterday, isn’t going to turn things around.  To get a sense of how severe the situation is, consider
this: Bringing the  unemployment rate  back to pre-financial-
crisis levels by end of the president’s second term (or his
opponent’s first term) would require real Gross Domestic Product
growth of 4 percent a year over that period -- a rate we have
not reached in more than a decade.  What sort of fiscal policy can turn things around?  The president’s announced jobs plan centers on the need for
additional short-term stimulus designed to boost aggregate
demand and jump-start economic growth. In some recession
scenarios, such action, if timely, can indeed raise output and
employment.  In our current state, however, calling for additional
spending and temporary tax relief without addressing longer-term
economic challenges may exacerbate the likelihood of another
recession in the coming year.  This is because the  U.S. economy  suffers from structural
problems predating the financial crisis, particularly an
excessive reliance on household consumption and  government
spending , and insufficient attention paid to business investment
and exports. The financial system and the economy need to adjust
in the face of this structural shift.  This observation points out two problems with the case for
stimulus being made by Obama. The first is that near-term and
temporary support for household incomes does little to
counterbalance the chilling effect of announced future policies.
Uncertainty becomes the enemy.  Hurting Job Creation  This is particularly true for the president’s proposal to
reduce the employer portion of the  payroll tax  for small-
business owners, while proposing to raise marginal tax rates on
those same business owners. The president’s advocacy for higher
marginal tax rates on the well-to-do dampens both  job creation 
and asset prices.  And, it is a collapse in job creation that lies at the core
of the present unemployment problem. Uncertainty over future tax
and spending policy -- How much will taxes need to rise to
finance rising spending? If spending is to be cut, how and on
whom? -- weighs heavily on household and business spending
decisions.  A second problem with the president’s plan is that repeated
efforts to use stimulus to revive the economy increase the
federal debt. The ratio of federal debt held by the public to
GDP, now at almost 60 percent as opposed to less than 40 percent
at the beginning of the financial crisis, is likely to rise to
90 percent by 2020, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office ’s Long-Term Budget Outlook, published last summer.
Without addressing longer-term fiscal concerns, new stimulus is
likely to lead to a loss of investor confidence.  The key, then, to any effort to boost the economy is to
craft a short-term “stimulus” in the context of a longer-term
structural reform plan that clarifies the deficit and debt path
for the U.S. This can be accomplished in four steps.  The first is to outline a plan to bring down the federal
debt-to-GDP ratio toward its pre-financial-crisis level. This
decline can be accomplished by economic growth and spending
restraint.  The second is to acknowledge, as the Congressional Budget
Office’s projections do, that the nation’s long-term fiscal
problem relates principally to spending, with a gradually rising
share of federal revenue relative to GDP dwarfed by rapidly
rising federal spending relative to GDP. The main culprits here
are growth in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Absent a
change in policy, these programs could consume an additional 10
percentage points of GDP in a generation.  The third is to clarify how future deficits will be
reduced. Recent economic research argues that deficit reduction
through reducing transfer spending is more likely to promote
economic growth and stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio than by
raising tax rates. In particular, studies led by Alberto Alesina
of  Harvard University  suggest that successful fiscal
consolidations have been overwhelmingly driven by spending
reductions and that credible consolidation can raise growth
quickly.  The fourth is to understand the centrality of tax reform to
any structural reform the U.S. economy. Fundamental tax reform -
- broadening the tax base and reducing marginal tax rates --
promotes saving, investment and economic growth. Any number of
proposals have shown -- ranging from the Treasury Department’s
comprehensive business income tax (which I helped design in
1992) to the Flat Tax to the X Tax to the Bowles-Simpson
committee -- it is possible to reduce marginal tax rates
substantially if one surrenders most or all deductions and
exclusions.  Fundamental  Tax Reform   Indeed, research by Alan Auerbach of the  University of
California  at Berkeley suggests that tax reform can add between
one-half and a full percentage point to GDP growth over the next
decade. And tax reform is an essential precondition for any
solution to use higher revenue in a substantial way to reduce
future deficits. The president’s own Bowles-Simpson Commission
advocated fundamental tax reform.  Other areas of longer-term policy need rethinking, too:
including housing, energy, trade and (financial and
nonfinancial) regulation. But it is the long-term fiscal reforms
that allow the greatest opportunity for structural reform and
faster economic growth and job creation.  Bear in mind that these structural reforms do not imply
that all near-term stimulus must be off the table, only that any
stimulus proposal be linked to longer-term fixes.  For example, suppose that policy makers announced a
credible reduction in future deficits caused by Social Security
through a combination of gradual increases in the  retirement age 
and slowing the growth in benefits for higher-income households.
The enormous fiscal improvement from such a change would give
leeway to strengthen Social Security benefits now for the least
well-off and provide substantial incremental resources for
training and re-employment of the long-term jobless.  Likewise, credible, gradual broadening of the base in the
tax system by reducing tax expenditures on, say, housing and
health insurance would give leeway to support business
investment now with investment incentives and a much lower
corporate  tax rate . Or, as Obama has proposed, an infrastructure
spending program could be made a high priority, but coupled with
longer-term reductions in social spending.  Much of the debate over the stimulus paints economists and
officials like myself, those concerned about the long term, as
favoring inaction for (and perhaps indifference to) pressing
short-run problems. This is a false choice: Enhancing a recovery
in productivity and employment is a pressing policy need. Yet
turning around the economy now also depends on grasping our
structural problems and defining a policy for long-term reform
and growth.  ( Glenn Hubbard , a former chairman of President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of Economic Advisers , is the dean of  Columbia
Business School . He is an adviser to Mitt Romney’s presidential
campaign.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Glenn Hubbard at  rgh1@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 