-- 
Holcim Names Fontana as Chief to Replace Retiring Akermann

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-09-20T11:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/holcim-appoints-fontana-as-chief-executive-as-akermann-retires.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-
largest cement maker, said Bernard Fontana from steelmaker
Aperam will take over as chief executive officer when Markus Akermann retires after a decade at the top.  Fontana, a French national who is currently CEO of the
Luxembourg-based spinoff of ArcelorMittal, will take on the role
at Holcim on Feb. 1, the Jona, Switzerland-based company said in
a statement today.  The 50-year-old CEO’s arrival at Holcim coincides with the
construction industry’s struggles against a decline in developed
markets and creation of new capacity in emerging economies.
Building-material shares are stuck in a “tunnel of gloom,”
analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc, including John Fraser-Andrews in
 London , said in a report yesterday.  Fontana is “a suitable replacement,” Ian Osburn, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ING, said today in a note. At the
same time, Holcim’s “management can add little value in the
current materials environment.”  Holcim rose as much as 2.3 percent to 46.52 Swiss francs
and was up 1.6 percent as of 1:25 p.m. in Zurich trading.  Fontana oversaw areas such as human resources at
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steel producer, before taking
over the management of Aperam, a stainless, electrical and
specialty-steel unit that it decided to spin off a year ago.  “We have succeeded in finding a successor with a winning
personality who has a true track record in corporate leadership
as well as in central group functions,” Holcim Chairman Rolf Soiron said in the statement.  Experience With Cycles  “Experience of senior responsibility in a highly cyclical
sector such as steel should stand him in good stead for his task
at Holcim,” said Rob Orman, an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc.  Akermann, 64, has led Holcim since January 2002, and the
company’s stock has dropped 27 percent since then. That compares
with a 16 percent decline in  Switzerland ’s benchmark SMI index.
He drove Holcim’s expansion in  India , one of the emerging
markets where new plants are starting operations and threatening
to pare prices at a time when raw-material costs are rising.  Holcim also plans an $817 million expansion of operations
in  Brazil . Profit may not grow this year as demand growth in the
U.S. slows and input costs increase, Akermann said on an Aug. 18
conference call after reporting second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  