-- 
London Police Won’t Pursue Order Against Guardian Over Hacking Probe Leaks

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-20T21:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/london-police-won-t-pursue-order-against-guardian-over-hacking-probe-leaks.html
London ’s Metropolitan Police
Service said it won’t pursue a court order compelling the U.K.’s
 Guardian newspaper  to reveal information related to allegations
an officer leaked details of its phone-hacking investigation.  The department, known as Scotland Yard, today said it made
the decision after prosecutors met with members of its
Directorate of Professional Standards. A court hearing was
scheduled for Sept. 23.  “This decision does not mean that the investigation has
been concluded,” the police said in a statement. The department
said the directorate’s probe “has always been about whether a
police officer has leaked information and gathering any evidence
that proves or disproves that.”  Dubbed “Operation Weeting,” the Metropolitan Police
investigation into telephone hacking by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-closed
News of the World tabloid led to the arrests of at least 14
people, including a London police detective on Aug. 18.  U.K. newspapers on several occasions published details of
phone-hacking arrests before public announcements were made. The
 Daily Telegraph  and  Sky News  reported the detective’s arrest was
linked to information given to the Guardian newspaper.  While the Metropolitan Police had sought an order
compelling production of information by the Guardian and one of
its reporters, the department said prosecutors had asked for
more information and for additional time to consider the matter.  ‘Sinister New Device’  “We greatly welcome the Met’s decision to withdraw this
ill-judged order,” Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian’s editor-in-
chief, said in a  story  published today in his newspaper.
“Threatening reporters with the Official Secrets Act was a
sinister new device to get around the protection of journalists’
confidential sources.”  Scotland Yard, in its own statement, said the information
sought from the newspaper and the reporter was under the Police
and Criminal Evidence Act, and not the Official Secrets Act.  The arrested officer, who wasn’t identified, is on bail and
is suspended from duty, police said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  