-- 
London 2012 Olympic Basketball Arena Leaks After First Games

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-09-21T10:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/london-s-temporary-arena-for-2012-olympic-basketball-handball-games-leaks.html
The temporary arena hosting next
year’s Olympic basketball and handball competitions leaked
during its first test event, the Games local organizers said.  Water got into a corridor used by athletes to access the
main basketball court during a five-day test event last month
because of heavy rain,  LOCOG  spokeswoman Betony Garner said. The
stadium is the largest temporary arena ever built for the Games
and opened for the  London  International Basketball Invitational
on Aug. 16, a day before the problem arose.  “The leak in the athletes’ corridor followed heavy
rainfall over a short period of time,” Garner said by e-mail.
“The leak lasted for approximately two hours whilst the rain
fell. As soon as the rain stopped the seal where the leak
occurred was repaired.”  The 12,000-seat stadium in London’s Olympic Park took 15
months to build. To save money, the city is constructing
temporary facilities or using existing venues, such as Horse
Guards Parade for the beach volleyball.  The leakage has been repaired and there have been no water
problems since, Garner said. A review of the athletes’ corridor
is being carried out, she said.  Wilkinson Eyre Architects Ltd. was selected to design the
arena with Sydney-based Sinclair Knight Merz Pty Ltd. and KSS
Design Group Ltd. of London in November 2007, according to
London-based Wilkinson’s  website .  Wheelchair Rugby  The venue will also be used for handball, wheelchair rugby
and wheelchair basketball. After the games, the stadium will be
taken down and parts of it are expected to be reused or
relocated elsewhere in the U.K., according to London 2012’s
 website .  France  won the basketball tournament after defeating  Great
Britain ,  Australia ,  China ,  Croatia  and Serbia. The 2012 Olympic
Games start on July 27, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  