-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Rise as Chinese Mobile Phone Carriers Rally

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-09-20T08:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/hong-kong-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-europe-concern.html
Hong Kong  stocks rose, with the
benchmark Hang Seng Index rebounding from a two-year low, as
 China ’s biggest mobile phone carriers rallied after reporting an
increase in subscribers, countering concerns Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis will spread.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the nation’s No. 2 mobile-
phone carrier, jumped 3.9 percent, while bigger rival  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  rose 1.3 percent. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s
biggest producer of the metal, sank 3.3 percent, leading
declines among raw material producers on concern Europe’s
worsening debt crisis will hurt demand for commodities. China
Shipping Container Lines Co., the nation’s second-largest cargo-
box carrier, tumbled 8.8 percent after BNP Paribas cut its
rating to “hold” from “buy.”  “We’ve seen some short-covering as stocks look fairly
valued,” said  Andrew Sullivan , Hong Kong-based principal sales
trader at Piper Jaffray  Asia  Securities Ltd. “If  Greece 
defaults, we could see another leg down for the markets. People
are still cautious and are more focused on preserving capital
rather than risking it.”  The Hang Seng Index rose 0.5 percent to 19,014.80 at the
close in Hong Kong after swinging between gains and losses at
least nine times.  The measure is heading for a 7.4 percent slump this month,
amid concern Greece will fail to qualify for more financial aid
needed to avoid a debt default. Prime Minister George
Papandreou’s government will hold another call with its main
creditors today after a “productive” round of talks with
European Union and International Monetary Fund officials.  About eight stocks rose for every seven that fell in the
46-member benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong added
0.5 percent to 9,916.23.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index added 0.4 percent to 19,006.
The HSI Volatility Index dropped 5.2 percent to 34.34,
indicating options traders expect a swing of 9.8 percent in the
Hang Seng Index in the next 30 days.  Telecom Subscribers  China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest mobile phone
carrier, climbed 3.9 percent to HK$17.40. The company said it
added 2.36 million new mobile phone users last month, compared
to 2.13 million users in July.  Rival China Mobile, the country’s biggest mobile phone
carrier, gained 1.3 percent to HK$80.15. The company said it had
5.8 million new subscribers last month, compared with a 5.1
million increase in July.  China Coal Energy Co., a unit of the nation’s second-
largest coal producer, increased 4.2 percent to HK$8.61. The
stock slumped 17 percent yesterday after its parent halted
operations at mine in China following a fatal accident. The
suspension won’t have a significant impact on output, it said.  Debt Crisis  The Hang Seng Index tumbled 24 percent from its November
high through yesterday on concern the global recovery will
falter amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowing U.S. economy.
Shares on the index traded at 10.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 12.1 times for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  Italy ’s  credit rating  was cut by Standard & Poor’s on
concern that weakening economic growth and a “fragile”
government mean the nation won’t be able to reduce the euro-
region’s second-largest debt burden. Italy follows  Spain ,
Ireland,  Portugal , Cyprus and Greece as euro-region countries
having their credit rating cut this year, reinforcing concern
Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  “Sentiment is taking another hit,” Hans Goetti, the
Singapore-based chief investment officer for Asia at Finaport
Investment Intelligence, said on Bloomberg Television.
“Although the downgrade of Italy isn’t a surprise, there may be
more downgrades. The problem in the Euro zone is you have
austerity measures which impair economic growth that will lead
to lower  tax revenue . It’s a vicious circle.”  China Shipping  Commodity producers and exporters dropped on speculation
the worsening European sovereign debt crisis will derail the
global economic recovery. Jiangxi Copper slumped 3.3 percent to
HK$16.82. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
producer of the light metal, sank 2.8 percent to HK$4.21.
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , the operator of ports and
telecommunications services that gets about half of revenue from
Europe, lost 0.8 percent to HK$63.20.  China Shipping Container tumbled 8.8 percent to HK$1.34,
the biggest drop since April 2009, after BNP Paribas cut its
rating to “hold” from “buy” and lowered its share-price
forecast by 42 percent to HK$1.67. The shipping line may report
losses this year and next as overcapacity and slowing demand
damp container rates, the brokerage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  