-- 
Tony Blair’s Ex-Press Chief Campbell Sues News Corp., Mulcaire on Hacking

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T08:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/tony-blair-s-ex-press-chief-sues-news-corp-and-jailed-hacker.html
Alastair Campbell, once the
director of communications for former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , sued  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British unit and the private detective
who pleaded guilty to hacking celebrities’ voice mails.  The lawsuit, filed Sept. 19 in the High Court in London,
names the publisher of the now-shuttered News of the World
tabloid and its former investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who was
jailed in 2007 for intercepting messages. Former U.K. lawmaker
 Elliot Morley , who was jailed this year for false expense
claims, also sued, as did Philip Hughes, the agent for soccer
player George Best, who died in 2005 after battling alcoholism.  “We believe they’ve been hacked,”  Gerald Shamash , the
lawyer for the three men at Steel & Shamash Solicitors in
London, said in a phone interview. “We’re off to process them
the same as everyone else.”  The lawsuits were filed the same day the company agreed to
pay 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) to settle claims the News of
the World hacked the mobile phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler, a person with knowledge of the matter said. The scandal
forced New York-based News Corp. to close the 168-year-old
tabloid and drop its bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   The Metropolitan Police, who are investigating the
newspaper’s hacking of thousands of phones, informed Shamash
that contact details for Campbell, Morley and Hughes were found
in Mulcaire’s notes. The men join more than two dozen public
figures who filed similar lawsuits, including actress  Sienna Miller  and former U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott .  James Murdoch  The Parliament’s Culture Committee has recalled News Corp.
Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch to testify after
former employees questioned statements he had made about his
knowledge of the extent of hacking at the News of the World.  News Corp. faces a trial in January, when the court will
decide how much the company should pay in damages to five other
victims, including actor Jude Law. Its News International unit
has agreed to pay about 100,000 pounds to Miller and another
20,000 pounds to sports commentator Andy Gray.  A phone message left with News International’s press office
wasn’t returned.  Morley, a former Labour Party minister, was sentenced in
May to 16 months in prison for filing 30,000 pounds in false
expenses. He had pleaded guilty earlier, joining a series of
politicians targeted for expenses fraud after the Daily
Telegraph ran a series of stories about the practice. The paper
reported yesterday Morley was released after serving a quarter
of his sentence.  Best, a former  Northern Ireland  and Manchester United
forward, died of multiple organ failures at the age of 59 after
having a liver transplant three years earlier. Tens of thousands
of people lined the streets in Belfast in December 2005 to pay
their last respects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  