-- 
Moody’s Confirms Croatia Ratings, Urges Reform of Growth Model

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-09-20T12:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/moody-s-confirms-croatia-ratings-urges-reform-of-growth-model.html
Croatia  had its long-term ratings
and stable outlook confirmed by  Moody’s Investors Services ,
which also warned against the country’s “impaired” economic
model and widespread “euroization.”  “The country’s Baa3 ratings and stable outlook reflect its
relative wealth and the government’s affordable, albeit
worsening debt metrics,” the rating agency said today in an e-
mailed statement. “However, the rating is constrained by the
country’s impaired growth model and the extensive euroisation of
its banking system” and “at 100 percent of GDP, Croatia’s
external debt is becoming a source of vulnerability.”  Moody’s also said the  budget deficit  is expected to reach 6
percent of gross domestic product this year and “any meaningful
fiscal adjustments are likely to be delayed” by the general
elections scheduled in December.  Croatia’s expected July 2013 membership in the European
Union is “credit positive,” the agency said, signaling
improving institutional capacity and increasing fiscal support
as Croatia stands to benefit from EU funds.  The Adriatic Sea nation is struggling to recover from a
recession as foreign direct investment declined to $583 million
in 2010 from $6 billion in 2008. GDP grew 0.8 percent in the
second quarter from a year ago, after declining 0.8 percent in
the first quarter and 1.2 percent in 2010.  The government on July 27 forecast the economy will expand
1.5 percent this year, and said the budget gap will widen to 4.3
percent of GDP.  Moody’s said the report is an update to the markets and
does not constitute a rating action.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  