-- 
Top Students Lose Steam Under No Child Left Behind, Study Finds

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/top-students-lose-steam-under-no-child-left-behind-study-finds.html
Many high-achieving children in the
U.S. fail to sustain their academic performance over time, a
study by the  Thomas B. Fordham Institute  showed.  Thirty percent to 50 percent of the country’s top students
scored lower in math and reading as they moved from third grade
through eighth grade and from sixth grade through 10th grade,
according to the  study , which was released today.  The report followed the progress of more than 120,000
students in over 1,500 U.S. public schools. It builds on an
earlier study by the institute and the Northwest Evaluation
Association that showed top students aren’t improving under the
nation’s No Child Left Behind public school law.  “Young people who could go on to be among the highest-
achieving kids in the country, go on to help us be
internationally competitive, they are falling back down to
Earth,” said Michael Petrilli, vice president for National
Programs and Policy at the Washington-based Fordham Institute.
“We are just losing a lot of potential and that’s going to hurt
us down the road.”  In March 2010, the Obama administration proposed to change
the law -- enacted during the administration of former President
 George W. Bush  -- with emphasis on measuring the gains of all
students rather than bringing low achievers to a level of
proficiency.  Focusing on the progress of all kids, including those well
above proficiency, could “change the dynamic in schools,”
Petrilli said. Now, schools are under pressure to concentrate on
the lowest-performing students while ignoring the top achievers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at   hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 