-- 
Oracle Tops Earnings Estimates on Higher Corporate Spending

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-20T21:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/oracle-tops-estimates-on-higher-corporate-spending.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  reported profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as companies increased spending on
database software and applications that help run their
businesses. The shares rose in extended trading.  Earnings excluding some items for the fiscal first quarter,
which ended Aug. 31, were 48 cents a share, beating the average
47 cent estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose
12 percent to $8.37 billion, matching the average analyst
projection. Forecasts for this quarter’s earnings also topped
analysts’ predictions.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has made more than
$40 billion in takeovers since 2005, aimed at adding programs
that help large corporations manage operations and tackle
complicated computing tasks. The  Redwood City , California-based
company has benefited from pairing those products and its own
databases with hardware acquired in the $7.4 billion purchase of
Sun Microsystems Inc. last year.  “The hardware business is fueling the software business --
that’s the takeaway,”  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San
Francisco, said in an interview. “Without the hardware
business, their infrastructure business would not be putting up
the kind of numbers it is. They’re seeding the market.”  Net income in the quarter that ended Aug. 31 rose 36
percent to $1.84 billion, or 36 cents a share, from $1.35
billion, or 27 cents, a year earlier, the company said in a
statement. Analysts had predicted $1.79 billion, or 35 cents a
share.  Software Licenses  New software license sales, a predictor of future revenue,
rose 16 percent to $1.5 billion, beating the 15 percent gain
estimated by  Jason Maynard , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
San Francisco. Hardware sales declined 1.4 percent to $1.67
billion.  Oracle’s shares rose as much as 4 percent to $29.48 in
extended trading, after closing at $28.35 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The stock has dropped 9.4 percent this year.  The company’s portion of the computer-server market
declined to 7.2 percent in the second quarter, from 8.1 percent
a year earlier, according to a  report  last month from market
researcher IDC.  Earnings excluding certain items for the current period
will be 56 cents to 58 cents, topping 56 cents, the average
estimate of analysts. Sales excluding certain items will rise 4
percent to 8 percent, shy of the 8.2 percent analysts projected.  Ellison has focused on selling powerful computer systems
called Exadata and Exalogic that can quickly run Oracle’s
database software and application-connecting middleware, while
paring cheaper and less-profitable Sun computers from the
product line. At the OpenWorld  conference  in  San Francisco  that
begins Oct. 2, Ellison plans to unveil a new system that can
perform data-analysis tasks in the computer’s memory instead of
using slower disk drives.  The system would be similar to a combination of hardware
and software that SAP AG sells with hardware partners including
International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
Oracle and SAP already compete in the market for applications
that handle business tasks such as payroll and supply-chain
management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  