-- 
More Banks May Need Recapitalization, EU’s Almunia Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-09-20T16:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/more-banks-may-need-recapitalization-eu-s-almunia-says-1-.html
European governments may have to
inject funds into more banks if they’re unable to get the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis under control, European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  “More banks may need to be recapitalized,” Almunia said
today at a press conference in Brussels. “That’s why it’s so
important to solve the sovereign-debt crisis without a delay,”
or “the bill will only grow bigger,” he said.  European politicians have failed to stem concern that
contagion from  Greece ’s fiscal woes will engulf Spain and  Italy 
and hurt French banks. Investors see a 94 percent chance Greece
will default on its debt in the next five years, according to
CMA, which compiles credit default-swap prices.  Lenders should seek to finance themselves and consider
selling subsidiaries and cutting dividends before resorting to
public backstops, Almunia said. EU stress tests released in July
indicated  France ’s four largest banks had enough capital, though
eight lenders elsewhere in the euro region had a shortfall.  “The worsening of the sovereign-debt crisis, its impact on
a fragile banking system and the continuing tensions in funding
markets all point to the possible need for further
recapitalization of banks” besides those that failed the stress
tests, he said.  Bond Exchange  European banks and insurers have already agreed to write
down the value of their Greek securities by an average 21
percent as part of a bond exchange and debt buyback program for
the debt-stricken country.  Almunia said he hopes “liquidity tensions” for French
banks will ease, and said their Italian peers are in a “good
position” and financially sound. He said he would propose
extending crisis aid rules imposed from 2008, enabling
governments to help their banks beyond 2011 if necessary.  Officials in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
are debating how to shore up German banks in the event that
Greece fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid package
and is unable to get a bailout-loan payment, three coalition
officials said on Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  