-- 
Orexigen Revives Obesity Drug Development With FDA Agreement

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-20T22:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/orexigen-revives-obesity-drug-development-after-fda-agreement.html
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  is
renewing development of the experimental obesity drug Contrave
after reaching an agreement with U.S. regulators to further
study heart risks. The company’s shares jumped more than 85
percent in extended trading after its announcement.  Orexigen, one of three companies with rival obesity
treatments competing for approval, will start a two-year
clinical trial of about 10,000 patients in the first half of
next year, aiming to receive clearance for Contrave from the
 Food and Drug Administration  in 2014, the  La Jolla , California-
based company said today in a statement.  “It’s very positive news,” Michael Narachi, Orexigen
president and chief executive officer, said in an interview.
“This drug, which we always believed could benefit patients,
has a clear path to market.”  Orexigen announced June 3 it would halt U.S. development of
Contrave after the FDA said a large study on heart risks would
be required before the drug could be approved -- a move the
company called “unprecedented.”  Orexigen and partner Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. of  Osaka ,
 Japan , has been vying with  Mountain View , California-based  Vivus
Inc. (VVUS)  and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  of  San Diego  to introduce
the first new obesity medicine in the U.S. in more than a
decade.  Shares Rise  Orexigen gained $1.27, or 86 percent, to $2.74 at 5:56 p.m.
New York time in extended trading after the company’s shares
were unchanged at $1.47 at the close of Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading. Arena rose as much as 17 percent to $1.69 and
Vivus increased as much as 5.5 percent to $9.10 in extended
trading.  Orexigen’s shares had declined 75 percent in the past 12
months.  Last week, the FDA agreed to reconsider Vivus’s drug,
Qnexa, for the treatment of obese men and women who don’t have
the potential for having children. Under the agreement, Vivus
will resubmit Qnexa by the end of next month, with the FDA
scheduling an advisory panel in the first quarter of next year.
A final decision on whether the drug is approved would come in
the second quarter of 2012, Vivus said.  Arena’s medicine, lorcaserin, was rejected by the FDA last
October. The agency requested more data after a rat study showed
a possible link to brain tumors. The company and its development
partner Tokyo-based Eisai Co. said in August that a study showed
concentrations of their weight-loss pill were lower in human
brains than in rat models.  Seeking Partner  Contrave’s study won’t have the same patient restrictions
as Vivus’s Qnexa, Narachi said. The company, which had $70
million in cash at the end of the last quarter, will look for a
partner to help shoulder the cost of the new trial, in exchange
for commercial rights outside of  North America .  Previous studies showed that two Contrave tablets taken two
times a day helped twice as many patients in studies lose at
least 5 percent of their weight compared with a placebo after 56
weeks, meeting one of two FDA guidelines for approval of diet
pills. The product is a combination of two marketed drugs that
target different parts of the brain influencing appetite and
cravings.  Contrave increases blood pressure, a risk seen with Abbott
Laboratories pill Meridia. The agency pulled Meridia from the
market last year after it was tied to heart attacks and strokes.  While the FDA is planning to ask an advisory committee to
review the general requirements for heart safety and diet bills,
any recommendations won’t affect the agency’s agreement with
Orexigen on Contrave, the company said in its statement.  “Assuming success of this cardiovascular outcomes trial, I
can’t think of a stronger way to launch a product into this
space,” Mark Booth, chief commercial officer, said today during
a conference call with analysts. “The efficacy of Contrave
would be supported by a significant safety trial that would
provide patients and physicians with a great deal of
confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  