-- 
Morgan Stanley Misses Deal-Making Harmony as Kelleher Clashes With Taubman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-09-20T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/morgan-stanley-misses-deal-making-harmony-as-kelleher-clashes-with-taubman.html
Colm Kelleher and Paul J. Taubman,
co-heads of Morgan Stanley’s biggest business, work on opposite
sides of an ocean, disagree about strategy and share an enmity
that has become the subject of company jokes.  At a meeting of more than 100 managing directors at the
Ritz-Carlton Battery Park hotel in New York last year, Robert Kindler, the bank’s head of mergers and acquisitions and brother
of stand-up comedian Andy Kindler, drew laughs and whistles when
he ribbed the two men about their relationship, according to two
people who attended the session.  “So how’s that co-head thing going?” Kindler asked,
gesturing at Kelleher and Taubman, who are in charge of
 investment banking , sales and trading and were seated onstage
with other members of the firm’s operating committee.  Neither Kelleher, 54, a gregarious former fixed-income
salesman, nor Taubman, 50, a reserved investment banker,
responded to the taunt, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak. Kelleher
has been more vocal offstage, insulting Taubman in front of
colleagues, according to two former Morgan Stanley executives.  The power struggle between the men, who have been running
the Institutional Securities Group since January 2010, has taken
a toll on the New York-based firm in frictional costs or lost
business opportunities, six former executives said. While the
unit generated $8.78 billion of revenue and $1.7 billion of
profit in the first half, accounting for 79 percent of the
firm’s total earnings, the feud has led to an estrangement of
investment-banking and trading operations at the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, some of them said.  Gorman Acceptance  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , who made the
appointments, is aware that the men don’t have an ideal
relationship, according to one current colleague and one former
senior executive. He accepts the arrangement as long as their
group performs and would make a change if he believed the
business were suffering, the current colleague said.  The 76-year-old firm, which traces its roots to the
financial empire built by J. Pierpont Morgan, was the world’s
top adviser on mergers and acquisitions announced last year and
runs the largest brokerage. This year the bank, with 62,964
employees, has maintained a leading position in investment
banking and made strides in recovering trading market share it
lost after almost collapsing during the financial crisis.  “The fact is, institutional securities just produced one
of its strongest quarters ever in a very challenging
environment, with the firm taking market share across many areas
of sales and trading and investment banking,” Mark Lake, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Kelleher, Taubman and Gorman declined to comment, he said.  Wall Street  Feuds  Wall Street has a long history of clashes involving heads
of trading and banking. The power struggle between Lehman
Brothers Kuhn Loeb co-CEOs Lewis Glucksman and  Peter G. Peterson 
alienated colleagues, leading to departures and the sale of the
firm, according to “Greed and Glory on Wall Street,” a 1986
account by Ken Auletta. At  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Henry Paulson , an investment banker who was chief operating officer at
the time, fought with CEO Jon S. Corzine, a former bond trader,
and won joint control by threatening to leave, according to
William D. Cohan’s “Money and Power.” A year later, Corzine
was ousted and replaced by Paulson.  “What happens is people spend time politicking, which has
some costs,” said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business who studies corporate
governance. “It’s the CEO’s or the board’s job either to try to
get them to stop feuding, or you remove one.”  Cuban Cigars, Golf  Kelleher and Taubman, top candidates to succeed Gorman as
president after he drops that title and becomes chairman in
January, have contrasting personalities and careers.  One of nine children who grew up in Ireland’s County Cork
and a graduate of Oxford University, Kelleher is fond of off-
color jokes and a daily Cuban cigar, plays golf, collects modern
British art and drinks with colleagues, according to current and
former executives.  A chartered accountant, he has worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  for
22 years. He ran the firm’s capital-markets business and was
chief financial officer during the 2008 financial crisis, when
Morgan Stanley secretly borrowed $107 billion from the  Federal
Reserve , the most of any bank. He managed liquidity and cut
leverage as the firm faced a run by prime-brokerage clients,
conducting business lying down on his office floor after
suffering a back injury in a car accident.  $1 Million Fire  Taubman, the son of an accountant, was born in New York and
graduated from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School
in 1982, joining Morgan Stanley that year. He served as a lead
adviser on Comcast Corp.’s $58.7 billion purchase of AT&T
Broadband in 2002 to create the world’s largest cable operator.
He worked on Time Warner Inc.’s $124 billion merger with AOL
Inc. and advised Microsoft Corp. on its 2008 bid for Yahoo! Inc.  The banker, who is 6-foot-3, relies on a few close allies
at the firm, one former and one current colleague said. Another
former colleague described him as a good person for a quiet,
problem-solving conversation, not a chat over a beer.  Taubman owns a Central Park West co-op that he bought from
actor Robin Williams and which sustained $1 million in damages
in a 2008 fire started by a candle in a neighboring penthouse,
according to an insurance lawsuit filed in July. He  contributed
$35,400  to support Barack Obama’s presidential campaign,
according to federal records, and arranged for the candidate to
meet bank executives six weeks before the 2008 Iowa caucuses.  In the weeks following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008, when Morgan Stanley was close
to collapse and Kelleher was on his back, Taubman helped
negotiate a $9 billion investment from Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. that helped keep the firm alive.  Rocky Relationship  The relationship between Taubman and Kelleher was rocky at
least as far back as being named co-heads, according to two
former executives who worked under them. The men speak
infrequently and don’t usually coordinate their remarks at
internal presentations, the colleagues said.  The December 2009 statement announcing the appointments
described a shared leadership, with Kelleher “overseeing”
sales and trading and Taubman “focusing” on banking. At the
time, Gorman called the arrangement, which had them running the
unit together from  New York , a way of “leveraging our most
experienced leaders in the best way possible.”  Squabbling Children  The arrangement didn’t last. A year later Gorman demarcated
the executives’ roles, moving Kelleher to  London  and giving each
“direct responsibility” over his domain, according to a
January 2011 memo to employees. The global capital markets
business, which combines equity and debt underwriting, and which
the two were supposed to run together, was given to Taubman.  The pair also divvied up global operational duties, with
Kelleher getting  Europe , the  Middle East  and most of  Asia , the
bulk of the firm’s international business. Taubman got  Latin
America  and  Japan .  One current and two former colleagues called it an official
acknowledgement of the lack of collaboration. A fourth, a former
Morgan Stanley executive, likened the move to a schoolteacher
separating squabbling children.  Gorman said in the memo that the structure “will ensure
that we are leveraging our most experienced leaders in the best
way possible,” the same phrase he used 13 months earlier.  Derivatives Deals  One former senior executive said the rift between the two
affects the firm’s ability to deliver a unified vision and
coherent strategy, in addition to wasting colleagues’ time.  Two former executives who worked under the co-head
structure said they heard Kelleher refer to Taubman in front of
colleagues with a slur. One said Kelleher added that Gorman had
asked for civility.  The co-heads disagree about how aggressively to push
clients for additional business on the back of capital-markets
deals, according to three former colleagues. Investment banks
often pitch clients to win derivatives business related to a
stock or bond sale, such as an interest-rate or currency swap.
While the secondary deal can bring in significant trading
revenue, it can also place the bank in the position of being a
counterparty to a client it just advised.  With Kelleher looking to secure more deals to boost trading
revenue and Taubman taking a more conservative view to avoid
alienating clients, Morgan Stanley has lagged behind rivals, the
executives said. Gorman said this year that he is looking to
improve market share in interest-rate and currency trading and
has improved efforts to bring offerings to clients.  The company doesn’t break out revenue for those businesses.
It ranked sixth in interest-rates-trading revenue last year,
behind  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank Group AG, BNP
Paribas SA and Credit Suisse Group AG, according to June 7
estimates from Kian Abouhossein, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
based in London.  Second-Largest Shareholder  While Taubman runs the business that has been more
successful during the past two years -- the firm was the top
merger adviser and equity underwriter in 2010 -- Kelleher
controls the larger piece. Sales and trading revenue was more
than double that of investment banking in the first half.  Both men have a lot riding on the bank’s success. Kelleher
owns $5.74 million of the firm’s shares after selling 12 percent
of his stock in February. Taubman bought 50,000 shares last
month. His holdings are worth $17.4 million, making him the
second-largest insider shareholder behind former CEO  John Mack ,
who is stepping down as chairman at the end of the year.  Kelleher was awarded 137,072 shares for his 2010
performance, while Taubman received 137,170, according to
regulatory filings. Each received $1.5 million worth of options.  Rivals for President  Although Kelleher and Taubman may have incompatible
personalities, they share a common ambition, former colleagues
say. Both were mentioned as dark-horse candidates to replace
Mack as CEO when he stepped down at the end of 2009, and each
sees himself as a potential future head of Morgan Stanley,
according to three people who know them.  The presidency is a more immediate concern. On Sept. 15,
the firm announced that Gorman, 53, will take the additional job
of chairman on Jan. 1 when Mack leaves. Gorman will drop his
president title and doesn’t plan to name a replacement for some
time, according to a colleague at the bank. Kelleher and Taubman
are candidates for the job, the colleague said.  The feud may hurt their chances for advancement, according
to four former executives.  Greg Fleming , a former colleague of
Gorman’s at Merrill Lynch & Co., was brought in last year to run
the firm’s asset-management unit and this year took on the role
of leading the retail brokerage. It is the world’s largest, with
more than 17,000 advisers and $1.71 trillion in assets.  While Fleming may benefit from the clash, he must show he
can improve performance at the division, which posted a 9
percent pretax profit margin in the second quarter, far below
Gorman’s goal of more than 20 percent. He’ll also need to
withstand Kindler’s jokes.  The two people who attended the meeting at the Ritz-Carlton
last year said the line that came closest to getting a response
like the one about the co-heads was Kindler asking Fleming about
his pompadour-like hairdo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  