-- 
Bovespa Declines as Brazil Inflation Quickens More Than Forecast

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-20T20:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/most-brazil-stocks-fall-as-inflation-outweighs-greece-optimism.html
The Bovespa index dropped for a
second day after a report showed inflation accelerated faster
than forecast in September, dimming the outlook for companies
that depend on domestic demand.  Natura Cosmeticos SA,  Brazil ’s biggest cosmetics maker,
tumbled after the stock was cut to “sell” from “neutral” at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes led declines by real estate companies as the
inflation report spurred traders to reduce bets for lowers
borrowing costs in Brazil.  Losses on the gauge were limited as Tim Participacoes SA
gained after it posted a 27 percent year-on-year jump in mobile-
phone users in August, according to Brasilia-based
telecommunications agency Anatel.  The Bovespa index declined 1.3 percent to 56,378.63 at the
close of trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, after rising as
much as 0.9 percent. Fifty stocks fell on the index, while 16
increased. The real rose 1 percent to 1.7800 per  U.S. dollar .  “The probability of inflation staying above the ceiling of
the government’s target is getting higher and higher,” Tatiana Pinheiro, an economist with Banco Santander SA, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Inflation jumped more than economists forecast in Brazil
this month, limiting the central bank’s opportunity to further
cut  interest rates  in order to shore up growth in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  Inflation  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
0.53 percent in the month through mid-September, the national
statistics agency said today. That’s the fastest pace since May.  Prices rose 7.33 percent from a year ago, the fastest pace
in six years. Inflation first breached the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the government’s target range in May.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate a half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31,
after raising it at the previous five policy meetings, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy. The bank
said the lower borrowing costs won’t compromise its 4.5 percent
inflation target next year.  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts rose. Yields
on the contract due in January 2013, the most traded today in
 Sao Paulo , rose five basis point, or 0.05 percentage point, to
10.69 percent.  Natura, PDG  Natura slumped 6 percent to 32.30 reais. PDG Realty tumbled
6.8 percent to 6.45 reais.  The Bovespa earlier gained as much as 0.9 percent on
speculation Fed officials will announce a new program for
monetary easing tomorrow.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to replace
short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-
term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 surveyed economists.
The move, known as “Operation Twist” for its goal to bend the
yield curve, will probably fail to reduce the 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, 61 percent of the economists said.  Tim rose 1.2 percent to 9.32 reais.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge entered a  bear market  on
July 27 after plunging 20 percent from its bull-market peak in
November. The measure has since extended that drop to 23 percent
and trades at 9.8 times analysts’ earnings estimates, according
to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio
of 11.2 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 5.5 for  Russia ’s Micex
and 14.1 for  India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 6.18 billion reais ($3.46 billion) in stocks
in Sao Paulo, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to
a daily average this year of 6.53 billion reais through Sept.
14, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  