-- 
Thai 3G Phone Licenses Threatened by ‘Conspiracy,’ Advanced Info CEO Says

-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-10-03T03:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/total-access-s-ceo-expects-3g-auction-to-occur-as-early-as-second-quarter.html
Thailand’s six-year struggle to sell
licenses for third-generation wireless services may be derailed
by politics, said Wichian Mektrakarn, head of the phone company
founded by exiled leader  Thaksin Shinawatra .  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , operator of the nation’s biggest
mobile-phone network, and rivals  Total Access Communication Pcl (DTAC) 
and True Corp. Pcl began offering limited 3G services earlier
this year. Advanced is reluctant to invest more until the
government auctions licenses and sets rules for operating the
service, Wichian said in an interview in Bangkok.  “I believe there is still some kind of conspiracy, or some
kind of movement to try to stop or delay 3G,” said Wichian, 57,
who took over as CEO from Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister
and Thailand’s current prime minister. “There are still a lot
of obstacles. Anything can happen in Thailand.”  Thailand first planned to auction 3G licenses in 2005, a
year before Thaksin’s sale of his telecommunications empire to
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte sparked protests that
culminated in the military coup that ousted him. Another failure
could see Thailand fall further behind nations including China
and  Malaysia  that are already moving toward fourth-generation
mobile networks.  “Transparency is poor, and vested interests, that could be
hurt by the licensing, remain,” said David Beller, a Bangkok-
based analyst for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, who has a
“buy” rating on Advanced Info. “There will be a number of
hurdles to pass.”  Advanced Info shares fell 2.3 percent to 125 baht as of
10:05 a.m. Bangkok time, poised for their biggest drop in a
week. Total Access slid 2.7 percent to 72 baht and True Corp.
slumped 5.1 percent to 3 baht.  Court Challenges  A Thai court last year blocked an auction for 3G licenses
after state-run CAT Telecom Pcl sought an injunction claiming
the regulator didn’t have the authority to conduct the sale.
Three licenses were scheduled to be auctioned, with bidding
starting at 12.8 billion baht ($410 million) each.  Thailand ’s mobile-phone companies are offering limited 3G
services using upgraded 2G networks they operate under
concessions from state companies CAT and TOT Pcl. The state
firms have used legal challenges to impede the liberalization of
the industry before a change in 2013 that will see revenue from
concession holders flow to the government instead.  True Corp., the third-largest mobile-phone operator, plans
to build a 3G network by 2013 in a venture with CAT Telecom, the
company said in August. Thailand’s National Anti-Corruption
Commission is scrutinizing the deal after rivals claimed it
allows True to bypass the auction process, the Bangkok Post
reported Sept. 14.  New Regulator  “If politics and benefits won’t come in the way, the 3G
deal would have run smoothly,” said Suranan
Wongwitthayakamchon, a member of the National Telecommunication
Commission. “But those two factors always emerge as key
obstacles. There are those who will lose benefits if the new
licenses for 3G are allocated, including the two state telecom
agencies.” The NTC is acting on behalf of the new regulator.  The Senate this month chose 11 members of a new regulator,
the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission, who
must receive royal endorsement before starting work on the
framework for the sale of 3G licenses. It may take another year
before carriers can start offering 3G services even after
licenses are awarded, Wichian said in a Sept. 28 interview.  Data Revenue  The three private operators are counting on mobile Internet
to spur revenue from users of smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s Blackberry. Data revenue
accounts for about 19 percent of Advanced Info’s total turnover,
Wichian said. Data makes up less than 10 percent of total
revenue at Total Access, CEO Jon Eddy Abdullah said in an
interview this month.  Thailand’s plan to start nationwide 3G services next year
may face further delays as political threats to the nation’s
two-month-old government re-emerge, Wichian said.  “This is Thailand, and some unbelievable forces can come
in and can change the whole thing,” he said.  Yingluck’s government plans to submit a petition to  King
Bhumibol Adulyadej  asking him to grant a royal pardon to
Thaksin, who has lived overseas since fleeing a 2008 jail
sentence for abuse of power. Bringing Thaksin back too soon may
reignite protests that could lead to another coup, Wichian said.  Airport Seizure  Protests erupted in 2008 when Thaksin’s opponents seized
airports and government buildings to help oust his allies the
last time they held power. The military cited a threat to the
monarchy when toppling Thaksin in 2006. More than 90 people were
killed last year in clashes between the army and pro-Thaksin
protesters known as the  Red Shirts .  Thaksin’s sister Yingluck entered politics seven weeks
before her party won a majority in elections in July. Before
that, she held senior positions at Advanced Info and SC Asset
Corp., a property developer owned by Thaksin’s children.  Advanced Info’s parent company, Shin Corp. Pcl, has
distanced itself from the Shinawatra family since the 2006 sale
to Temasek, rebranding itself in April as Intouch.  A Temasek-led group bought 49.6 percent of Shin in 2006
from then-premier Thaksin and later raised its stake to more
than 96 percent, sparking protests and a boycott of Shin
products.  Thaksin’s opponents accused him of selling state assets to
a foreign government, and he temporarily stepped down as premier
in April that year amid accusations his family improperly
avoided paying tax on the windfall. He was ousted in a military
coup five months later.  Green Card  Wichian’s first brush with politics came in 1976, when he
joined a left-wing student movement and left Bangkok to spend 18
months in southern Thailand, where communists were waging a
guerilla war against the government.  Wichian moved with his family to the U.S. soon after.  “I went for 14 days, but since my dad applied for a green
card, I stayed 14 years,” Wichian said.  Wichian gained a bachelor’s degree in electrical
engineering from California Polytechnic State University,
Advanced Info said when he was appointed as CEO. He also worked
with airborne radar systems for Hughes Aircraft and with AT&T
Inc.’s Thai unit. He joined Advanced Info in 1995, and became
CEO in 2006 after a five-month search for a replacement for
Yingluck.  Wichian said he hasn’t spoken to his former boss since she
started running the country of 66 million people in August.  “A lot of people ask me what do you want from the new
government, and I say just a clear direction in terms of
national broadband policy and a fair treatment to everyone to be
able to compete in the market equally and fairly,” he said.
“That’s all we need, because we are quite strong already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  