-- 
Republicans Want Records of Philip Falcone White House Contacts

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/house-republicans-ask-white-house-for-records-of-falcone-contact.html
House Republicans  asked for records
of contacts between the White House and  Philip Falcone , citing
concerns about possible political pressure on U.S. agencies over
the billionaire’s proposed LightSquared wireless venture.  LightSquared is seeking to allay fears its planned $14
billion network may disrupt military and civilian uses of the
global-positioning system. The company needs clearance from the
Federal Communications Commission to proceed. The request
yesterday from House Republicans adds political static to a
debate that has centered on radio interference.  Some U.S. officials have been reluctant to testify on GPS
interference and agencies haven’t provided information,
Representative Ralph Hall, of  Texas , chairman of the House
Committee on Science, Space and Technology, wrote in a letter
yesterday. That “does nothing to promote the case for
LightSquared, nor does it put our minds at ease about the
possibility that this administration may be providing special
favors to high-level financial donors,” Hall wrote.  The Obama administration should turn over “all records”
of contacts by Falcone, LightSquared and his Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, according to the letter. Six other
Republicans on the panel signed the letter, which was
distributed by e-mail.  Events surrounding solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which
failed after receiving U.S. loan guarantees, “further emphasize
our concern about a pattern by this administration to grant
preferential treatment toward donors,” Hall and his colleagues
wrote. “As with Solyndra, the lack of scrutiny of the
LightSquared project is disturbing.”  Falcone Donations  Falcone, his wife Lisa Falcone, and LightSquared Chief
Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  have each made a $30,400
political contribution to Democratic campaign organizations, the
lawmakers said.  E-mails between LightSquared representatives and White
House officials refer to company attendance at fundraisers for
President  Barack Obama , and the donations roughly coincided with
LightSquared contacts with the White House, the letter said.
“While some may call it a coincidence, we remain skeptical,”
the lawmakers said in yesterday’s letter.  LightSquared plans to offer wireless  Internet service  to
260 million people. The FCC has ordered testing to ensure that
the network won’t cause harmful interference to GPS operations.
The service has faced hearings before the House committees on
science, armed services and transportation.  “Every administration witness testifying at every hearing
on LightSquared has been explicit in identifying the problems
for GPS, and the need to resolve interference problems before
Lightsquared is allowed to move forward,” Eric Schultz, a White
House spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We fully respected the
FCC’s independent process.”  ‘Red Flags’  The lawmakers asked for records of contacts with the Office
of Management and Budget and with the Office of Science &
Technology Policy, and requested replies by Oct. 7. Versions of
their letter were sent to  Jacob Lew , director of OMB, and to
John Holdren, director of the science and technology office.  Four executive branch agencies haven’t produced documents
about LightSquared requested by the Science Committee, and the
“non-compliance” was “the first of many red flags raised
about the situation regarding LightSquared,” the letter said.  LightSquared envisions offering wholesale service through a
network of 40,000 base stations using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellites. GPS devices rely on satellite
signals, and makers of GPS gear say LightSquared’s network would
disrupt navigation by planes, boats, tractors and automobiles.  The Reston, Virginia-based wireless company is backed by
Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, which has
invested about $3 billion in the venture.  Solyndra Scrutiny  Representative Darrel Issa, chairman of the House  Committee
on Oversight and Government Reform , was asked yesterday in an
interview on the C-Span network about Solyndra and LightSquared.
Issa said he is “looking at it” not as “one company or two
companies, we’re looking at the system.”  Issa, a California Republican, pointed to broad concerns
about the dangers of government attempting to pick winners and
losers, Frederick Hill, a spokesman for the oversight committee,
said in an e-mail.  “We look forward to working with the House Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform to clear up any concerns,”
Jeffrey Carlisle, a LightSquared executive vice president, said
in an interview. “Unlike Solyndra, LightSquared has not asked
for a dime of government money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  