-- 
Builders Likely Started Fewer U.S. Houses in August

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/housing-starts-in-u-s-probably-decreased-to-lowest-level-in-three-months.html
Builders probably began work on
fewer homes in August, highlighting an industry that’s
languishing more than two years into the U.S. economic recovery,
economists said before a report today.  Housing starts fell 2.3 percent to a three-month low
590,000 annual rate, according to the median estimate of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Building permits, a proxy
for future construction, may have also dropped for a second
month.  Foreclosures, declining prices and a lack of employment are
hindering construction and holding back an industry that’s
typically helped spark economic rebounds from past recessions.
Tighter lending standards and reductions in homeowner equity
mean fewer buyers are able to take advantage of  mortgage rates 
at record lows.  “We have more homes than people need to live in,”  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in  New York , said
in a Sept. 16 interview on Bloomberg Television. “Housing is
going to be pretty depressed in terms of building activity and
pretty flat in terms of prices until that market clears.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 570,000 to 634,000.  Permits decreased to a 590,000 annual pace from a 601,000
rate, according to the survey median.  Concern over housing and this year’s growth slowdown
economy may prompt Federal Reserve policy makers to propose new
measures to galvanize the economy when they begin their two-day
meeting later today.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned last month during a
speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the central bank alone
can’t lift sagging home prices or mitigate a wave of home
foreclosures.  Declining stock values have made households less wealthy,
helping push down confidence and discouraging big-ticket
purchases. Unemployment above 9 percent also leaves fewer
Americans able to take advantage of cheaper borrowing costs.  The weaker labor market helps explain a 33 percent jump in
default notices sent to U.S. homeowners in August, RealtyTrac
Inc. figures showed on Sept. 15. A growing glut of unsold homes
that compete with new dwellings may keep hampering construction.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders dropped in September to
a three-month low as prospective buyer traffic, sales and
purchase expectations declined. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index decreased to 14, figures
showed yesterday. Readings less than 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  Demand Weakens  “High unemployment and volatile financial markets continue
to undermine  consumer confidence  in spite of low mortgage
rates,” Patricia Bedient, chief financial officer at
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , said Sept. 15 at a forest products conference.
Federal Way, Washington-based Weyerhaeuser owns about 6 million
acres of U.S. timberland. “New home markets softened noticeably
four to six weeks ago in response to weak employment data and
political discord in Washington.”  Construction along the eastern seaboard in August may also
have been put off because of  Hurricane Irene , which caused
losses of about $12.4 billion, according to an estimate by
Kinetic Analysis Corp., a  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , firm that
predicts the effects of disasters.  As construction activity has slowed, homebuilder shares’
have declined more than the broader market. The Standard &
Poor’s Homebuilder Supercomposite Index, which includes shares
of companies including KB Home and D.R. Horton Inc., has slumped
25 percent this year, compared with a 4.3 percent decline for
the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   “With all of the economic turmoil, both domestic and
international, there’s not much that points to an improving
housing market at any point in the near future,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc., said in call with analysts on Sept. 8. “Our internal
business plan assumes market conditions do not improve.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  