-- 
U.S. Housing Starts Fall to Three-Month Low

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-20T20:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/housing-starts-in-u-s-decrease-more-than-estimated-to-571-000-annual-rate.html
Builders began work on fewer U.S.
homes than forecast in August, showing the industry remains flat
on its back even as  mortgage rates  fall to record lows.  Housing starts dropped 5 percent to a three-month low
571,000 annual rate, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 590,000 pace. Building permits, a proxy for future
construction, unexpectedly climbed.  Foreclosures, declining prices and a lack of employment are
holding back residential construction, which has typically
helped spark economic rebounds from past recessions. Tighter
lending rules and declining homeowner equity mean fewer buyers
are able to take advantage of lower borrowing costs,
highlighting the limits faced by Federal Reserve policy makers
as they consider new ways to stimulate the economy when they
meet today and tomorrow.  “Conditions aren’t getting much worse, but there’s also no
sign of a real turnaround,” said  Celia Chen , a housing
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . August starts may have been put off because of bad
weather, she said. “Permits rose and that might be a sign
there’s hope.”  Stocks fell amid concern international officials won’t make
a decision on further Greek aid until October. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent to 1,202.09 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York . Treasury rose, pushing down the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note to 1.93 percent from 1.95 percent late
yesterday.  Survey Results  Housing starts estimates ranged from 570,000 to 634,000 in
the Bloomberg survey of 78 economists. July’s pace was revised
to 601,000 from a previous estimate of 604,000. Home
construction totaled 554,000 units in 2009, the lowest since
record-keeping began in 1959.  The drop in construction last month was led by a 29 percent
slump in the Northeast, which indicates the threat posed by
 Hurricane Irene  may have prompted builders to pull back. The
flooding caused by the storm means projects scheduled to begin
in the region this month may also have been delayed, according
to economists like Jennifer Lee at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto.  Fed officials tomorrow will probably announce a program for
monetary easing that will do little to turn the economy around
and help 14 million unemployed Americans find work, according to
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Seventy-one percent of
the 42 economists surveyed forecast policy makers will agree to
replace short-term Treasuries with longer-term debt in a bid to
reduce borrowing costs even more.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate on a fixed 30-year mortgage loan decreased
to 4.09 percent last week, the lowest since record keeping began
in 1972, according to figures from  Freddie Mac . The rates are
typically based on the yield of the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note, one of the borrowing costs the central bank would be
aiming to lower in a so-called “Operation Twist.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned last month during a
speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the central bank alone
can’t lift sagging home prices or mitigate a wave of home
foreclosures.  Today’s report showed permits rose 3.2 percent to a 620,000
annual rate in August, the highest this year and a sign
construction may stabilize. Permits climbed in three of four
regions, led by an 11.3 percent jump in the West. They climbed
6.3 percent in the Midwest and 3.3 percent in the Northeast.  New construction of single-family houses decreased 1.4
percent to a 417,000 rate in August from the prior month. Work
on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and apartments, slumped
13.5 percent to an annual rate of 154,000.  Regional Breakdown  Starts dropped in two of four regions, with the South
joining the Northeast in decline. They climbed in the Midwest
and West.  Declining stock values have made households less wealthy,
helping push down confidence and discouraging big-ticket
purchases. Unemployment above 9 percent also leaves fewer
Americans able to take advantage of cheaper borrowing costs.  “With all of the economic turmoil, both domestic and
international, there’s not much that points to an improving
housing market at any point in the near future,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. (HOV) , said in call with analysts on Sept. 8. “Our internal
business plan assumes market conditions do not improve.”  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders dropped in September to
a three-month low as prospective buyer traffic, sales and
purchase expectations declined. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index decreased to 14, figures
showed yesterday. Readings less than 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  “High unemployment and volatile financial markets continue
to undermine  consumer confidence  in spite of low mortgage
rates,” Patricia Bedient, chief financial officer at
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , said Sept. 15 at a forest products conference.
Federal Way, Washington-based Weyerhaeuser owns about 6 million
acres of U.S. timberland. “New home markets softened noticeably
four to six weeks ago in response to weak employment data and
political discord in  Washington .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  