-- 
Pakistan’s August Inflation Slows, Giving Scope for Rate Cut

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-20T12:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/pakistan-s-aug-inflation-rate-at-11-56-median-forecast-13-2-.html
Pakistan ’s inflation slowed in
August, giving the central bank scope to reduce  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose 11.56 percent from a year earlier, the
Federal  Bureau of Statistics  said in Islamabad today after it
changed the base year to 2008 from 2001. That compares with a
12.43 percent gain in July. The median of 9 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 13.2 percent increase.  Pakistan’s central bank unexpectedly cut rates in its most
recent policy decision on July 30, almost three weeks after a
governor resigned blaming state spending for stoking prices.
Inflation in the South Asian nation is still the highest after
 Vietnam  in the Asia Pacific, according to Bloomberg data.  “This gives central bank more room to reduce borrowing
costs,” said Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at Invest
& Finance Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “The risk to inflation
from government borrowings hasn’t gone away.”  Government  borrowing  rose 2 percent to 227 billion rupees
($2.59 billion) since the fiscal year started July 1 from a year
earlier, according to data on the  State Bank  of Pakistan’s
website.  The  State Bank of Pakistan  in July reduced the discount
rate to 13.5 percent from 14 percent. The central bank’s next
monetary policy announcement is scheduled for Oct. 8.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government named Yaseen
Anwar, a deputy governor since March 2007, as the central bank’s
acting chief after Shahid Kardar resigned on July 12.  Kardar blamed increased  government borrowing  for inflation
and kept the central bank’s policy rate, one of the highest in
the world, unchanged since January this year after raising it in
September and November by half a percentage point.  The new base year will better reflect price changes in home
rentals and make domestic commodity prices more comparable to
international trends, Arif Cheema, director general of the
Federal Bureau, said at a news conference in Islamabad today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  