-- 
Philippine Peso Touches Six-Month Low on Europe Debt, NDF Curbs

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-20T08:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/philippine-peso-bonds-decline-on-europe-debt-concern-ndf-curbs.html
The Philippine peso touched the
lowest level since March and 10-year bond yields climbed to a
two-month high as  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred investors to seek
assets perceived safer than those in emerging markets.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch cut its year-end forecast for
the currency to 43 per dollar from 40.50, according to a
research note published today. The central bank said Sept. 16 it
may ask lenders to set aside more capital to cover non-
deliverable forward trades.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Italy’s
debt rating one step to A.  “The closing of some NDF positions and risk aversion
arising from problems in the euro region are making the peso
weaker,” said Ricky Cebrero, head of treasury at  Philippine
National Bank  in Manila.  The peso dropped as much as 0.5 percent before closing
little changed at 43.472 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It touched 43.695, the weakest level since March 18. The
yield on the 7.375 percent March 2021 bonds rose 20 basis points,
or 0.20 percentage point, to 6.30 percent, prices at Tradition
Financial Services showed. That was the highest level since July
12.  Yields on 91-day and 364-day bills rose from record lows at
yesterday’s auction while bids for six-month notes were rejected
by the Bureau of the Treasury. The government will probably sell
10-, and 15-year bonds targeted at individuals next month and
maintain the weekly debt auction size at 9 billion pesos ($207
million) next quarter, Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said
today.  ‘Attractive’  Asia   “When the peso reaches 43.90 to 44, investors will
reassess positions and will realize that Asia, including the
 Philippines , remains very attractive,” said Cebrero, who
predicts the peso will appreciate to 42.50 by year-end.  The government is “monitoring” movement in the foreign
exchange market and the peso is still trading within a
“comfortable range,” President  Benigno Aquino ’s spokeswoman
Abigail Valte said in a mobile-phone message today. The central
bank will act “only to contain excessive volatilities in peso
movement,” Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  The central bank’s supervision unit is soliciting comments
from lenders on a plan to impose a 187.5 percent market risk
weight on NDFs, according to a draft guideline obtained by
Bloomberg News and received by at least three bankers who asked
not to be identified. That means banks will have to set aside
capital equal to almost double their exposure. The circular on
NDFs may be issued in the “next few weeks,” Tetangco said on
Sept. 16  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 