-- 
Qaddafi Wheat Cargo Helped Feed Libya Rebels

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-09-20T06:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/qaddafi-wheat-cargo-helped-sustain-libya-rebels.html
Wheat paid for by Muammar Qaddafi’s
government ended up helping to sustain the rebellion that
overthrew his 42-year rule of  Libya  after it was diverted to his
rivals’ stronghold.  Two 25,000-ton cargoes of Russian wheat sat at the port of
Tripoli for more than a month, unable to unload amid the battle
for the capital, before the supplier, Alphamate Commodity GmbH,
decided to send them to Benghazi.  “There was a war raging around,” Michaela Eikel, general
manager at the Hamburg-based trader, said by phone Sept. 14.
“Tripoli port was like a desert, there was nobody to speak to.
In the end we decided to move the ships away.”  Before the two ships, Sea Dream and Al Youssef, arrived at
Benghazi, about 800 metric tons of grain was left in government-
owned silos in neighboring areas, Eikel said. Benghazi, Libya’s
second-biggest city, served as the rebels’ headquarters.
Fighting since the uprising escalated in February led to
shortages of food and water in the country with a population of
about 6.3 million.  “You can’t imagine what the situation was like in
Benghazi,” Eikel said. “They eat a lot of bread in Libya
because people are poor and bread is dirt-cheap. They buy three
to five loaves a day and that’s what they eat, and now they
didn’t even have bread.”  Cereal imports account for about 90 percent of Libyan food
use,  according to  the  United Nations ’ Rome-based Food and
Agriculture Organization. Almost 1.6 million people were
affected by civil strife that swept Tunisia, Egypt and Libya
this year, with the UN’s Rome-based World Food Program sending
more than 38,000 tons of food to the region as of the end of
August, according to the FAO website.  Storming the Capital  The chairman of Libya’s National Transitional Council,
Mustafa Abdel Jalil, arrived in Tripoli Sept. 10 to take command
of the interim government. The NTC transferred its headquarters
from the eastern city of Benghazi to Tripoli on Aug. 24
following the storming of the capital in the previous days. The
transitional leadership has been unable to proclaim a full
victory because of its failure to find Qaddafi and to gain
control of the remaining towns held by his supporters.  Only 6,000 tons of the wheat were unloaded from Sea Dream,
while the ships came under fire 17 times during their stay at
Tripoli, Eikel said. The vessels were diverted, and Eikel
traveled to Benghazi for talks with the NTC, she said.  Sea Dream  The NTC will pay Alphamate demurrage fees for the wheat, or
costs for holding the vessel beyond the period normally allowed
for unloading a cargo, Eikel said. She didn’t specify the price
of the 50,000 tons of wheat.  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
importer, agreed to pay as much as $244.50 a ton for Russian
wheat for August delivery in a July 7 tender.  Sea Dream, which was in the Marmara Sea yesterday, arrived
at Benghazi on Aug. 23 having been at Tripoli about three weeks
earlier, according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.
Al Youssef, which was off Benghazi on Sept. 13, was off Tripoli
about a month earlier, the data show.  “The Sea Dream arrived when I was in Benghazi,” Eikel
said. “Leaders from the council came onboard. We lifted the new
flag, and we took a picture. People were so happy: nobody
believed that someone would bring the grain without the money
upfront.”  Russian Wheat  Alphamate will deliver two more 25,000-ton cargoes of
Russian wheat to Benghazi this month, Eikel said, making a total
of 100,000 tons, supplied by OAO United Grain Co.,  Russia ’s
state grain trader. Russian wheat is at least $20 a ton cheaper
than French, while the quality is “very good,” she said.
Alphamate has sold 350,000 to 400,000 tons of wheat a year to
Libya since 2003, Eikel said.  United Grain confirmed it shipped 50,000 tons of grain to
Libya via Alphamate.  “This shipment was executed by OAO United Grain Co.,” the
company said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions,
declining further comment. “The grain shipped was not from
Russia’s state stockpiles.”  Libya will need to import 500,000 tons of wheat before the
end of the year, Eikel said. The country will ship in 1.4
million tons of wheat in the 12 months from July 1, the same as
last year, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, would
resume some crude exports within three or four days, the
nation’s representative to a meeting of Arab central bank
governors in Doha said Sept. 15. Libyan oil exports plummeted
amid the fighting from about 1.6 million barrels a day before
the conflict, most of which was shipped across the Mediterranean
to  Europe .  ‘Engulfed’ in Flames  Leaders of the coalition that helped push out Qaddafi
pledged Sept. 1 to release frozen funds as quickly as possible
and to maintain military pressure as the former leader vowed to
keep fighting until the country is “engulfed in flames.” About
$30 billion of the North African’s nation’s assets are in the
U.S.  “Concerns regarding the arrival of commercial food imports
remain an important issue,” the FAO said in a report Sept. 13.
The NTC signed agreements at the end of August to import French
wheat with unfrozen funds, according to FAO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  