-- 
RBA Is ‘Well Placed’ to Respond to New Global Growth Risks, Minutes Show

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-20T02:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/rba-well-placed-to-respond-to-economy-risks.html
Australia ’s central bank is well
positioned to respond to global and domestic economic risks or
the threat of an acceleration of inflation, according to minutes
of a Sept. 6 meeting when it kept  interest rates  unchanged.  “A key question for members was the extent to which recent
global and domestic developments would reduce capacity pressures
in the economy and, in due course, help to contain inflation,”
the minutes released today by the  Reserve Bank  of Australia in
Sydney showed. “Members considered that the current setting of
monetary policy left the board well placed to respond to
evolving global and domestic economic conditions.”  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has kept the overnight cash rate
target at 4.75 percent this year as monthly employment growth
averaged 2,800 from January through August, less than a 10th of
the average of 30,500 job gains in the first eight months of
2010. That’s the highest benchmark borrowing cost in the
developed world, compared with rates near zero in  Japan  and the
U.S. and 1.5 percent in the euro area.  While Stevens and his colleagues on the RBA board discussed
the possibility of a rate increase at their Aug. 2 meeting,
today’s minutes indicate no such discussion about policy
tightening took place earlier this month.  ‘Somewhat Weaker’  “It was increasingly apparent that the economy was going
through a period of considerable structural change and that this
was causing difficulties in a number of industries,” the
minutes said. “The near-term growth outlook looked somewhat
weaker than had been expected earlier, but the medium-term
outlook still appeared positive, providing that the world
economic outlook did not continue to deteriorate.”  Stevens has relied on a record-high currency to help
contain inflation that is also hurting industries not connected
to the nation’s mining investment boom.  Driving Australia’s economy is demand from developing
nations including China and  India  for iron ore, coal and natural
gas. That has spurred the nation’s currency, which reached
$1.1081 on July 27, to the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983.  The Australian dollar gained after the minutes were
released before resuming earlier declines. The currency traded
at $1.0196 as of 12:21 p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0222 yesterday in
 New York .  BlueScope Layoffs  Those gains made it harder for non-mining industries to
compete, with BlueScope Steel Ltd. last month saying it will cut
about 1,000 jobs because of a second-half loss due to high raw-
material costs and exchange-rate gains. Unemployment in August
rose for a second straight month, reaching a 10-month high of
5.3 percent, which is still lower than the U.S.’s 9.1 percent
and joblessness in the euro area near 10 percent.  “The international outlook had become significantly more
clouded since the previous board meeting,” the minutes showed.  Greece  is battling to avoid default as international
officials this week assess whether Prime Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue loans. The nation
is striving to meet demands amid doubts from partners it is
doing enough to receive a sixth tranche of loans.  Standard & Poor’s  earlier today cut  Italy ’s sovereign-debt
rating, citing deteriorating economic prospects.  Stevens will lower rates by at least 75 basis points by
December, interbank cash-rate futures showed before the minutes
were released. RBA policy makers discussed investors’
expectations for “large cuts” in the cash rate by year end,
the minutes showed.  Market Pricing  “A range of technical factors meant that market pricing
might not be giving an accurate reading of expectations in the
current circumstances,” the minutes showed.  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August as employers became less confident in the
strength of the recovery, according to a Sept. 2 report.  In Australia, employment growth has “clearly slowed” from
the rapid pace seen in 2010, policy makers said in the minutes.
“Liaison suggested that a rising number of firms were
reassessing their hiring plans.”  Australia’s economy grew 1.2 percent last quarter, the
fastest pace in four years, driven by recovery from natural
disasters in the northeast of the nation.  The nation’s terms of trade, a measure of export prices
relative to import prices, “were expected to be at their
highest level on record” this quarter before “gradually
declining” as global production of  iron ore  and coal increased,
the RBA members said, according to today’s minutes.  The central bank aims to keep underlying inflation in a 2
percent to 3 percent range on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  