-- 
Treasury Yield Curve Flattest in More Than a Year on Fed Meeting Prospects

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-20T21:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/treasuries-fall-on-optimism-ecb-taking-steps-to-counter-crisis.html
The extra yield Treasury investors
get to hold 30-year bonds instead of two-year notes was the
lowest in more than a year on bets the  Federal Reserve  will
increase holdings of longer maturities to limit borrowing costs.  U.S. 10-year yields dropped for a third day after the
 International Monetary Fund  lowered its global growth forecast,
citing  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a potential American
fiscal impasse. Two-year note yields touched a record low as the
 Federal Open Market Committee  began a two-day meeting.  “Treasuries have stayed near these levels because as an
investor, you don’t want to fight the Fed, especially when it’s
going to announce something,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.2 percent at 5:15 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The 3.75 percent
securities due in August 2041 increased 10/32, or $3.13 per
$1,000 face amount, to 110 15/32.  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.16 percent
after touching a record low 0.1431 percent. The difference
between 30- and two-year yields was 304 basis points, the lowest
since August 2010, when it touched 299.5 basis points. The 30-
year bond yields fell yesterday to 3.18 percent, the lowest
since January 2009.  Benchmark 10-year note yields were at 1.94 percent,
compared with a record low 1.8770 percent reached last week.
Five-year note yields were at 0.84 percent.  Fed Debt Buying  The Fed will decide to replace short-maturity Treasuries in
its portfolio with longer-term bonds, according to 71 percent of
42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Such a policy is known as
Operation Twist because of the goal of bending the yield curve.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who
oversees the world’s biggest bond fund manager, said in Twitter
post that a further rally in Treasuries is “dependent on QE3
expansion of balance sheet or new ‘language.”  Credit Suisse Group AG said the Fed may announce a $360
billion “Operation Twist” move tomorrow, selling $60 billion in
one- to three-year Treasuries and buying $60 billion in seven-
to 10-year debt per month for six months, strategists led by
 Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at the
primary dealer, wrote in a note to clients.  Traders trimmed bets on inflation to the lowest in 11
months on speculation global growth will slow. The difference
between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, a gauge of consumer-price expectations, shrank to as
narrow as 1.83 percentage points today, the least since Oct. 5.  Housing Starts  U.S. housing starts dropped 5 percent to a three-month-low
annual rate of 571,000, the Commerce Department reported today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 78 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.3 percent drop.  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the IMF said, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent in
2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth projection for
2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent this year from 2.5 percent.  “Global activity has weakened and become more uneven,
confidence has fallen sharply recently, and downside risks are
growing,” the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook report
today. In Europe “leaders must stand by their commitments to do
whatever it takes to preserve trust in national policies and the
euro” while in the U.S. “deep political divisions leave the
course of U.S. policy highly uncertain.”  Treasuries have returned 8.6 percent in 2011, heading for
their best year since 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Italy Downgraded  Italy’s credit rating was cut one level to A by  Standard &
Poor’s , which said the outlook remains “negative.” The firm
said yesterday the nation’s net general government debt is the
highest among A rated sovereigns and now expects it to peak
later and at a higher level than previously anticipated.  The  European Central Bank  bought Italian  government bonds ,
according to people with knowledge of the transactions who asked
not to be identified because the deals are confidential. A
spokeswoman for the central bank declined to comment.  “The ECB seems very keen on preventing any spiraling out
of this news,” said  David Schnautz , a London-based fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG.  Greece  said Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held a
“productive” conference call with European officials yesterday
on the country’s bailout. Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government was scheduled to hold more talks today as European
leaders debate the terms of a July agreement and the prospect of
their being forced to send more aid to keep Greece in the
currency union.  Neutral Positions  Investors in Treasuries increased neutral positions in the
securities for the first time in four weeks, according to a
survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  About 74 percent of the clients surveyed by the firm were
neutral in the week ended Sept. 19, up from 72 percent in the
previous week. The amount of so-called longs was unchanged at 11
percent. The percentage of investors who were “short” dropped
to 15 percent.  JPMorgan doesn’t disclose the number of clients in the
survey. Srini Ramaswamy, a JPMorgan strategist in New York,
wasn’t immediately available to comment. A long is a bet an
asset will gain in value.  The 10-year yield will increase to 2.96 percent by the end
of September 2012, according to the average forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  