-- 
Treasuries Gain After Italy Cut; Two-Year Yield Drops

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-21T02:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/treasuries-rise-as-italy-rating-cut-sending-two-year-yield-to-record-low.html
(Corrects second-to-last paragraph to show returns are for
2011 in article published Sept. 20.)  Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
yields to a record low, as  Italy ’s credit-rating cut boosted
demand for the relative safety of  U.S. government debt .  Traders trimmed inflation bets on speculation growth will
slow in the U.S. and  Europe . The difference between yields on
10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a
gauge of expectations for consumer prices, narrowed to 1.83
percentage points, the least in 11 months. Ten-year rates were
six basis points away from a record low as economists said the
 Federal Reserve  will announce plans to buy long-term debt after
a meeting today and tomorrow.  “Treasuries are expensive, but everybody has to find a
place to put their money,” said Masazumi Fukuoka, chief dealer
at the Singapore branch of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp.,
a unit of Japan’s largest publicly traded lender. “As a safe
haven, they’re going to get more expensive.” Fukuoka said he
has been adding to his Treasury holdings, buying as recently as
last week.  The benchmark 10-year yield fell two basis points to 1.94
percent at 7:54 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021
rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 22/32.  Ten-year rates dropped to a record low 1.877 percent on
Sept. 12. Two-year yields slid as much as one basis point today
to a record low of 0.1431 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.1 percent,
dropping for a second day and helping fuel demand for debt.  Italian Rating  Italy’s rating was lowered to A from A+, with a negative
outlook, on concern weakening economic growth and a “fragile”
government mean the nation won’t be able to reduce its debt
burden,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement.  The decision sent the euro down for a third day against the
dollar. Greece’s government plans a second call with its main
creditors today as it seeks to stave off a default.  “Yields can push down further,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an
economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., part of
Japan’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets. “European
officials are failing to resolve the crisis. That will damage
the world economy.”  U.S. builders probably started work on fewer homes in
August, highlighting an industry that’s languishing more than
two years into the economic recovery, economists said before a
report today.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to replace
short-maturity Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-term
bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The move is known as Operation Twist for its goal to
change the yields on certain Treasury maturities.  Minutes of the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting released Aug. 30 showed
that some central bankers said selling debt with shorter
maturities and purchasing longer-term debt had the potential to
push borrowing costs lower.  The Fed holds $1.66 trillion of Treasuries, including $520
billion of debt due in 2014 and earlier that could be sold and
reinvested in securities maturing from 2018 to 2039, according
to CRT Capital Group LLC strategists  David Ader  and  Ian Lyngen .
That may push 10-year yields down to 1.60 percent, they said.  A smaller program of $200 billion to $300 billion in short-
term sales to be reinvested further out the maturity spectrum
will widen the difference between 10- and 30-year yields by
about 10 basis points,  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki , New
York-based analysts at Barclays Capital Inc., wrote in a note
today. The company is one of the 20 primary dealers authorized
to trade directly with the central bank.  TED Spread  Demand for Treasuries increased the so-called TED spread in
September as the difference between what lenders and the U.S.
government pay to borrow for three months rose. The gap expanded
for an 11th day yesterday to 35.2 basis points. The last time it
rose for such a long stretch was in August and September of
2006. It narrowed to 34.7 basis points today.  Treasuries have returned 8.6 percent in 2011, heading for
their best year since 2008 when the  U.S. economy  was in a
recession, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Government
bond markets returned 8.1 percent in  Germany  and 1.7 percent in
 Japan , the figures show.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks handed investors
a 9.1 percent loss in the period, after accounting for
reinvested dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  