-- 
Red Sox Split Doubleheader; Cards Gain Game on Braves in National League

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-20T04:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/red-sox-split-doubleheader-cards-gain-game-on-braves-in-national-league.html
Conor Jackson hit a grand slam and
Jacoby Ellsbury had an inside-the-park home run as the Boston
 Red Sox  scored seven runs in the seventh inning to win 18-9 and
salvage a doubleheader split against the  Baltimore Orioles .  The Red Sox, who lost the opener 6-5, hold a two-game
advantage over the  Tampa Bay Rays  in the race for the American
League’s wild-card spot. Tampa had last night off.  Boston is five games behind the AL East division-leading
New York Yankees, who won 6-4 at home against  Minnesota  as
Mariano Rivera got his 602nd career save to set a Major League
Baseball record.  Rivera surpassed Trevor Hoffman as the saves leader when he
struck out Minnesota’s Chris Parmelee to complete a perfect
ninth inning at Yankee Stadium in  New York . Rivera’s save, his
43rd this season, helped New York hang on after starting pitcher
A.J. Burnett gave up four runs and was pulled in the fifth
inning.  At the beginning of September, the Red Sox had a 1 1/2-game
lead in the AL East and a nine-game advantage over the Rays.
Boston has won five of 19 games since then.  In the first game of the doubleheader at Fenway Park, J.J. Hardy, Robert Andino and Nolan Reimold had home runs for
Baltimore. In the second game, which featured 13 pitchers and 33
hits, the Red Sox scored 11 runs in the first three innings and
then broke open the contest with their seventh-inning outburst.  In the National League, the St. Louis Cardinals won 4-3 at
Philadelphia to pull within 2 1/2 games of Atlanta in the chase
for the wild card. The Braves lost 6-5 at  Florida  when Omar Infante hit a game-ending two-run homer with two outs in the
ninth inning.  The defending World Series champion  San Francisco  Giants,
who have won eight straight games, are 3 1/2 games behind
Atlanta and a game behind St. Louis in the wild-card race. The
Giants were off last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  