-- 
Three-Time Olympic Sailing Champion Ainslie Seeks a Fourth Gold in London

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/three-time-olympic-sailing-champion-ainslie-seeks-a-fourth-gold-in-london.html
Almost a year after his life-long
goal of winning the  America’s Cup  for Britain fell apart, Ben Ainslie has set his sights on winning a fourth consecutive
Olympic gold sailing medal.  Ainslie yesterday became the first athlete named to the
British team for the  London 2012 Games . He returned to Olympic
sailing in October, when his attempt to help Britain win its
first America’s Cup ended after U.K. multimillionaire Keith
Mills pulled Team Origin out of the event following rule
changes. Ainslie was preparing to be skipper for the team’s boat
for the 2013 America’s Cup, the sport’s most prestigious prize.  Olympic qualification has never been tougher, said Ainslie,
who beat European champion Giles Scott and world champion Ed
Wright for the sole team spot in the Finn class of single-handed
sailboat, a type of heavyweight dinghy.  “The last eight months have been incredibly intense, I had
to be right at the top of my game to beat those guys,” four-
time Olympian Ainslie said in an interview with a small group of
reporters in  London . “You can’t ask for more inspiration than a
home Games to really get stuck into something.”  Not having to prepare for the America’s Cup helped secure
the Olympic qualification, he said.  “Unfortunately, it all fell apart,” Ainslie said. “But
the flip side was that it allowed me to focus more on my Olympic
campaign for 2012. I wouldn’t have qualified if I’d been in the
America’s Cup.”  Nutritionist  Ainslie hired a nutritionist and a specialist
physiotherapist, who helped him gain 9 kilos (20 pounds) of
muscle, to compete with the taller and stronger Wright and
Scott. Ainslie won the Olympic test event last month in
Weymouth, where the sailing will be held at next year’s Games.  “It’s tough in sailing that we only have one spot per
class,” Ainslie, 34, said. “And it’s certainly tough on those
guys because if they were sailing for any other nation, they’d
have a very good shot at winning an Olympic medal.”  Ainslie, who learned to sail in North Wales with his
parents and his sisters when he was a young boy, is Britain’s
most decorated Olympic sailor. He won a silver medal at the 1996
Atlanta Games, and gold medals at the 2000, 2004 and 2008
Olympics. He’s also a nine-time world and European champion.  Having an athlete like Ainslie on the Olympic team will
boost team morale, according to Stephen Park, Team GB sailing
team leader.  Defending Champions  “Ben is arguably the most famous sailor in the sport in
the world at the moment,” Park said in an interview in London.
“To have somebody like him on the team is great motivation, is
a great role model for the other guys. He’s just got an inner
confidence and great ability and we all work hard as a team to
make sure we pull all the talent and knowledge together. So that
gives great confidence to all the other sailors in the
program.”  Ainslie was the first of 11 sailors named as athletes in
Britain’s team for the London 2012 Olympics. Paul Goodison was
selected to defend his gold medal from Beijing in the Laser
class, Bryony Shaw and Nick Dempsey were picked in windsurfing,
while siblings Lucy and Kate MacGregor and Annie Lush will be
sailing in the new Elliott 6-meter women’s match racing class.
Defending Olympic champions Iain Percy and Andrew Simpson will
be competing in the Star class, while Hannah Mills and Saskia
Clark were picked in the women’s 470 class.  Britain expects to send around 550 competitors to the
London Games, which begin July 27.  ‘More Difficult’  Park said he’s targeting four medals next year. That
compares with the British sailing team’s six medals -- including
four golds -- won in Beijing in 2008. It’s the most successful
sailing nation in Olympic history, having won 50 medals --
including 25 golds -- since sailing made its debut at the 1900
Games in Paris.  “We’d be naive to think the environment was the same now
as it was in Beijing,” Park said. “It’s competitively far more
difficult now, there are more nations who have been learning
from what we are doing and the changes we have implemented over
the years.”  Ainslie said he’ll use his experience to overcome the
pressure at next year’s Olympics on home soil.  “I can’t imagine it gets much bigger than that in sport,”
Ainslie said. “It’s a huge amount of pressure, but that’s the
same in every Olympics. The pressure from within to perform and
reach your goals is huge and you have to deal with that. The
external pressures will be bigger than ever. You have to be very
ruthless about making sure you keep your mind on the job and the
results, and try and ignore everything else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 