-- 
Reid Says Democrats Undecided on Handling of Obama’s Jobs Plan

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-20T20:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/reid-says-democrats-undecided-on-handling-of-obama-s-jobs-plan.html
Senate Democratic leaders haven’t
resolved whether they will press the chamber to consider all or
only portions of President Barack Obama’s $447 billion job-
creation plan, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said.  Reid said he and his party’s other Senate leaders earlier
today discussed the  proposal , which is encountering some
resistance from rank-and-file Democrats concerned about tax
increases included in the plan. Reid gave no hint of when a
decision will be reached on how to proceed.  “None of us agree with every part of it,” Reid told
reporters at the Capitol.  He also said that he believes Senate Democrats are “very
comfortable” with Obama’s proposal overall. “We’ll work this
through the caucus,” he said of the jobs legislation.  Obama’s plan, released Sept. 8, includes a provision to cut
payroll taxes to stimulate job growth, as well as $50 billion
for  road construction  and $30 billion for state and local
governments.  Obama proposes paying for the measure by limiting some
deductions and exclusions for high-income taxpayers, along with
tax increases for private equity firms, oil and gas companies
and corporate jet owners. Republicans and some Democrats have
objected to putting a cap on tax breaks, and the other revenue-
raising proposals haven’t advanced in the past.  Republican legislative leaders, including those who control
the House, also say the plan relies too heavily on ideas, like
the added infrastructure spending, that were used in 2009’s
economic stimulus bill. They say the nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate is evidence the earlier measure didn’t work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  