-- 
Perry Calls Obama Israel Policy ‘Arrogant, Misguided’ in New York Speech

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-20T18:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/republican-perry-calls-obama-s-israel-policy-naive-arrogant-misguided-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Perry  condemned efforts by the Palestinians to seek a
formal recognition of statehood at the  United Nations , inserting
his candidacy into a complex foreign policy dispute.  In a speech this morning in New York, the Texas governor
denounced Palestinian plans this week to petition the UN General
Assembly for full membership, saying President  Barack Obama 
emboldened Palestinian leaders to seek recognition by demanding
compromises from the Israelis.  “Simply put, we would not be here today, at the precipice
of such a dangerous move, if the Obama policy in the  Middle East 
wasn’t naive, arrogant, misguided and dangerous,” he said.  Republicans and some Israel advocates have said Obama has
put more pressure on  Israel  than the Palestinians to make
compromises to reach a peace agreement.  “What we are watching unfold at the United Nations is an
unmitigated diplomatic disaster,” former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney , another Republican presidential candidate, said in
a statement released before Perry’s speech.  “It is the
culmination of President Obama’s repeated efforts over three
years to throw Israel under the bus and undermine its
negotiating position.”  Keeping Military Edge  The Obama administration has supported Israel at the UN and
has helped it keep its military edge in the region,  Ben Rhodes ,
deputy national security adviser for communications, said when
asked about Perry’s comments.  “Anybody who examines the record of the Obama
administration on Israel will see that we have been unshakable
in our support,” Rhodes said at a briefing in  New York . “The
president has been working on behalf of a two-state solution
which has been an effort that’s been undertaken by multiple
administrations of both parties for many years.”  Perry and the other Republican presidential candidates want
to demonstrate their strong backing for Israel to increase their
appeal among Jewish and evangelical voters, who support Israel
for religious reasons. In remarks after his speech, Perry said
his Christianity is one reason he supports Israel.  “As a Christian, I have a clear directive to support
Israel, so from my perspective it’s pretty easy,” Perry said.
“Both as an American and as a Christian, I am going to stand
with Israel.”  U.S. Veto  The U.S. has said it will veto the Palestinians’ petition
in the  Security Council , though the Palestinians can push for
limited membership before the General Assembly, which includes
more supporters. The administration also has said the only path
to a two-state solution is through direct negotiations.  If the UN recognizes Palestinian statehood, Perry said the
U.S. should close the Palestine Liberation Organization office
in Washington and consider stopping U.S. foreign aid to
Palestinians.  Perry said that by proposing to mediate peace negotiations,
the Obama administration had encouraged the Palestinians to go
to the UN rather than engaging in direct talks with Israel. The
administration’s suggestion that the 1967 borders should be a
starting point for those negotiations isolated Israel, said
Perry.  Settlements Dispute  The 10-minute address offered an early glimpse into Perry’s
foreign policy.  He expressed support for building Israeli settlements on
disputed land and giving Israel control of the entire city of
 Jerusalem . He said he would recognize Jerusalem as the capital
of Israel and would move American diplomats out of  Tel Aviv .  “If you want to work for the State Department, you will be
working in Jerusalem,” he said.  Perry said he supported a two-state solution that would
create both independent Israeli and Palestinian nations, if it’s
the result of direct negotiations.  Surrounded by Jewish leaders, including deputy speaker of
the Israeli Knesset Danny Danon and others who oppose creating a
separate Palestinian state, Perry laid out preconditions for any
talks. Palestinian leaders must “publicly affirm” Israel’s
right to exist, persuade Hamas and other groups to renounce
terrorism, and release kidnapped Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit,
whose release has become a rallying cause for pro-Israel
activists, he said.  Arab Street  “By not insisting on these principles, the Obama
administration has appeased the Arab street at the expense of
our own national security interests,” he said. “They have
sowed instability that threatens the prospects of peace.”  Criticism of Obama’s Israel policy may have helped
Republican Bob Turner win a special election last week in a New
York congressional district with a large population of Jewish
and Democratic voters.  “I am the messenger from the 9th Congressional District,”
said Turner, who spoke after Perry. “The message that the
voters have sent is that this administration has been
vacillating and, at times, even hostile to Israel and it is not
acceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  