-- 
Retailers Risk Holiday Shipping Rush

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/retailers-risk-2009-holiday-shipping-rush-with-cautious-u-s-consumer-view.html
Retailers may face a last-minute
rush to restock their shelves if household spending improves as
it did in the 2009 holiday season.  Declines in imported-container volumes and in shipments by
trucking companies such as  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN)  show that
“cautious retailers are tightly controlling inventories right
now,” said Benjamin Hartford, transportation analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co., a Milwaukee-based investment bank. Shippers will
keep supplies low until “there is a clearer picture of consumer
demand.”  A similar situation played out in 2009, when companies
underestimated sales, then had to expedite merchandise to stores
before Christmas amid improving demand. If history repeats,
ground and air-transport firms may benefit from a surge in
shipments, according to Justin Yagerman, a New York-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  “Retailers may have to rush goods if spending accelerates
in the next couple of months,” Yagerman said. “This could help
trucking companies outperform.”  The U.S. consumer has shown little sign so far of wanting
to hit the malls. Retail sales unexpectedly stagnated last
month, according to the Commerce Department, following a 0.3
percent gain in July that was smaller than estimated by a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Consumer confidence  has fallen to its second-lowest level
this year, with the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropping to
minus 49.3 in the week ending Sept. 11. The number of households
saying it was a bad time to spend was the highest in three
years, as views of the state of the economy edged up to minus
86.6 from minus 88.7 in the prior week. The  unemployment rate 
remained at 9.1 percent in August as job growth stalled.  Falling Volumes  Shipping data currently show retailers preparing for a
“muted” holiday season, Hartford said. The combined inbound-
container volume at the  Los Angeles  and Long Beach ports fell
9.4 percent in August from a year earlier, following declines of
2.3 percent and 4.6 percent in July and June, according to
Bloomberg data. These ports, the two largest in the U.S.,
account for about 40 percent of total imports, Hartford said.  The correlation between the six-month average of trucking
volumes and Los Angeles and Long Beach port activity is 0.86,
according to Bloomberg News calculations. A correlation of 1
would show they move in lockstep, while a value of zero signals
no relationship.  Trucking rose 0.8 percent in August from a year ago, down
from a recent peak of 4.6 percent in February, according to the
Ceridian-UCLA Pulse of Commerce Index, which measures the volume
of  diesel fuel  purchased.  Summer Slowdown  This summer’s slowdown signals that retailers are
“stocking to weaker sales expectations” and are willing to be
under-supplied leading up to the holiday season, according to
Edward Leamer, chief economist for the Pulse of Commerce Index
for Ceridian Corp.  The ratio of retail inventories to sales was 1.34 in July,
near the all-time low of 1.33 in January through April of this
year, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau.  In December 2009, the late rush for holiday goods led to a
3.5 percent annual jump in the Ceridian-UCLA index, which
followed 22 consecutive months of declines, Leamer said.  From the investor perspective, “cautious” retailer
expectations already are being discounted by trucking stocks,
according to David Ross, a Baltimore-based transportation
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  ‘Could Be Upside’  “The expectation is for a fairly low pace of  consumer
spending ,” Ross said. “If things improve, there could be
upside for these stocks.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Trucking Index -- which includes
 Landstar System Inc. (LSTR)  and Werner -- has risen 5 percent since
Sept. 6, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index grew 3 percent,
Bloomberg data show. Between Oct. 15, 2009, and March 31, 2010,
the index increased 17 percent, compared with the S&P 500’s gain
of 7 percent.  Ross maintains “buy” recommendations on  Arkansas Best
Corp. (ABFS) ,  Con-Way Inc. (CNW) ,  Old Dominion Freight Line Inc. (ODFL)  and
 Roadrunner Transportation Systems Inc. (RRTS)  All are in the index and
may benefit from late-season demand, he said.  Shipping volumes for Werner, an Omaha, Nebraska-based truck
operator, have declined as its customers keep inventories
“lean,” Chief Financial Officer John Steele said at a Sept. 8
conference hosted by Credit Suisse Group AG. “But that may mean
that we could see a spike or a quick step-up in volumes if there
is some kind of a seasonality that occurs in September, October,
November.”  Ship by Air  If consumer demand improves after mid-October -- a rough
cut-off for retailers importing ocean freight from  Asia  in time
for holiday delivery -- companies will ship by air, which may
benefit  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , Ross said.  “A slow start to what’s normally the peak shipping season
suggests the airfreight businesses of FedEx and UPS may benefit
if demand picks up closer to the holidays,” he said.  Chain-store sales during the traditional rush --
Thanksgiving to Christmas -- are forecast to rise 3.5 percent
this year compared with 2010, according to the  International
Council of Shopping Centers . That’s “a tad weaker” than last
year when annual sales rose 3.8 percent “but considerably
slower” than the 5.1 percent average through the first eight
months of the year, according to  Michael Niemira , chief
economist of the New York-based trade association.  “I would characterize this year’s holiday season as slow
and steady, with downside risk higher than last year,” he said.  ‘Pulled Back a Bit’  J.C. Penney Co., the third-largest U.S. department-store
chain, has “pulled back a bit” on projections for this “most
important” sales period, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Myron Ullman said at a Sept. 7 conference hosted by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  For Hong Kong-based  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , this year “has been okay, although in the past few
months things have slowed down a little bit,” Chairman  Victor
Fung  said in an Aug. 30 interview with Bloomberg Television.  Still, demand for trucking has been “relatively stable”
in the third quarter for Jacksonville, Florida-based Landstar,
according to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Gerkens.
“Although there was much talk of a major economic slowdown or
double-dip recession, Landstar has not seen any evidence of a
decline in freight-volume activity,” he said on a Sept. 2
conference call.  Website Crashed  And it’s possible consumer spending still may accelerate.
 Target Corp. (TGT) ’s website crashed last week as the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer was overwhelmed by consumer interest in a
new collection from the Italian designer Missoni. Demand
exceeded that of a typical Black Friday -- the day after
Thanksgiving and one of the busiest shopping days of the year --
according to Courtney Foster, a spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-
based chain.  Another constraint has eased, with gasoline prices falling
10 percent since a peak in May, according to the American
Automobile Association. A further drop at the pump “would be a
positive for the consumer” and spur spending, said C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America’s Research Group in Charleston,
S.C., a consulting company that studies consumer behavior.  U.S. shoppers also have pared their debts, giving them
greater spending capacity when they find deals, Beemer said. If
retailers can entice customers with an attractive offer,
merchandise may sell quickly, particularly on Black Friday and
pre-holiday weekends, he said.  “If consumers see an item that’s a good deal, they may go
out and buy it,” Beemer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  