-- 
Rupiah Weakens as Overseas Investors Sell Assets, S&P Cuts Italy’s Rating

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-20T08:47:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/rupiah-drops-as-foreign-funds-dump-assets-s-p-cuts-italy-rating.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened below
9,000 per dollar for the first time since February and 
 government bonds  fell as overseas investors sold the nation's 
assets amid concern  Europe 's debt crisis is worsening.  The currency dropped to as low as 9,060 before recouping
losses to trade unchanged at 8,893 as of 4:59 p.m. in Jakarta,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 
benchmark 10-year government bond climbed seven basis points 
to its highest close since July 26.  Bonds fell after Standard & Poor's cut Italy's credit
rating, fanning concern contagion from  Greece 's fiscal crisis
is spreading and spurring an exodus from emerging-market assets.
Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said Sept. 14 the
central bank intervened in the rupiah and bond markets to curb 
losses after the currency fell as much as 2.6 percent that day.  “Italy’s credit-rating downgrade has triggered another
selloff,” said Han Hao Li, an economist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore. “The rupiah seems quite fragile and that is why we
are seeing  Bank Indonesia  frequently coming into the market” to
curb declines, he said.  S&P cut Italy by one step to A, saying the country’s net
government debt is the highest among A rated sovereigns, sending
the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares lower for a second day.  The yield on Indonesia's benchmark government 8.25 
percent securities due July 2021 climbed seven basis points to 
7.19 percent at the close of trading, according to prices from 
the Inter-Dealer Market Association. A basis point is 0.01 
percentage point.  Overseas investors cut holdings of Indonesian government 
bonds by 4.5 percent this month to 236.9 trillion rupiah ($26.5
billion) as of Sept. 16, debt management office data show. Foreign
funds sold $352 million more Indonesian shares than they bought
so far this month, according to exchange data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  