-- 
Rusal Chairman Said to Consider Plan to Sell Back Norilsk Stake

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-20T13:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/rusal-chairman-said-to-consider-plan-to-sell-back-norilsk-stake.html
United Co. Rusal’s billionaire
Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg  is considering a plan to sell Rusal’s
25 percent stake in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel back to the nickel
producer, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Vekselberg is seeking to discuss with other Rusal owners a
proposal that an offer of about $18 billion from Norilsk would
guarantee a transaction, the people said, declining to be
identified as the talks are private. Vekselberg has yet to gain
support from Rusal’s largest single shareholder, Oleg Deripaska,
and may not proceed with the plan, one of the people said.  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding Co., owner of about 30
percent of Norilsk, and Deripaska’s Rusal have bickered over
influence on the nickel producer’s board and use of the
company’s cash since 2008. The proposed $18 billion price tag
represents a 23 percent premium to Norilsk’s previous $8.75
billion bid for a 15 percent stake, rebuffed by Rusal this
month.  Vekselberg, Leonid Blavatnik and their partners control
15.8 percent of Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer,
while Mikhail Prokhorov holds 17.02 percent. Vekselberg and
Prokhorov were in favor of Rusal selling the stake back to
Norilsk in February, when the nickel company’s offer of $12.8
billion for a 20 percent holding was rejected.  Rusal’s board authorized Vekselberg to study any offers to
sell the company’s Norilsk stake that reflect the holding’s
“fundamental value,” Vekselberg said in a letter to Norilsk’s
board dated Sept. 6, the day after Rusal snubbed the latest
buyback offer from Norilsk.  Vera Kurochkina, a spokeswoman for Rusal, declined to
comment. Norilsk hasn’t received any “written proposal” from
Vekselberg regarding the price of the stake, Erzhena Ishenko, a
spokeswoman for the nickel producer, said by phone in Moscow.
She declined to elaborate.  Andrey Shtorkh, a spokesman for Vekselberg’s Sual Partners,
didn’t immediately return phone calls and e-mails requesting
comment. Prokhorov’s Onexim Group had no immediate comment, its
press office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  