-- 
Samurai Romances Draw Japanese to Video Dating

-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i ,   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-09-20T21:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/samurai-romances-draw-japanese-women-to-video-dating-games-from-gree-tech.html
Like many Japanese young women,
Takako Suzuki says the first thing she does most days is think
about who her next boyfriend should be. Her choices: a cute
millionaire, a butler or a samurai.  Whether playing the role of a teenager who fantasizes about
her five rich housemates or flirting with a civil-war warrior,
Suzuki says she can’t get enough of “otome” Japanese romance
games geared toward women. Suzuki, who says she once played 10
different titles concurrently, buys credit from  Gree Inc. (3632)  to
pamper her avatar with virtual clothes or shoes and purchase
tickets for additional game chapters.  “When I wake up in the morning, I play these games for a
while before I really get up,” said Suzuki, 28, an office
worker. “I need to play otome games because I’m so stressed out
by my nagging boss at work.”  Suzuki and other female gamers are helping reshape the
$10.6 billion video-game market in Japan, where the popularity
of Gree’s social network is luring developers typically focused
on making titles for  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co. Women will help
sales of games played on social networks triple in the next five
years, according to estimates by BNP Paribas SA in  Tokyo .  “Developers must target women to expand their market
instead of only focusing on men,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama ,
chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in
Tokyo. “Dating games became a blockbuster category among women
because characters in those games give them what they want from
men in the real world.”  ‘Manga’ Opportunity  The market for female-oriented games in Japan may reach 20
billion yen ($261 million) in five years from 6 billion yen last
year, according to Hiroshi Yamashina, a Tokyo-based analyst at
BNP Paribas. Last year’s sales accounted for 6 percent of the
overall Japanese industry.  Opportunities include turning graphic novels, called
“manga,” into interactive games because female-oriented comics
account for an estimated 70 percent of  Japan ’s 65 billion yen e-
book market, Yamashina said in a Sept. 16 report.  That’s benefited Gree, which runs and develops games for
its Facebook-like service in Japan. Shares of the company, which
says women account for more than 40 percent of its users, have
doubled in Tokyo trading this year, helping make it the best
performer on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Richest Bachelor  President Yoshikazu Tanaka, 34, was Japan’s richest
bachelor in March with an estimated fortune of $2.2 billion,
according to  Forbes  magazine. His 49 percent stake in Gree is
now worth $3.4 billion based on current stock prices.  Tanaka, who pioneered social-network gaming for mobile
phones in 2007, set up Gree’s first-ever booth at last week’s
 Tokyo Game Show  next to the event’s biggest participant --
PlayStation-maker Sony.  Gree, which counts “otome” titles as its most popular
gaming genre among women, displayed “Darling wa Geinojin,” in
which users play the role of an aspiring artist, and the high-
school dating game “Kimi to Naisho no Kyokara Kareshi” at last
week’s conference.  DeNA Co., a developer of mobile-phone games that counts
women for about 40 percent of its users, has also benefited. Its
shares have climbed 23 percent in Tokyo trading this year, while
 Voltage Inc. (3639) , which develops dating games for women, has risen
21 percent.  Nintendo, Sony  “Otome games are the hottest thing right now among
women,” said Keiichi Yoneshima, an analyst at  Barclays Capital 
in Tokyo.  Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of video-game players,
has fallen 51 percent this year, while No. 2 Sony, based in
Tokyo, has dropped 48 percent.  Nintendo, based in Kyoto, Japan, may be catching up.
President Satoru Iwata said last week it will begin selling pink
3DS handheld players in October to lure women and restore the
“good” balance it had between female and male users. Sony
sells its PSP players in six colors, including pink and white.  Increasing demand for female-oriented titles is part of the
broader surge in the popularity of social-network games played
on computers, phones and tablet PCs. While the games are
typically free via Web browsers, companies including Gree profit
by selling virtual items or chapters of an interactive comic,
with the average user spending about 239 yen a month.  Konami, Capcom  The social-games market in Japan will almost triple to 305
billion yen in 2013 from 107 billion yen last year, Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. estimated in June.  By comparison, the software market for video-game consoles
and handheld players shrank to 318 billion yen in 2010, down 12
percent from 2007, according to Tokyo-based research firm
 Enterbrain Inc.   Social networks are attracting developers including  Konami
Corp. (9766) , creator of the “Metal Gear Solid” series, which has
about 10 million registered users for social games. Capcom Co.,
publisher of the “Resident Evil” games, launched the Beeline
Interactive brand in April to make social games on smartphones
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The  game industry  has “now gone to computers and
smartphones or tablets, and social games are booming,” said
Edwin Merner, Tokyo-based president of Atlantis Investment
Research Corp., which manages about $3 billion in assets. “Sony
and Nintendo are not in this business much.”  1 Billion Users  Nintendo and Sony are adding features to their products as
social networks, phones and tablets become increasingly popular
gaming platforms for free titles.  Nintendo  is betting on 3-D in
its portable game player, while Sony is adding Wi-Fi and 3G
functionality to its upcoming PlayStation Vita player.  Sony is confident gamers will pay as much as the 29,980-yen
sticker price for the Vita because its “value exceeds the
price,” Shuhei Yoshida, president of Sony Computer
Entertainment Worldwide Studios, said in an interview last week.  Gree and DeNA say they can co-exist with traditional video-
game companies.  “The parameter for users is totally different because we
target mobile-phone subscribers,” DeNA President Isao Moriyasu
said at the Tokyo show. “Our games can be developed within six
months, while console games take time and money as they are
high-specification.”  Gree’s Tanaka is pushing overseas expansion after
purchasing Burlingame, California-based OpenFeint Inc. for $104
million this year.  Gree aims to generate as much as 80 percent of its sales
overseas in three years, compared with almost none now, and
plans to have 1 billion users, he said last week.  While dating games and interactive “manga” may not be as
popular overseas as they are in Japan, the concept of targeting
women may succeed globally, said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at
Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo.  For Japanese women such as Suzuki, the hardest part of
playing otome games is staying away.  “I have to play them for 10 to 15 minutes before going to
bed,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  