-- 
Sasol Secures Tax Exemptions for $3.5 Billion Uzbek Plant

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-09-20T15:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sasol-secures-tax-exemptions-for-uzbekistan-gas-to-liquids-plant.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels from coal, secured “a range of tax exemptions” for
a $3.5 billion gas-to-liquids plant it plans to build with
partner Uzbekneftegaz in Uzbekistan.  An agreement signed in the country yesterday also includes
“enabling infrastructure” such as roads, rail and utilities to
be provided by the government, Johannesburg-based Sasol said
today by e-mail. It didn’t specify the tax exemptions.  Sasol is scouring gas-rich regions for sites to build gas-
to-liquids plants as it seeks to boost revenue and expand
outside  South Africa , where it’s the biggest motor-fuels
producer. Sasol uses its proprietary Fischer-Tropsch technology
to make fuels such as diesel and kerosene from gas or coal.  The company, which built the world’s first commercial-sized
fuel-from-gas plant in  Qatar , agreed on the Uzbek project with
state-controlled Uzbekneftegaz and  Petronas Gas Bhd (PTG)  this month.
Sasol said last week it may also develop a similar plant in
 Louisiana . That project could cost $8 billion to $10 billion and
start as early as 2013, Fairfax I.S. Plc said in a note today.  The South African company is “a pioneer in the area of
synthetic petroleum alternatives,” Zacks Equity Research said
in a Sept. 15 note. Building plants in gas-rich regions “will
strengthen its position in the industry in the coming years.”  Sasol rose 1.5 percent to 350 rand at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg trading, valuing the company at 225.1 billion rand
($29.3 billion).  Shift to Gas  Sasol, which makes most of its fuel from coal, is shifting
its focus to gas-to-liquids plants on the expectation they’ll be
more profitable as coal prices rise. Last week, the company said
it reallocated funds it had earmarked for a coal-to-liquids
project in  China  after government-approval delays. In January it
ended a study into a possible coal-to-fuels plant in  Indonesia .  The Uzbek project will reduce Uzbekistan’s reliance on
imported crude oil and motor fuels. Sasol said yesterday the
plant may have a capacity of 1.4 million metric tons a year and
begin output of fuels such as kerosene, diesel and naphtha in
the second half of the decade. Sasol and Uzbekneftegaz each hold
44.5 percent and Petronas 11 percent, it said.  “We are currently looking at an estimated $3.5 billion for
the project,” Jacqui O’Sullivan, a Sasol spokeswoman in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mail today. “This is currently just
a ballpark figure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  