-- 
Scene Last Night: Carlos Slim, Wolfram, Wales, Picasso Kin

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-09-20T16:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/scene-last-night-carlos-slim-jimmy-wales-stephen-wolfram-picasso-kin.html
Unlike President  Barack Obama ,
whose motorcade shut down  New York ’s Park Avenue for more than
20 minutes yesterday, Carlos Slim Helu was traveling light last
night.  The world’s richest man -- with a net worth of $62.2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- Slim arrived
at the Metropolitan Club off Fifth Avenue with a nephew as his
only visible escort.  The occasion was the sixth annual Louise Blouin Foundation
Awards and Slim received one for his philanthropic activity in
the arts, health, education and sports.  Asked to confirm that he has given $4 billion to the Carlos
Slim Foundation, he said, “It’s not important. We make programs
without limit.”  His $34 million  Museo Soumaya  in Mexico City, which opened
in the spring, displays works by Dali, Picasso and Rodin. About
450,000 people have visited the free-admission museum since it
opened six months ago, Slim said.  “Now, we are planning to do something interesting,” said
Slim, taking a break from his chocolate cake. “We are going to
stay open until 1 a.m.”  Slim was among five honorees at the gala, held as part of
the  Blouin Creative Leadership Summit  in a ballroom with gilded
walls and painted ceilings. The others were: conceptual artists
 Ilya and Emilia Kabakov ; Nobel Prize laureate for economics
 Edmund Phelps ; and scientist Stephen Wolfram, who created the
Mathematica software.  “It’s great to be a leader,” said Phelps during the
cocktail reception, where mini spinach cakes and prawns were
passed around. “It’s even better to be a creative leader.”  ‘In the Doldrums’  He was less elated about the  U.S. economy .  “We are in the doldrums,” he said. “We haven’t had a
really good decade since the 1960s.”  The summit’s two days of panel discussions, examining
various aspects of creativity, innovation and globalization,
featured Andy Ozment, director of cyber-security policy at the
White House, Iceland’s President Olafur Ragnar Grimsson and
Barry Bloom, a public-health professor at Harvard.  “It’s really a think tank,” said Louise Blouin, the
founder of the summit. “People get invited by pure achievement
and integrity. You can’t buy your way in.”  Blouin does most of the inviting, she said. At the party,
one of her guests was Picasso’s granddaughter Diana Widmaier-
Picasso, who is a curator and art historian.  Ruling the World  “Everyone is trying to figure out how to rule the world,”
said Widmaier-Picasso, clad in a gray Alaia dress. “I don’t
think artists should be the rulers of the world.”  A few feet away, innovation in the sphere of domain names
sparked a debate among Wolfram, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy  Wales 
and  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  business professor
Thomas Malone.  “I am completely opposed to it,” said Wales, holding a
half-empty champagne flute. If someone wanted to use
Wikipedia.sport, “we’d have to defend it or we’d need to buy
it.”  “It could become chic,” said Wolfram, who wore a purple
tie and sipped water. “I remember when the Web was very young -
- ‘http://’ seemed like a very obscure, geeky thing.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 