-- 
Schaeuble to Urge Deficit Cuts in Washington, Official Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/schaeuble-to-urge-deficit-cuts-in-washington-official-says.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will remind his U.S. counterpart  Timothy F. Geithner 
and other representatives from the biggest economies to stick to
their deficit reduction commitments at a meeting in Washington,
a government official said in Berlin.  Calls for short-term economic stimulus aren’t helpful
because a debt crisis can’t be fought by piling up more debt,
the German official told reporters today on condition of
anonymity because the talks have yet to take place.  Industrialized states must cut their public deficits in
half by 2013 and stabilize their debts by 2016, as agreed at a
meeting of Group of 20 leaders in June 2010 in Toronto, the
official said. While Italy is among four countries that will
meet their Toronto pledges, the U.S. will fail to do so, the
official said, citing an  International Monetary Fund  forecast.  U.S. debt  “will eventually crowd out everything else” if
the administration doesn’t act, President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday. Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits
unexpectedly rose in the week ended Sept. 10 to the highest
level since the end of June, underscoring the risk of further
weakness in the labor market.  The IMF cut its U.S. growth forecast for this year by one
percentage point to 1.5 percent, the biggest downgrade among
Group of Seven states. The German economy is expected to expand
2.7 percent, the IMF said, cutting its outlook by 0.5 percent.  Growth Risks  Slowing growth in industrialized countries and doubts that
the U.S. and  Europe  can restore fiscal soundness pose risks to
financial market stability, said the official. As the financial
crisis continues and uncertainty grows, it would be wrong to
ease attempts to tighten regulation, he said.  Unemployment in the U.S. is becoming more structural in
nature, leaving the government with fewer means to boost the
economy, he said, citing the IMF.  Schaeuble will make clear in  Washington  that  Germany  won’t
stray from its path of budget consolidation, the official said.
Determined deficit reduction won’t necessarily slow the economy
down while helping to restore confidence, the official said.  The IMF is calling for clear reductions in the debt of
industrialized countries, which will rise to 108 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015 from 100 percent this year.
That’s an increase of about 30 percentage points compared with
levels before the financial crisis, the official said.  The U.S. has a “big debt problem and the situation would
be better if the U.S. could show a sustainable way forward,”
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg told reporters last week in
Wroclaw,  Poland , where the 27 European Union finance chiefs and
central bankers gathered for a meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  