-- 
SEC Said to Subpoena Firms Over Trades Before U.S. Rating Cut

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-20T15:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sec-said-to-subpoena-firms-over-trades-before-u-s-rating-cut.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has sent subpoenas to hedge funds as part of an
investigation into whether some investors traded on confidential
tips ahead of  Standard & Poor’s  decision to cut the U.S.  credit
rating  last month, a person briefed on the matter said.  The SEC’s probe is in its early stages and will likely
focus on firms that made unusually large bets that markets would
decline ahead of the rating company’s Aug. 5 announcement,
according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the investigation isn’t public.  SEC inspectors have been scrutinizing S&P’s methods for
making the downgrade and whether the firm followed its own
procedures for keeping the information secret, according to
another person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The subpoenas were reported previously today by the Wall
Street Journal.  S&P lowered the nation’s AAA grade to AA+ last month after
warning on July 14 that it would reduce the ranking in the
absence of a credible plan to decrease deficits. The decision
contributed to a global equity rout, including a 5.6 percent
drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  on Aug. 8, the first
day of trading after S&P’s announcement.  U.S. officials have said the downgrade was based on a
flawed analysis that overstated the nation’s debt by about $2
trillion, while S&P said the discrepancy doesn’t change
projections that the U.S. debt-to-gross domestic product ratio
will probably continue to rise in the next decade. S&P’s
decision was at odds with the other two main ratings companies,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which both said the
U.S. continues to deserve the top credit rating.  “We have longstanding policies and procedures regarding
the appropriate handling, use and protection of confidential
information,” said  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  