-- 
SEC Ex-Counsel Referred to Justice Dept. Over Madoff Work

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-20T21:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sec-ex-counsel-becker-referred-to-justice-dept-for-madoff-work.html
The former top lawyer of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission should be investigated by
federal prosecutors for improperly working on policy related to
 Bernard Madoff ’s fraud when he had a financial interest in the
outcome, the SEC’s internal watchdog said.  David Becker , the SEC general counsel who inherited profits
from a family Madoff account, became the agency’s point person
on questions of how to compensate investors who were bilked in
the  Ponzi scheme , inspector general H. David Kotz said in a
report sent to Congress today. The decisions Becker made “could
have directly impacted his financial position,” Kotz wrote.  Kotz said he is referring the conflict-of-interest case to
the Justice Department. He also noted in his 119-page report
that SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  didn’t tell other commissioners
about Becker’s ties to Madoff. At least six other people at the
agency were aware of the investment, including the chief ethics
lawyer who gave Becker clearance to work on Madoff policy. None
of them suggested Becker recuse himself, Kotz wrote.  William Baker III, a lawyer for Becker, said the report
“contains a number of critical factual and legal errors that
lead to erroneous conclusions.” He said Becker, who left the
agency in February, is looking forward to explaining his actions
at a  House of Representatives  hearing on Sept. 22, where Kotz
and Schapiro also are scheduled to appear.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment except to say the agency has received the referral.  Culture  Kotz’s report also urged the SEC to overhaul its procedures
for providing advice on conflicts to officials, saying there
have been “concerns about the role and culture” of the
agency’s ethics office.  The findings are another setback for the securities
regulator, which has been trying to bolster its standing after
being castigated for failing to uncover Madoff’s decades-long
fraud. More recently, the commission has been under fire for
destroying some enforcement documents and bungling a $557
million lease for new  office space .  The troubles have been magnified as the agency grapples
with writing dozens of new rules for  Wall Street  under the 2010
Dodd-Frank financial-regulatory overhaul.  “Clearly, Chairman Schapiro assumed that she and her
management team were above any possible reproach and needn’t
worry about the federal conflict-of-interest law,” said
Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican who
will help lead the hearing later this week. “That is an
assumption no regulator should ever be allowed to make.”  ‘Dedicated’  Schapiro, in a statement, said she takes the report “very
seriously.” She added that it would be “inappropriate” to
comment on the Justice Department referral.  “I’ve known David for many years to be a talented, highly
skilled lawyer,” Schapiro said.  Kotz began his probe in March after Becker and his brothers
were sued by the court-appointed trustee in the Madoff
bankruptcy case to recover $1.5 million in what he termed
fictitious profits from the inherited account.  When he joined the agency in 2009, Becker told Schapiro and
William Lenox, then the agency’s ethics counsel, about his
family’s Madoff investment. Lenox told Becker in May 2009 that
he didn’t have a financial conflict of interest and could work
on the policy for compensating the victims.  Adjusted for Inflation  As general counsel, Becker advocated that Madoff investors
be compensated for losses from an SEC-overseen insurance fund
using a formula that adjusted for inflation. The argument, which
was approved by the commission, could have made it less likely
that the trustee would seek to reclaim profits from Becker.  The SEC said today that it would take a new vote on the
issue in light of the report’s findings, a step Kotz
recommended. The inflation-adjusted formula hasn’t been adopted
in the Madoff bankruptcy case.  If the method were used, the amount of money that the
trustee would be able to seek from Becker and his brothers would
have been reduced by about $140,000, Kotz said in the report.  Becker may also have violated the law by offering an
opinion on proposed legislation that would have limited a
trustee’s ability to bring so-called clawback suits like the one
filed against him, Kotz wrote. In testimony to the inspector
general, Becker defended his participation, saying the measure
he weighed in on was “political noise” rather than a serious
proposal.  Schapiro Testimony  In her testimony to Kotz, Schapiro said she would have
asked Becker not to participate in Madoff policy if she had
known he was potentially subject to a lawsuit or if she
“understood that he had any financial interest.”  The report also focused on a late 2009 congressional
hearing where Becker, on Schapiro’s recommendation, was slated
to testify about the SEC’s decisions on compensating Madoff
victims.  Ultimately, another SEC official appeared at the hearing,
in large part because of a determination that Becker’s Madoff
connection would have to be revealed if he were to appear as a
witness in the matter, Kotz said.  While Schapiro said that she recalled telling Becker he
would need to disclose the Madoff interest if he testified,
Becker told the inspector general he was certain “it was I who
told the chairman that I would disclose this rather than her
telling me I would have to disclose it.”  ‘Very Surprising’  Before news of the lawsuit against Becker came out earlier
this year, none of the commissioners other than Schapiro was
aware of Becker’s Madoff connection. Commissioner  Troy Paredes 
said “not to have been apprised of this potential conflict of
interest was very surprising,” according to the report.
Commissioner Luis Aguilar said that Becker’s ties “absolutely”
gave him concern as to whether the information he received was
completely unbiased.  Schapiro said she told the commissioners she was “deeply
sorry that this had happened and that I never connected the
dots,” according to the report.  The inspector general recommended that the agency change
its procedures for vetting potential conflicts, noting that
Becker, as the agency’s top lawyer, was Lenox’s boss. In the
future, Kotz said, the ethics counsel should report to the SEC
chairman, not the general counsel.  The report noted that Lenox based some of his advice on an
“incorrect understanding” of the SEC’s role in the Madoff case
and that he never “took any further steps to better understand
the extent and nature of Becker’s involvement” in the matter.  ‘Blame Me’  When questions arose in February 2011 concerning Becker’s
participation in the Madoff liquidation, Lenox told Becker in an
e-mail: “Please just blame me; you did what you were supposed
to do,” according to the report.  Lenox’s lawyer,  Harvey Pitt , didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment. Pitt has said that Lenox’s advice “was
thoughtful, correct and has been mischaracterized repeatedly.”  Kotz has referred other matters to criminal authorities,
including allegations that SEC officials backdated leasing
documents to hide a missed deadline and that two employees
engaged in  insider trading . The  Justice Department  doesn’t
necessarily have to open a case based on the referral.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who is
chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who heads a
Financial Services subcommittee on investigations, have
spearheaded a congressional review of the matter. Neugebauer’s
panel and an Oversight subcommittee have scheduled the joint
hearing for Sept. 22.  Becker, 64, worked as a clerk for former U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Stanley Reed after graduating from Columbia University
School of Law, where he was editor-in-chief of the law review.
He was the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to 2002 before
rejoining the agency in 2009. After leaving the SEC in February,
he returned to law firm  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  as
a partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  