-- 
SEC Alleges Insider Trading in Global Industries, Technip Deal

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-20T07:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sec-alleges-insider-trading-in-global-industries-technip-deal.html
U.S. regulators filed a lawsuit
alleging  insider trading  in Global Industries Ltd. days before
the U.S. company agreed to a $937 million takeover by  Technip
SA (TEC) , Europe’s second-biggest oil services company.  The  complaint  by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleges that on Sept. 8 and 9 “unknown purchasers”
bought 685,840 shares of Global Industries common stock through
an account in the name of Raiffeisen Bank International AG
Vienna,  Austria , at $5.14 to $5.39 a share.  The defendants made a profit of $1.73 million by selling
the shares on Sept. 12 after the deal was announced on that day
for Technip to pay $8 a share, according to a copy of the
lawsuit filed on Sept. 16 in federal court in  New York  and
posted on the commission´s website. It said the account was at
broker dealer Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  Raiffeisen Bank said today in a statement that the stock
purchases “were made through an omnibus account in the name of
Raiffeisen Bank International” rather than by the bank itself.
They were “placed by a counterparty” and “routed through the
execution desk automatically without any indication of being
unusual.”  Technip spokeswoman Floriane Lassalle-Massip declined to
comment on the case.  The court issued a temporary restraining order freezing the
assets related to the trading, according to the SEC statement on
the case. The purchasers of the shares have to identify
themselves and are prohibited from destroying documents.  Technip has said the agreement to buy Global Industries
will add 14 vessels, bringing its fleet to 34, and will expand
its market by around 30 percent in deep-to-shore subsea
infrastructure. The French company makes equipment for oil and
gas exploration and builds liquefied natural gas installations.
Its biggest competitor in  Europe  is  Italy ’s Saipem SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  