-- 
Senate Set to Debate Worker Aid in Push to Advance Trade Deals

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/senate-set-to-debate-worker-aid-in-push-to-advance-trade-deals.html
The  U.S. Senate  is set to begin
debate today on trade preference and worker-aid programs that
would clear the way for President  Barack Obama  to send Congress
three pending free-trade agreements.  Senator  Harry Reid  of Nevada, the Democratic leader, plans
to move ahead with legislation that would revive tariff
preferences for goods from developing nations after lawmakers
voted 84-8 last night to limit debate, the first step in the
process of acting on the measures. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said he will offer an amendment that would extend the
aid program for workers who lose their jobs to overseas
competition.  Trade accords with South Korea,  Colombia  and Panama reached
under President  George W. Bush  have stalled over disagreements
tied to extending a program that helps workers who lose their
jobs to overseas competition. Passing the aid, known as Trade
Adjustment Assistance, would meet a condition Obama set before
he would send the trade deals to Congress.  The vote last night was “a real shot in the arm for the
trade process,” Greg Mastel, a lobbyist and former chief of
staff to Baucus, who heads the Senate Finance Committee, said in
an interview. “I view this vote as a barometer of where things
stand. A strong vote means good wind at their backs as they
begin their work.”  The  South Korea  deal, the biggest for the U.S. since the
 North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994, would boost U.S.
exports by as much as $10.9 billion in the first year in which
it’s in full effect, according to the U.S. International Trade
Commission. The accord with Colombia would increase exports by
as much as $1.1 billion a year.  Bangladesh Bags  Opposition to the trade-preferences program is led by
Senator  Jeff Sessions , an  Alabama  Republican, who wanted
Congress to strip sleeping bags shipped from Bangladesh because
the low-cost imports endanger jobs at competitor Exxel Outdoors
Inc. in Haleyville, Alabama.  “I believe in free-trade, my voting record proves this,”
Sessions said on the Senate floor. “But free-trade is not free
if we allow ourselves to be exploited.”  Seven Republicans joined him in opposing the motion to
proceed to the bill as most Republicans, including party leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , joined the Democrats on the
procedural vote.  Trade preferences help “Americans keep their jobs by
providing the low-cost inputs that U.S. manufacturers need,”
Baucus said in his floor statement. Worker aid “helps Americans
who lose their jobs get the skills they need to secure a new
job,” he said.  ‘Fast-Track’ Authority  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports both the trade
preferences and worker aid, and passage of the free-trade
agreements is among the top legislative priorities this year for
the nation’s largest business lobby,  Bruce Josten , the group’s
chief lobbyist, wrote in a letter to the Senate yesterday.  McConnell plans to offer an amendment to renew “fast-
track” authority, intended to require that Congress act on
trade agreements within a limited time and without changes after
the president submits them, his staff said yesterday. The
authority expired after Democrats gained control of Congress
under Bush in 2007.  Obama hasn’t requested the authority’s renewal. A push for
it could “trigger an all-out ideological struggle over U.S.
trade policy” in the current political climate, a Council on
Foreign Relations panel that included former Democratic Senate
Leader Tom Daschle and Andrew Card, the White House chief of
staff under Bush, said in a report yesterday.  Senate Support  A “fast-track” amendment probably will fail because most
Democrats oppose it and the party holds a majority of Senate
seats, Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, said last week.
While Hatch opposes the worker aid, he said the program has
enough support to pass both the Senate and House, easing the
path for the Obama administration to submit the trade deals.  “It’s an important thing to get these three free-trade
agreements passed,” Hatch said. “If you have to go through
some amendments, let’s go through them. That’s not so difficult
to do. That’s what this body is supposed to do. It’s time to
face the music. You can’t win on these things without trying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  