-- 
Senate Panel Eliminates Spending for Obama High-Speed Passenger Rail Plan

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-09-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/senate-panel-eliminates-spending-for-obama-high-speed-passenger-rail-plan.html
President  Barack Obama ’s high-speed
passenger rail initiative may be unfunded next year after a
panel controlled by fellow Democrats approved legislation that
contains no money for the program.  The Senate Appropriations subcommittee that sets the
Transportation Department’s budget approved the spending plan
yesterday, said John Bray, a spokesman for the panel. The full
committee is scheduled to consider the bill today.  The high-speed rail program is “a casualty of the cuts
mandated in the debt-limit deal” Obama and congressional
Republican leaders struck in August, Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a
New Jersey Democrat and a supporter of the president’s program,
said in an e-mailed statement. Lautenberg is a member of the
transportation subcommittee.  Obama sent a budget to Congress in February requesting $8
billion next year and $53 billion through 2018 to provide high-
speed rail service to 80 percent of Americans within 25 years.
Eliminating that funding may have the most impact on
 California ’s plans to build a new high-speed rail system.  As part of a deal to raise the federal debt limit, a 12-
member Congressional committee was set up to create a 10-year
plan to cut at least $1.5 trillion by Nov. 23.  The Republican-controlled House’s transportation
appropriations subcommittee, which adopted its spending bill
Sept. 8, also didn’t fund the program for fiscal year 2012.  The $447 billion  jobs bill  Obama submitted to lawmakers
this month seeks to devote $4 billion more to the initiative.  $7 Billion Awarded  The program was created in the 2009 stimulus law and has
received $10.1 billion from Congress. The Transportation
Department has awarded  $7 billion  of that amount so far. Most of
the money has gone toward increasing the speed on existing
passenger routes or project planning.  California has been awarded almost $3.5 billion in stimulus
money, which will be matched by state funding for construction
starting next year, said Rachel Wall, a spokeswoman for the
California High-Speed Rail Authority.  “This was a subcommittee vote, and the full committee
still needs to vote,” Wall said. “We’ll remain cautiously
optimistic as the congressional process plays itself out.”  The state plans to build the largest network of high-speed
trains in the U.S., an 800-mile system that would operate at up
to 220 miles an hour and cost $43 billion, according to
government estimates. It’s counting on federal help to complete
the project, which is to connect the San Francisco Bay area,  Los
Angeles  and  San Diego .  The Senate bill would allocate $544 million to  Amtrak , the
U.S. passenger railroad, for operating grants in 2012, or $18
million less than current funding, according to Eli Zupnick, a
spokesman for Senator  Patty Murray , the Washington Democrat who
is the transportation subcommittee’s chairman. It also would
provide $937 million for  capital spending  and debt service, up
$15 million from its fiscal 2011 appropriation.  The House subcommittee  bill  would give Amtrak $227 million
for operations and $899 million in capital and debt-service
grants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  