-- 
Shekel 4.3% Decline Sufficient, Steinitz Says: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-09-21T15:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/shekel-4-3-decline-sufficient-steinitz-says-israel-overnight.html
The shekel’s 4.3 percent drop
against the dollar this year is sufficient to benefit the
economy and the government doesn’t plan to push for further
weakening, Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said.  “The current level is fine,” Steinitz, 53, said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.
“We’re happy about it. It was very difficult for the export
industry to handle a very strong shekel.”  Israel ’s currency, which advanced 7.6 percent in 2010, hit
a 12-month low on Sept. 12 as slowing global growth and
escalating tensions with Egypt and Turkey deterred investors, he
said. The shekel is headed for its worst annual performance
since 2005.  The currency slipped 0.1 percent to at 3.6884 per dollar at
5:50 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the
largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S. fell 2.1 percent to
80.68 yesterday, led by  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)   Steinitz said the economy will grow 4.5 percent to 4.7
percent this year, more than double the 1.6 percent rate the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted yesterday for developed
nations yet less than the agency’s 4.8 percent prediction for
Israel. The outlook for 2012 is “difficult to say” given the
turmoil in the global economy, Steinitz said.  About a third of Israel’s exports head to Europe, where a
debt crisis is spreading and leaders are struggling to avert a
default by  Greece , he said.  Effect on Exports  It’s “hard to say the ramifications of the crisis,” said
Steinitz, who was a lecturer in philosophy at Haifa University
before entering the Knesset in 1999 as a member of the Likud
Party. “Today there’s less requests for our exports in  Europe .
There’s some impact.”  The stock market in Israel, whose population of 7.7 million
is similar to  Switzerland ’s, was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. The country has 57 companies traded
on the  Nasdaq , the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China  and is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  Israel’s economy expanded an annualized 3.5 percent in the
second quarter, faster than the government’s initial estimate of
3.3 percent, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics
said Sept. 18.  ‘Vibrant’ Economy  Steinitz said months of turmoil in the  Middle East  have had
a “very minimal” effect on Israel’s economy. The IMF raised
its forecast for the nation’s growth rate for 2011 yesterday
from 3.8 percent in April.  The economy is “very vibrant,” Steinitz said in an
interview with  Tom Keene  yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Midday Surveillance.”  At the same time, the Washington-based fund cut its
forecast for global growth and predicted “severe”
repercussions should Europe fail to contain its debt crisis or
U.S. policy makers remain deadlocked over a fiscal plan.  Concern about global growth comes at a time when Israel’s
diplomatic ties with Egypt and  Turkey  are deteriorating and
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas plans to request
this week that the  United Nations Security Council  recognize a
Palestinian state.  “The events in the Middle East and the global events have
caused people to move from the shekel to the dollar,” said
Steinitz, who was appointed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
at the end of March 2009, when the government took office. “In
a sense, it’s good for us that the shekel is weakening.”  Fischer’s Actions  Central Bank Governor Stanley Fischer began buying foreign
currency in 2008 after the shekel reached a 12-year high. The
bank has more than doubled reserves in an effort to moderate the
shekel gains and help exports, which make up about 40 percent of
gross domestic product. At the same time, the government is
concerned about causing inflation to accelerate after more than
400,000 people protested the rising cost of living in street
protests early this month.  Consumer prices rose more than analysts forecast in August
from the same month last year, increasing 3.4 percent as home
rental costs climbed, government-regulated electricity fees
increased and the weaker shekel pushed up import and travel
prices.  “We did a lot to weaken the shekel and finally we did
succeed,” Steinitz said, adding that the currency doesn’t need
to depreciate further. “If it’s too weak, then the cost of
living is going up, the imported commodities will be more
expensive.”  Interest Rates  Inflation exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range every month this year.  The  Bank of Israel  can lower its benchmark  interest rate  if
needed as growth slows and risks in the global economy increase,
Fischer said in a Bloomberg interview on Sept. 18. Cutting the
rate would be a reversal for Fischer, who has raised it 10 times
in the past two years as the economy emerged from recession. For
the past three months, Fischer has held the rate at 3.25
percent, compared with near zero benchmark rates in the U.S. and
12 percent in  Brazil ,  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit
government bond due in January 2020 fell two basis points to
4.58 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv . Yields dropped
to 4.37 percent on Sept. 4, the lowest level since November
2010.  Rising Stocks  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index gained 1.7 percent in Tel
Aviv today, extending yesterday’s 3.3 percent jump.  In New York trading, Mellanox, the Israeli adapter maker
that’s part owned by Oracle Corp., fell 10 percent to $31.96,
the most since Aug. 8 after the Tel Aviv-traded shares declined
0.9 percent to 125 shekels, or the equivalent of $33.93,
yesterday.  The $1.97 discount was the largest among the biggest
Israeli companies that trade in the U.S. The company announced
plans for a public offering of 3 million ordinary shares.
Mellanox dropped 3.2 percent in Tel Aviv today.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , which makes devices that
carbonate tap water, retreated 5.4 percent to $39.98 in New
York.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, fell the most in more than a month,
dropping 2.9 percent to $36.62. The Tel Aviv shares lost 1.4
percent to 138.30 shekels, or the equivalent of $37.5,
yesterday. Teva lost 1.3 percent today.  Baxter International Inc. won a bid to force Teva to pay
costs of defending Nevada lawsuits alleging that the drugmakers’
sales of the anesthetic propofol led to patients developing
hepatitis.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, declined
to comment on the judge’s ruling.  Shares also fell after Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. lowered
its recommendation yesterday for the shares to “market
perform” from “outperform” and withdrew the price estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  