-- 
Shultz Says It’s Time to ‘Clean House Again’ With U.S. Tax Code

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-20T00:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/shultz-says-it-s-time-to-clean-house-with-u-s-tax-code-to-boost-economy.html
George P. Shultz, a former head of
the U.S. Treasury and onetime secretary of state, called for the
elimination of tax preferences to stimulate the economy and
increase government revenue.  “It’s time to clean house again,” Shultz, who headed the
State Department for President  Ronald Reagan  in the 1980s, said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.
“The 1986 tax act is sort of the unsung hero of the very good
economic times we had for a long time. Of course, politics gums
it all up again and preferences get put in.”  The  Tax Reform Act of 1986  lowered some rates and equalized
the treatment of  capital gains  and ordinary income. Congress has
since raised the top income-tax rate to 35 percent and dropped
the top capital-gains rate to 15 percent. Shultz, 90, said a
simplification of the code would allow Congress to lower rates
on a “revenue-neutral” basis, while economic expansion would
boost tax receipts.  “You’ll get a gusher,” Shultz said. “If you get this
kind of stimulative  tax policy  and other things into effect,
there will be a response and revenue will come in.”  President  Barack Obama  called yesterday for $1.5 trillion
in tax increases over the next decade to help trim the deficit.
Obama’s plan, which mostly targets the wealthy, drew criticism
from congressional Republicans including Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , who called the approach “class warfare.”
Shultz said rich people and large companies like General
Electric Co. are the beneficiaries of a complicated tax system.  ‘Wealthy People’  “It’s wealthy people and the GEs of the world that know
how to manipulate these preferences and get their tax rates
down,” said Shultz, an  economist  and former dean of the
University of Chicago’s business school. “The average Joe
doesn’t have access to those lawyers.”  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, said the company favors  tax reform  and the elimination
of loopholes.  “We would welcome the opportunity to focus on making
things the world needs and not on complying with the Byzantine
tax structure as it exists,” Williams said in an e-mailed
statement.  Shultz said Congress should consider Obama’s proposal to
eliminate the so-called carried-interest exemption, which allows
hedge-fund managers and private-equity executives to count some
forms of compensation as capital gains. Any revenue gained
should be returned to taxpayers by cutting rates, Shultz said.  “Obama seems to want to do something to damage rich
people,” Shultz said. “You don’t get gushers of revenue by
raising tax rates. You get it through expansion.”  Buffett Rule  Warren Buffett , the 81-year-old chief executive officer of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , argued this year for raising taxes for
the “mega-rich” in the U.S. Obama’s plan to tap the wealthy,
which the White House calls the Buffett rule, would require that
taxpayers with incomes of $1 million or more pay at least the
same percentage in taxes as middle-income Americans, Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  Shultz was secretary of state under Reagan from 1982 to
1989. He headed the Treasury Department from 1972 to 1974 in the
administration of President Richard M. Nixon and was on the
Council of Economic Advisers for President  Dwight D. Eisenhower .
Under Nixon, Shultz worked with  Paul Volcker , who later as
chairman of the  Federal Reserve  helped bring the U.S. out of the
“stagflation,” or simultaneous high unemployment and high
inflation, of the 1970s.  Burden of Debt  Shultz said the Fed erred in the first decade of this
century by keeping  interest rates  too low. While the central
bank’s purchases of Treasuries helped maintain low rates,
inflation will eventually push up borrowing costs, Shultz said.  “Some secretary of the Treasury not too far from now is
going to find that it’s easy for interest rates to quadruple,
easy, from these low short-term levels,” Shultz said. “And
what does that do to the burden of the debt? Staggering.”  “This is exactly how we got into stagflation,” said
Shultz, chairman of the energy task force at Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution.  Two-year Treasury yields slid 1 basis point to 0.15 percent
yesterday after touching a record-low 0.1451 percent. That
compares with an average yield of about 2.44 percent over the
last decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  