-- 
Siemens Power Grid Orders Suffer as Arab Spring Crimps Spending

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/siemens-power-grid-orders-suffer-as-arab-spring-crimps-spending.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s new orders for its
power-transmission grids have slowed in the second half, partly
because political upheaval has brought infrastructure spending
in North Africa to a standstill, the head of the unit said.  Siemens will probably generate new orders of about 7
billion euros ($9.6 billion) at the power transmission unit in
the year ending Sept. 30, Udo Niehage, who runs the subsidiary,
said in an interview. In the  first half , the order intake
reached almost 4 billion euros. Orders for 2011 will still
exceed last year, when the intake reached 6.77 billion euros.  “It’s noticeable, and we won’t end the second half in the
same way that we ended the first,” Niehage said in an interview
on the Spanish island of  Mallorca  yesterday. The company reports
earnings for its full year on Nov. 10.  Siemens has traditionally held a major market positions in
Algeria,  Libya  and  Morocco , and Niehage said the company
evacuated more than 100 people from Libya alone as rebel forces
sought for months to depose Muammar Qaddafi’s government. The
German engineering company’s grip on the North African market
may be at risk once reconstruction resumes, as competitors seek
to muscle into the market, Niehage said.  The energy division’s overall new orders in the second half
will slow, after the intake didn’t advance in the third quarter,
Siemens said on July 28. The division, which also includes
fossil-power generation, renewable energy and distribution
units, is Siemens’s second-largest by revenue after the
industrial unit. Michael Suess, named head of the business in
April, and Niehage met journalists in Mallorca to visit a
transmission site near Palma de Mallorca.  Grid Upgrade  The power-transmission unit is benefiting from higher
demand in countries such as India, Russia and  Brazil , as well as
the replacement of ageing transmission equipment in  North
America  and  Europe , Niehage said. In  Germany , which plans to
pull out of nuclear energy in the next decade, a push to build
up more renewable-power sources will require an expansion of the
grid to accommodate more wind and solar-energy power, he said.  The Munich-based company announced this week that it will
follow Germany’s exit from nuclear power, and has shelved plans
to create a joint venture with Russian atomic-energy company
Rosatom Corp. Siemens has gradually retreated from nuclear-plant
construction, and the company sold its stake in a joint venture
with Areva SA of  France  in 2009.  Triumvirate  The shift in  energy policy  may require more than 3,000
kilometers (1,900 miles) of new power-transmission lines as more
electricity is generated in remote areas such as offshore wind
farms, from where it needs to transported to industrial hubs,
Niehage said, citing a figure by Germany’s Dena energy agency.
The cost to build up the grid may exceed 20 billion euros, he
said, citing Dena.  Siemens competes with  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  of  Switzerland  and France’s
 Alstom SA (ALO)  in the European market for transmission equipment.
ABB, based in Zurich, remains ahead in areas such as
transformers, a lead Siemens would only be able to overcome with
the help of acquisitions, Niehage said. Possible targets may be
Asian competitors, though none of them are currently for sale,
he said.  Siemens is also among the largest makers of  wind turbines ,
a business the company created from the acquisition of Danish
manufacturer Bonus A/S in 2004. The market for solar energy has
not yet reached an industrial scale similar to wind power, and
Suess told journalists that “we’re still in a stage where you
have a lot of different technology bets to make.”  Profitability at the renewable energy division has halved,
with operating profit at 7 percent of sales in the quarter ended
June 30, from as high as 14.2 percent 10 quarters earlier. Last
month, Siemens said it will split its renewable energy division
in two, separating wind energy activities from solar and
hydroelectric power.  “It’s a signal that we’re willing to invest in this
business,” Suess said. “We are going to expand it in the same
consequent way that we did with Bonus. There will be a clear
growth path in solar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  