-- 
Siemens Deposits More Than 500 Million Euros With ECB, FT Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-20T04:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/siemens-deposits-more-than-500-million-euros-with-ecb-ft-says.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  deposited more than 500
million euros ($681 million) with the  European Central Bank 
after withdrawing the funds from a French lender two weeks ago,
the Financial Times  reported .  The money was moved amid concern with the financial health
of the unidentified French lender and higher  interest rates  paid
by the European Central Bank, the Financial Times said, citing
an unidentified person with direct knowledge of the matter. The
Munich-based engineering company has between 4 billion euros and
6 billion euros on one-week deposit at the ECB, the FT said.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)   and Societe Generale SA, France’s
second- and third-largest banks, last week had their long-term
credit ratings cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service, on
concern that risk levels for their investments in  Greece  have
increased. BNP Paribas SA, the biggest French lender, had its
rating kept on review for a possible cut, a position all three
lenders were put in on June 15.  BNP Paribas was not the bank involved in the Siemens move,
the Financial Times said, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the lender.  Siemens and the ECB declined to comment, the newspaper
reported. Belinda White, a spokesman for Siemens in  Australia ,
referred questions from Bloomberg News to the company’s offices
in Germany. Calls to Oliver Santen, a Siemens spokesman in
Munich, were not answered outside of normal office hours.  The company last year filed a request with regulators for a
banking license to help it expand financial services.  Only a “handful” of companies have the banking license
that allows them to deposit cash directly with the ECB,
according to the FT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  