-- 
Slovenia Lawmakers Topple Government in Vote That May Delay EU Rescue Plan

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-20T16:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/slovenian-government-may-fall-amid-debt-crisis.html
Slovenia’s government lost a
confidence vote, plunging the first former communist euro-region
member into turmoil that may delay the approval of the European
Union’s rescue fund amid a sovereign-debt crisis.  Lawmakers in Ljubljana voted 51-36 today to topple Prime
Minister Borut Pahor’s administration, according to parliament’s
press service. General elections are likely to be held as early
as December, which may force a postponement of a vote to back
the legislation enhancing the EU rescue fund, known as the
European Financial Stability Facility.  “An eventual delay in Slovenia would slow the whole
ratification process, since Slovakia, where one of the ruling
parties opposes a more powerful EFSF, has already made it clear
that it wants to be the last eurozone member to vote on the
issue,” Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Slovenia, along with other newer EU nations such as
Slovakia, are showing little empathy for countries that aren’t
showing the fiscal discipline they were forced to endure as part
of becoming members in 2004.  Slovak Premier Iveta Radicova has proposed linking a vote
on the euro bailout facility with a confidence motion on the
Cabinet to boost the chances the legislation will pass and deal
with the continent’s debt crisis, Finance Minister Ivan Miklos
said today.  Discontent  The head of Freedom and Solidarity, one of the four ruling
Slovak parties, says party lawmakers will reject the overhaul of
the bailout fund. Radicova needs the party’s votes to push
through the overhaul of the EFSF, the temporary bailout fund
designed by EU leaders. A failure to approve the package in
Slovakia, the euro-area’s second-poorest member, may delay euro-
area approval of the plan to prevent the sovereign debt crisis
from engulfing countries such as Spain and  Italy .  Slovenia’s economy is losing momentum with export demand in
Europe weakening. Gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent in
the second quarter on the year from 2.3 percent in the previous
three-month period. The economy is now forecast to expand 1.5
percent this year after a previous estimate of 1.8 percent,
according to Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic .  Pahor’s administration took power at the end of 2008 as the
global financial crisis started to take its toll on the world
economy. Slovenia’s export-dependent economy was among the
hardest hit in the 2009 recession and the government has
struggled ever since to put economic growth on a more solid
footing.  Failure  “Key reforms have failed to materialize under this
government, including the pension changes and labor-market
overhaul,” Radivoj Pregelj, an analyst at Nova Gorica-based
Abanka Vipa d.d., said in a phone interview. “The next
administration should be more stable and sound even though much-
needed reforms in Slovenia are difficult to implement.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt more
than doubled since the pension changes were rejected in June.
The difference rose to 305 basis points, or 3.05 percentage
points, in Ljubljana at 3:47 p.m. from 147 basis points on June
6, according to Bloomberg data.  Political uncertainty pushed the SBITOP, Slovenia’s
benchmark index of six most-traded stocks, to slide for a third
consecutive session. The index declined 0.2 percent to 609.90
points at 3:47 p.m. in Ljubljana.  Early Elections  Early elections in Slovenia are not a straightforward
matter. In the case of a no-confidence vote, lawmakers have a
period of 30 days to propose another possible leader who may
assemble a majority in the legislature. If that person fails,
the president dissolves the parliament.  “The probability of a new interim leader emerging is very
slim and the early vote option is the most likely outcome,” Ali
Zerdin, a political analyst and editor at Delo newspaper in
Ljubljana, said in an e-mail.  Janez Jansa, a former premier and the leader of  Slovenia’s
Democratic Party , is likely to emerge as the winner of an early
vote, according to a survey by Episcenter polling agency.
Jansa’s group would win 27 percent of the vote compared with 15
percent for Pahor’s Social Democrats, according to the Sept. 3
survey of 802 people and published by  Finance newspaper . No
margin of error was given.  Jansa recently warned of “‘uncontrolled increase” of debt
by the current administration and on May 7 said on his party’s
website that financial assistance to  Greece  from countries such
as Slovenia “isn’t fair” because Greek workers have higher
salaries.  “The ruling coalition is thus creating a fiscally dramatic
situation for the next government, which will have to set aside
10 percent of the budget a year just for interest payment,”
Jansa wrote on his Facebook page on Sept. 19. His office
confirmed the posting to Bloomberg News.  In 2008, Slovenia was allocating 2 percent of the budget
for interest payments, according to Jansa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  