-- 
Slovenian President Urges Cabinet Action Amid EFSF Crisis

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-21T10:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/slovenia-lawmakers-topple-government-in-vote-that-may-delay-eu-rescue-plan.html
Slovenian President Danilo Turk
urged leaders to settle squabbles that toppled the government of
the first former communist euro-region member to avoid a delay
in approving the European Union’s rescue fund amid a sovereign-
debt crisis.  Lawmakers ousted Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s government
yesterday in a confidence motion after two parties left over
pension changes, with elections now likely to be held as early
as December. The fall of the minority Cabinet may force a
postponement of a vote to back the legislation enhancing the
European Financial Stability Facility after EU leaders on July
21 agreed to upgrade the 440 billion-euro ($602 billion) fund,
which needs unanimous backing in all 17 euro-area members.  “The political situation in Slovenia is serious and
strained and demands responsible action from all political
subjects,” Turk said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, noting
he will cut short a visit to the U.S. “Now is the time for
quick and well-thought action.”  Slovenia, along with other newer EU nations such as
Slovakia, is showing little empathy for countries that aren’t
showing the fiscal discipline they were forced to endure as part
of becoming members in 2004.  Slovenia’s Democratic Party , which
opinion polls show is likely to emerge as the winner of an early
election, is headed by Janez Jansa, who has said countries such
as his shouldn’t have to fund nations like Greece.  ‘Counterproductive’  “The government will work to ensure enough support for the
EFSF in a vote in parliament,” the  Finance Ministry  said in an
e-mailed statement today. “A rejection of the key instrument
for financial stability of the euro region would be
counterproductive as it would limit the effectiveness of the EU
fund and would negatively impact Slovenia’s credibility in the
international environment.”  A delay in Slovenia would slow the whole ratification
process, since Slovakia, where one of the ruling parties,
Freedom and Solidarity, opposes a more powerful EFSF, has
already made it clear that it wants to be the last euro-region
member to vote on the issue, Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP
Paribas in Warsaw, wrote in a note to clients.  EU Confidence  The European Commission said it is sure that Slovenia will
ratify the upgrade of the euro area’s bailout fund even after
the government’s defeat in a confidence vote yesterday.  “We do have full confidence in the democratic institutions
of Slovenia to meet its obligations and fulfill its
commitments,” commission spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen told
reporters in Brussels today.  Slovak Premier Iveta Radicova has proposed linking a vote
on the euro-bailout facility with a confidence motion on the
Cabinet to boost chances the legislation, which is aimed at
preventing the sovereign-debt crisis from engulfing countries
such as Spain and  Italy , will pass.  Before the confidence vote in Ljubljana yesterday, a
parliamentary committee backed the legislation enhancing the EU
rescue fund. Slovenian lawmakers may vote on it on Sept. 27 if
they can agree on a session, said parliamentary spokeswoman
Karmen Uglesic.  Pahor’s administration took power at the end of 2008 as the
global financial crisis started to take its toll on the world
economy. Slovenia’s export-dependent economy was among the
hardest hit in the 2009 recession and the government has
struggled to put economic growth on a more solid footing.  Slovenia’s economy is now losing momentum with export
demand in Europe weakening. Gross domestic product expanded 0.9
percent in the second quarter on the year from 2.3 percent in
the previous three-month period. The economy is forecast to
expand 1.5 percent this year after a previous estimate of 1.8
percent, according to Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic .  ‘Stable and Sound’  “The next administration should be more stable and sound
even though much-needed reforms in Slovenia are difficult to
implement,” Radivoj Pregelj, an analyst at Nova Gorica-based
Abanka Vipa d.d., said by phone.  Slovenian shares will continue to fall especially as
“foreigners continue to sell drugmaker Krka Group d.d., which
is pushing the whole market down,” Pregelj said today. The
benchmark SBITOP dropped for a fourth consecutive session. The
gauge of the six most-traded stocks fell 0.4 percent to 607.90
points at 12:34 p.m., heading for the lowest level in eight
years.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt more
than doubled since the pension changes were rejected in June.
The difference rose to 305 basis points, or 3.05 percentage
points, in Ljubljana, from 147 basis points on June 6, according
to Bloomberg data.  Early Vote  Early elections in Slovenia are not a straightforward
matter. In the case of a no-confidence vote, lawmakers have a
period of 30 days to propose another possible leader who may
assemble a majority in the legislature. If that person fails,
the president dissolves the parliament.  Jansa’s  Slovenia’s Democratic Party  would win 27 percent of
the vote compared with 15 percent for Pahor’s Social Democrats,
according to a survey by Episcenter polling agency. The Sept. 3
survey of 802 people, published by  Finance newspaper , gave no
margin of error.  Jansa, a former premier, recently warned of an
“uncontrolled increase” of debt by the current administration
and on May 7 said on his party’s website that financial
assistance to  Greece  from countries such as Slovenia “isn’t
fair” because Greek workers have higher salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  