-- 
Social Security’s ‘Last Legs’ Seen Carrying Program for Decades

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/social-security-s-last-legs-seen-carrying-program-for-decades.html
The fight for the Republican
presidential nomination sometimes seems to be a contest over
who can say the most alarming things about Social Security.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  calls the program a “monstrous
lie,” while former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , warns
of its “looming bankruptcy.” Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas
says Social Security is “on its last legs.”  The air of crisis is striking, given that the program --
far from being broke -- can pay promised benefits for the next
25 years. After that, even without fixes such as higher payroll
taxes or further increases in the retirement age, it could meet
about three-quarters of its obligations through 2085, the
 latest report  of the Social Security and Medicare Trustees
shows.  “It’s more of a long-term problem,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
chief economist for MF Global Inc. in  New York . “Over the long
haul, total outlays will start to exceed total revenues, but
that doesn’t happen for several decades.”  While portraying Social Security as doomed, none of the
Republicans have offered specific proposals to fix the problem.
They aren’t alone. After indicating during this summer’s debt-
ceiling talks a willingness to curb future cost-of-living
increases for Social Security recipients, President  Barack Obama  exempted the program, which spent $712.6 billion last
year, from his deficit-reduction plan unveiled yesterday.  “Both parties have seemed to pull back from sensible
reforms,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the nonpartisan
Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.  Unpopular Fixes  The two parties’ caution is no surprise. While younger
Americans increasingly see Social Security as a bad deal, some
of the tax increases and benefit reductions required to repair
the program are unpopular. By a margin of 63 percent to 29
percent, respondents in the latest Bloomberg National Poll
opposed cutting benefits by changing the formula used to
calculate annual cost-of-living adjustments.  The two leading Republican candidates are staking out
rival positions, with Perry vowing to “transform” Social
Security and Romney casting himself as a defender of the
program. Both have been mute on details, beyond promising that
current retirees would be unaffected by any changes.  Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, said the
candidate addressed potential Social Security fixes in his book,
“No Apology,” and in his jobs plan. In them, he ruled out
higher taxes and described an increase in the retirement age, a
cut in benefits and individual accounts as “options” without
endorsing any single action.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  Perry, who drew criticism for labeling the program a
“Ponzi scheme,” has praised the example of Galveston County,
 Texas , where public-sector workers withdrew from Social
Security in 1981 and set up a program of individual accounts.
Such withdrawals are no longer permitted.  In Galveston, higher-income employees and those with fewer
dependents did better than they would have with Social Security,
according to analyses by the Government Accountability Office
and the Social Security Administration. Workers can’t take
benefits with them if they change jobs and payments aren’t
indexed for inflation, unlike Social Security.  Catherine Frazier, a Perry spokeswoman, said the governor
sees Social Security as “a prime example of what is broken in
Washington” and had cited Galveston to show “there are
alternatives we should be looking at.”  Perry is one of at least four Republican hopefuls who have
lauded individual accounts, like those proposed by President
 George W. Bush  in 2005, as an alternative to traditional Social
Security for younger workers.  Bigger Savings  Allowing workers to divert a portion of their Social
Security contributions to a menu of stock and bond index funds
offers the chance to accumulate larger retirement savings.
Individual account holders, however, would risk outliving their
savings, unlike Social Security’s lifetime guarantee.  “You know you’ll have more money at the end of your
lifetime if you control it than the politicians,” former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who’s seeking the Republican
presidential nomination, said during a Sept. 12 debate in Tampa,
 Florida .  By themselves, such accounts would do nothing to buttress
Social Security’s financial health. Moving toward such a system
would even make the federal  budget deficit  bigger.  During the shift, Social Security would still be paying
benefits to people who retired under the traditional system
while some of the incoming payroll-tax revenue would be
diverted to the new investment accounts. The government would
need to borrow the difference.  Not Happening  “That’s why it’s never going to happen,” said Andrew Biggs, a former White House official who worked on the Bush
plan. “Nobody wants to pay the transition costs.”  Biggs, now a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute  in  Washington , said the annual addition to the
deficit could be almost $60 billion.  Still, financing arrangements for both Social Security and
the Medicare health-insurance program for the elderly “are not
sustainable,” the program trustees said, adding that the
sooner officials act, the easier the adjustment will be.  Social Security is under stress because people are living
longer and there are fewer workers supporting each retiree.  A 65-year-old man in 1940 could anticipate living about 12
more years compared with more than 17 in 2010, according to the
May 13 trustees report.  In 1945, the earliest program data available, there were
almost 42 workers supporting each beneficiary. That number fell
as people began retiring, reaching fewer than three last year.  Political Obstacles  Fixing the program is easier mathematically than
politically. Various combinations of higher taxes, reduced
benefits or later retirement ages would suffice. Immediately
increasing the combined 12.4 percent payroll tax by 2.15
percentage points or cutting benefits by 13.8 percent would
make Social Security solvent for 75 years, the trustees said.  The political storm over Perry’s charge that Social
Security is a Ponzi scheme obscured genuine anger among some
voters over the program’s generational unfairness.  A Census Bureau report last week found that the only group
of Americans not suffering increased poverty is those at least
65 years old. Younger workers now paying the benefits for
today’s retirees will earn a much lower return on their Social
Security contributions than did their elders.  Divided Over Ponzi  The first retirees, those born before 1901, earned an 18.4
percent return; those retiring this year received 2.5 percent,
according to an analysis by Dean Leimer of the  Social Security
Administration . Ida May Fuller, the first Social Security
recipient, paid $22 in taxes into the program and received
benefits worth about $20,000, according to a  1996 paper  by
Jagadeesh Gokhale and Kevin Lansing, economists with the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  That generational grievance may explain the public divide
over Perry’s Ponzi remarks. The Bloomberg National Poll showed
that 46 percent agreed with the Texas governor, compared with
50 percent who disagreed.  Social Security benefits are paid from a “trust fund,”
an accounting mechanism that keeps tabs on promises the
government has made to pay future benefits. The program is
funded by payroll taxes paid by workers and employers on
incomes up to $106,800; income earned on  Treasury securities ;
and taxes that higher-income retirees pay on their Social
Security benefits.  Special ‘IOUs’  By law, Social Security is required to invest any surplus
funds in special-issue securities guaranteed by the U.S.
government. That’s how the trust fund ended up with securities,
which some program skeptics deride as “IOUs,” rather than
cash or some other asset.  Last year, for the first time since 1983, the program’s
expenses exceeded its non-interest income. Social Security
covered the $49 billion deficit by drawing down its trust fund
balance, which it will also do this year.  The fund -- worth $2.6 trillion at the end of 2010 -- is
expected to grow for the next 11 years thanks to interest
earned on the securities. After 2022, Social Security will be
cashing in so many securities that the fund will begin
shrinking until it’s exhausted in 2036, according to the
trustees’ report.  The government will need to borrow more, raise other taxes
or cut other spending to pay the Social Security Administration
for the securities it redeems.  Honoring Bonds  “The bonds in the trust funds will be honored under any
reform plan and under any scenario, but we will still have to
ultimately figure out how to balance incoming taxes and
outgoing benefits,” Charles Blahous, a trustee, said in an e-
mail.  Romney believes the program’s need to redeem increasing
amounts of securities, coupled with the impact of the weak
economy on payroll tax revenue, demands quick action,
spokeswoman Saul said.  There’s no shortage of proposals to extend the program’s
lifespan.  MacGuineas’s group last year recommended raising both the
early and standard retirement ages by one year to 63 and 68 and
indexing them to rising life expectancy. The plan would trim
cost-of-living raises and slow the growth of benefits for
middle- and higher-income workers.  Fiscal Commission  The chairmen of the 2010 National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform, former Senator  Alan Simpson  and
onetime White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, recommended
changing the COLA formula, bringing new state and local
government workers into the program after 2020 and lifting the
cap on income subject to Social Security taxes.  Under current law, the cap is scheduled to rise from
$106,800 to $168,000 in 2020. The Simpson-Bowles plan would
raise that to $190,000.  All potential solutions involve hard choices.  “I can’t imagine that Congress will sit on its hands and
let everyone get a 25 percent benefit cut,” said  Peter Diamond ,
a  Nobel Prize  winning economist at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology . “The real question with Social Security is not
will we fix it, but when?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 Choyt2@bloomberg.net  