-- 
Solaria Energia to Sign Accord With Chinese Partner Amid Investment Push

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-09-20T17:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/solaria-to-sign-deal-with-chinese-partner-amid-investment-push.html
Solaria Energia & Medio Ambiente
SA, Spain’s only traded solar-panel maker, is set to form an
alliance with a Chinese investor amid concern  Germany  may seek
to deter imports of generators from outside the European Union.  Chief Executive Officer Arturo Diaz-Tejeiro, 32, flew to
 China  yesterday to sign the accord as part of a broader plan to
attract Asian investors to finance solar  power plants  in  Europe .
The company he founded in 2002 also is looking for an ally to
help it tap emerging markets such as Indonesia and Vietnam. The
shares rose 11 percent, the most since March.  “We are going to look at the possibility of Chinese
capital investing outside China,” Diaz-Tejeiro said in an
interview yesterday at the company’s Madrid headquarters.
“We’re going there to sign, though anything can happen,” he
said, declining to give more information on the possible deal.  Solaria’s panels, assembled in Puertollano,  Spain , from
Chinese components, earn developers 10 percent higher subsidies
in Italy compared with generators from outside the region after
the company was certified as an EU manufacturer last month.
Clients in Germany, the biggest market for solar panels, are
concerned their government may introduce a similar provision to
the one in Italy, Diaz-Tejeiro said.  “We have German clients who are requesting that
certificate from us,” he said. “As an investor, if I was in
Germany I wouldn’t consider investing with a Chinese module.”  ‘Looking for Partners’  Solaria is increasing its investments in installations that
produce electricity with photovoltaic panels to hedge the risks
of its manufacturing business. The change came after developers
in Germany shut down new orders in the first half of the year
following cuts in government subsidies.  Solar panels Solaria sells for about 1 euro ($1.37) per
watt of capacity may fetch as little as 50 cents next year,
forcing the company to double sales volume to sustain revenue,
Diaz-Tejeiro said.  The company expects to match last year’s revenue of 161
million euros this year after beefing up its sales effort in
Germany and  Italy , the two biggest markets, he said. Diaz-
Tejeiro expects to boost the margin on earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization by about 5 percent.  “I’m looking for partners,” he said. “If it’s a powerful
partner that wants to invest alongside Solaria, that’s good news
for the market.”  Latin America , especially  Brazil , is another interesting
region for the company, Marketing & Sales Director David Carrasco said in the Madrid interview.  “Our investment trends are outside Spain, mainly Italy,
Germany, and now in Brazil as well,” Carrasco said. “We want
to be more focused on Latin America.”  Brazil accounted for about 10 percent of the company’s
sales during the first half of the year. Besides Brazil, its
first phase of expansion in the region will be directed toward
 Chile , Ecuador, Peru and possibly  Argentina .  The stock has lost 36 percent since reaching a 2011 high in
March. Diaz-Tejeiro said the operational plants the company owns
are worth more than its 163 million-euro market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  