-- 
Solyndra Workers’ Aid Request Shows Program’s Flaws, Hatch Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-20T19:33:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/solyndra-workers-aid-request-shows-program-s-flaws-hatch-says.html
The request by employees of failed
solar-panel manufacturer Solyndra LLC for benefits intended for
workers hurt by overseas competition adds to evidence the aid
program is flawed, Republican U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch said.  Solyndra sought  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, after
getting $535 million in loan guarantees from the Obama
administration. The Fremont, California-based company made
products that cost more than domestic competitors, and the
worker’s request for aid blamed low-cost imports from  China ,
Hatch said in a statement on the Senate floor.  “The failure was blamed on China, but if you cannot even
out-compete U.S. companies, it wasn’t foreign competition that
ruined your business, it was simply a failed business model,”
said Hatch of  Utah .  Solyndra ceased operations on Aug. 31, the third U.S. solar
manufacturer to fail in a month as lower-cost Chinese panels and
weak global demand lead to industry consolidation. It was the
only one of the three that received a federal guarantee. Two
days after filing in  bankruptcy court , the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  raided its headquarters.  California state officials applied for Trade Adjustment
Assistance for the 1,100 Solyndra workers on Sept. 2, citing
Chinese subsidies to its alternative-energy industry for the
loss of U.S. jobs, a Labor Department official, who declined to
be identified because of department policy, said last week. The
program is part of the debate as Congress considers free-trade
agreements pending since the George W. Bush administration.  President  Barack Obama  has refused to submit the trade
accords until Congress commits to extend augmented health and
unemployment benefits for workers who lose their jobs to
overseas competition. Hatch opposes the aid, saying that the
assistance, which was expanded in the 2009 stimulus measure, is
unaffordable and inefficient.  “I cannot support increasing funding for a program without
any real evidence that it works,” Hatch said.  The Labor Department’s investigation of the Solyndra
employees’ petition is in progress, and the department makes
decisions within two months on average, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  