-- 
Solyndra Chief Won’t Answer U.S. House Queries

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-20T21:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/solyndra-chief-won-t-answer-u-s-house-queries-lawyer-says-1-.html
Solyndra LLC Chief Executive
Officer Brian Harrison will decline to answer questions this
week at the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s investigation
hearing into the failure of the solar-panel manufacturer.  “Mr. Harrison intends to invoke his Fifth Amendment rights
in response to any questions asked by this subcommittee and will
not provide testimony,” Walter Brown, a lawyer at Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in San Francisco representing
Harrison, wrote today to the investigations panel.  The letter, obtained today, cited the Sept. 8 FBI raid on
Solyndra’s Fremont,  California , offices and a Justice Department
investigation into the company, which got about $527 million in
U.S. loan guarantees from President Barack Obama’s
administration. The company sought  bankruptcy protection  two
days before the raid by  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents.  “Mr. Harrison regrets that these circumstances prevent him
from offering full and complete answers to this subcommittee,”
Brown wrote to Representatives Cliff Stearns, a Florida
Republican and chairman of the Energy committee’s investigation
panel, and Diana DeGette of  Colorado , the panel’s top Democrat.  Solyndra spokesman  David Miller  said Harrison and Chief
Financial Officer W.G. Stover Jr. wouldn’t provide “substantive
answers” to questions from the committee.  “The company is not aware of any wrongdoing by Solyndra
officers, directors or employees” related to the Energy
Department loan guarantees or other actions “and the company is
cooperating fully” with the U.S. Attorney in  San Francisco ,
Miller said in a statement.  ‘Followed Rules’  “The record will establish that Solyndra carefully
followed the rules of the competitive application process,
starting in December 2006 under the  Bush administration  and
continuing under the Obama administration,” he said.  Jan Nielsen Little, an attorney at Keker & Van Nest LLP in
San Francisco representing Stover, said in a letter, “it would
be irresponsible for anyone in his position” to testify before
the House committee given the federal investigation.  Stearns said last week his panel let Harrison and Stover
skip testifying at a Sept. 14 subcommittee hearing in hopes they
would waive their rights against self-incrimination.  Energy committee Republicans released a report on Solyndra
Sept. 14 that said aides to Obama pressed loan officials to
accelerate their review in time to let U.S. officials announce
the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  