-- 
Soros-Backed San Leon Says Polish Shale Profits to Beat U.S.

-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 
2011-09-20T14:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/soros-backed-san-leon-says-polish-shale-gas-profits-to-beat-u-s-.html
San Leon Energy Plc (SLE) , the natural-
gas explorer backed by billionaire  George Soros  and  Blackrock
Inc. (BLK) , expects its Polish shale licenses to be more profitable
than U.S. deposits, the company’s exploration director said.  San Leon, which became one of the leading shale gas
explorers in Poland after buying  Realm Energy International
Corp. (RLM)  for $142 million last month, seeks to profit either
through so-called farm-outs with a cash component or asset sales
once it develops its fields and proves they can produce gas,
John Buggenhagen said in an interview in Warsaw.  Shale gas, unlocked from rocks by blasting them with sand,
chemicals and water, has boosted U.S. production and delivered
the lowest prices in almost a decade. Companies including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  seek to emulate the U.S. boom in
Poland,  Europe ’s biggest holder of shale.  “If you’re getting $4 for your gas in the U.S., here
you’re getting $8, meaning I can produce half as much gas for
the same profit,” Buggenhagen said.  San Leon rose 1.3 percent to 20.25 pence at 2:46 p.m. in
 London , valuing it at 167 million pounds ($262 million).  Dublin-based San Leon has 14 licenses and 1.7 million acres
of land in the eastern European country to explore for shale gas
and conventional hydrocarbons, according to a presentation on
its website. Poland has granted  101 licenses , with eight wells
completed out of a mandatory 124. Test production has started on
two wells.  U.S. Example  “If you look at what’s going on in  North America , I mean
that people are paying $10, $20, $30 an acre, and selling it for
$10,000, $20,000, $30,000 an acre, that’s the kind of return
that we’re looking for.” Buggenhagen said. “We would like to
use our existing capital to start exploring those Realm
concessions on our own, as opposed to giving away acreage
through farm-outs.”  Last year, the company signed a farm-out agreement with
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , under which the Canadian gas explorer will
drill one well on each of San Leon’s concessions in the Baltic
basin in northern Poland in exchange for 30 percent stakes in
the licenses. Talisman has an option to increase its holdings to
60 percent if it drills an additional well on each license.  San Leon was approached by three “significant oil and gas
companies” and may consider more farm-outs after upcoming
drillings, Buggenhagen said.  “If I come and drill the well that costs me $4 million to
$5 million and if I’ve increased the value of that block 10-
fold, then the value of my farm-out is that much more” he said.  Production Start  Poland  may sit atop about 5.2 trillion cubic meters of
shale gas, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Commercial production can start in three to five
years, helped by the relatively high price of Russian gas,
Buggenhagen said.  The country buys some 60 percent of its gas under a long-
term contract from  Russia . In the second quarter the country was
paying more than $400 a 1,000 cubic meters of Russian gas,
according to Polish Deputy Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak.
That’s about three times today’s gas price for October delivery
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  While Poland’s almost complete reliance on coal as fuel for
power generation may help boost shale production given the
European Union’s push to lower carbon-dioxide emissions, the
country should be cautious in increasing royalties for oil and
gas producers, Buggenhagen said.  “What we’re struggling to know is how is the Polish
government going to respond to success, in terms of changing
royalties and income taxes,” he said. “You see that everywhere
in the world -- the greed factor -- how much greed we will see
over the next three to five years.”  Production Fees  Last month, Poland’s largest opposition Law and Justice
party presented a draft law calling for output fees to be at
least 40 percent of the value of the deposit. While the
government argues mining fees should not be set before gas
deposits are proven, in June Pawlak said the country saw  Norway 
and its sovereign wealth fund as a model to benefit from shale
gas production.  “Royalties are less than 1 percent now, so very low,”
Buggenhagen said. “They will go up, for sure, But if you raise
it to 40 percent you’re going to discourage the investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  