-- 
South Korea Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Falls to 3-Year Low as Economy Grows

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-09-20T23:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/south-korea-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls-to-3-year-low-as-economy-grows.html
South Korea ’s unemployment rate
fell to a three-year low as the economy’s expansion boosted
hiring in the service sectors.  The jobless rate was at 3.1 percent in August, the lowest
since July 2008 and down from 3.3 percent in the previous month,
Statistics Korea said today in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of eight economists
was for a rate of 3.3 percent.  Sustained job growth has been fueling inflation exceeding
the central bank’s target since January, prompting the bank to
raise the benchmark  interest rate  three times this year. Still,
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo kept borrowing costs
unchanged for a third month on Sept. 8, saying the bank may not
be able to resume rate increases until “external” factors such
as  Europe ’s debt crisis look to be under control.  “The jobless rate is low and supportive for consumption,”
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong , said before the release. “I think they are done with
the rate tightening cycle. But the recent drop in the won may
keep them vigilant.”  The won fell 1 percent to 1,148.90 per dollar as of 3 p.m.
in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched the weakest level since Dec. 22 on concerns the
deepening European debt crisis may spur an exodus from emerging-
market assets. The benchmark Kospi stock index gained 0.9
percent.  ’Big Surprise’  The job numbers reflect the nation’s “strong” economic
fundamentals and are a “big surprise,” Finance Minister Bahk
Jae Wan said at a government meeting today.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was at a nine-month
low of 3.0 percent in August, compared with 3.3 percent in July,
today’s report showed. The number of employed people increased
by 490,000, or 2 percent, to 24.495 million last month from a
year earlier.  Employment in manufacturing fell 0.7 percent from a year
earlier, while the number of people self-employed or working in
the public-service sector rose 3.5 percent.  The number employed in the electricity, transportation,
telecommunication and finance sectors rose 6.7 percent, while
jobs in the agricultural, fishery and forestry industries
declined 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  