-- 
Southeast Asian Growth to Accelerate to 5.6% in 2012, IMF Says

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/southeast-asian-growth-to-accelerate-to-5-6-in-2012-imf-says.html
Southeast Asian economic growth is
set to accelerate next year as domestic spending counters a
slowdown in exports, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Expansion in  Indonesia , Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines
and Vietnam will climb to 5.6 percent in 2012 from 5.3 percent
this year, with growth “pulled by domestic demand -- in
particular, robust investment -- which will offset the slowdown
in export momentum,” the Washington-based lender said in its
World Economic Outlook report released today.  Europe ’s debt crisis and elevated U.S. unemployment have
hurt demand for Asian exports, prompting Indonesia, Malaysia and
the Philippines to leave  interest rates  unchanged in recent
weeks as officials assess whether price pressures will moderate.
Economic threats may warrant a “wait-and-see approach” for
monetary policy in some Asian economies, the IMF said.  “The risks around the outlook point down, mainly due to the
deterioration in the external environment,” the IMF said in the
report. The “support from accommodative policies” is “more than
offset by a potentially larger drag from external demand,
potential pressure on commodity prices, and persistent financial
shocks from the euro area and the United States,” it said.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of stocks has slumped about 15
percent this year, more than a slide of about 10 percent in the
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, as slowing global growth curbs appetite for
emerging-market investments.  The IMF also said price pressures vary across Asia, with
the risks around inflation continuing to “point up” in Vietnam.  Further exchange-rate flexibility remains a key policy
priority for emerging Asia, the lender said.  The IMF’s 2011 and 2012 growth forecasts for the region
made up of the five Southeast Asian economies are both 0.1
percentage point lower than its June predictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  