-- 
German, Italian Credit Swaps Hit Records as Debt Crisis Deepens

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-20T15:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sovereign-bond-risk-rises-as-italy-germany-swaps-reach-records.html
The cost of insuring against a
default on German and Italian government surged to records as
 Italy ’s downgrade signaled Europe’s debt crisis is spreading.  Credit-default swaps protecting Germany’s bonds rose four
basis points to a record 94 as of 4 p.m. in London, while
contracts tied to Italy jumped 25 basis points to 513, according
to CMA.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Italy’s rating yesterday, saying that
weakening growth, a “fragile” government and rising borrowing
costs would make it hard to reduce Europe’s second-biggest debt
load. The  European Central Bank  was said to have bought Italian
bonds today as part of efforts to contain the crisis that has
already led to  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  being rescued.  “People wonder if there are going to be more bailouts and
support, and what does this actually mean for the underlying
 credit quality  of Germany,” said Anke Richter, a credit
strategist at Mizuho International in London. “Italy has a huge
debt level so the general concern is increasing.”  Italy’s rating was lowered one level to A from A+ by S&P in
the nation’s first downgrade in five years.  Spain , Ireland,
Portugal, Cyprus and Greece are other euro area nations that
have had their credit ratings downgraded this year.  Swaps on  France  increased five basis points to 186, and
Spain was up 12 to 417 basis points. It now costs $5.91 million
in advance and $100,000 annually to insure Greek debt for five
years, CMA prices show.  Greek Default  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on government debt was at 344 basis points at
14:35 in London, based on the price of latest series of the
gauge that started trading today. That compares with 340 basis
points on the previous series yesterday. An increase signals
deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  Stocks in Europe rallied as Greece described its talks
about getting a sixth aid instalment as “productive” and
investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will take steps to
shore up the economy.  Sovereign debt swaps climbed on concern that default by
Greece is more likely after the region’s leaders failed at the
weekend to agree on new measures to halt the crisis. The crisis
is spreading to the euro region’s so-called core countries such
as  Germany  and France because of the cost of rescuing their
weaker neighbors.  Investor Confidence  German investor confidence fell to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years as the sovereign crisis and a global slowdown damped
the outlook for growth. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst
expectations declined to minus 43.3 from minus 37.6 in August.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
economic growth to 4 percent this year and next, compared with
June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2012.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 European companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
cost 795 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That
compares with 747 basis points on the previous series, linked to
40 companies, at the close of trading yesterday.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings cost 185.25 basis points, compared with
186.75 yesterday. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on
the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers cost 291 and the
subordinated index cost 495 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.7 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  