-- 
Spain Sells $6.1 Billion of Bills as Borrowing Costs Rise

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-20T10:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/spain-sells-6-1-billion-of-bills-as-borrowing-costs-rise-1-.html
Spain  sold 4.46 billion euros
($6.09 billion) of 12-month and 18-month bills, just below its
maximum target, and its borrowing costs rose even as the
 European Central Bank  moved to support the nation’s debt.  The Treasury sold 3.59 billion euros of 12-month bills at
an average yield of 3.591 percent, compared with 3.335 percent
in an Aug. 16 auction. It also sold 18-month debt at 3.807
percent, up from 3.592 in August. Demand for the 12-month bills
was 2.78 times the amount sold, up from 2.14 times, with the 18-
month debt attracting bids of 2.74 times from 3.23. The Treasury
had set a maximum target of 4.5 billion euros for the sale.  The ECB’s buying of Spanish and Italian debt failed to
boost the nation’s bonds as the risk of a Greek default and
 Italy ’s first credit rating downgrade in five years spurred
fears of the sovereign-debt crisis spreading to other euro
members. The ECB, which started buying the securities in
secondary markets on Aug. 8, purchased more of the assets today,
according to people with knowledge of the transactions.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond, which reached
a euro-era high of 6.3 percent on July 18, was little changed
after the auction at 5.36 percent. The yield difference with
German bonds rose to 359.2 basis points, from 354.8 yesterday.  “The ECB is going to need to keep buying and at some stage
they are going to have to sort out the situation properly with
the sovereigns and the banks,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-
income credit research at Evolution Securities, said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”  Greece Rescue  Spain’s borrowing costs have risen this month amid investor
concern that Greece won’t meet requirements to receive a sixth
tranche of loans from last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout due
in October and a second rescue package. Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos holds a second conference call in as many
days with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials to try to persuade them that Greece merits the payout.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is
trying to cut a  budget deficit  that’s three times the European
Union limit and avoid following  Greece , Portugal and Ireland
into a bailout. Divisions among European leaders on aiding
Greece and helping Spain and Italy avoid being engulfed by the
debt crisis are sapping demand for those nations’ bonds.  Spain’s credit rating faces risks “on the downside” as
growth slows and regional governments fall behind schedule on
deficit-reduction targets, Fitch Ratings Director Douglas
Renwick said in a telephone interview on Sept. 13.  Fitch rates Spain AA+ with a “negative” outlook, and
Renwick said weaker growth, failure to meet deficit targets or
larger-than-forecast use of public funds to rescue banks could
be “clear triggers for the rating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  