-- 
Stillbirths More Common for Women With Previous Infant Deaths, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-09-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/stillbirths-more-common-for-women-with-previous-infant-deaths-study-finds.html
A woman who loses a child during
the baby’s first year of life is at risk of having a stillbirth
in her next pregnancy, according to research that underscores
the importance of good health before conception.  Women who lose a child in the infant’s first year of life
were three times more likely to have a stillbirth than women
whose children survive to their first birthday, research today
in  BJOG : An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology
found. Black women were more likely than white women to suffer a
subsequent stillbirth, the study showed.  Today’s findings are one of the first to link prior infant
death with a subsequent stillbirth and the first to show the 
implications for black women, study author  Hamisu Salihu  said.
Reducing weight, stopping smoking and becoming as healthy as
possible before getting pregnant may prevent stillbirths,
although genetic factors may also be at play, he said.  “If they experience infant mortality in the first
pregnancy they should be aware they could lose their baby again
in the second pregnancy very early,” said Salihu, a professor
of epidemiology and obstetrics and gynecology at the  University
of South Florida  in Tampa, in a telephone interview today.
“Women should be aware that all is not lost. They may have a
risk factor that is modifiable and something could be done to
prevent that from happening.”  About 6 million pregnancies occur in the U.S. each year and
of those about 26,000 result in a stillbirth, according to the
 American Pregnancy Association . A stillbirth occurs when a fetus
dies in the womb after 20 weeks of a pregnancy. More than 27,000
infants die every year before their first birthday.  Research Findings  Researchers in the study used data from the state of
 Missouri  from 1989 to 2005 and included 320,350 women who had
two pregnancies of only one child each.  They found that 2,483 women had babies who died during the
first year of life, while the rest had children who survived.  In the second pregnancy, there were 1,347 stillbirths
overall. Of those, 34 occurred in women who experienced a
previous infant death. The study showed that women with a prior
infant death were 2.91 times more likely to experience a
subsequent stillbirth then women whose child survived the first
year of life.  Black women with a prior infant death were more than four
times more likely to have a subsequent stillbirth compared with
black women whose children survived the first year and eight
times more likely compared with white women with no prior infant
death, the researchers said. White women with a previous infant
death were almost twice as likely to have a subsequent
stillbirth compared with their white counterparts.  Health Problems       Stillbirths  can occur if the baby has  birth defects , there
are placenta problems, poor fetal growth, infections or chronic
health problems in the mother, including high blood pressure and
diabetes, according to the March of Dimes. Women are more likely
to have a stillbirth if they are older than age 35, obese and
black.  Salihu said women may be more likely to have subsequent
tillbirths after their first child dies because of shared
genetic risk factors between the children. Also, modifiable risk
factors, like obesity and smoking in the mother, may persist
into the second pregnancy causing the baby to be lost earlier
during pregnancy rather than after being born, he said.  In the study, mothers with a prior infant death were more
likely to have pregnancy complications, including diabetes, high
 blood pressure  and having their placenta separate from the
uterus wall, than those whose infants survived the first year of
life, the authors wrote.  “Stillbirth and infant death are a terrible loss and
traumatic for any mother and family. Women with a previous
infant death need additional support and advice concerning any
subsequent pregnancies,” said Philip Steer, editor in chief of
Oxford, UK-based BJOG, in a statement. “Obesity and smoking in
pregnancy are known risk factors for stillbirth and advice needs
to be centered on pre-conception health so a woman can be as
healthy as possible before, during and after pregnancy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  