-- 
Strong Countries, Not Greece, Should Ditch Euro: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-09-20T00:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/strong-nations-not-greece-should-exit-euro-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Europeans can’t say they weren’t
warned. For a decade before the euro was launched, critics --
and many economists -- argued that one currency wouldn’t fit
all, or even most, of the nations of the European Union.  The unfolding euro-area crisis is proof that the critics
were right. Now it’s up to the strongest member countries to put
an end to this failed experiment.  Nobody denies that the introduction of the euro had some
economic benefits. The cost of currency conversion at national
borders disappeared, and  exchange-rate  risks no longer had to be
weighed when making transactions within the countries of the
zone.  But it was never clear that Europe formed what economists
call an “optimal currency area.” The countries had different
business cycles and levels of wage flexibility, which suggested
that the right  interest rates  for one part of the zone might be
wrong for another. This problem might have been overcome if the
euro area had a powerful central government capable of
cushioning the blow for nations that experienced shocks as a
result of inappropriate monetary policy. But, of course, it
didn’t.  Proponents of the euro adopted the optimistic theory that
its introduction would eventually make the region an optimal
currency area. The euro would facilitate tighter economic
integration, thus causing the business cycles of European
economies to converge. It would also give rise to stronger
European political institutions.  Two Problems  For a while, it seemed to be working. A September 2010
 report  from  Barclays Capital  found that the euro did indeed
promote convergence. The EU did gradually gain power at the
expense of its member states, though there was always plenty of
popular resistance.  But these effects were outweighed by two others. The euro
allowed profligate countries, notably Greece, to borrow money at
low interest rates made possible by German thrift. And when
trouble came, weak economies were unable to resort to the
traditional expedient of devaluing their currencies to adjust.
Thus, both boom and bust were accentuated.  The economies of  France  and  Germany  are so large that a
policy designed for the  euro zone  as a whole would inevitably be
a better fit for their needs than for those of the countries on
the zone’s periphery. But the  European Central Bank  has given
Germany’s economy even more weight than its size alone would
suggest. The Barclays Capital report found that European
monetary policy since 1999 “has tended to correspond more
closely with German economic conditions than for the euro area
as a whole.” Interest rates were thus  much lower  than they
should have been in Greece,  Spain  and Ireland during the boom,
and since then have been higher than they should have been.  Devaluation Dilemmas  If the ECB were now to loosen its monetary policy
considerably, one would expect inflation to hit
disproportionately in the countries with the fewest idle
resources, such as Germany and France. Thus the troubled
peripheral countries could benefit from a kind of internal
devaluation while staying in the euro. Devaluation would lower
real wages in the periphery to sustainable levels. If the weaker
members stick with the euro and the ECB balks at inflation in
the core, however, then the only way for the periphery to adjust
is through nominal wage cuts.  As Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of political economy at
 Carnegie Mellon University ,  put it last week ,  Greece  could
“remain with the euro and deflate prices and wages 2% or 3% a
year for six to 10 years.” The American political system
wouldn’t be able to tolerate such a policy, and there is no
reason to think the much-more-socialist Greek one can.  Poland , having not met the criteria to join the euro, was
able to devalue its currency and has weathered the economic
storms of the last few years fairly well.  Switzerland  is  pegging 
its franc to the euro to prevent deflation. The Greeks -- as
well as the Irish, Spaniards and Portuguese -- would be far
better off if they, too, could have devalued their currencies.
And so would the rest of the euro area, where taxpayers wouldn’t
be facing pleas for bailouts.  A Reckless Gamble  Over the past 20 years, European elites have treated
expressions of popular opposition to regional integration as
spasms of irrationality. But the euro itself was a reckless
gamble by those elites -- a bet motivated more by an enticing
political vision of European unity than by any economic
objectives.  Even as the euro wreaks fearsome damage on European
economies, its defenders remain committed to this political
project. Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European
Commission, said this month that the euro “embodies the will of
Europeans to share their future. This oath is not in question;
we will come out stronger from this crisis.”  In this view, what  Europe  needs now is to deepen its
political integration in the midst of crisis. Yet the crisis is
itself making this scenario less likely: Nationalistic sentiment
is rising, with Germans balking at bailouts and Greeks at the
conditions they would involve.  The wiser course is to ditch the euro. The countries in the
most trouble can’t leave it because their first whisper would
trigger widespread bank runs. If Germany and like-minded nations
want to avoid either inflation or bailouts, they themselves
should leave en masse -- creating a new northern European
currency covering a more economically cohesive area. The
remaining euro countries could then adopt a realistic exchange
rate in relation to this new currency.  Otherwise the shared European future that Barroso invoked
is likely to be a grim one.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  