-- 
Sub-Saharan Africa Growth Forecast Cut by IMF on Slowdown

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-20T13:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sub-saharan-africa-growth-forecast-cut-by-imf-on-global-slowdown.html
Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s economy will
probably expand less than previously forecast as a slowdown in
the U.S. and  Europe  threatens to derail the global recovery, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Gross domestic product in the region may increase 5.2
percent this year, less than the 5.5 percent estimated in an
April report, the Washington-based IMF said in its World
Economic Outlook report today. The economy is forecast to grow
5.8 percent in 2012, down from a previous forecast of 5.9
percent.  “A further deterioration of the global economic
environment could have substantial spillovers” for the region,
the IMF said. “A faltering U.S. or European recovery could
undermine prospects for exports, remittances, official aid, and
private capital flows.”  Sub-Saharan Africa, the world’s poorest region, avoided
recession three years ago as rising demand from China and  India 
for commodities, including copper and platinum, boosted exports.
Rising food and fuel prices have boosted inflation, which is the
biggest risk to growth in the region along with the slowdown in
the global economy, the IMF said.  “Across the sub-Saharan Africa region, there has been a
marked increase in inflation,” the report said. “The earlier
surge in commodity prices risks fueling inflation further.”  South African Economy  The IMF raised its inflation forecast for the region to 8.4
percent for this year from 7.8 percent. Consumer prices will
probably increase 8.3 percent in 2012, higher than a previous
estimate of 7.3 percent.  South Africa ’s economy, the largest on the continent, may
expand 3.4 percent this year, down from a previous estimate of
3.5 percent, the IMF said. The lender cut its growth forecast
for  Kenya  this year to 5.3 percent from 5.7 percent, and kept
Nigeria’s estimate unchanged at 6.9 percent.  A jump in the  unemployment rate  to 25.7 percent, rising
household debt and slower growth in the U.S. and Europe has led
to a “hesitant recovery” in South Africa, the report said.
Europe buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured goods.  The economy of Swaziland, which needs an emergency loan to
ease a cash crisis, will probably contract 2.1 percent this
year, compared with an April estimate of 0.5 percent expansion,
the IMF said.  Ghana remains the fastest-growing economy in Africa this
year, with an estimated expansion of 13.5 percent, the report
said. The IMF pared its forecast for a contraction in  Ivory
Coast  to 5.8 percent from 7.5 percent as the economy recovers
from this year’s post-election crisis that slashed output in the
world’s largest cocoa producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  