-- 
Swan Wins Euromoney Finance Minister of Year, Matching Keating

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-20T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/swan-wins-euromoney-finance-minister-of-year-matching-keating.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan was
named Euromoney magazine’s finance minister of the year for
helping navigate the nation’s economy through the 2009 global
downturn, receiving an award only former Prime Minister Paul Keating has matched among his countrymen.  “ Australia  has not only avoided falling into recession but
has been the best performing of the world’s developed market
economies,” the magazine said in a statement today. “The
market has confirmed its positive view of Australia’s relative
economic strength through rising investment and the steady
appreciation of the Australian dollar.”  Australia’s currency has climbed almost 70 percent since
 Julia Gillard ’s government announced its first crisis-response
measures three years ago next month. Keating won the award in
1984 as treasurer in Prime Minister  Bob Hawke ’s Labor
government, which floated the currency a year earlier.  “Putting in place the big reforms wasn’t easy in the ’80s
and ’90s, and it’s clearly not easy now,” Swan said in a
statement. “But it’s never been the Labor way to shy away from
the tough reforms we need for future prosperity, and it won’t be
under the Gillard government.”  Swan, 57, became Australia’s treasurer in December 2007
after serving as a Labor member of parliament from 1993 to 1996
and returning in 1998. In response to the global financial
crisis in October 2008, his department for the first time in the
country’s history guaranteed all  bank deposits  and the wholesale
funding of its lenders.  Rising Unemployment  Still, unemployment in August rose for a second straight
month, reaching a 10-month high of 5.3 percent, which is lower
than the U.S.’s 9.1 percent and joblessness in the euro area
near 10 percent. The currency reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was freely floated.  “We’re committed to market-based exchange rates,” Swan
said in a Sept. 15 interview in Canberra when asked whether the
government would consider intervening in foreign-exchange
markets to curb the currency’s rise.  Driving Australia’s growth is demand from developing
nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas. That’s left what government officials including Swan have
characterized as a two-speed economy -- a boom in mining
investment and struggling tourism, education and manufacturing
industries.  “I would never want to see our economy become too
excessively dependent on one country or one commodity,” Swan
said in the interview. “So the government does have a broad-
based approach to our economic growth.”  The “rock’ of Australia’s economic policy is fiscal
stability, Swan said in the interview.  In May, Swan announced a budget with an underlying cash
deficit that will narrow to A$22.6 billion ($23.1 billion) in
the 12 months to June 30, less than half the A$49.4 billion gap
last fiscal year. The government plans A$22.2 billion in savings
over the next four years to deliver a A$3.5 billion surplus in
2012-13, an election year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  