-- 
Sweden Pledges to Keep Budget Balanced as Economy Slows

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-20T09:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/sweden-pledges-to-keep-budget-balanced-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Sweden  pledged to keep budget
surpluses intact as  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth
threaten to stifle the largest Nordic economy’s expansion.  Sweden’s budget will be in balance next year after a
surplus of 0.1 percent this year, Finance Minister Anders Borg
said today at a presentation of the 2012 budget in Stockholm.
The economy will grow 4.1 percent in 2011 and 1.3 percent in
2012, the same as estimated in August, he said.  “We now have the freedom to act and room to maneuver that
we need if the situation deteriorates,” Borg said. “If we end
up with a really serious downturn we should of course have some
kind of deficit but those deficits should not be so big that
they create uncertainty.”  Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said last week that his
minority government will ensure the budget steers clear of
deficits in case more stimulus is needed should the European
debt crisis deepen and global growth slows. The government last
month scrapped planned income tax cuts amid narrowing surpluses
and opposition from a majority of parliament.  The krona weakened 0.2 percent to 9.1427 per euro as of
11:47 a.m. in  Stockholm . The currency fell less than 0.1 percent
to 6.6702 per dollar. Sweden’s two-year yield was little changed
at 1.17 percent.  Spending Measures  While other governments are reducing spending to trim
deficits, Sweden said today it has room to spend 15 billion
kronor ($2.2 billion) on new measures next year and 17.3 billion
kronor in 2013, in part on roads and railways and on support for
the long-term jobless to “prevent a high level of unemployment
becoming persistent.”  “There won’t be any more income tax cuts until we have big
surpluses,” which is not the case in 2013, Borg said.  The government forecast growth will accelerate in 2013,
expanding 3.5 percent, while the surplus will grow to 0.7
percent in 2013 and 2.1 percent in 2014. Unemployment will rise
to an average 7.8 percent next year from 7.5 percent this year,
before falling to 6.6 percent in 2014.  “The government is too optimistic on the recovery for 2013
and onwards,” Andreas Jonsson, an economist at Nordea Bank AB,
said in an e-mailed note. “The global economic outlook is very
uncertain also further out, which makes it precarious to plan
economic policy based on a strong recovery.”  Rate Cuts  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
earlier this month cut growth forecasts for the U.S. and  Japan 
and predicted the three-largest euro-area economies will shrink
in the fourth quarter, saying it favors monetary stimulus as
governments struggle with “limited fiscal space.”  Borg on Aug. 26 cut Swedish growth forecasts from 4.6
percent this year and 3.8 percent next year. The government had
also earlier this year estimated the surplus would reach 1.8
percent of gross domestic product next year.  Sweden’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 2 percent this month, citing deteriorating global
growth prospects. Policy makers have raised rates seven times
since July last year after the economy grew at the fastest pace
in 40 years in 2010, helping to lower unemployment and boost
inflation. The bank will keep its rate unchanged this year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey last
month of 10 analysts.  The government forecasts the central bank will keep its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged this year and lower it to 1.5
percent in 2012, according to today’s budget.  Inflation will average 3 percent this year and 1.2 percent
in 2012, it said. The central bank targets 2 percent inflation.  Tax Reductions  Reinfeldt next year plans to chop in half the value added
tax on restaurant and catering services to create more service
jobs, spend more on roads, railways, education and measures to
support the jobless. It also wants to cut dividend taxes for
small businesses and more tax breaks for investments in research
and development.  “What we’re doing in the budget is diminishing the impact
of the international crisis,” Borg said. “What we’re doing is
temporary measures, mainly in 2012 and 2013, but which will
probably then be withdrawn. We’re also doing quite a lot to
strengthen long-term employment.”  After ending 12 years of Social Democratic rule in 2006,
Reinfeldt has cut income taxes by about 70 billion kronor, or
2.1 percent of GDP, while also lowering  unemployment benefits  to
move more people from welfare to work. The government has
lowered corporate and real estate taxes and ended a wealth levy.  The opposition has threatened to oppose the minority-
government’s income tax cuts, a move that could have provoked a
new election and cut short a sitting government’s term for the
first time since 1953.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  