-- 
Swiss Stocks Gain for Fifth Day in Six as Swatch, Richemont Lead Advance

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-20T15:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/swiss-stocks-gain-for-fifth-day-in-six-as-swatch-richemont-rise.html
Swiss stocks rose for a fifth day
in six as the nation’s watchmakers and insurers rallied.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA gained
more than 3 percent.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s
largest insurer, jumped 4.3 percent.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s
second-biggest cement maker, added 3 percent after naming a new
chief executive officer.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively
traded companies climbed 2.1 percent to 5,471.4 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich after earlier falling as much as 0.6 percent.
The gauge has still tumbled 19 percent from this year’s high on
Feb. 18 as the Swiss franc’s strength curbed exports and concern
mounted that the global economic recovery is stalling. The
broader Swiss Performance Index added 1.9 percent today.  “We are seeing a technical rebound, but everything that’s
happening on the markets in the current environment are short-
term reactions,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital
Markets in Geneva. “Any piece of good news, however small, will
be there for the taking. Investors won’t be tricked -- the
problems are not resolved.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government will
hold another call with its main creditors this evening. Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “productive and substantive”
discussions with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials yesterday about securing a sixth installment of rescue
funds, the Greek finance ministry said.  Federal Reserve  Meeting  Federal Reserve officials will probably announce a program
for monetary easing tomorrow, with the  Federal Open Market
Committee  deciding to replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65
trillion portfolio with long-term bonds, according to 71 percent
of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The move, known as “Operation Twist” because it aims to
bend the yield curve, will probably fail to reduce the 9.1
percent unemployment rate, 61 percent of the economists said.  “The possible Fed intervention tomorrow could be
fruitless,” said Plassard. “While further easing is indeed
expected, there probably won’t be a surprise, which could
disappoint the financial markets.”  The Swiss franc weakened against the dollar and the euro
today amid speculation the  Swiss National Bank  may tighten its
target to limit the currency’s strength. Swiss central bank
spokesman Walter Meier in Zurich declined to comment when asked.  Growth Forecast  The Swiss economy will grow at a slower pace this year and
next than previously projected, the IMF said. Gross domestic
product may rise 2.1 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2012,
the Washington-based fund said in its World Economic Outlook
published today. It previously forecast expansion of 2.4 percent
and 1.8 percent, respectively. In 2010, GDP increased 2.7
percent.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, climbed 3.4 percent
to 382.10 Swiss francs and Richemont, the owner of the Cartier
brand, jumped 4.2 percent to 49.22 francs. Swiss watch exports
increased 16 percent in August, the Federal Customs Offices said
today.  Zurich Financial jumped 4.3 percent to 174.10 francs,
leading insurers higher.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  rallied 2.8 percent
to 64.80 francs, while Swiss Reinsurance Co. gained 2.1 percent
to 40.03 francs.  Holcim Gains  Holcim added 3 percent to 46.84 francs. The company said
Bernard Fontana from steelmaker Aperam will take over as chief
executive officer when Markus Akermann retires after a decade in
the post.  “The announcement of the new CEO is a surprise and as he
is ‘tabula rasa’ he might bring some new ideas into the
company,” Serge Rotzer, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG,
wrote in a note to clients today, using the Latin term for
“blank slate.”  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG surged 18 percent to 37.65 francs,
the biggest gain since its 2004 initial public offering, after
Jefferies Group Inc. raised the drugmaker to “hold” from
“underperform.”  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission
gear, climbed 2.5 percent to 16.31 francs. The company will work
with Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,  South Africa ’s state-owned
electricity company, to build two solar photovoltaic  power
plants , Business Report said, citing ABB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  