-- 
Syrian Forces Kill 12, Surround Restive Areas, Activist Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-20T13:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/syrian-forces-kill-12-surround-restive-areas-activist-says-2-.html
Syrian forces killed at least 12
protesters and surrounded restive areas, an activist said, as
President Bashar al-Assad’s government intensified its crackdown
on dissent this week.  Yesterday’s killings brought the death toll to at least 87
from five days of violence directed at demonstrators, said
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.
The attacks, which also left many wounded, took place in the
central governorate of Homs, the eastern town of Deir al-Zour
and the northern province of Idlib, he said by phone.  The start of the academic year may have prompted the
government to escalate the violence to warn young Syrians not to
use schools as places to plan protests,  Chris Phillips , a
London-based analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in
a telephone interview today. “Young people have also been an
important component of this rebellion against Assad’s rule and
at the beginning of the school year they’re likely to be more
fired up and go out onto the streets,” he said.  Assad, who inherited power from his father 11 years ago,
faces the biggest challenge to his rule as international
pressure to end the violence increases. The protests that began
in mid-March are part of the wave of unrest across the  Middle
East  and North Africa that unseated Tunisia’s leader in January,
 Egypt ’s president in February and ousted Muammar Qaddafi’s
government from the capital, Tripoli, last month.  ‘Psychological Boost’  Qaddafi’s defeat at the hands of rebels may also have
energized Syrian demonstrators, prompting Assad’s government to
hit back, Phillips said.  “Every time one regime falls it gives some kind of a
psychological boost to the protesters,” he said. Though each
country in the region is different, the unseating of a leader
“makes protesters in  Syria  believe they can succeed.”  Assad’s forces began nighttime sweeps for protesters
yesterday, leading to many arrests, Merhi said. They targeted
restive areas, surrounding Kisweh, a suburb of the capital,
Damascus, and Zabadani, a town near the border with Lebanon, he
said.  This year’s crackdown on dissent in Syria has left more
than 3,600 civilians dead, according to Ammar Qurabi of the
National Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000
people have been detained and 13,000 are still being held,
according to estimates from Qurabi and Merhi.  Economic Contraction  The economy will contract 2 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said today in its updated World
Economic Outlook. In April, it had forecast 3 percent growth for
the country.  Syrian Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said in a
Sept. 7 interview that the economy will expand 1 percent this
year, down from 5.5 percent growth in 2010.  U.S. and European leaders imposed sanctions, including bans
on oil exports, and urged Assad to cede power. The government
has called the unrest foreign-backed terrorism.  A 25-kilogram (55-pound) explosive device placed under a
pipeline near Syria’s Homs oil refinery was defused, the state-
run Syrian Arab News Agency reported today. The government
blamed “saboteurs” for the attempted attack, SANA said.  The  International Energy Agency  estimates that Syria
exported about 157,000 barrels of oil last year and about
127,000 barrels a day in the first quarter to European members
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  