-- 
Syria’s Economy to Shrink 2% as Protests Persist, IMF Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/syria-s-economy-to-shrink-2-as-protests-persist-imf-says.html
Syria ’s economy will shrink and oil
importers across the region face “chronically high
unemployment” amid social unrest and economic stagnation, the
 International Monetary Fund  said today.  Output in Syria will contract 2 percent in 2011, the IMF
said in its biannual  World Economic Outlook  today. In April, it
had forecast 3 percent growth for the country, where 3,600
civilians have been killed by security forces during protests.
Tunisia, which ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January, won’t expand this year and oil importers in the  Middle
East  and North Africa will grow an average 1.4 percent,
accelerating to 2.6 percent in 2012, the IMF said.  “The political turmoil has seen risk premiums rise and
private financing and tourism receipts fall” throughout the
region, it said. “Any intensification of the political crises
would exacerbate the economic plight of the region.”  Demonstrators across the Arab world this year have sought
an end to oppressive rule, high food prices, social
discrimination and poor job prospects. The protests also ousted
rulers in  Egypt  and Libya, and continue to challenge them in
countries including Syria and Yemen.  Egypt’s economy is forecast to grow 1.2 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2012, the IMF said. Libya was not included in
the IMF report due to continued political uncertainty.  The region’s countries should adopt economic policies that
establish “strong institutions to stimulate private sector
activity,” broaden access to economic opportunities and address
“chronically high unemployment, particularly among the young,”
the IMF said.  While higher social spending this year among the Middle
East’s oil producers is stimulating their economies, it also
poses inflation risks, according to the IMF. Inflation in  Saudi
Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves, will stay at
5.4 percent this year, while prices in the  United Arab Emirates 
will rise 2.5 percent, up from 0.9 percent in 2010, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 