-- 
U.K. Needs Windfall Tax on Nuclear Plants, Coalition Party Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-09-20T16:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-k-needs-windfall-tax-on-nuclear-plants-coalition-party-says.html
The U.K. should introduce a
windfall tax on existing nuclear power stations to claw back
additional profits, the Liberal Democrat party said.  The party, the junior partner in  David Cameron ’s coalition
government, passed a motion today at its annual conference in
Birmingham, central  England , calling for the money raised to be
used to help Britain’s 5 million “fuel-poor” households.  Electricite de France SA, Britain’s largest generator with
eight nuclear plants, may earn as much as 154 million pounds
($242 million) of “extra profit” as a result of a tax on
carbon-dioxide emissions from 2013, Citigroup Inc. said March
25. The Treasury imposed the tax of 4.94 pounds per metric ton
of emissions from fossil-fueled power stations in its budget
this year. That’s had the effect of raising the price EDF can
get for all the power it produces.  The so-called carbon price floor “is a great, great plan
but it has one flaw, not only does it help emerging renewables,
what it also does is give a lift up to old nuclear,” Liberal
Democrat lawmaker Robin Teverson told delegates. “It’s wrong,
it’s immoral, it’s not ethical” to use additional charges on
household bills “to give new profits to old nuclear for no
extra effort.”  The motion, which is not binding on Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , a Liberal Democrat, calls on the government to
“introduce a windfall tax on operators of existing nuclear
power stations, recovering through taxation the profits they
make solely as a result of the introduction of the carbon price
floor from April 2013.”  ‘Low-Income Households’  It says “the proceeds of the tax should “be used to help
consumers, especially those in low-income households, adapt to
higher energy prices, for example through investments in
improving  energy efficiency .”  Britain can get about 20 percent of its power from its 10
nuclear power stations, five of which are due to shut over the
next decade.  Britain’s third-biggest political party opposed nuclear power
in its manifesto for last year’s election, after which it
entered government with the Conservatives. The two parties
agreed that Liberal Democrat lawmakers could abstain on votes on
nuclear energy while the government worked to encourage it. In
office, Huhne has supported efforts to build new atomic
stations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Birmingham at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  