-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb as Mining Companies Rebound; Burberry, BAE Systems Rise

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-20T16:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-k-stocks-climb-erasing-losses-as-mining-companies-burberry-advance.html
U.K. stocks climbed for the fifth
day in six amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve may
announce more stimulus measures to help drive the world’s
largest economy.  Carnival Plc (CCL)  jumped 6.6 percent after reporting earnings
that topped analyst estimates.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  rallied 3.5
percent. Glencore International Plc and  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  climbed at
least 3 percent as a gauge of mining shares rebounded from the
biggest decline in two weeks.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 104.15, or 2 percent,
to 5,363.71 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, recouping most of
yesterday’s 108.85-point selloff. The FTSE All-Share Index
advanced 1.8 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased
1.5 percent.  “Equity markets are carefully pricing in further Fed
stimulus,” said Will Hedden, a sales trader at IG Index in
London. “The rumor mill remains a major driver of trader
sentiment.”  The FTSE 100 fell as much as 0.8 percent earlier as  Italy ’s
credit rating was cut to A from A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , which
cited weakening economic growth and a “fragile” government.  Fed Stimulus  Investors are awaiting tomorrow’s outcome of the Federal
Open Market Committee meeting to see whether the Fed will
provide more stimulus. The FOMC will likely decide to replace
short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-
term bonds, according to the majority of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The move is known as “Operation Twist,” for its
goal to bend the yield curve.  Carnival increased 6.6 percent to 2,145 pence after the
world’s biggest cruise-ship operator reported third-quarter
earnings and sales that exceeded the average analyst forecast.
The company also said September bookings are holding up well in
the economic slowdown.  Burberry paced a rally in European luxury-goods makers. The
shares rallied 3.5 percent to 1,500 pence as Italian rival Prada
SpA yesterday reported a 74 percent jump in first-half profit
after demand in  Asia  soared. Burberry generates about a third of
its revenue in the Asia Pacific region.  Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodities supplier,
led a rebound in basic-resources shares, rising 3.3 percent to
441.55 pence. Fresnillo increased 4.1 percent to 1,943 pence and
 Lonmin Plc (LMI)  gained 1.7 percent to 1,186 pence.  A gauge of U.K. mining shares slumped 3.9 percent yesterday
as base metals fell amid speculation that  Greece  may not receive
an aid payment that would help it avoid default.  BAE Gains  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  jumped 2.4 percent to 286.7 pence as
Societe Generale SA raised its recommendation for the arms
company to “buy” from “hold.”  Barratt Developments Plc climbed 5.7 percent to 82.2 pence
as Citigroup Inc. upgraded the homebuilder to “buy” from
“hold.”  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the parent
company of British Airways, lost 2.6 percent to 150.2 pence
after rival Deutsche Lufthansa AG cut its full-year earnings
forecast. The German airline said it will deepen capacity cuts
for the winter timetable after last month’s results were weaker
than expected and forward bookings slumped.  Airlines advanced earlier today as the  International Air
Transport Association  raised its 2011 forecast for global
airline profits by 73 percent because of stronger-than-expected
demand in  Europe  and the  Middle East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  