-- 
U.K. Economy Can’t Afford Tory ‘Tea Party Tendency,’ Huhne Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-20T11:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-k-economy-can-t-afford-tory-tea-party-tendency-huhne-says.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
warned against a “Tea Party tendency” in Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative Party that he said threatened to wreck
Britain’s economy.  Huhne, whose Liberal Democrats are junior partners in
Cameron’s coalition, said today it was compromise and common
purpose by the two parties that allowed the U.K. to avoid a
credit-rating downgrade and borrow money at the lowest rates for
300 years.  “We need no Tea Party tendency in Britain,” Huhne said in
a speech to the Liberal Democrats’  annual conference  in
Birmingham, central England. “If you fail to compromise, if you
fail to seek the common ground that unites us, if you insist
that only you have the answers, if you keep beating the anti-
European drum, if you slaver over tax cuts for the rich, then
you will put in peril the most crucial achievement of this
government. You will wreck the nation’s economy and common
purpose.”  Some Conservative lawmakers have criticized the role of the
Liberal Democrats in government, accusing them of blocking
Cameron’s plans to overhaul the  National Health Service  and
hobbling Tory policy on  Europe , tax and human rights. In the
U.S., the “madcap Republican right” blocked compromise and the
U.K. cannot afford the same mistake, Huhne said.  “This coalition government saved Britain’s credit standing
by compromise. The danger if you don’t compromise is now clear
from America,” Huhne said. “We are all in this together and we
can’t get out of it alone.”  As the  U.S. Congress  approached a deadline to raise the
nation’s borrowing limit last month, some Republican members
refused to concede points to President  Barack Obama  in pursuit
of a broader compromise on the budget. The negotiations, which
yielded an agreement for $2.4 trillion in deficit savings and
identified only spending cuts, were conducted under the threat
of a U.S. default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Birmingham,  England , at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  