-- 
Consumer Confidence Falls to Four-Month Low on Darker Outlook for Economy

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-as-economic-pessimism-increases.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  fell to a
four-month low in August as Britons grew more pessimistic about
the outlook for the economy,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  An index of sentiment slipped 1 point from the previous
month to 48, the lowest reading since April, the Swindon,
England-based customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report
today. A gauge of consumers’ future expectations for the economy
in the next six months declined 1 point to 65.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s September policy meeting
due to be released today will show whether any officials joined
 Adam Posen  in his call to restart bond purchases to boost
growth. Nationwide said it’s “encouraging” that consumer
confidence didn’t fall further in August given that the U.K. saw
its worst rioting since the 1980s and the European debt crisis
fueled turmoil in financial markets.  “The relative stability is probably a reflection of the
already subdued level of confidence, rather than indicating
resilience in the household sector,” said  Robert Gardner ,
Nationwide’s chief economist. “With the economic outlook still
challenging, confidence is likely to remain in the doldrums for
some time yet.”  With gauges of manufacturing, services and construction
declining in August, the Bank of England kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low this month as the slowing recovery
outweighed the risk of rising prices. U.K. inflation is
outpacing wage growth, putting pressure on household incomes at
a time when government budget cuts are fueling concerns about
rising unemployment.  Economic Outlook  Asked about the outlook for the economy in six months’
time, 36 percent of consumers surveyed by Nationwide said it
would be “bad,” up from 31 percent in July. Sixteen percent
said it would be “good,” unchanged on the month. The survey of
1,000 people took place between July 25 and Aug. 21.  A gauge of whether Britons think now is a good time to buy
household goods or make major purchases such as a car or a home
rose 7 points to 79, Nationwide said. A gauge of consumers’ view
of the current economic situation was unchanged at 23.  The increase in the spending index “seems at odds with the
still challenging economic outlook,” Gardner said. “It may be
attributable to growing expectations that interest rates are to
remain low well into 2012.”  Today’s report showed that Britons became more pessimistic
about the housing market last month. They expect the value of
their home to drop 1.3 percent in the next six months, compared
with a prediction of a 0.4 percent decline in July.  Minutes of the  Bank of England ’s Sept. 7-8 Monetary Policy
Committee meeting will be released at 9:30 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  