-- 
U.K. Government Must Bring Forward Spending to Boost Economy, Huhne Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-21T07:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-k-must-bring-forward-spending-to-boost-economy-huhne.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
said the government should speed up  capital spending  to help the
economy, after the  International Monetary Fund  said ministers
may need to consider delaying some of their fiscal squeeze.  “We’ve got to be creative and imaginative about bringing
forward more spending,” Huhne told a fringe event last night at
his Liberal Democrat party’s annual conference in Birmingham,
central England. He said the option of “pump-priming” the
economy by increasing expenditure is “blocked off to us”
because of “the scale of our  budget deficit .”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the Liberal Democrat
leader, said Sept. 14 the government was going to “unblock” 40
infrastructure projects in an effort to spur growth. He said the
government wanted to “put its foot on the accelerator.”  BBC television reported yesterday evening that ministers
were  discussing increasing spending on projects  such as roads,
rail and broadband by as much as 5 billion pounds ($8 billion),
without saying where it got its information. The Treasury denied
the report.  “I don’t recognize the numbers involved or the process as
described,” the Liberal Democrat chief secretary to the
Treasury,  Danny Alexander , said in an interview with BBC Radio
4’s “Today”  show this morning. “We’re not changing our
spending plans.”  ‘Stick to Our Plans’  Alexander said the message he had taken from the IMF report
yesterday “is we should stick to our plans.”  U.K. gross domestic product will rise 1.1 percent this year
and 1.6 percent in 2012, the Washington-based fund said in its
World Economic Outlook, cutting previous projections of 1.5
percent and 2.3 percent respectively.  “What we need to have across the world is countries taking
action that’s appropriate to their own circumstances to deal
with the problems that they face,” Alexander said. “We have a
great asset; we have clear spending plans and we’re sticking to
them.”  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable has already
urged the  Bank of England  to expand its program of bond
purchases to help boost growth. He told a separate fringe event
in Birmingham that “there are ways in which you can stimulate
an economy without disrupting your fiscal discipline.”  “We don’t think it’s time to change tack at the moment,”
Cable said. “We have two strands to policy, one is deficit
reduction and we must stick to that for policy credibility. The
other is a growth strategy and we should stick with that too.
There’s already flexibility built into the plans.”  The fiscal target the government is working to “is the
structural current balance,” Huhne said. “It is current not
capital spending. That is an important distinction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Birmingham,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 