-- 
U.S. Military Ends ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Policy for Gay Troops

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-20T19:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-military-ends-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-policy-for-gay-troops.html
Today, for the first time in his
military career, U.S. Air Force Captain Eddy Sweeney will be
able to serve his country without hiding his sexual identity.  “I don’t have to worry about someone trying to ‘out’ me
out of spite,” said Sweeney, a gay intelligence officer who is
stationed in  Germany . “I’m just glad that that burden is
gone.”  After decades of political fights and legal challenges, the
Pentagon today officially ends its 18-year “don’t ask, don’t
tell” policy that has prevented gay service members from
revealing their sexual orientation.  Troops who identify themselves as gay or lesbian will no
longer face automatic discharge.  “As of today, patriotic Americans in uniform will no
longer have to lie about who they are in order to serve the
country they love,” President  Barack Obama  said in a written
statement. “Our armed forces will no longer lose the
extraordinary skills and combat experience of so many gay and
lesbian services members.”  Critics, such as the Washington-based Family Research
Council, say the policy change may hinder military readiness.
“Using the military to advance a liberal social agenda will
only do harm to the military’s ability to fulfill its mission,”
said council President Tony Perkins in a written statement.  Public Support  Still, polls have found broad public support for ending
“don’t ask, don’t tell,” with 77 percent of Americans
supporting repeal in a  Washington  Post-ABC News survey when
Congress approved the change in December.  “It’s a major shift, not only for the military but for our
country,” said Aubrey Sarvis, an Army veteran and executive
director of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, a support
group for gays. “The military will be stronger because we got
rid of this discriminatory law that forces military members to
lie.”  There are an estimated 66,000 gay and lesbian troops on
active duty, said Sarvis, citing a UCLA study. More than 14,000
have been discharged for being gay since 1993, when “don’t ask,
don’t tell” was adopted.  The Pentagon, which has been preparing for the change for
months, said 2.3 million service members have now been trained
in what the repeal will mean for daily military life.  Removing Barriers  “I’m committed to removing all of the barriers that would
prevent Americans from serving their country and from rising to
the highest level of responsibility that their talents and
capabilities warrant,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told
reporters at the Pentagon today.  Still, there will be no immediate changes to eligibility
standards for military benefits. The Defense of Marriage Act,
which doesn’t recognize gay unions, prohibits extending benefits
such as medical care and housing allowances to same-sex couples,
according to a Defense Department policy guidance issued in
January.  Standards of personal conduct governing harassment, dress
and public displays of affection, among other things, will apply
uniformly to all troops regardless of sexual orientation, the
policy memo said.  All service members may continue to designate a beneficiary
such as a partner for certain benefits, including  life insurance 
and the military’s Thrift Savings Plan.  ‘More Tolerant’ Force  “With implementation of the new law fully in place, we are
a stronger joint force, a more tolerant joint force, a force of
more character and more honor, more in keeping with our
values,” said Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, who joined Panetta at a press conference.  For Danny Hernandez, a 24-year-old Texan who was discharged
from the Marines for being gay last year, the policy repeal is
an opportunity to re-enlist.  “I want to go back,” said Hernandez, who was a Marine
lance corporal and now works for the Servicemembers Legal
Defense Network. “Personally, I’m very excited. I put a lot of
effort into it to be successful in the Marine Corp. You make
that commitment and you want to fulfill it.”  Troops who were discharged for being gay and who want to
re-enlist “will be evaluated according to the same criteria and
service requirements applicable to all prior-service members
seeking re-entry,” the Pentagon policy memo said, with “no
preferential treatment” accorded to gay applicants.  Rallies  To mark the repeal, the Servicemembers Legal Defense
Network today will hold 100 “Repeal Day celebrations” across
the country, with “hundreds” of supporters expected at rallies
in  New York  and Washington and smaller numbers elsewhere.  Sarvis said he doesn’t expect most gay troops to make
public declarations today.  Some signs of change will be subtle, he said, such as a
soldier displaying a photo of his or her same-sex partner in the
barracks.  “You’ll see a series of small steps,” he said. “These
statements will come about over a period of days, weeks and
years.”  For Sweeney, the Air Force intelligence officer, not much
will change in his daily life.  “It’ll just be like any other day,” he said. “The only
thing that will change is that I don’t have to compromise my
integrity in talking about my personal life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  