-- 
China Says Duties on U.S. Poultry In Line With WTO Rules After Complaint

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T07:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-files-a-complaint-over-chinese-duties-on-poultry-products-wto-says.html
China  said the nation’s duties on
American poultry are “in line” with rules by the  World Trade
Organization  after the U.S. filed a complaint with the trade
arbiter about the Chinese taxes.  The complaint targets Chinese anti-dumping and
countervailing duties on American poultry products, U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk told reporters yesterday. A request for
consultations is the first step in the case, and the U.S. and
China must now hold talks for at least two months in a bid to
resolve the dispute.  China will “carefully study” any request from the U.S. on
consultation and will “deal with the issue properly,” an
unnamed Ministry of Commerce official said in a  statement  posted
on the ministry’s website today, without elaborating.  The U.S. complaint may add to tensions between the world’s
two largest economies, which have clashed over access to each
others’ markets for products including steel pipes, tires,
movies and music. The WTO earlier this month rejected China’s
appeal of a ruling that backed U.S. duties on Chinese tire
imports, a move Chinese commerce ministry spokesman Shen Danyang
said yesterday will distort bilateral trade and won’t benefit
American industries.  China put in place a duty of as much as 105.4 percent last
year on U.S. broiler-chicken products. About 300,000 workers and
farmers have been hurt by China’s actions, Kirk said at a news
conference in  Washington . “The United States is prepared to
take every measure necessary to stand up for American workers by
ensuring that China or any of our other trading partners does
not misuse laws to prevent exports of U.S. products,” Kirk
said.  Falling Exports  Since the duties took effect, U.S. poultry exports to China
are down 90 percent, according to the trade agency. The U.S.
poultry industry may lose an estimated $1 billion in sales to
China by the end of this year, the agency said.  The U.S. was China’s largest chicken-broiler products
supplier, accounting for more than 600,000 metric tons of
products in 2009.  “This is a very important issue for the  United States 
because a significant portion of our exports to China are in
agriculture, especially in poultry and pork,”  James Bacchus ,
chairman of the global practice at Greenberg Traurig LLP and a
former chairman of the WTO appeals tribunal, said in an
interview. “This is a great market for us potentially, and one
where we’re seeking fair treatment.”  ’Retaliatory Action’  Poultry producers  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM)  and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) 
fell yesterday in  New York  trading. Farha Aslam, a Stephens Inc.
analyst in New York, wrote that China may choose “to engage in
some form of retaliatory action” for the complaint.  China used “average cost of production” to determine
value rather than U.S. market prices for comparable sales, which
doesn’t reflect how companies use their accounts, the USA
Poultry & Egg Export Council in Stone Mountain,  Georgia , and the
Washington-based National Chicken Council said in a statement.
The methodology is flawed, along with China’s insistence that
poultry exporters benefit from  farm subsidies , according to the
statement.  “This action is essential to demonstrate to the
international community that anti-dumping measures based on
average cost of production is a form of unfair protectionism
that is inconsistent with multilateral trade rules,” the groups
said in the statement.  The U.S. has in the past filed WTO complaints about China
on steel, industrial raw materials, electronic payment services,
wind power and tire imports.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  