-- 
U.S. Chamber Says It Sues to Block NLRB Union Notice Rule

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-20T15:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-chamber-says-it-sues-to-block-nlrb-union-notice-rule-1-.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said
it sued the  National Labor Relations Board  to block a rule that
will require businesses to post notices about employees’ rights
to unionize.  The Chamber, the biggest U.S. group representing business,
and the  South Carolina  Chamber of Commerce said the rule
proposed in August by the labor board violates federal laws,
according to a statement issued today about the lawsuit.  “This is nothing more than labor regulation run amok,”
Robin Conrad, executive vice president of the National Chamber
Litigation Center, the Chamber’s public-policy law firm, said in
the statement. “The board’s new rule violates the First
Amendment by forcing employers to use their own resources to
post the NLRB’s pro-union message on the company’s own
property.”  The NLRB, which investigates unfair labor practices, has
ordered employers to post notices telling workers about their
rights to form a union and bargain on contracts. Companies using
posters to announce personnel rules or policies must add a
notice about their bargaining rights, the NLRB said in an Aug.
25 statement. Postings must be completed Nov. 14.  The rule “is simply intended to inform employees of their
rights under the  National Labor Relations Act , just as other
workplace posters inform employees of their rights under other
laws,” Nancy Cleeland, NLRB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  NLRB’s Powers  The NLRB lacks the power to coerce employers to post such
notices or to impose penalties for those who don’t, according to
the Chamber’s statement. The board failed to properly assess the
economic cost the rule would have on small businesses, according
to the Chamber.  The labor board’s proposal was praised by unions such as
the 2.2-million-member Service Employees International Union and
the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation.  The labor board has been faulted by Republicans and
business groups such as the Chamber that say it is pushing a
pro-union agenda. Board opponents cite the April complaint
against  Boeing Co. (BA)  that said the world’s largest aerospace
company retaliated for worker strikes in its Seattle-area hub by
building a plant in South Carolina, a state where employees
aren’t required to join a union.  The case is Chamber of Commerce v. National Labor Relations
Board, 11-02516, U.S. District Court for South Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  