-- 
U.S. High Yield Index Gains on Wagers That Fed is Planning More Stimulus

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-20T21:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-index-increases-as-new-series-begins.html
Confidence in high-yield, high-risk
debt in the U.S. gained as investors wagered the  Federal Reserve 
will provide more stimulus to the economy, overshadowing
 Europe ’s intensifying debt crisis.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which rises as
investor confidence improves, added 0.4 percentage point to 93.7
percent of face value as of 4:46 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The benchmark index has
climbed four of the past six days from 91 on Sept. 12, the
lowest level in two years.  Investors are anticipating actions that may revive the
economy after U.S. housing starts dropped and the  International
Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for global growth. Standard &
Poor’s cut Italy’s credit rating to A from A+ yesterday
underscoring concerns that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading,
said  Mikhail Foux , a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York.  “People are just looking past that and they’re looking at
what the Fed is going to do,” Foux said in a telephone
interview.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee ends its two-day policy
meeting tomorrow and may announce it plans to deploy a policy
tool known as “Operation Twist” in which it would replace
short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-
term bonds.  New Series  A benchmark indicator of U.S. company credit risk rose as
banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers moved trades into a
new series of the index.  Series 17 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, traded at 133.5 basis
points, 8.1 basis points wider than Series 16, as of 4:25 p.m.
in  New York , according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.  New versions of Markit’s index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, are
created every six months. Companies are replaced if they no
longer have appropriate credit grades, aren’t among the most
actively traded borrowers, or fail to meet other criteria.
Contracts on individual credits also roll today. The high yield
index rolls to a new series on Sept. 27.  In a sign that real estate is struggling to recover,
housing starts dropped 5 percent to a three-month low 571,000
annual rate, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 590,000 pace.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  