-- 
U.S. Will Reopen Embassy in Libya This Week as Qaddafi on Run, Obama Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-20T15:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-will-reopen-embassy-in-libya-this-week-as-qaddafi-on-run-obama-says.html
The U.S. will reopen its embassy in
Tripoli this week and will continue to support Libya in the
transition from Muammar Qaddafi’s regime, President  Barack Obama 
said.  “Our ambassador is on his way back to Tripoli, and this
week, the American flag that was lowered before our embassy was
attacked will be raised again, over a reopened American
embassy,” Obama said at a  New York  meeting of nations that
supported the NATO-backed campaign in Libya.  “This is how the international community should work in
the 21st century -- more nations bearing the responsibility and
costs of meeting global challenges,” said Obama, who is in New
York for a meeting of the UN General Assembly. “In fact, this
is the very purpose of this  United Nations .”  Earlier today, Obama met with Libyan Transitional National
Council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil.  The president called for patience as  Libya  makes the
transition to democracy.  “After decades of iron rule by one man, it will take time
to build the institutions needed for a democratic Libya,” he
said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led military
campaign to protect civilians will continue “so long as the
Libyan people are being threatened,” Obama said. “Along with
our partners, the United States will do our part to help the
hungry and the wounded.”  ‘Spirit of Reconciliation’  Obama called for a “spirit of reconciliation, not
reprisals and violence” during the transition to democracy in
Libya.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the group that the
international community must cooperate to “consolidate peace
and democracy” in Libya and to help the political and economic
development of the country. “The challenges are large,” Ban
said. “The first priority must be peace and security.”  Jalil said opposition forces “would not have been able to
achieve victory” over Qaddafi’s military without international
support. Noting that Qaddafi is still at large, the transitional
council leader said “the road before us is still long and there
are many challenges.”  Jalil pledged respect for human rights and “a just trial”
for former government officials who have been arrested. The new
government seeks to promote “forgiveness, tolerance and co-
existence,” Jalil said.  ‘Extraordinary Achievement’  White House deputy national security adviser  Ben Rhodes 
said yesterday that Obama’s back-to-back Libya meetings would
focus on the “international support of post-Qaddafi Libya” and
the “extraordinary achievement by the UN-led process that the
U.S. has supported.”  Obama is scheduled to meet later today with Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  and Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff .  The U.S. ambassador to Libya,  Gene Cretz , was based in
Tripoli until December 2010. Cretz left the country after the
release by WikiLeaks of diplomatic cables in which Qaddafi was
described as a “mercurial” and “notoriously erratic” and a
“hypochondriac.”  Obama used his speech to praise the international community
for intervening in Libya while also insisting that the U.S.
would not act in all foreign conflicts.  “Libya is a lesson in what the international community can
achieve when we stand together as one,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 