-- 
U.S. Solar Power Rises 69 Percent, Led by Commercial Projects

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-solar-power-rises-69-percent-led-by-commercial-projects.html
Developers installed 69 percent
more U.S. solar power capacity in the second quarter than a year
earlier, led by commercial and government projects.  Developers installed 314.3 megawatts of solar photovoltaic
power in the second quarter, compared with 186.5 megawatts in
the same period a year earlier, according to the U.S. Solar
Market Insight report released today by  Solar Energy Industries
Association  and GTM Research.  Much of the growth was due to government incentives,
including a U.S. Treasury Department program that reimburses
developers 30 percent of projects’ costs, said Rhone Resch, the
Washington-based trade group’s president. That program is set to
expire at the end of the year.  “Solar is the fastest growing industry in the U.S.,”
Resch said in an interview yesterday. “Our growth has directly
benefited from the Treasury grant program. We have to keep those
programs in place to keep up the pace and hire more workers.”  SEIA expects 2012 to be a “more difficult year” for the
U.S. solar market, with a potential “downturn” in  California ,
 New Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  and the end of the Treasury grant
program, the report said.  Commercial and government projects made up about half of
the new installations in the second quarter, growing 22 percent
from the first quarter. Residential projects accounted for about
30 percent and utility-scale plants were 16 percent.  California led the U.S. with 30 percent of new solar
projects, down from 42 percent in the first quarter. New Jersey,
the second-fastest-growing solar state, increased to 24 percent
from 15 percent. The next five states combined increased share
to 29 percent from 25 percent.  Solar Bankruptcies  After the bankruptcies of Solyndra LLC, Evergreen Solar
Inc. and SpectraWatt Inc. in the past five weeks, more than
100,000 Americans are employed in the solar industry, Resch
said, twice as many as in 2009.  Average system prices were little changed, with slight
price declines in utility and non-residential markets
counteracting a small rise in residential system prices.  The U.S. is expected to install 1,750 megawatts of
photovoltaic panels in 2011, double last year’s total and enough
to power 350,000 homes, SEIA said.  The trade group represents about 1,000 companies involved
in the solar-energy industry, including installers,
manufacturers, developers and financial companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 