-- 
U.S. Respect Cyprus’s Right to Drill, Cypriot Official Says

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-09-20T14:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-respect-cyprus-s-right-to-drill-cypriot-official-says-1-.html
The U.S. respects and acknowledges
Cyprus’s “self-evident sovereign right” to explore and exploit
its natural resources, Cypriot government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said.  “This right is disassociated from the solution of the
Cyprus problem,” Stefanou said according to a statement on the
Web-site of the Nicosia-based  Press and Information Office  in
response to the meeting between U.S. secretary of state  Hillary Clinton  with her Turkish peer Ahmet Davutoglu yesterday. “The
U.S. supports the process that is underway for the solution,”
which can benefit everyone, including the Turkish Cypriots,
Stefanou said.  U.S. based Noble Energy Inc., which has the license to
carry out exploration in  Block 12  of the east Mediterranean
island’s offshore territory, began to drill yesterday, as Turkey
threatened to send warships to the area in protest.  Cyprus is divided after  Turkey  invaded the northern third
of the island in 1974 in response to a coup inspired by the
military junta then in power in  Greece . The leaders of the Greek
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities resumed reunification
talks in 2008 after Greek Cypriots rejected a United Nations
brokered reunification plan.  “The Cypriot government will handle matters related to the
demarcation of our exclusive economic zone seriously,
confidentially and calmly,” deputy government spokesman
Christos Christofides told reporters in Nicosia today. Cyprus is
supported by the international community in its effort to
exploit hydrocarbons in its offshore territory, he said.  Drilling  The northern part of Cyprus and Turkey, which is the only
country to recognize it as an independent state, may sign a
continental-shelf agreement in response to drilling carried out
by the Republic of Cyprus, the Turkish foreign ministry said
Sept. 15.  The island’s government will continue to work toward a
settlement of the Cyprus problem “within the agreed
procedure”, which will allow both Greek Cypriots and Turkish
Cypriots to benefit from any probable natural resources,
Christofides said.  Noble Energy  will complete the current stage of collecting
samples in two-and-a-half months and “a second stage of
exploration and analyses will follow which will give us a clear
picture of the size and the quality of the reserve,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  