-- 
U.S. Offers Cash to States That Reject Insurer Requests to Raise Premiums

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-09-20T16:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-offers-cash-to-states-rejecting-insurer-premium-increases.html
The U.S. is offering $600,000 to
states that make it harder for health insurers to raise
premiums, federal regulators said.  Twenty states  won  U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services “performance awards” for policies that let their
insurance regulators reject premium increase requests, said
Steve Larsen, director of the agency’s Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight.   Connecticut , one of the states,  denied  an increase of
about 14 percent proposed by a subsidiary of  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  on Sept. 7, instead approving a boost of about
12 percent. The U.S. wants to encourage more states to award
their regulators similar power, Larsen said in a conference
call with reporters.  “We think that’s the highest level of protection for
consumers,” he said.  The 2010 health-care law signed by President  Barack Obama 
authorized Larsen’s office to review, without rejecting, premium
increases in states where the U.S. deems regulation weak.  The U.S. has concluded reviews in eight states are at least
partially inadequate and began reviewing increases in those
states on Sept. 1. The  states are   Alabama , Arizona, Louisiana,
Missouri, Montana, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wyoming.  Insurers Concerned  The government’s focus on premiums is misplaced, and
policymakers in the administration should be more concerned
about underlying health costs that drive premium growth, the
industry’s Washington trade group said.  “The current focus on rate review ignores the soaring cost
of medical care that is driving up the cost of coverage and
taking up a greater and greater share of federal and state
budgets,” said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the
industry’s trade association, America’s Health Insurance Plans,
in a statement issued before Larsen’s conference call.  Two spokesmen for UnitedHealth, based in Minnetonka,
Minnesota, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 