-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Cattle Seen at Record After Cull

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-20T11:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-cattle-seen-at-record-after-cull.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Cattle Seen at Record $1.36 a Pound After Cull: Commodities (1)  Texas cattle ranchers, the biggest suppliers in the world’s
top beef-producing nation, will cull the most breeding cows ever
this year as drought increases feed costs, driving livestock
prices to a record.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Libya  Seeks Oil-Tanker Charters Following Seven-Month Stoppage  Libya’s state oil-tanker company is seeking to resume
international chartering of its fleet after a seven-month halt
caused by an uprising that led to the ousting of Muammar Qaddafi
as national leader.  Mechel Said to Delay Plan to Sell Shares in Coal-Mining Unit  OAO Mechel,  Russia ’s largest producer of coking coal, has
delayed a plan to sell shares in a mining unit because of
unfavorable market conditions, said three people with knowledge
of the matter.  China BAK Plans to List Electric-Vehicle Battery Unit to Expand  China BAK Battery Inc., a lithium- ion battery maker, plans
to list electric-vehicle battery unit BAK International
(Tianjin) Ltd. to fund expansion and research.  OPEC’s $1 Trillion Cash Quiets Poor on Longest Ever $100 Oil (1)  Saudi Arabia  will spend $43 billion on its poorer citizens
and religious institutions. Kuwaitis are getting free food for a
year. Civil servants in  Algeria  received a 34 percent pay rise.
Desert cities in the United Arab Emirates may soon enjoy
uninterrupted electricity.  ArcelorMittal’s First Indian Steel Mill May Beat Posco Plant (1)  ArcelorMittal may beat South Korea’s Posco to become the
first overseas steelmaker to build a plant in  India , with
Karnataka state authorities set to hand over land for the $6.3
billion project in the next six months.  Qaddafi Wheat Cargo Helped Sustain Libyan Rebellion’s Stronghold  Wheat paid for by Muammar Qaddafi’s government ended up
helping to sustain the rebellion that overthrew his 42-year rule
of Libya after it was diverted to his rivals’ stronghold.  Armajaro Hires Ex-Barclays Capital Analyst Yu for  Singapore   Armajaro Asset Management, the hedge-fund company run by
Anthony Ward , hired ex-Barclays Capital analyst Yingxi Yu  to
work in Singapore, according to an e-mail from a spokesman, who
declined to be identified.  Teekay Profit Booms on LNG Shipping Demand: Freight Markets  In a year when commodity carriers, oil tankers and
container ships have lost money on the biggest trade routes,
owners of vessels hauling liquefied natural gas are poised for
the best rates ever.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises From Nine-Month Low as Rio Sticks to Demand Outlook  Copper rose in  London , rebounding from a nine-month low, as
producer Rio Tinto Group left its forecast for demand unchanged
and said supply of the metal remains hampered.  Copper Fees May Decline on Japan’s Return, Strikes, ANZ Says  Copper-processing fees may drop for annual 2012 contracts
as Japanese smelters return to full capacity after an earthquake
and strikes at mines cut supplies of ore, according to Australia
&  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd.  Rio Tinto CEO Says Markets Are ‘Softer’ Than Six Months Ago (2)  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company,
said commodities markets are “softer” than six months ago due
to concerns over the health of developed economies.  MINING:  Zambians Vote in Election as Candidates Differ on Copper Policy  Zambians voted today in the second election in three years
in a contest that may define how the country spends the proceeds
of a rapidly expanding copper industry.  Rio Boosts Copper Mineral Resources at Kennecott to 106 Mln Tons  Rio Tinto has increased its copper mineral resources by 20
million tons to 106 million tons at its wholly-owned Kennecott
Utah Copper Bingham Canyon Mine. The company released the
information in a regulatory filing.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains in London as European Debt Concern Spurs Demand  Gold rebounded from its biggest drop in a week in London as
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred demand for the metal
as a protection of wealth.  Swiss Monthly Imports, Exports of Platinum-Group Metals (Table)  The following is a table of monthly Swiss imports and
exports of platinum, palladium and rhodium. The figures include
raw form or powder and half-processed material, and were sent in
an e-mail by the Swiss Federal Customs Administration. Amounts
are in kilograms. One kilogram equals 2.2 pounds.  Gold Price May Reach $2,300 in 2012, Newmont CEO O’Brien Says  Gold may rise to $2,000 an ounce by the end of this year
and $2,300 an ounce by the close of 2012 as investors buy the
metal as a haven amid turmoil in financial markets, Newmont
Mining Corp. Chief Executive Officer Richard O’Brien said.  AGRICULTURE:  Egypt  to Boost Wheat Imports to Avert Unrest, El Attal Says (1)  Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat buyer, plans to boost
imports this year to build domestic stockpiles and prevent
future political unrests fueled by high food prices, the
nation’s Agricultural Export Council said.  Palm Oil Advances on Speculation Malaysian Exports May Rebound  Palm oil gained on speculation that exports from Malaysia,
the second-biggest producer, may rebound as worsening U.S.
soybean crop conditions threaten to reduce global vegetable oil
supplies.  Corn, Soybeans Advance as Adverse U.S. Weather May Hurt Crops  Corn, soybeans and wheat rose in  Chicago  on speculation
adverse weather may damage crops in the U.S., the biggest
exporter, and on increasing demand from  China .  Rubber Drops to Two-Month Low as Debt Crisis May Hurt Demand  Rubber slumped to the lowest level in more than two months
after  Italy ’s credit rating was cut, deepening concern that
Europe’s debt crisis is spreading, stalling the economic
recovery and curbing raw-materials demand.  Coffee Climbs on Speculation La Nina May Hurt Crops; Cocoa Rises  Coffee climbed in London and  New York  on concerns the
return of La Nina, a weather pattern associated with cooler than
normal temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific Ocean, may hurt
crops. Cocoa advanced.  China’s Wheat Imports May Rise, Canadian Wheat Board Forecasts  China’s wheat imports may rise to 1.3 million metric tons
in 2010-2011 from 1 million tons a year earlier, the Canadian
Wheat Board said. China is a net importer, with exports
estimated at 500,000 tons, Shi Haiguang, vice president, said at
a conference in Singapore today.  SHIPPING:  Credit Suisse Does First Brokered Coking Coal Swap, FIS Says  Credit Suisse Group AG concluded the world’s first brokered
coking coal swaps trade, London-based Freight Investor Services
Ltd. said.  ECONOMIES:  Italy Credit Rating Cut by S&P as Debt-Crisis Contagion Spreads  Italy’s credit rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s , the
country’s first downgrade in five years, as  Greece ’s worsening
fiscal crisis fans concern that contagion will engulf countries
such as Spain and Italy.  Greek Default Specter Leaves Germans Facing Bad-Bank Bill  Germany ’s bad banks, backed by the state to prevent the
collapse of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG and WestLB AG during the
credit crisis, would be the hardest hit in the event of a Greek
default, leaving taxpayers to shoulder the bill a second time.  Fed Likely to Announce ‘Operation Twist’ Easing, Economists Say  Federal Reserve  officials tomorrow will probably announce a
program for monetary easing that will do little to help 14
million unemployed Americans find work, according to economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  German Investor Confidence Declines After Outlook Worsened (2)  German investor confidence fell to the lowest in more than
2 1/2 years in September as Europe’s debt crisis and a global
slowdown damped the outlook for growth.  OTHER MARKETS:  European Stocks Gain on Greek Debt Talks; Italy CDS at Record  European stocks rallied after the biggest drop in a week as
Greece described its debt talks as “productive” and investors
speculated the Federal Reserve will provide more stimulus. The
cost of insuring Italy’s debt rose to a record after Standard &
Poor’s cut the nation’s credit rating.  Euro Snaps Two-Day Decline Versus Dollar as European Stocks Gain  The euro snapped a two-day decline against the dollar as
gains in European stocks boosted sentiment toward the currency
while Greece said talks aimed at staving off a default were
“productive.”  Asian Currencies at Six-Month Low on Europe Woes, Growth Concern  Asian currencies weakened, with  South Korea ’s won and
Malaysia’s ringgit reaching 2011 lows, on concern Europe’s
worsening debt crisis will spur an exodus from emerging-market
assets.  US Airways Puts Highest Since 2007 Show Most Pessimism: Options  US Airways Group Inc. options traders are skeptical the
nation’s fifth-largest carrier will avoid a global economic
slowdown, driving up insurance against declines to the highest
levels since 2007.  SPORTS:  Italy Scores 9 Tries in 53-17 Win Over Russia at Rugby  World Cup   Italy scored nine tries in beating Russia 53-17 in a Rugby
World Cup Pool C match in Nelson, New Zealand.  Man. United Pays Out Record Bonuses to Staff, Mail Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  