-- 
UAW Says GM to Invest $2.5 Billion in New Four-Year Contract

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-20T20:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/uaw-says-gm-will-invest-2-5-billion-in-contract-facing-vote-by-workers.html
The  United Auto Workers , seeking
ratification for a tentative contract agreement with  General
Motors Co. (GM) , said the largest U.S. automaker will invest $2.5
billion through four years.  The accord calls for GM to provide $5,000 lump-sum signing
bonuses and boost wages for entry-level workers, the Detroit-
based UAW said today in a briefing with reporters. GM will
invest $419 million to reopen an assembly plant in Tennessee to
make two midsize cars and hire 1,710 people, as the Detroit-
based automaker adds or retains 6,400 jobs, the union said.  UAW President  Bob King  said the agreement achieves some of
the union’s major goals in talks with the largest U.S.
automaker, which emerged from U.S.-backed bankruptcy in 2009.
Along with the plant in Tennessee, GM pledged to add or retain
jobs at six other factories and base its profit-sharing
arrangement on a greater portion of the automaker’s earnings.  “This contract really shows the  auto industry  is back,”
King said today.  The $5,000 signing bonus for each worker is less than the
$8,000 to $10,000 that four people familiar with the
negotiations said the UAW sought at the bargaining table. They
asked not to be identified because the deliberations were
private.  Entry-Level Workers  Starting pay for new workers will increase to at least
$14.78 an hour and the maximum rises to $19.28, the UAW said
today. The lowest wage in the 2007 agreement was $14 an hour and
could climb to $16.23.  There’s no limit to the number of workers who can be hired
at that level, said Joe Ashton, the union’s vice president for
GM relations. In 2015, the second tier would be capped at 25
percent, King said.  “We would love to see it at 40 percent because that would
mean our workforce would have grown,” he said. About 4 percent
of GM-UAW workers are paid the entry-level wage now, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said when talks began
in July that the Detroit-based automaker wanted to manage costs
while giving UAW represented workers “opportunity to share in
the success of the company going forward.” GM reported $6.36
billion of profit in the first half and $6.17 billion last year.  GM expects the union to hold ratification votes within 10
days, according to a Sept. 17 statement.  The automaker will base annual profit-sharing checks on its
earnings in  North America  instead of just the U.S., the UAW said
today. The profit-sharing plan equates to about $1,000 per $1
billion in North American profit.  Union workers will also get $1,000 a year in cash payments
during the next three years to protect them against inflation.
If they meet quality targets, they will be paid $250 a year.  Sharing Profits  The UAW continues to negotiate with GM over a plan to
divert 10 percent of workers’ profit-sharing payments to the
union’s retiree health-care fund, Ashton said. The additional
funds are intended to improve coverage for retirees. GM has
questioned the legality of the diversion, Ashton said.  “There are some legal questions about that,” Ashton said.
“We’re still negotiating with GM on that.”  Last year, UAW members would have received profit sharing
of about $5,000 on average instead of $4,300, people familiar
with the talks have said. The agreement requires a minimum
profit in North America of $1.25 billion to produce a payout and
caps distributions to workers at $12,000, the UAW said.  GM fell 62 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $22.43 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost
32 percent since GM’s initial public offering in November.  Buyout Offers  The UAW said GM will offer $10,000 buyouts for eligible
employees who retire within two years, as well as $65,000
bonuses to skilled-trades workers who leave between Nov. 1 and
March 31.  The automaker, in addition to the  Tennessee  investment,
will add union jobs by making midsize pickups at a factory in
Wentzville,  Missouri , and boosting output in Michigan at two
powertrain plants and a casting factory. GM also committed to
continue assembling pickups in  Fort Wayne ,  Indiana , which will
get a $230 million investment.  Employees who were moved from a shuttered factory get
return-home rights and will receive $30,000 relocation payments,
the UAW said.  Ratification Expected  “The economic gains for the membership are good,” Art
Reyes, president of UAW Local 651 in Flint, Michigan, said in an
interview. “I’ll recommend it to the membership.”  The tentative agreement will be put to a vote by UAW
members who King has estimated each gave $7,000 to $30,000 in
concessions since 2005. Analysts Himanshu Patel of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Brian Johnson  of  Barclays Capital  said
ratification was likely in separate research notes published
yesterday.  Contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and Chrysler Group LLC were set to expire Sept. 14 before being
extended. Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler is pushing for a smaller
signing bonus than GM accepted, about $3,500, two people
familiar with the talks said yesterday.  The UAW typically uses its first accord with GM, Ford or
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler to set a pattern for pay
and benefits at the other two. Union negotiators will seek a
deal with Chrysler next and then go to Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford, three people familiar with the talks have said.  Framework Pattern  “There is a general framework pattern we’ll go to Ford and
Chrysler with,” King said today. “I’m confident we can put an
agreement together for both.”  UAW members agreed to a no-strike pledge at GM and Chrysler
as part of their 2009 bankruptcies. Unsettled disputes are to be
decided through binding arbitration.  Ford didn’t receive a U.S. bailout and UAW members there,
going against the wishes of union leaders, rejected a strike ban
and arbitration.  King, 65, has pledged to organize a foreign automaker this
year to expand the UAW’s bargaining power beyond GM, Ford and
Chrysler. He said the agreement with GM will help that effort.  “Winning always helps you get momentum,” King said.
“When workers see how we play such a key role in the success of
the companies, that will have a big impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  