-- 
Lufthansa Cuts Full-Year Profit Target as Economy Hurts Bookings

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-09-20T16:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/lufthansa-cuts-full-year-profit-target-as-economy-hurts-bookings.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  cut its full-
year profit forecast and said it would deepen capacity cuts this
winter after last month’s results were weaker than expected and
forward bookings slumped.  Operating profit will be “at the upper end of the three-
digit million-euro range,” while falling short of last year’s
figure of 876 million euros ($1.2 billion), Lufthansa said
today, after reiterating in August that earnings would increase.  Lufthansa shares tumbled 4.4 percent as Europe’s second
biggest airline joined market leader Air France-KLM Group in
predicting a decline in annual earnings. The German carrier was
already trimming capacity growth for the winter season from Oct.
29 to 6 percent from 12 percent by using smaller planes,
deferring planned routes and shutting the Lufthansa Italia unit.  “It’s a bad surprise, because management was very confident
about increasing earnings,” said Uwe Weinreich, an analyst at
Unicredit in Munich. “It’s completely the economy. And the rest
of the year is not in their favor in passenger or cargo.”  Lufthansa fell as much as 7.1 percent, the steepest drop
since Jan. 22, 2010, based on intraday prices, before closing
47.5 cents lower at 10.32 euros in  Frankfurt , taking the slump
in 2011 to 37 percent and valuing it at 4.7 billion euros.  ‘Economic Uncertainties’  “The adjustment undertaken reflects a weaker-than-expected
monthly result for August reported by the passenger airline
group,” the Cologne, Germany-based airline said in today’s
statement. “In view of ongoing economic uncertainties, further
booking trend expectations were also adjusted.”  Lufthansa Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz had said
on Aug. 30 that the carrier still aimed to boost earnings this
year as oil-price hedging and non-airline operations left it
better placed than rivals. The carrier is hedged on 75 percent
of its 2011 fuel needs, while the Lufthansa Technik and LSG
SkyChefs maintenance and catering units aren’t subject to a
German aviation tax, Franz said, diminishing the levy’s impact.  August’s earnings figures, combined with other factors, led
the Lufthansa board to revise its view at a meeting today,
spokeswoman Claudia Lange said by telephone. While the company’s
airlines lifted capacity 8.4 percent in the month, traffic rose
only 5.7 percent, causing occupancy to fall 2 percentage points.  Dwindling Confidence  “They considered this issue and decided that a combination
of altered expectations, the weak month and economic effects
would have an impact on expected revenue, and that they should
make this known, which is what we’ve done,” Lange said.  German investor confidence is at the lowest since December
2008 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a global slowdown damp the
growth outlook, according to an index of investor and analyst
expectations based on a survey carried out between Sept. 2 and
Sept. 19 by the ZEW Center for European Economic Research.  Still,  Germany ’s Bundesbank said in a monthly bulletin
yesterday that it expects “robust” growth in Europe’s largest
economy in the third quarter as private consumption rebounds
from a second-quarter slump. The central bank last month
reiterated its forecast for growth of about 3 percent this year.  Lufthansa’s revised guidance also came as the  International
Air Transport Association  raised its global earnings forecast
for 2011 by 73 percent to $6.9 billion, citing stronger-than-
expected demand in regions including Europe, where the industry
group says a weak euro is boosting exports and tourism.  Thin Margin  IATA lifted its net income outlook for European carriers to
$1.4 billion, $900 million higher than predicted in June, while
cautioning that the region will have the weakest operating
margin outside  Africa  at 1.5 percent and predicting that global
earnings will fall in 2012 as growth stalls in western nations.  Profit at Europe’s airlines may total only 300 million
euros next year, IATA said, representing a decline of almost 80
percent from its forecast for 2011.  Air France-KLM (AF)  slumped 3.7 percent today, taking the
decline this year to almost 58 percent and giving a value of 1.7
billion euros, while International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA, the owner of British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia, closed down
2.6 percent and has lost 45 percent in the year for a value of
2.8 billion pounds ($4.4 billion).  Air France, which posted net income of 613 million euros in
the year to March 31, reiterated July 28 after a 145 million-
euro second-quarter loss that its goal this year is simply to be
profitable. Lufthansa’s earnings of 230 million euros, reported
the same day, fell short of a 325 million-euro analyst target
and both carriers said they’d rein in capacity.  IAG had an operating profit of 190 million euros in the
second quarter versus a 71 million-euro year-earlier loss,
outperforming its European rivals and beating analyst estimates.  The London-based carrier reiterated July 29 that it expects
“significant growth” in full-year earnings as it wins market
share on U.S. routes through an alliance with  American Airlines 
and merger savings help counter high kerosene prices. That
guidance still stands, spokeswoman Laura Goodes said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  