-- 
Huge Millipedes, Old Crayfish Show Weird Evolution of Cave Life

-- B y   J o h n   G r o s s m a n n
-- 
2011-09-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/huge-millipedes-old-crayfish-show-weird-evolution-of-cave-life.html
Avid cavers aside, most humans tend
to think of caves as dark, damp and dangerous. But to a host of
animals, caves are actually quite hospitable.  Though some cave denizens arrive accidentally, perhaps
swept underground by water flowing into a sinkhole or through a
crack in a creek bed, most seek out caves as protective havens
from the elements and predators; some have evolved over
millennia to exploit a previously unoccupied niche.  That’s not to say the living is easy. It’s not. Round-the-
clock darkness and a scarcity of food make living in caves
challenging.  So how do cave-dwellers survive below ground in  Carlsbad
Caverns ,  Jewel Cave ,  Mammoth Cave ,  Wind Cave  and some 15 other
national-park units?  Daily and seasonally, they employ a host of behavioral
strategies. And on the Darwinian clock, they adapt to their
subterranean environment, while random mutations alter their
bodies and physical abilities and even extend their lifespan,
making caves the equivalent of underground Galapagos Islands --
living laboratories of evolution.  Cave biologists spotlight the most obvious adaptations by
distinguishing among three types of cave animals: Troglobites
(or troglobionts) like tiny cavefish dwell in caves and nowhere
else; troglophiles may live in caves most of the time or in
similar environments outside; trogloxenes spend time inside and
outside caves.  “The most basic survival strategy,” says William Elliott,
a cave biologist and resource scientist with the  Missouri
Department of Conservation , “is not to stay in the cave your
whole life. Trogloxenes, or cave foreigners, like bats and cave
crickets, come and go frequently.” They leave primarily to feed
-- bats, famously, on insects like mosquitoes.  Fussy Bats  Like fussy renters, bats carefully choose their cave (their
neighborhood) and the most hospitable part of the cave (their
apartment). Some even have winter and summer homes.  Gray bats, explains Elliott, migrate to summer caves in the
Southeast, where they take to high-ceilinged rooms by the tens
of thousands to incubate their young.  “Their own body heat accumulates there,” says Elliott.
“We’ve measured the ambient temperature at over 90 degrees”
(32 degrees Celsius).  At the other end of the thermometer, Indiana bats seek out
the coldest regions of caves, which, contrary to what you’d hear
on a typical guided cave tour, are not uniformly 55 to 60
degrees Fahrenheit (13 to 16 degrees Celsius) year-round. Those
conditions allow them to lower their metabolic rate and conserve
energy, a key survival skill.  Life in Slow Motion  Indeed, many cave creatures, especially those short on food
sources, live in slow motion.  “Some of the cavefishes I’ve watched take a stroke with
their pectoral fins and then glide for about a minute before
they bother to take another stroke,” says Elliott.  Above ground, most crayfish live for only three years, but
some Alabama cave crayfish grow so slowly they aren’t able to
reproduce until they’re 40; when a female lays eggs, she lays
fewer, larger eggs that bear more protein for the next
generation. These cave-adapted crayfish can live for 80 years.  “Caves are microcosms for studying evolution,” says Kurt
Helf, an ecologist and cave biologist with the  Cumberland
Piedmont Network , one of 32 eco-regional networks in the
 National Park Service ’s Inventory and Monitoring Program.  As suggested by the Methuselah crayfish, the adaptations go
well beyond the loss of unnecessary eyes and pigment in animals
like salamanders and fish.  Longer Legs in  Texas   In Texas, some of the more adapted cave-dwelling millipedes
-- those that leave their normal habitat in the soil -- grow as
much as three times as large as millipedes in the same genus.  “The key is humidity,” says Elliott. “These animals were
accustomed to living between soil grains, where it’s very moist.
Once they got into an open cave that was still close to 100
percent humidity, they were not in danger of drying out. (In
that environment) it’s advantageous to have longer legs and a
larger body size, so some species evolved into a larger, free-
ranging troglobiont.”  Some cave creatures gained a better sense of smell. Others
developed longer, more sensitive antennae to navigate better in
the dark.  Cave crickets, which must venture into the dangerous
outside world to forage for food, limit their exposure to
predators like mice and spiders by leaving the cave only every
couple of weeks.  “They have a distensible crop, a storage organ that
enables them to eat more than 100 percent of their body weight
in one or more sittings,” says Helf. “They essentially tank
up.”  Pharmaceuticals  Someday, the secrets of cave life may even play a role in
human survival. Pharmaceutical companies are searching for
distinctive adaptive metabolic properties of cave bacteria and
fungi, says Rick Toomey, director of the  Mammoth Cave
International Center for Science and Learning .  “Because caves are such unusual places, especially from a
nutrient standpoint, there’s a premium on making sure someone
else doesn’t come and use your fuel source.”  Cave microbiologists, he explains, are looking for bacteria
that might successfully fight other bacteria, probing in the
dark for new medicines that would make cave-lovers of lots of
humans.  (Freelance writer John Grossmann lives in Mountain Lakes,
 New Jersey , and writes for National Parks magazine, where this
article originally ran. He is co-author with Gordon Hempton of
“One Square Inch of Silence” (Free Press). The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 