-- 
Underwear Model Shows Aging Economy How to Grow: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-09-20T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/underwear-model-shows-an-economy-how-to-grow-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
So this is what it has come to for
 Japan  Inc.: a future in underwear instead of cars, color TVs or
industrial robots.  Long before 2010, when  China  surpassed it to become  Asia ’s
biggest economy and Apple Inc. unleashed the iPad, Japan fancied
itself a nation fated for global primacy. Its technology was
second to none, its banks dominant, its car assembly lines
envied and imitated, its corporate chiefs giving  Jack Welch  a
run for his money.  Deflation and political paralysis have changed that
narrative in a manner that was made crystal clear last week. For
the first time, corporate Japan was shut out of Forbes
magazine’s ranking of the top 50 Asian companies. Claiming many
of the spots on the list was always a matter of national pride.
Japan’s economy may be weak, its leaders lacking, the population
aging, but the country sure has some amazing companies.  Rather than despairing, Japan ought to look beyond the
aging industrial mainstays to learn how to thrive in a dynamic
world economy: I offer up Uniqlo.  The graybeards who control Japan Inc. have been slow to
embrace Fast Retailing Co.’s expanding brand, or to recognize
what they might learn from it. Japan liked being a technology
powerhouse, not a bargain clothier that relies on cheap Chinese
labor. Yet Japan can use all the fresh thinking it can muster
these days and, financially, the end justifies the means. On
another  list , Forbes magazine ranks Fast Retailing’s President
 Tadashi Yanai  as Japan’s second-richest man.  The lessons to draw from Yanai and Uniqlo are obvious. The
markets of the future are outside Japan, and the provincialism
that rules Japanese management perpetuates the forces of
deflation.  Japan’s Downtrend  “Japan has been on a downtrend for 20 years,” Yanai said
this week. “We are at a critical moment.” What is he doing
about it? Opening 200 to 300 new stores  worldwide  each year.  What some call the “Galapagos syndrome” seems to have an
unshakeable grip on corporate Japan. The nation’s manufacturers
make fascinating and status-quo-shattering gadgets in isolation.
Domestic mobile-phone producers are the market equivalent of the
endemic species that  Charles Darwin  found on the remote islands
off Ecuador’s coast. Their products are highly evolved and
distinct from anything found elsewhere, but not particularly
suited to thriving beyond the water’s edge.  Japanese have been reluctant to go big overseas since their
chastening in the late 1980s. That foray was an exercise driven
by hubris. Buying Rockefeller Center and the Pebble Beach golf
course had more to do with bragging rights than rational
investing. Company presidents didn’t bid on every  Van Gogh ,
Picasso and Monet up for auction to make money. It was to
celebrate new wealth.  Strategy Time  This time, venturing abroad will take on more strategic
significance. And here lies the unappreciated benefit of the
yen’s 16 percent surge against the dollar in the past two years.
It will drive the international mergers and acquisitions that
Japan needs to increase market share and profits, and create new
jobs domestically.  There are other things Yanai’s peers can learn from Uniqlo.
One is the need for being direct. Few are his equal at framing
the debate about what ails Japan.  When I chat to Japanese executives about Uniqlo, many are
dismissive. Responses are often some variation of “it’s a
Japanese version of Gap Inc., not so impressive.” Or Uniqlo
represents a race to the economic bottom, while Japan needs to
move steadily upmarket.  Yet Yanai understands that deflation isn’t a cyclical
phenomenon, but a secular one. Rather than sit around and hope
consumer prices will suddenly rise and growth returns, Yanai is
reshaping the retailing world.  Hot Underwear  Uniqlo has brought more “kaizen” -- the process of
continuous improvement -- to the apparel industry than meets the
eye. Its  underwear  that helps wick away sweat has been a godsend
to those struggling through sticky summers from Tokyo to  New
York . Call it Japan’s underwear model of economic growth.  The company breaks any number of hidebound Japanese
traditions. Meetings are held in English, a very rare practice
in Japan. Fast Retailing isn’t hung up on seniority-based
hiring; if you’re 26 and smart, the job can be yours. The
company has few qualms about poaching talent from competitors,
which can run afoul of local etiquette. It is working to
increase the ratio of foreign staff and employs edgy advertising
campaigns.  The company seems more serious than most about corporate
social responsibility. This year, Yanai joined hands with Nobel
Peace laureate  Muhammad Yunus  to create a textiles company in
 Bangladesh  to help poor women gain the financial independence
society often keeps beyond their reach. It was an early and
generous provider of aid after Japan’s devastating earthquake.  All isn’t perfect with Uniqlo, or course. There’s always a
risk it will overexpand in this chaotic global environment. And
the company’s fortunes are disproportionately linked to the
charismatic, 62-year-old Yanai. If he bowed out tomorrow, it’s
not clear where Uniqlo would be.  Yet here is an example of how Japan -- amid deflation,
natural disasters and a shrinking population -- can store growth
and change the landscape in global markets. The world needs more
of it from a country that once thought being on top was its
destiny.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  