-- 
Hungary Risks Debt-Crisis Low for Forint, Commerzbank Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-20T09:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/hungary-s-forint-may-weaken-to-300-versus-euro-commerzbank-says.html
The forint may weaken to the lowest
level against the euro since 2009 as foreign-currency debt
threatens  Hungary ’s banks amid the worsening crisis in the euro
region, according to Commerzbank AG.  “The systemic risk of high foreign debt remains in place
and constitutes an imminent risk for the Hungarian financial
sector,” Carolin Hecht, a strategist at Commerzbank in
 Frankfurt , wrote of the euro-forint rate in a research report
today. The forint may weaken to as little as 300 per euro, Hecht
said in the report.  The forint has been the second-worst performer so far this
quarter among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Hungarian lawmakers passed a bill late yesterday that
allows the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at a
fixed exchange, with banks assuming losses.  Greece ’s government
plans a call with its main creditors today as it seeks to stave
off default.  Hungarian borrowers will be able to repay mortgages at a
fixed exchange rate of 180 forint per Swiss franc and 250 forint
per euro, provided they took out the loans at lower rates. Two-
thirds of mortgages in the country are denominated in francs.  Traders are increasing bearish bets on the forint, driving
the premium on options to sell the currency against the euro
rather than buy it to 4.8 percentage points, 10 basis points
short of the rate on Aug. 15, which was the highest in 14
months. That compares with 4.0 at the start of September, based
on the three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate.  ‘Huge Losses’  The mortgage repayment plan approved yesterday inflicts
“huge losses on banks, could have very severe macroeconomic
consequences and may yet prove to be a violation of European
Union laws,” Andras Oszlay, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in
Budapest, wrote in a note to clients today. “Hungarian assets
are clearly seen suffering in the coming period.”  The forint strengthened 0.1 percent to 290.75 at 10:50 a.m.
in Budapest, after weakening 2.2 percent yesterday, and paring
losses this month to 6.7 percent. The Hungarian currency
strengthened 0.1 percent to 241.197 per Swiss franc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  