-- 
Hungary Adopts ‘Wait-and-See’ Interest Rate Policy Amid Market Volatility

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-20T15:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/hungary-keeps-rates-steady-as-franc-loan-plan-hurts-forint-risk.html
Hungary’s central bank said a
“wait-and-see” approach to monetary policy is best amid global
market volatility, even after the forint weakened and policy
makers scrapped next year’s inflation forecast.  The  Magyar Nemzeti  Bank kept the benchmark two-week deposit
rate at 6 percent, matching the forecast of all 22 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. While the bank considered raising the rate
to 6.25 percent, there was an “overwhelming majority” in favor
of leaving it unchanged, Governor Andras Simor said.  The forint plunged after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
ruling party said Sept. 9 that it will let homeowners repay
Swiss franc-denominated mortgages ahead of schedule at exchange
rates more than 20 percent below the market, forcing lenders to
absorb losses. Policy makers held rates even after the Cabinet
cut its 2012 growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 3 percent.  “A wait-and-see monetary policy is justified in light of
the uncertainty on financial markets,” Simor told reporters.
The central bank will offer lenders access to its foreign-
currency reserves to protect the forint and damp risks to
financial stability caused by early repayments, he added.  Policy makers across eastern  Europe  have held borrowing
costs steady, even as economic growth slows, to shield their
currencies as investors exit emerging-market assets. Poland left
its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a second meeting Sept.
7 as fears of an economic slowdown overshadowed concern that
price growth may quicken.  Forint, Bonds  The forint appreciated 1 percent to 288.1 per euro and 1.7
percent to 237.4 per Swiss franc at 4:05 p.m. in Budapest after
the central bank’s reserves proposal.  Government bonds  maturing
June 2022 rallied, cutting the yield 24 basis points to 7.8
percent. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Credit-
default swaps, which measure the cost of insuring government
debt against non-payment, rose to the highest in two and a half
years yesterday.  “The key focal point remains financial stability and hence
risks are skewed toward more hawkish comments as long as global
 risk aversion  remains at the current elevated levels,” Nordea
Bank AG analyst Anders Svendsen in Copenhagen said by e-mail.  Mortgage Aid  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after the
Alpine nation’s currency rose to a record, boosting defaults and
pushing up monthly payments. Parliament yesterday approved a law
to fix exchange rates at 180 forint per Swiss franc and 250
forint per euro for early repayment.  The central bank expects 20 percent of the total 18 billion
euros ($24.6 billion) in foreign-currency mortgages will be
repaid at the fixed rates, Simor said. The bank’s offer for
lenders to use its reserves to meet higher demand for foreign
currencies should “dampen” risks to financial stability, he
said.  The mortgage law is a “significant threat” to the
financial system, the Hungarian Banking Association has said. It
may further harm growth and public finances, Standard and
Poor’s, which rates  Hungary ’s credit a step above junk, said
Sept. 13.  Government plans to raise the main value-added  tax rate  to
27 percent from 25 percent next year, which will help boost the
average 2012 inflation rate to 3.9 percent, above policy makers’
3 percent target, Simor said. The bank’s 3 percent target will
now be achieved in the first half of 2013, compared with an
earlier estimate of next year, he added.  Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier in
August compared with 3.1 percent in July, accelerating for the
first time in three months. The government, which is raising
excise-tax rates this year, forecasts average inflation of 4.2
percent for 2012, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Sept.
16.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  