-- 
Hungary to Keep Rates Steady as Franc-Loan Plan Hurts Forint

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-20T07:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/hungary-to-leave-rates-steady-as-franc-loan-plan-hurts-forint.html
Hungary  will probably leave
borrowing costs unchanged for an eighth month as a plan to force
banks to swallow losses on Swiss-franc loans hurts the forint,
eliminating room for a rate cut amid slower economic growth.  The  Magyar Nemzeti  Bank will keep the benchmark two-week
deposit rate at 6 percent today, according to all 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m.
in Budapest, with central bank President Andras Simor to comment
at 3 p.m. The bank will also forecast the direction of monetary
policy in its quarterly Inflation Report.  The forint plunged after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
ruling party said Sept. 9 that it will let homeowners repay
Swiss franc-denominated mortgages ahead of schedule at exchange
rates more than 20 percent below the market, forcing lenders to
absorb losses. Policy makers may hold rates flat to support the
currency even after the government last week slashed its 2012
growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 3 percent.  “Despite inflation and economic growth probably slowing,
we expect  interest rates  to stay unchanged in the next quarters
if the pressure on the forint holds and it fails to
appreciate,”  Piotr Kalisz , a Warsaw-based economist at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mail today.  Weakening Forint  The forint has lost 5.8 percent against the Swiss franc and
5 percent against the euro since Sept. 8. Credit-default swaps,
which measure the cost of insuring government debt against non-
payment, rose to the highest in two and a half years yesterday.  Hungarian six-month forward-rate agreements were 19 basis
points above the three-month Budapest Interbank Offered Rate
today, compared with 19 points below a month ago, indicating
a reversal of investor expectations from a rate cut to a rate
increase. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after the
Alpine nation’s currency rose to a record, boosting defaults and
pushing up monthly payments. Parliament yesterday approved a law
to fix exchange rates at 180 forint per Swiss franc and 250
forint per euro for early repayment, compared with market rates
of 241.7 forint per franc and 291.4 forint per euro today.  ‘Significant Threat’  The plan is a “significant threat” to the financial
system, the Hungarian Banking Association has said. It may
further harm growth and public finances, Standard and Poor’s,
which rates Hungary’s credit a step above junk, said Sept. 13.  Hungary’s fiscal challenges and economic vulnerability may
prompt policy makers to “only gradually” adjust monetary
conditions to worse-than-forecast growth and easing inflation,
the central bank said in the minutes of its August rate-setting
meeting. Policy makers have said the country needs to maintain
its benchmark rate at 6 percent for an “extended period” to
slow inflation to their 3 percent target next year.  “It will be much more about what the central bank says
than does,” Gillian Edgeworth, a London-based economist at
UniCredit Spa, said by e-mail Sept. 18. “Financial stability
will be at the forefront of central bank priorities, taking any
prospects of a rate cut firmly off the table.”  Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier in
August compared with 3.1 percent in July, accelerating for the
first time in three months. The government, which is raising
excise-tax rates this year and value-added tax rates next year,
forecasts average inflation of 4.2 percent for 2012, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Sept. 16.  ‘Forceful’  A weakening of the forint to more than 300 per euro may
trigger a “significant” upward revision of the inflation
outlook and “forceful” rate increases of as much as 3
percentage points, Societe Generale SA strategist Guillaume Salomon said by e-mail Sept. 16 after meeting central bank
officials in Budapest.  “With the forint now trading at its weakest level against
the euro for 14 months, any move in the next three months is far
more likely to be up than down,”  Neil Shearing , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail yesterday.
“The chance of a defensive rate hike of 50 basis points or so”
at today’s rate meeting “may now be as great as 50:50.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  