-- 
United Technologies Said to Move Closer to All-Cash Deal to Buy Goodrich

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-09-21T21:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/united-technologies-said-to-move-closer-to-all-cash-deal-to-buy-goodrich.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  is moving
closer to an agreement to buy  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  in an all-cash deal
and may announce a takeover as soon as today, according to two
people with knowledge of the discussions.  The companies were negotiating a price of $110 to $120 a
share at the end of last week, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. The gap
had narrowed to $5 a share as of Sept. 18, the person said.  Buying Goodrich would add the world’s largest maker of
aircraft landing gear to an aerospace portfolio at Hartford,
Connecticut-based United Technologies that includes Sikorsky
helicopters, Pratt & Whitney  jet engines  and the Hamilton
Sundstrand unit, whose products include aviation electronics.  Goodrich closed at $86.48 on Sept. 15 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have surged since
Bloomberg News reported Sept. 16 that United Technologies was in
talks to acquire the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company.
They fell $2.33, or 2.1 percent, to $109.49 at 4:15 p.m. today.  United Technologies may announce a takeover after the close
of U.S. markets today, or tomorrow, the people said.  John Moran, a spokesman for United Technologies, declined
to comment. Spokesmen for Goodrich didn’t return calls or e-
mails seeking comment.  Analyst’s View  “If United Technologies were able to acquire Goodrich for
$125 a share, that would be a good price for both sides,”
Robert Stallard, an RBC Capital Markets analyst in New York,
said yesterday in a note to investors. He recommends buying
United Technologies and Goodrich.  Goodrich’s market value was $13.7 billion as of the close
of trading today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
United Technologies’ was $68 billion. United Technologies fell
1.5 percent today to $74.87, below its closing price of $75.61
on Sept. 15.  Adding commercial aerospace revenue would be a boost for
United Technologies after Pratt’s geared turbofan engine failed
to win placement on  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s upgraded 737. Chief Executive
Officer  Louis Chenevert  spent more than $1 billion and a decade
developing the engine, an option on the Airbus SAS A320neo that
competes with the 737.  United Technologies had $5.4 billion in cash and near- cash
items at the end of last quarter, and posted sales of $54.3
billion in 2010. Goodrich reported revenue of $6.97 billion last
year.  Besides landing gear, Goodrich’s aerospace products include
nacelles, the casings that hold jet engines; electronics; and
temperature-control systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  