-- 
Universities of Texas, Oklahoma Approve Studies on Departing From Big 12

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-20T16:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/universities-of-texas-oklahoma-approve-studies-on-departing-from-big-12.html
The  University of Oklahoma  and the
 University of Texas  gave their presidents approval to seek new
athletic conference affiliations, moving a step closer to a
departure from the Big 12.  The Pacific-12 Conference may be where the schools wind up,
with  Oklahoma  State not far behind.  The Oklahoma board of regents voted yesterday to give
university President David Boren permission to decide on any
potential conference change, Sooners spokesman Kenneth Mossman
said in an e-mail. There is no timetable for a decision.  Mossman said he was unaware of another time since Oklahoma
joined the Big 12 that the board of regents had granted the
president similar approval.  Texas  President William Powers was allowed by his school’s
board to study a move to another league, the  Austin American-
Statesman  said, citing unidentified people. Unlike Boren, Powers
must return to the regents before a decision is made.  School spokesman Nick Voinis didn’t immediately return e-
mail, voicemail and telephone messages left at his office
seeking comment on the regents’ decision.  “This is an ongoing process, we’ll comment when the
process is over,” Powers told reporters yesterday. He didn’t
mention a possible future home for the Longhorns.  The American-Statesman, citing unidentified people, said
Texas would consider trying to join either the Pac-12 or the
Atlantic Coast Conference, which added Syracuse and Pittsburgh
from the Big East Conference two days ago.  Key Schools  David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the  University of Southern California ’s Marshall
School of Business, said that Texas and Oklahoma are two of the
key schools that other universities are watching closely.  “Once those two dominoes fall, if they do in the next
couple of days, the rest of the dominoes will have to fall
fairly quickly,” Carter said. “If you are a decent program,
you clearly don’t want to get into a position where you’re on
the outside of one of these super conferences.”  Boren told reporters yesterday that he is focused primarily
on keeping Oklahoma in the Big 12 or moving to the Pac-12, the
Walnut Creek, California-based conference that has already added
Colorado from the Big 12 and  Utah  from the Mountain West
Conference.  Boren also said he had “very warm and constructive
discussions” with Pac-12 officials.  Oklahoma and Texas may work together as they explore their
options, Boren said. He added that it was too early to tell if
the two schools would ultimately make the same decision.  ‘Move Together’  “While we like being rivals, we also like to work together
when appropriate,” Boren said. “I think we’re always stronger
when Texas and Oklahoma move together.”  Oklahoma State’s regents scheduled a special meeting for
tomorrow to address the same topic, the  Associated Press 
reported. Boren said that if Oklahoma exits the Big 12, Oklahoma
State also may leave. Oklahoma State spokesman Kevin Klintworth
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In preparation for the possible departure of Texas,
Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, school and conference officials
from the  Big 12  and  Big East  conferences have held discussions
on ways to merge their remaining members, AP said, citing an
unidentified person involved in the negotiations. Big 12 and Big
East officials didn’t return messages seeking comment.  The Oklahoma regents also voted yesterday to grant salary
increases and contract extensions to football coach Bob Stoops
and Athletic Director Joe Castiglione, AP said.  It said Stoops’s contract now runs through 2018 and pays
him $34.5 million over the next seven years. Castiglione’s pact
was extended three years with annual raises and bonuses of
$275,000, the  news agency  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  