-- 
UPS, AT&T Lobby Obama for Tax Overhaul Focused on Rate Cuts

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-09-20T16:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/ups-at-t-lobby-obama-for-tax-overhaul-focused-on-rate-cuts.html
Executives from  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  are
pressing President Barack Obama for a swift reduction in the
U.S. corporate tax rate.  The companies, along with  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Boeing
Co. and the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , today announced formation of a
group that will push to lower corporate tax rates, which
currently top out at 35 percent. In a letter to Obama, the
companies said the U.S. tax system puts them at a competitive
disadvantage to businesses based in countries with lower rates.
They didn’t specify their preferred corporate tax rate.  “In a global economy where capital is highly mobile, it is
simply harder to compete from America,” the executives wrote in
the letter, which is dated today. “A lower corporate tax rate
will boost investment in the U.S., bringing more American jobs,
innovation and growth.”  The emphasis on rate cuts reflects the different goals of
multinational companies and businesses whose operations are
mostly based in the U.S. While most companies support a rate
reduction, multinational corporations such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are more focused on a repatriation
holiday that would allow them to return about $1 trillion in
overseas profits to the U.S. at a rate as low as 5.25 percent.  Elaine Kamarck, a co-chairman of the group and a former
adviser to President Bill Clinton, said lowering rates helps all
businesses.  ‘Treats Everyone Equally’  “The repatriation issues have applied to some companies
more than others and we think that by starting a tax reform
discussion with a rate discussion is really the way to go,” she
said. “That treats everyone equally.”  Jim Pinkerton, a former adviser to Presidents Ronald Reagan
and George H.W. Bush, is the other co-chairman.  In a  report  released Sept. 7, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
-- which counts AT&T, UPS, FedEx and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
as members -- maintained that a tax holiday would expand the
U.S. economy by as much as 4 percent over two to three years. A
study written by Ernst & Young LLP for today’s announcement of
the  RATE Coalition  (short for Reducing America’s Taxes
Equitably) said lower permanent rates would encourage
repatriation, though it didn’t call for a tax holiday.  “A lower U.S. corporate tax rate would reduce the tax on
repatriated earnings of U.S.-headquartered multinational
corporations,” the study said.  Territorial Tax System  The Ernst & Young report is also silent on whether the U.S.
should move toward a so-called territorial tax system, in which
businesses are taxed only on domestically generated income.
Multinational companies are pressing for a shift to a
territorial system, and the Chamber’s study encouraged lawmakers
to approve a repatriation holiday with “the ultimate goal of
moving toward a territorial system of taxation.”  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said yesterday that the
administration will release proposals for a corporate tax
overhaul “before the end of the year.”  “We will lay out a set of broad proposals on corporate  tax
reform  that meet this test of making us more competitive as a
country, strengthening incentives for investing in the United
States,” he told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  