-- 
Turkey’s Local-Currency Debt Rated Investment Grade by S&P; Stocks Rally

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-20T15:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/turkey-s-local-currency-debt-rated-investment-grade-by-s-p-stocks-rally.html
Turkey ’s local-currency credit
rating was raised to investment-grade by Standard & Poors, which
cited “continuing improvements” in the country’s financial
industry and the expansion of local debt markets.  S&P increased Turkey’s local-currency rating one step to
BBB-, the lowest investment-grade ranking, and affirmed the
foreign-currency sovereign rating at BB, two levels below
investment grade, with a positive outlook, according to an e-
mailed statement today. Turkish shares rallied the most in more
than a year and the lira rebounded from a 2 1/2-year low.  The upgrade reflects deeper local  currency markets  and
“the increased ability of the government to fund itself in
local currency at longer maturities,”  Frank Gill , the London-
based analyst at S&P who wrote the report, said in a telephone
interview. “That the government is funding itself three-
quarters in local currency that’s a strength.”  Banks have led Turkish stocks to the biggest gains
worldwide in the past month, with the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
rallying 15 percent, as investors grow convinced that interest
rate cuts will stimulate growth without causing the economy to
overheat. The equity market, which lagged behind peers in the
first seven months this year, climbed after policy makers
lowered borrowing costs on Aug. 4 for the third time since
December, prompting brokerages such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and UBS AG to raise some estimates and recommendations on banks.  Stocks, Lira  The ISE 100 jumped 5.1 percent at the 5:30 p.m. close of
trading in Istanbul. The lira strengthened 1 percent against the
dollar. Yields on lira-denominated two-year bonds fell 24 basis
points to 8.03 percent, after plunging as much as 41 basis
points to 7.86 percent, in the biggest drop since May 2010,
according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  S&P’s upgrade may allow the Treasury to “issue long term
lira-denominated eurobonds,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at
BGC Partners in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed comment. Turkish
companies would also have access to lira borrowing on
international capital markets, he said.  The average maturity of local-currency debt has increased
to 34 months in 2011 from 24 months in 2008, S&P said in its
report today’s. Government debt is 72 percent denominated in
liras, according to August figures from the Treasury.  Fiscal Position  “You have a discrepancy in Turkey between a very strong
fiscal position in terms of public debt dynamics and deepening
local markets but also a quite vulnerable, large external
imbalance,”  Christian Keller , an economist at  Barclays Capital 
in  London , said by telephone. “That asks for a difference
between what you think local debt is rated, and what foreign
currency debt is rated. Turkey is a country where the difference
probably should be large.”  The country’s “weakest element” is its current-account
deficit, S&P said. The 12-month current-account gap reached a
record $74.6 billion in July, about 10 percent of gross domestic
product.  The deficit is likely to narrow as economic growth slows to
between 2 and 3 percent next year from about 6 percent this
year, S&P’s Gill said. “What we’re going to do now is observe
the adjustment, see how that’s going to affect the government’s
position.”  Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 3 that failure to
address the external imbalances could jeopardize the country’s
move toward investment grade. Moody’s ranks the government’s
local-currency debt two grades below investment status, while
 Fitch Ratings  places it one step below.  The rating company “cannot move Turkey’s foreign currency
long-term rating to investment grade while the country is still
running a wide current-account deficit,” Tim Ash, chief
emerging-markets economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Don’t
hold your breath though for S&P, Fitch or Moody’s to follow
through quickly on the foreign-currency front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 