-- 
Turkish Central Bank Leaves Key Rate at 5.75%, Says Cuts May Be Necessary

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-20T11:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/turkish-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-at-5-75-.html
Turkey ’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a historic low as it tracks
European Union efforts to resolve the sovereign debt problems
that threaten growth in its main trade partner.  The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at 5.75 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the forecast of 12 of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, with the other two predicting a cut. The bank will
release minutes of the meeting within five working days.  The bank reduced the rate by half a percentage point on
Aug. 4, saying action was needed to cushion the economy from the
impact of a likely slowdown caused by European debt problems.
The bank may “ease all policy instruments” if global problems
deepen and the domestic economy stalls, it said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision.  The bank “remains very dovish,” said Tim Ash, chief
economist for emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 London , said in an e-mailed report. “It will wait and see how
sharp the domestic slowdown is before cutting policy rates
again.”  The lira strengthened after the decision and was trading at
1.7987 per dollar in Istanbul at 2:04 p.m. Yields on benchmark
two-year lira debt fell 9 basis points to 8.18 percent.  There signs of “a significant slowdown” in the economy,
the bank said today, pointing to weak demand from  Europe . The
current-account deficit will show “a clear improvement” in the
months ahead, it said.  Current-Account Gap  Turkey’s economy expanded 1.3 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, according to seasonally adjusted
figures announced Sept. 12. Governor Erdem Basci had forecast a
quarter of flat growth. The 12-month current-account gap reached
a record $74.6 billion in July, about 10 percent of gross
domestic product.  The lira has fallen about 6 percent against the dollar
since the Aug. 4 rate cut, and is trading close to a record low.
The currency is undervalued against a basket comprising the
dollar and the euro, Basci said Aug. 15.  The central bank sold $350 million to banks today, the most
since it started daily auctions on Aug. 5. That’s a “strong
message that they care about the lira,” Ash said.  Inflation accelerated to 6.7 percent in August from 6.3
percent a month earlier. The bank, which is aiming for 5.5
percent at the end of this year, said today that the higher rate
was caused by a weak lira driving up the price of imported goods
and will prove “temporary.” Inflation is in line with the
bank’s goal of 5 percent at the end of 2012, it said.  Basci said Sept. 14 he won’t tolerate any deterioration in
the outlook for inflation.  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds have risen about 80
basis points in the two weeks since the August jump in inflation
was announced. The yields fell after today’s rate announcement,
to 8.19 percent at 2:20 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 