-- 
Turkish Lira Surges From 2 1/2-Year Low on S&P Upgrade, Auction

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-20T16:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/turkish-lira-surges-from-2-1-2-year-low-on-s-p-upgrade-auction.html
The Turkish lira surged the most in
a month, rebounding from a 2 1/2-year low against the dollar,
after  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded the country’s local-currency
debt to investment grade.  The lira strengthened as much as 2.1 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Aug. 9, before trading 1.3 percent higher
to 1.7828 at 6:05 p.m. in Istanbul, reversing a 0.6 percent
loss. Yields on two-year benchmark bond yields fell 24 basis
points to 8.03 percent, the first decline in three days and the
largest in a month.  S&P raised the country’s local currency debt rating one
step to BBB-, its lowest investment grade, and affirmed the
main foreign-currency status at BB, two levels below investment
grade, maintaining a positive outlook. The currency rallied
earlier today after the central bank announced its biggest sale
of dollars since the auctions began on Aug. 5.  The auction signaled a willingness to “do everything
necessary in order to limit the lira’s further depreciation
going forward,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners
brokerage in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed report.  The central bank sold $350 million for lira today and
received $850 million in bids, according to a statement on its
page on Bloomberg.  The lira has depreciated 14 percent this year, making it
the worst performer among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as the central bank cut rates to boost exports and
cushion Turkey’s economy against a slowdown in  Europe .  The central bank is showing “much more resolve in capping
the Turkish lira’s slide,” according to Citigroup Inc. emerging
markets strategist  Luis Costa  in  London . “This is clearly
suggesting the central bank wants to defend the 1.80 level.”  Investors should buy  government bonds  as the bank indicated
it will support the currency, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  