-- 
Turner Says Murdoch ‘Going to Have to Step Down’ From News Corp.

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-09-20T12:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/turner-says-murdoch-going-to-have-to-step-down-amid-news-corp-scandal.html
Billionaire  Ted Turner  said  News
Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  will
probably have to leave the helm of his media company after a
phone-hacking scandal that began at one of its newspapers.  “I think he’s going to have to step down,” Turner, 72,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “He hadn’t
survived anything like this. This is serious.”  News Corp., based in New York, has come under fire this
year over allegations its News of the World tabloid hacked into
the voice mails of murder victims and paid police for stories.
The public outcry forced the company to close the 168-year-old
London newspaper and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.2 billion)
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Murdoch and his son James, deputy chief operating officer
at News Corp., were called before U.K. parliament in July to
answer questions about the scandal. The elder Murdoch’s
statements that he didn’t know about phone-hacking or police
payments aren’t sufficient, Turner said.  “Well, he should have known,” said Turner, who sold his
Atlanta-based Turner Broadcasting, owner of CNN, TBS and the
Cartoon Network, to  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 1996. “He was chairman
of the board. He’s responsible. I took responsibility when I ran
my company. You never heard me say, ‘Well, I didn’t know.’”  Jack Horner , a News Corp. spokesman, declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  ‘Murdoch’s War’  Turner and Murdoch battled for years as they built their
media empires. News Corp. started the Fox News cable network in
1996 to challenge  CNN , eventually eclipsing the Turner network.
Turner criticized his rival’s tactics, saying in 2003 that
Murdoch helped start the U.S. war against  Iraq  “because it’s
good for his newspapers and good for his television stations.”  “I call it Murdoch’s War,” he said at the time.  Turner said in 2010 he had made peace with Murdoch, who he
referred to as “the only real enemy I ever had.” He said he
had sent Murdoch a note telling him the Wall Street Journal was
at least as good as before News Corp. bought it and that he had
bought Murdoch a bison burger at the New York branch of Ted’s
Montana Grill, which Turner co-founded in 2002.  “We decided to bury the hatchet and not in each other’s
heads,” Turner said at the time.  Turner said that now Murdoch, like everyone else, has the
presumption of innocence as investigations into the phone-
hacking continue.  ‘Very Disappointed’  The Parliament’s Culture Committee decided last week to
recall  James Murdoch  after former employees questioned
statements he made about his knowledge of the extent of hacking
at the News of the World. In addition, News Corp.’s U.K. unit
will pay 3 million pounds to settle claims News of the World
hacked the phone of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler , a person
with knowledge of the matter said this week.  “I’m very disappointed that this has occurred,” Turner
said. “A major media company should definitely be following the
law, that’s all. And when they break the law -- and certainly,
it’s already been admitted that News of the World broke the law.
The question is how big a scandal is it. And they’re
investigating that now, and we’ll know soon enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  