-- 
Vodafone to Partner Billionaire Li’s Hutchison in Hong Kong

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-20T10:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/hutchison-telecom-vodafone-agree-on-partnership-in-hong-kong.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  said it reached
an agreement with Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing’s local
mobile-phone unit to offer wireless services after ending a
partnership with SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Ltd.  Hutchison Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215)  will
become the “preferred non-equity partner of Vodafone in Hong
Kong,” the companies said in a joint statement today. The two
carriers will collaborate in services including roaming and
marketing, they said.  The accord builds on other business deals between Li, Hong
Kong’s richest man, and Vodafone in Australia and India. The
British company is ending its seven-year partnership with
SmarTone, the mobile operator controlled by Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd., the world’s most valuable real-estate developer.  In 2007, Li’s Hutchison Telecommunications International
Ltd. sold its controlling stake in  India ’s third-biggest mobile-
phone carrier to Newbury, England-based Vodafone for about $10.7
billion. In 2009, Vodafone, the world’s biggest wireless carrier
by revenue, and Li’s Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. merged their
Australian mobile-phone operations.  Hutchison Telecommunications Hong Kong rose 3.8 percent to
close at HK$2.98 in Hong Kong trading, while SmarTone gained 1.9
percent to HK$17.52. The city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index
advanced 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong-based SmarTone said in a statement yesterday it
was not renewing its partnership with Vodafone. The companies
started their collaboration in 2004.  Separately, Vodafone said today it reached a strategic
partnership with Conexus Mobile Alliance, a group of Asian
carriers including Hutchison, Japan’s  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and
Taiwan’s Far EasTone Telecommunications Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  