-- 
Wall Street Faces ‘Brutal’ Fixed-Income Results After Jefferies Decline

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-20T19:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/wall-street-facing-brutal-fixed-income-results-after-jefferies.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  posted a 79
percent plunge in fixed-income trading revenue that may show the
extent of the damage August’s market turmoil caused for its
bigger Wall Street competitors.  Revenue from trading bonds for the three months through
Aug. 31 dropped to $33.1 million from $161 million a year
earlier at New York-based Jefferies, which is led by Chief
Executive Officer Richard “Rich” Handler. Profit excluding an
acquisition was 10 cents a share, the investment firm said today
in a statement, half analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The biggest Wall Street firms will start reporting third-
quarter results next month showing how they weathered a market
grappling with fallout from  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the
U.S. credit rating and concern Greece would default. August was
“outright brutal,” Handler told analysts on a conference call.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  both warned investors
this month that trading revenue may suffer.  “This is a function of the environment, not something
specific to Jefferies,” said Lauren Smith, an analyst with New
York-based KBW Inc. who predicted the bank would post fixed-
income revenue of $195 million. “June and July were fairly
muted trading on the part of clients, that was across the board.
But August the wheels came off the cart.”  Credit Markets  Handler, 50, said some fixed-income markets at the end of
August had tumbled by as much as 15 percent from the end of May,
leading to the third-worst month for U.S. credit markets after
September and October in 2008. This caused “broad-based
writedowns” of some trading assets held by the bank, he said.  “Our results for the quarter substantially reflect the
challenging trading conditions across global markets,” Handler
said on the call. The problems were “particularly pronounced in
August and led to significant declines in certain inventory and
hedge values during the quarter,” he said.  Handler and his fellow executives thought the bank was on
course for a “satisfactory” quarter at the end of July, he
said. The European sovereign debt crisis and investor concern
that some banks could struggle to fund their operations ended
such hopes in August, he told analysts.  Markets were roiled in August amid investor fear that
 Europe  was struggling to contain its sovereign-debt crisis and
that lenders would suffer if a country such as Greece defaulted.
Shares in  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, the three biggest French banks, fell more than 20
percent during the month. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks the
performance of 24 U.S. banks, fell 13 percent.  Trading Assets  The crisis drove a period of trading volatility and caused
a widening of so-called credit spreads, the extra yield that
investors demand to own a corporate bond rather than U.S.
Treasury notes, Handler said. This caused significant writedowns
in some of the bank’s trading assets tied to high-yield bonds,
distressed debt and some mortgage bonds, he said.  Trading results at Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s
biggest brokerage, could be affected for the same reason, Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said this month.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
the third-biggest U.S. bank, could post a 31 percent decline in
fixed-income revenue compared with the same quarter last year
tied to the rout, according to  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with
Royal Bank of Canada.  Analysts have reduced their third-quarter profit estimates
for firms including Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, JPMorgan and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in the past four weeks, according to
Bloomberg data. The KBW Bank Index has declined about 5.7
percent since the end of August.  “When credit spreads dislocate as they have, there is a
risk that market makers got caught with adverse inventory
positions that cause losses,” Chris Kotowski, a New York-based
analyst with Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a Sept. 6 note to
clients. “That is clearly what the stock market is fearing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 