-- 
Warburg, Cinven Are Said to Consider Delaying Dutch Cable IPO to Next Year

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-20T11:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/warburg-cinven-are-said-to-consider-delaying-dutch-cable-ipo-to-next-year.html
Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd.,
co-owners of Ziggo BV, may delay the cable-television company’s
initial public offering to next year as global markets slump,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  No decision has been made, said the people, who declined to
be identified as the process is private. The buyout firms had
planned to sell 25 percent to 50 percent of the Dutch company in
an IPO this year for as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion), people with knowledge of the matter said in April.  European companies, including  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Munich-based
Osram lighting unit, shelved IPOs this year at almost twice the
rate as the same period in 2010 as the sovereign debt crisis
diminished the appeal of new stocks. Almost two-thirds of the
companies that went public in western  Europe  this year are
trading below their IPO prices, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
has dropped 17 percent this year.  A decision hasn’t been made about a possible IPO, said
Martijn Jonker, a spokesman for Ziggo. He declined to comment
further.  Cinven, based in London, and Warburg each invested in
predecessors of Ziggo more than five years ago. The Utrecht-
based company had more than 3 million TV customers at the end of
June, a 2.3 percent decline from a year earlier, according to a
statement in July. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer
Bernard Dijkhuizen, was formed in February 2007 from the merger
of three cable operators.  Revenue climbed 7.6 percent in the second quarter to 363.7
million euros, as more customers opted for packages of multiple
services, such as Internet, phone and TV. Ziggo has about 1.6
million high-speed Internet subscribers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  