-- 
Warhol Dollar Sign to Top $3 Million Christie’s Seized-Art Sale

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-09-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/warhol-dollar-sign-to-top-3-million-sale-of-art-seized-from-irish-tycoon.html
An Andy Warhol “Dollar Sign” is
among artworks worth as much as $3 million being sold by
Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency (NAMA) to recoup some
of the debts of real-estate investor Derek Quinlan.  Christie’s International, on the instructions of NAMA, will
offer 14 works from an unidentified private collection at
auctions in New York and  London  in November, the auction house
said in an e-mail. The collector was named yesterday as Quinlan
by four dealers with knowledge of the matter.  Quinlan, a former tax inspector, was one of Ireland’s
biggest real estate investors during the “Celtic Tiger”
property boom.  NAMA  is an Irish government agency created to buy
risky commercial loans from the country’s beleaguered banks. It
took control of some of Quinlan assets in April after the
investor failed to present and agree a debt repayment plan.  “These artworks were given to NAMA as security for various
loans,” the agency’s spokesman,  Ray Gordon , managing director
of Gordon MRM media relations, said in an interview. “It has
now moved to realize their value.”  The blue and pink Warhol canvas will be included in
Christie’s Nov. 9 contemporary-art sale in  New York  with an
estimate of $400,000 to $600,000. Alex Katz’s “Ace Airport” is
valued at $150,000 to $200,000.  Christie’s Nov. 17 auction of 20th century British art in
London will feature 11 ex-Quinlan works.  ‘Still Life’  William Scott’s 1969 abstract “Still Life Variations 2”
is priced at as much as 300,000 pounds ($471,000), while “Man
Doing Accounts” by  Jack B. Yeats  -- a long-standing favorite
artist with wealthy Irish collectors -- is tagged at 120,000
pounds to 180,000 pounds. The latter sold for 300,000 pounds at
Christie’s in 2007. The collection’s works are estimated at as
much as 1.9 million pounds.  Quinlan sold some more valuable paintings before NAMA took
control of his assets, said dealers. He bought the figure-packed
1946 L.S. Lowry fairground scene “Good Friday, Daisy Nook”
from the London-based dealer  Richard Green , who’d paid a record
3.8 million pounds for it at Christie’s in June 2007. The work
was subsequently sold for an undisclosed loss to another
gallery, said dealers. Green also sold the Irish collector the
Scott abstract offered by NAMA.  A telephone call to Coroin Limited, the Mayfair-based
holding company for Quinlan’s Maybourne Hotel Group, produced no
contact details for the Irish businessman. The Maybourne Hotel
Group had no contact details.  Irish Collectors  “Now that NAMA has put its foot in the water, there may be
a few more of these sales,” James O’Halloran, managing director
of the Dublin-based auctioneers  James Adam & Sons , said in an
interview. “You can count the number of Irish developers with
decent art collections on one hand, though. Most people who
bought at the height of the market are hanging on to their
paintings until things get better.”  On average, prices of 20th-century Irish art remain 50
percent lower than they were in 2007, said O’Halloran. Adam’s
sold the corporate art collection of Bank of Ireland Plc for 1.5
million euros ($2 million) in November.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  has a more valuable art collection,
dealers said. In recent years, the bank purchased works by
contemporary Irish artists with international reputations such
as Sean Scully and William Scott, as well as paintings by Yeats
and tapestries by le Brocquy, dealers said.  “We are currently working with the Department of Arts,
Heritage and the Gaeltacht to ensure we maximize public access
to the art collection. The sale of the collection is not under
consideration,” Ronan Sheridan, press officer for Allied Irish
Banks, said in an e-mailed statement. Allied Irish is the
country’s second-largest bank by assets. In August, the taxpayer
bought 5 billion euros of new shares in the company, raising the
public stake to 99.8 percent.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 