-- 
Weak U.S. Leads IMF to Cut Canada’s Economic Growth Forecast

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-20T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/weak-u-s-leads-imf-to-cut-canada-s-economic-growth-forecast.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
Canada’s economic growth forecast today, citing weaker U.S.
demand and slower  government spending , and saying Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  can afford to offer new stimulus if needed
to sustain the recovery.  The growth forecast for this year was reduced to 2.1
percent from a June prediction of 2.9 percent, according to the
Washington-based lender’s World Economic Outlook. The expansion
will slow further to 1.9 percent next year, a reduction from the
June forecast of 2.6 percent.  The world’s 10th largest economy relies on exports for a
third of its gross domestic product and a majority of that goes
to the U.S., where the IMF cut 2011 growth forecast by one
percentage point to 1.5 percent. Canada’s economy shrank in the
second quarter due to disrupted exports and a strong currency,
and Flaherty in the last few weeks has said he doesn’t expect
there will be a need for major new spending.  “In  Canada , downdrafts from its southern neighbor will be
offset in part by relatively healthy economic fundamentals and
still supportive commodity prices,” the IMF report said.  The country’s deficit in its current account, a broad
measure of trade in goods, services and investment, will equal
3.3 percentage points of GDP this year, up from 3.1 points last
year, the IMF said. The gap will widen again to 3.8 points in
2012, the report said.  Flaherty told reporters Sept. 12 he won’t add more fiscal
stimulus unless something “dramatic” occurs in the global
economy. His June fiscal plan seeks to balance the budget by
2014 through government operating cost cuts of up to C$4 billion
($4 billion) annually, and by closing tax loopholes.  “For Canada, which is in a sounder fiscal and financial
position than the  United States , ongoing fiscal tightening can
continue, but there is policy room to pause if downside risks to
growth keep rising,” the IMF said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 