-- 
WellPoint to Vie With State-Run Health Markets

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-20T20:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/wellpoint-buys-health-exchange-to-compete-with-state-run-insurance-markets.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest insurer
by enrollment, is buying a private health-insurance exchange to
compete for employers with the U.S. state-run marketplaces set
to open in 2014 under President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul.  WellPoint and two nonprofit health insurers purchased a 78
percent stake today in Bloom Health, a closely held benefits
company in Minneapolis, for an undisclosed sum, WellPoint said.
Bloom is a two-year-old online marketplace that offers a menu of
health plans to about 20,000 workers at almost 50 companies.  Using a private exchange such as Bloom would limit an
employer’s costs and provide consistency compared with separate
state-run exchanges, each with their own regulations, said Ken Goulet, chief executive officer of Indianapolis-based
WellPoint’s commercial business unit.  “We see this as a way of preserving the employer-based
market by providing some predictability in health-care costs,”
Goulet said in a telephone interview.  WellPoint rose 16 cents to $67.26 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The state-run marketplaces where people will select health
insurance plans are central to the Obama administration’s goal
of expanding coverage to as much as 95 percent of Americans. The
 Congressional Budget Office  expects 24 million people to obtain
insurance through exchanges by 2014.  U.S. Employers  A study by New York-based consulting firm McKinsey & Co.,
said that as many as one-third of U.S. companies are considering
giving up employer-sponsored health plans. Instead, they would
send their workers to state-run exchanges for coverage, paying a
federally mandated fine.  Employers have battled rising health-care costs, which in
recent years have grown twice as fast as the  consumer price
index . Under the Bloom model, companies pay employees a fixed
amount to cover a portion of their health-care coverage and
workers provide the rest based on the plans they select.  Goulet said the  Bloom exchange  allows employers to maintain
their tax deduction on the money paid annually into an
employee’s health reimbursement account to help cover the cost
of insurance. It also allows workers to pick a plan that suits
their health-care needs and how much they are willing to spend,
he said.  401k Concept  The idea of the private health-care exchange and its defined
contribution model is similar to the trend in retirement
benefits in which employers have been abandoning defined benefit
pension plans for the relative financial safety of a 401(k) that
allows companies to control how much they spend.  WellPoint’s partners in the Bloom purchase are Chicago-
based Health Care Service Corp., the largest U.S. customer-owned
insurer, and Blue Cross Blue Shield of  Michigan , based in
Detroit, which already held a minority interest in the private
exchange. They bought the stake from Sandbox Industries Inc., a
Chicago-based venture capital fund, and a joint venture of Blue
Cross Blue Shield plans that invests in start-up health-care
companies.  Health Care Services currently operates in  Texas ,  Illinois ,
 New Mexico  and Oklahoma. It now will be able to offer employers
choices of health plans in the 19 states where Bloom operates,
said Martin Foster, president of plan operations at HCSC. The
markets covered by Bloom represent about 60 percent of the U.S.
population, Goulet said.  All 50 States  “Our objective is to be in all 50 states in the next
year,” Goulet said.  Bloom’s customers generally are companies with about 100 to
1,000 employees, said Abir Sen, chief executive officer of
Bloom. Unlike competitors who primarily cover the retiree
populations of larger employers, Bloom covers workers still on
the job, Sen said.  Extend Health Inc. of San Mateo,  California  is the largest
private exchange covering 300,000 participants. Its customers
include  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  in Omaha,  Nebraska , and U.S.
automakers  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  