-- 
Where to Gather Intelligence Using Social Media

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-20T18:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/where-to-gather-intelligence-using-social-media.html
Uncovering the secrets of corporate
rivals no longer requires diving through dumpsters. In the age
of Twitter updates and Foursquare check-ins, companies that keep
ears to the Web may get the jump on their competitors’ strategy
and deal making.  LinkedIn
A simple search on this professional networking site reveals the
names of workers employed by your corporate rival. Opt to
“follow” a company and the site will send alerts to notify you
each time your rival hires a new employee or an executive there
changes roles. If you home in on a competitor’s key executives,
their professional contacts and LinkedIn groups may reveal
targets for sales, partnerships and acquisitions.  Twitter
One tweet from a well-placed company insider can be more
valuable than stacks of competitive research. Sometimes chief
executives slip up and expose a strategy before it’s announced.
More often, workers further down the food chain may be the first
to reveal a round of layoffs or a slowdown in business.  Foursquare
The location check-in service is as good as tailing a top
executive around the world. Wonder why the CMO is landing at
LAX? Maybe a movie deal is in the works. Why is a company’s
entire corporate development department staying at a hotel in
Jakarta? An acquisition may impend.  Listening Platforms
Rather than page through the various social media profiles of
various competitors, many companies pay for special software
that does the digging automatically. So-called listening
platforms can scan blogs, message boards and social sites for
keywords, and many can pick up on what sentiments are being
expressed. Popular makers include Visible Technologies Inc.,
Alterian Plc and Nielsen Holdings NV.  Corporate Investigators
Private sleuths such as Kroll Inc. are known for scanning
deleted computer files and monitoring surveillance cameras to
help large companies uncover rivals’ secrets. Now they’re
trawling social media to help them investigate employee
misconduct, perform background checks and solve cases of data
breach. Other Web-savvy investigators-for-hire include Nardello
& Co., Investigative Group International Inc. and Risk Solutions
& Investigations Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story: Douglas MacMillan in  San
Francisco  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tom Giles at
   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  