-- 
Wild West Comes to India as Miners Defy Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-09-20T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/wild-west-comes-to-india-where-miners-defy-supreme-court-rule.html
Mining inspector Sashidhar Bagali
and his three colleagues crept along a ridge last month as they
watched gangs of men illegally excavating  iron ore  from a pit
dug into the hard, red soil of southern India.  As Bagali, 47, and his team descended the slope near
Bellary in Karnataka state, the men attacked, forcing them to
flee. “I thought they were going to kill us,” he said on Aug.
17. “When we returned with the police, the miners and their
equipment had disappeared.”  The wildcat miners were violating a July 29  Supreme Court 
ban imposed after a report revealed an alleged $3.6 billion
worth of corruption in the  mining industry . The report, by the
state’s anti-corruption ombudsman, said companies operated
without permits, exceeded quotas, paid no taxes and mined high-
grade ores without permission.  Since the top court imposed the ban to give local officials
time to investigate, Karnataka’s chief minister has resigned and
two other ministers have been ousted. One of them has been
arrested and is in prison.  Illicit mining of resources was reported in 17 of  India ’s
28 states in 2010, according to the government. An economy that
has grown an average of 7.7 percent annually over the last
decade and surging demand from Chinese steelmakers drove a
threefold increase in iron-ore prices in the last three years.
Authorities have been unable to curb the malpractice by local
politicians and businessmen that these riches have spurred.  A  record  82,330 complaints of illegal mining were made in
2010, double the previous year’s tally, Mines Minister Dinsha Patel told parliament last month. In coal and iron-ore rich
Maharashtra, there were 34,284 cases.  Unpaid Taxes  In Karnataka, where there were 4,949 cases, the government
lost about $2.6 billion in unpaid taxes alone from  Bellary 
operations, said the report by former Karnataka anti-corruption
ombudsman Santosh Hegde, a former Supreme Court justice.  “This is the dark underbelly of  India’s economy ,” said
 Satish Misra , a political analyst at the New Delhi-based
Observer Research Foundation. “Illegal mining reflects a much
wider nexus of corruption between politicians, businessmen and
the bureaucracy.”  Bellary lies 300 kilometers (187 miles) north of the state
capital, Bangalore, home to companies associated with the
country’s economic surge such as outsourcers Wipro Ltd. and
Infosys Ltd. The region is surrounded by rolling brown hills
that hold some of India’s richest iron deposits.  ‘Wild West’  “This is like the Wild West,” Hegde, 71, who also was
Karnataka’s former chief anti-corruption ombudsman, said in an
interview. “The miners are the law here.”  It was Hegde’s 25,000-page report that triggered the court
order Bagali’s team was enforcing, as well as toppling the
state’s chief minister, B.S. Yeddyurappa. Accused by Hegde of
accepting $630,000 in bribes, partly through a family trust,
Yeddyurappa was forced to step down by his  Bharatiya Janata
Party , or BJP.  Karnataka is the only state in south India controlled by
the BJP, which is also the chief opposition party in parliament.
The revelations have blunted its campaign to target Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh , who is from the governing Congress
party, after his government was weakened by a series of scams.
They included a potential $31 billion revenue loss linked to a
2008 sale of mobile-phone licenses.  An Aug. 29-Aug. 31 Nielsen Holdings NV  opinion poll  of
8,926 respondents found the allegations may have eroded support
for Congress by a third.  Before the Courts  A  BJP  spokesman in Bangalore, Prakash Sesharaghavachar,
said that while the party couldn’t comment on the allegations
against Yeddyurappa because the matter was before the courts,
it’s confident of his innocence.  About 100 companies mined illegally in Bellary between 2006
and 2010, Hegde reported on July 27. At least 787 government
officials bent rules to help them, he said.  “The arrogance of people still digging iron ore shows they
think they can get away with anything,” Hegde said after
leaving office last month at the end of his ombudsman term.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  and  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE) , run by
billionaire business families, each have lost about a fifth of
their value since being accused by Hegde of buying ore mined
illegally in Bellary and bribing officials. JSW and Adani deny
the allegations and neither company is facing legal proceedings.  In an area formerly dependent on farming, the mining boom
enriched many in Bellary.  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  motorcycles
cruised along roads, while outlets for brands such as Pepe Jeans
opened. It has the most bank accounts for a town of its size in
India, said Amlan Biswas, the area’s top government official.  Respiratory Ailment  Others weren’t so lucky. Haridha Naishia, 29, toiled with
handheld tools as part of a six-man unlicensed team. “It was a
form of slavery,” said Naishia, unemployed since the ban and
wheezing from a respiratory condition he said he contracted in a
 Bellary  mine. “Sometimes they didn’t pay us or only gave us
half of what they promised.”  Brothers Janardhana Reddy and Karunakara Reddy ran a
parallel state in Bellary, Hegde’s report said. The men, state
ministers until their ouster after the report, oversaw the
removal of unfriendly officials while manipulating a cartel of
companies and controlling grants of mining permits, it said.  Janardhana Reddy was arrested Sept. 5 and offices of his
Obulapuram Mining Co. Ltd. were searched by the  Central Bureau
of Investigation  over separate allegations of illegal mining in
neighboring Andhra Pradesh state.  ‘Blood and Iron’  Officers found 30 kilograms of gold, $650,000 in cash and
“several incriminating documents,” according to a bureau
 statement . He’s now in jail facing charges of fraud and criminal
conspiracy. His brother, Karunakara, was questioned by the CBI
Sept. 16, according to bureau spokeswoman Dharini Mishra.  “The Reddy brothers epitomized the convergence of business
and politics in India like few before them,” said Paranjoy Guha
Thakurta, a filmmaker whose documentary, “ Blood and Iron ,”
portrays Bellary’s recent past. “They had a complete hold of
that district: they determined the police officers in charge,
the magistrate and government officials. Anybody who criticized
them or opposed them was shunted out.”  Calls to Janardhana Reddy’s residence seeking comment went
unanswered Sept. 5. Two employees who answered phones at
Obulapuram declined to comment or transfer calls to the chief
financial officer. Both refused to disclose their names.  The  Hindustan Times  reported the same day that Janardhana
Reddy declared his company’s innocence outside court, telling
reporters the “truth shall prevail.” Karunakara Reddy said the
allegations against him were untrue and demanded an apology from
Hegde,  Press Trust of India   reported  on July 29. He said he had
retired from Obulapuram’s board in 2004.  Lost Jobs  Mirroring the Reddys’ setback, Bellary’s boom has turned to
bust. At least 100,000 people, from miners to truck owners, have
lost their jobs, Karnataka’s new chief minister, D.V. Sadananda
Gowda, told  local reporters  last month.  Hegde says it’s unlikely others named in his report will
face justice. The  Supreme Court  based its ban on concerns of
environmental damage rather than criminal behavior and said once
a team it set up to investigate the ecological impact of the
mining reports in October it may lift restrictions.  “For the state government, there are too many skeletons in
the cupboard,” Hegde said in an interview a day after Reddy’s
arrest. “They just want to bury this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  