-- 
Tyco’s Second Breakup Signals 60% Gain in Value for Shareholders: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-09-20T01:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/tyco-s-second-breakup-signals-60-gain-in-value-for-shareholders-real-m-a.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) ’s second
breakup in four years is giving Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen
the chance to boost its value by 60 percent after shareholders
lost $10 billion owning the conglomerate’s pieces.  Tyco, valued at $67 billion before its split from  Covidien
Plc (COV)  and TE Connectivity Ltd. in July 2007, said yesterday it
will divide into three more units. With Tyco, Covidien and TE
Connectivity worth $57 billion last week, breaking up Tyco’s
remaining businesses would give investors a boost of $13
billion, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Since 2002, Breen has been selling pieces of the company
that L. Dennis Kozlowski, convicted of stealing millions of
dollars, spent a decade building. While many shareholders
haven’t benefited from owning Tyco, Covidien and TE Connectivity
as the financial crisis caused the biggest equity rout since the
Great Depression, JPMorgan Chase & Co. says running the maker of
industrial valves, home security systems and commercial smoke
detectors as three entities will increase the value of each and
make them more attractive as takeover targets.  “When you’re looking at opportunities to make the investor
whole, there’s a big difference between then and now,” C.
Stephen Tusa, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan, said in a
telephone interview. “The last time they did this the market
tanked. There’s clearly strategic interest in some of these
assets now. That is what will ultimately create value for
shareholders.”  Relative Value  After plunging 11 percent the day Tyco said it was
splitting in January 2006, the Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based
company recovered to post a 14 percent return by the time the
breakup was completed in July 2007, including dividend payouts,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While shares of Tyco lagged behind the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index over that span, the company since Breen was named as
CEO in July 2002 has more than tripled through last week.  “The last one created the value too,” Breen, 55, said in
a telephone interview. “It worked very well especially
considering the environment we were living in.”  This time, the breakup of Tyco will create three standalone
companies: ADT’s North American residential security business,
its flow-control unit that is the biggest maker of industrial
valves, and the world’s largest commercial security and fire-
systems division. Shareholders will get stock in each of the
three companies under a tax-free spinoff structure, which will
take about 12 months to complete.  Sum of Parts  Breen will stay on as non-executive chairman for fire and
security, a director at flow control and a consultant to ADT.  Using the average sum-of-the-parts model from analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, Tyco could be worth $64 a
share, or $30 billion.  Jeffrey Sprague, co-founder of Vertical Research Partners
Inc., estimates that Tyco’s pieces may command as much as $70 a
share, or almost $33 billion. That compares with Tyco’s value of
$20.3 billion, or $43.70 a share last week.  With yesterday’s announcement, Breen can restore the
decline in value shareholders have suffered since Tyco’s initial
separation into three companies in July 2007.  “This is about enhancing overall  shareholder value  and the
current structure since the last split may not be doing it,”
 Louis Meyer , a special situations analyst for Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  From the 2007 breakup through last week, shares of Tyco
slid 18 percent. Covidien has gained 12 percent to give it a
market value of $23.9 billion. TE Connectivity slumped 25
percent in the same period, trimming its capitalization to $12.8
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Breakup Rationale  The  S&P 500  retreated 19 percent in the same period. Stocks
globally slumped as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008 froze credit markets and deepened the
 longest recession  since the 1930s.  Separating the rest of Tyco will now allow shareholders to
choose the pieces they want to invest in without being forced to
own the entire business, according to Nick Heymann, an analyst
at William Blair & Co.  “The separate businesses will appeal to different types of
investors and there will be an opportunity to let the full value
of the shares come to life,” he said in an interview in New
York yesterday. “Given the health of these businesses, you’ve
got good visibility of their future.” Heymann estimates Tyco is
worth as much as $65 a share using a sum-of-the-parts valuation.  The breakup also will make takeovers of any of the three
units more likely since they will be smaller and easier for a
buyer to evaluate, according to Brian Langenberg, principal at
Langenberg & Co. in Oak Park,  Illinois .  “It makes the pieces a small enough bite that someone can
go eat,” Langenberg said. “It was the right thing to do.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 