-- 
Typhoon Roke on Course for Leaking Japan Reactor as 1 Million May Evacuate

-- B y   M a k o t o   M i y a z a k i   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-09-20T11:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/typhoon-roke-hits-japan-on-course-for-leaking-nuclear-plant.html
Typhoon Roke brought evacuation
orders and fears of floods to Nagoya city in central  Japan  today
as it approached the main island of Honshu on a course toward
the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  More than 1 million people in Nagoya have been advised to
evacuate because of Roke and almost 80,000 have been ordered to
leave due to flood risk, said Katsuya Kobayashi in the city’s
disaster prevention center.  That’s more than double the numbers for typhoon Talas
earlier this month, which dumped record rainfall on southern
Japan, causing mudslides and floods that killed 67 people and
left 26 missing. Talas was the deadliest storm to hit Japan in
seven years.  “The major difference between the two typhoons was Talas
was slow-moving over the Kii peninsula, dumping rain in the same
area, while Roke is fast moving,” Kenji Okada, a forecaster at
the  Japan Meteorological Agency , said.  “Roke is bringing
strong gusts and dumping rain in a wide region.”  The eye of Roke, categorized as “strong” by the agency,
was about 928 kilometers (575 miles) southwest of Tokyo at 3
p.m. local time today. It was packing wind speeds of 144
kilometers per hour (89 miles), with gusts of 216 kilometers per
hour.  The typhoon, moving northeast at 15 kilometers per hour, is
forecast to take three days to pass over Japan and its storm
warning area is due to cover most of the country in that time,
according to the meteorological agency’s website.  Japan Airlines Co. canceled 49 domestic flights today as of
6 p.m. because of the typhoon, according to the company’s
 website .  Toyota Watching Storm  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest automaker, has yet to
decide on whether to operate its plants in Aichi prefecture
tomorrow afternoon, spokesman Dion Corbett said today by
telephone. Tomorrow’s morning shift will go ahead as normal, he
said. Nagoya city is in Aichi prefecture.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  will keep
plants in the region operating as normal, Mitsubishi spokesman
Yuki Murata and Suzuki spokesman Shigeyuki Yamamura said today.  Roke, due in Fukushima prefecture in 48 hours, may hinder
work to control leakage of water into the basements of the Dai-
Ichi reactor buildings, which contained 102 million liters of
radioactive water as of Sept. 13, according to  Tokyo Electric
estimates .  The storm may drop 150 millimeters of rain on Fukushima
within 24 hours, likely in short, heavy downpours, Okada of the
 Japan Meteorological Agency  said by phone today.  Basement Problem  Since July, much of  Tokyo  Electric’s work in Fukushima has
focused on decontaminating highly radiated cooling water that
ran off into basements and trenches at the damaged reactors.  In addition, as much as 500 tons, or 500,000 liters, of
underground water is leaking into Dai-Ichi buildings every day
through cracks in walls and trenches, Tokyo Electric spokesman
Hajime Motojuku said today.  The utility has been injecting water into Dai-Ichi’s
reactors since a March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out
cooling systems, causing the worst nuclear accident in 25 years.
Reactors need to be cooled below 100 degrees Celsius to shut
down the plant.  Levels of contaminated water in Dai-Ichi basements have
fallen more than 14 percent in the last month as Tepco speeded
up water decontamination by adding a system supplied by Toshiba
Corp. and Shaw Group Inc.  The company is in the process of installing a cover for the
No. 1 reactor building and aims to put similar covers over units
3 and 4 next year after debris is cleared,  Tokyo Electric 
spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said today. The tops of those three
units were blown off by hydrogen explosions in March.  Still, the covers are unlikely to prevent rainwater from
flowing into the basements, Iwamoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makoto Miyazaki in Tokyo at 
 mmiyazaki8@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  