-- 
Yukos Wins Partial Victory Over Russia in European Court

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-20T15:20:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/yukos-wins-in-part-human-rights-case-against-russia.html
A European court handed a partial
victory to former managers of Yukos Oil Co., ruling that  Russia 
had violated the company’s rights while rejecting a political
motivation behind tax claims that led to its bankruptcy.  Russia infringed on the company’s property rights with
penalties imposed concerning the 2000-2001 tax assessments and
left Yukos inadequate time to prepare a case, precluding a fair
trail, the  European Court of Human Rights  said.  “The crux of Yukos’s case was essentially the speed with
which it was required to pay and the speed with which the
auction had been carried out,” the Strasbourg, France-based
court said in a statement on its website today.  Yukos’s main assets, now owned by state-run OAO Rosneft,
were seized and auctioned off by the government in 2004 to
settle more than $30 billion of tax claims. Yukos owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who is in prison serving 13 years for crimes
including  tax evasion  and fraud, maintains the charges were
fabricated because he opposed then-President  Vladimir Putin .
Putin, now prime minister, has denied any involvement in the
case.  The court said it wasn’t prepared to decide on a demand for
compensation in excess of $100 billion by Russia’s once-largest
oil producer. The same court awarded Khodorkovsky almost 25,000
euros ($34,200) in May, saying he was held in “inhuman and
degrading conditions.”  ‘Partial’ Victory  “For Khodorkovsky, to see the European Court of Human
Rights rule that the case against his company was lawless with
human rights violated on several counts was certainly a victory,
if a partial one,” said  Masha Lipman , an analyst at the
Carnegie Moscow Center research group.  “The retroactive change in the rules” and “the
consequent doubling of the penalties due” violated the
company’s rights, according to today’s ruling.  Yukos failed to prove the tax case against it was
politically motivated, the court said. The May 31 ruling on
Khodorkovsky’s complaint had also dismissed claims that his
arrest on fraud charges was politically driven, saying the
accusations required incontestable proof.  “The ultimate resolution on the damages is yet to come and
I think ultimately that that will be resolved in favor of Yukos
stakeholders,” Bruce Misamore, former chief financial officer
of Yukos, said on a webcast press conference today.  Yukos had asked for 81 billion euros in reparations,
according to the court.  No ‘Disproportionate Burden’  The judges allowed the rest of the tax assessments for 2000
to 2003 to stand, saying they were “not particularly high and
nothing suggested that the rates of the fines or interest
payments imposed an individual or disproportionate burden.”  “I don’t see any direct consequences for the image of
Russia as a state,” Konstantin Kosachyov, the head of the
Russian lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee,
said. “The  European Court  of Human Rights rejected the main
claims by Yukos lawyers that the process was politicized.”  Lawyers in Russia will analyze the ruling to ensure
procedural violations from the Yukos case aren’t repeated in
other legal cases, Kosachyov said.  Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, and Natalya Timakova,
spokeswoman for President  Dmitry Medvedev , declined to comment
by phone.  The court’s decision was a compromise, according to
Carnegie’s Lipman.  “A ruling in favor of the plaintiffs as far as
compensation is concerned would have had too strong political
repercussions that the court is probably not prepared for,” she
said. “That was bound to very seriously deteriorate Russia’s
relations with the West because of the size of the
compensation.”  The case is: OAO Neftyanaya kompaniya YUKOS v. Russia,
14902/04,  European Court of Human Rights .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  