-- 
Risk of U.S. Double-Dip Increased: Zoellick

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-20T15:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/zoellick-says-europe-crisis-raises-odds-of-recession-in-u-s-.html
The odds of another recession in
the U.S. have increased as European Union nations struggle to
tame the region’s sovereign debt crisis, World Bank President
 Robert Zoellick  said.  “We’re getting closer to the risks of double dip,”
Zoellick said today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness”
with Margaret Brennan. “I still wouldn’t predict it, but it
really depends on how the risks coming out of Europe are
managed.”  A stagnant U.S. labor market and declining consumer
confidence, alongside growing doubt that European policy makers
will be able to prevent a Greek default, have raised the risk
the world’s largest economy might contract, Zoellick said.  He spoke after the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its
forecast for U.S. growth. The world’s largest economy will
expand 1.5 percent this year, down from the 2.5 percent
projected in June, the IMF said today in its World Economic
Outlook report. Unemployment will average 9 percent or higher
through next year, it said.  There is a danger fallout from  Europe  and the U.S. could
damp confidence, demand and investment in  developing countries ,
which have helped drive the global recovery, Zoellick said. That
may prompt them to erect barriers to trade, he said.  “In an environment like this, you have to watch out for
all types of protectionism,” Zoellick said. “You’ve seen in
recent weeks some increased barriers in the machinery sector
coming out of  Brazil , and with the turmoil there will be more
political pressure for this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  