-- Abbott Wins Ruling in Xience Stent Case Over J&J, Wyeth
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-21T21:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/abbott-wins-ruling-over-j-j-wyeth-in-xience-stent-patent-case.html
Abbott Laboratories and  Medtronic
Inc. (MDT)  won a federal court ruling that invalidated two patents for
heart devices controlled by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Cordis unit and
 Wyeth (WYE) .  U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano in Trenton, New Jersey,
ruled Jan. 19 that the patents didn’t fulfill the requirement
that they describe what the company claims to have invented.
Cordis and Wyeth had contended that Abbott’s Xience and
Medtronic’s Endeavor stents were using the inventions without
permission.  The ruling was part of a long-running battle over
inventions related to stents, tiny mesh tubes used to prop open
heart arteries after they’re cleared of fat. The drug coating
limits the growth of scar tissue that could re-clog the arteries.
J&J pioneered the market only to lose ground to competitors, and
last year said it would leave the global market altogether.  The two patents, issued in 1996, describe ways to use
rapamycin or related medicines on the devices to treat the
growth of scar tissue. New York-based Wyeth owns the patents and
licenses them to J&J, which is based in  New Brunswick ,  New
Jersey .  Cypher Stent  Rapamycin, also known as sirolimus and sold by  Wyeth (WYE)  as
Rapamune, is used to coat J&J’s Cypher stent. Wyeth and J&J
claimed Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , and Minneapolis-
based Medtronic were using related drugs.  The case also targeted the Promus stent, which uses
everolimus to prevent tissue growth. Abbott licenses the Promus
stent to Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific Corp.  In 2010, Boston Scientific agreed to pay J&J $1.73 billion
to end other patent lawsuits between the companies over stent
technology.  Adelle Infante, a spokeswoman for Abbott, said in an e-
mailed statement that the company is pleased with the ruling.  The cases are Wyeth v.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , 08-00230, and
Wyeth v. Medtronic Inc., 08-01021, U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net  and;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
Michael Shepard at   mshepard7@bloomberg.net . 