-- About Rising Inflation, Please Remain Worried: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-01-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/about-rising-inflation-please-remain-worried-michael-kinsley.html
About two years ago I wrote  an
article  saying that despite the lack of evidence, and despite
the near-universal belief among economists that it was not a
problem, I was worried about inflation. My reason was that I
couldn’t see how the government could pay off the massive debt
it was running up except by inflating at least part of it away.  For this, I was  widely ridiculed , and I’d like to take this
opportunity to claim vindication. That is, I’d like to -- but I
can’t.  Inflation (CPI)  has been creeping up the past couple of years -
- from less than 2 percent to more than 3 percent -- but that’s
still pretty low. Nevertheless, I double down: Barring a
miracle, there will be a fierce storm of inflation sometime in
the next few years and it will wipe out a big chunk of the
national debt, along with the debts of individual citizens, and
the savings of others.  One reason I say this is that the arguments on the other
side have shifted. It used to be, “It’s not gonna happen -- so
don’t worry about it.” Now it’s, “You know, a moderate dose of
inflation would be no bad thing. So don’t worry about it.”
 Kenneth Rogoff , an economics professor at  Harvard University , is
the leading spokesman for this view. He  wrote in August  that he
would like “a sustained burst of moderate inflation, say, 4
percent to 6 percent for several years.” Five years of 5 percent
inflation would reduce the value of debts by 27 percent -- if,
that is, it could be sprung on people as a surprise. (And people
like Paul Krugman are doing their best to make it a surprise.)
If the government were to announce in advance its plan to take
away from lenders a quarter of the value of their loans, they
would stop lending or they would demand enough interest to
cancel the loss, thereby defeating the government’s purpose of
reducing the debt.  Rogoff concedes that inflation would be “unfair and
arbitrary,” but shrugs that lenders are going to have to take
their lumps one way or another. And since episodes such as the
“Great Contraction,” as he prefers to call it, happen only once
every 80 years or so, it’s OK for central banks to “spend some
of the credibility that they accumulate in normal times” by
playing this one little prank on people who had trusted them.
But that credibility was bought at an enormous price, and not
“in normal times.” In normal times -- and when are they? -- a
central banker’s job is easy. It’s in abnormal times, like now,
that credibility about maintaining the value of a nation’s
currency is tested.  Krugman Is Persuasive  Another reason I remain worried about inflation is that for
two years I have been waiting for  Paul Krugman , the Nobel Prize-
winning New York Times columnist, to tell us when we should
reverse course. Krugman’s basic analysis of the situation is
persuasive. He thinks President  Barack Obama ’s $800 billion
stimulus package in 2009 was  much too small  to have the desired
Keynesian effect of kick-starting the economy. And then somehow
we wasted all of last year arguing about how to reduce the
 budget deficit , instead of realizing that reducing the deficit -
- however you do it -- amounts to reducing the stimulus, when we
ought to be increasing it. When the economy is robust again, it
will be time to start paying down the debt.  Fair enough. But how will we know when it’s time? And what
evidence is there that Americans are capable of turning on this
particular dime and suddenly tearing up their Social Security
checks, their Medicare, Medicaid, disability checks, their
military retirement pensions, and saying, “No, no, please take
this money back and use it to pay down the national debt”?
 Krugman mocks  the “theory of expansionary austerity” -- the
conservative notion that austerity, not stimulus, is the key to
expanding the economy. But is there nothing at all to the idea
that a show of fiscal discipline or even legislative competence
might be well received and rewarded by the markets? In Krugman’s
scenario, he gets to play  Santa Claus : “Ho ho ho. Goodness,
gracious, don’t stop spending now! I’ll let you know when it’s
time. Meanwhile, enjoy!” All this talk about “austerity” (even
in print, he spits out the word) is a nefarious plot.  But what is this plot supposed to achieve? Krugman is quick
with the ulterior motive, but what is the austerity-mongers’
real motive? Maybe I’ve missed it -- Krugman is dauntingly
prolific -- but I’ve never seen him explain this mystery. It
must be much more fun to tell people that the solution to their
addiction is another drink.  It has been four years now, and things are starting to look
up a bit. Time to raise taxes or cut spending? Time to stop
borrowing? No, not yet ( says Krugman ). So, when? After eight
years? Twelve? Soon you’ll be bumping into the next recession.
Or do the annual deficit and the national debt simply not
matter? If that’s the case, why do we pay taxes at all?  In a recent column, Krugman brought up one of the
conundrums they teach you about in first-year economics. The
national debt doesn’t matter  because it’s  “money we owe to
ourselves.” The idea is that when the government borrows a
dollar from  Warren Buffett , this doesn’t change the total amount
that the U.S. and its citizens owe to the world. Foreigners now
own a large chunk of the national debt, but Krugman says that
the amount is less than people think. As for the part we owe to
ourselves,  he says that  “talking about leaving a burden to our
children is … nonsensical; what we are leaving behind is
promises that some of our children will pay money to other
children.” The other children will be the ones whose parents
bought the bonds. In other words, the debt will turn into a
giant redistribution program from the poor to the rich.  Krugman is the go-to guy for liberal-left solutions to
economic puzzles. He says the distributional effects of the
national debt are “a very different kettle of fish.” Maybe so,
but it still stinks.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Michael Kinsley at
 mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Michael
Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net  