-- Lagarde Joins Warning on Austerity as Leaders Head to Davos
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-01-20T06:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/lagarde-joins-warning-on-fiscal-cuts-as-financial-leaders-head-to-davos.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde joined world financial and trade
organization chiefs in warning policy makers gathering in Davos,
Switzerland next week against fiscal cuts that jeopardize growth.  “The world faces significant and urgent challenges that
weigh heavily on prospects for future growth,” Lagarde and
members of the Global Issues Group of the World Economic Forum
said in a statement. “We worry about decelerating global growth
and rising uncertainty, high unemployment” and a potential
shift to protectionist policies, they said.  While governments need to stem contagion in Europe and
restore confidence in financial institutions to end the
sovereign-debt crisis and spur expansion, they should manage
fiscal consolidation to promote rather than reduce growth
prospects, the group said. Its members also include World Bank
President Robert Zoellick, World Trade Organization Director-
General Pascal Lamy and the heads of eight other multilateral
and regional institutions.  Policy makers and business leaders will meet at the World
Economic Forum starting on Jan. 25 after the World Bank cut its
global growth forecast this month by the most in three years,
saying that a recession in the euro region threatens to
exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets . The IMF proposed this
week to raise its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion to
insulate the world against any worsening of Europe’s debt crisis.  ECB’s Role  Lagarde and the heads of the institutions highlighted an
expanded role of the European Central Bank as one option for
helping resolve the region’s crisis.  “Different options are being considered for stemming
contagion in the euro area,” the Global Issues Group said.
“They have involved greater recourse to the European Central
Bank’s balance sheet and require a strengthening of the European
Financial Stability Fund. Governance reforms are needed to
offset the risk of moral hazard involved in short-term support
packages and to ensure longer-term fiscal discipline.”  The ECB’s decision to offer banks unlimited three-year
loans and the central bank’s purchase of sovereign bonds helped
balloon its balance sheet to a record 2.73 trillion euros ($3.5
trillion) in December.  In the short term, confidence in financial institutions can
be restored by recapitalizing banks quickly where necessary and
ensuring that deleveraging by lenders doesn’t impair trade and
project finance, the Global Issues Group said.  Banks Hoarding  Banks are hoarding the European Central Bank’s record 489
billion-euro injection into the banking system, thwarting
attempts by policy makers to avert a credit crunch in the region.
Almost all of the money loaned to 523 euro-area lenders last
month wound up back on deposit at the Frankfurt-based central
bank instead of pouring into the financial system, according to
estimates by Barclays Capital based on ECB data.  Governments are urging European banks to keep lending to
companies and individuals while requiring them to raise an
additional 114.7 billion euros of core capital by June to
weather a deepening sovereign-debt crisis. Instead of raising
equity, most lenders across  Europe  have vowed to meet capital
rules by trimming at least 950 billion euros from their balance
sheets over the next two years, either by selling assets or not
renewing credit lines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ensure Funding  Continuing the ECB’s measures to secure bank funding and
liquidity will help stem financial contagion and stabilize the
region’s fiscal frameworks, while enhancing the European
Financial Stability Facility and European Stability Mechanism
will “ensure governments can fund at sustainable rates,” the
Global Issues Group said.  European governments have redoubled efforts to set up the
500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism by July, a year
ahead of schedule, after a credit rating downgrade raised
concerns over the strength of the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility aid fund created at the outset of the crisis.  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, according to the World Bank.
The IMF will cut its global growth forecast for 2012 to 3.3
percent from 4 percent when it publishes its World Economic
Outlook report next week, the Daily Telegraph said yesterday,
citing a leaked draft of the publication.  Leaders of the Group of 20 should intensify efforts to
develop a “more comprehensive action plan” for economic
expansion and job creation ahead of a planned summit in June in
 Mexico , the Global Issues Group said.  Political Energy  “We call on leaders to devote the necessary political
energy to deliver concrete actions to exit the crisis and boost
growth,” they said.  The other members of the group are Mark Carney, chairman of
the Financial Stability Board; World Health Organization
Director-General Margaret Chan;  Angel Gurria , Secretary-General
at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development;
African Development Bank President Donald Kaberuka; Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda; Inter-American
Development Bank President Luis Alberto Moreno;  Josette Sheeran ,
executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme
and International Labour Organization Director-General Juan Somavia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  