-- Airbus Superjumbo Wing Checks Will Affect Almost One-Third of A380 Fleet
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-20T16:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/airbus-superjumbo-wing-checks-will-affect-almost-one-third-of-a380-fleet.html
Airlines operating  Airbus SAS (EAD) ’s A380
superjumbo must ground 20 planes or almost one-third of the
world fleet within the next six weeks to check for wing cracks.  Carriers with A380s that have accumulated more than 1,300
takeoffs and landings must make the inspections, and any planes
that have made more than 1,800 trips need to be checked within
four days, the  European Aviation Safety Agency  said today.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Air France and Emirates will need
to take action soonest, based on flight figures, with the work
likely to take up to 24 hours, according to the Asian carrier,
which said six of its jets require scrutiny in the near term.
EASA ordered the checks after the discovery of cracks in one
wing led to detection of more serious fractures in other planes.  “This condition, if not detected and corrected, could
potentially affect the structural integrity of the aeroplane,”
the safety organization said in today’s airworthiness directive.
“The new form of cracking is more significant.”  The visual examinations don’t require special gear and
should be completed in a matter of hours, according to Airbus.  Singapore Air spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  said planes could
be still be out for a service for as much as a day, though there
shouldn’t be any impact on operations. Out of its fleet of 15
A380s, another four will need checks within the six-week period.  ‘Reasonably Normal’  EASA issued its notice after Singapore Air and  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  found the additional cracks in A380 wing-rib feet.
The fissures, while “embarrassing,” pose no danger to
passengers flying on the 68 A380s currently in service, Airbus
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said late yesterday.  “The cracks seem to be reasonably normal for the course of
business, but the A380 is a bit like Concorde,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at Agency Partners in  London , referring
to the former supersonic jetliner. “It’s distinctive, it’s an
icon, and so anything that happens to it is big news.”  Singapore Air stock rose 0.6 percent to S$10.79 today.
Airbus parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  fell as
much as 1.3 percent before trading little changed at 25.60 euros
as of 4:57 p.m. in Paris.  Toulouse, France-based Airbus had advised on Jan. 5 that
the cracks associated with ribs that help support wings, linked
to a manufacturing issue, could be fixed during scheduled four-
year maintenance and didn’t need immediate checks. Additional
fissures were found on a limited number of non-critical
brackets, spokesman  Justin Dubon  said yesterday.  ‘Good Understanding’  “I can’t say I’m proud of it,” CEO Enders said in an
interview with  CNN  that aired late yesterday. “We’re obviously
investigating how it happened. We think we have a good
understanding but the investigation is ongoing.”  Qantas will fully comply with the directive, Thomas Woodward, a spokesman, said by e-mail, adding that the Sydney-
based carrier hasn’t yet begun checks on its 11 in-service
planes. The stock closed up 0.7 percent at A$1.53 today.  Air France-KLM Group, whose Air France unit operates four
A380s, has been informed about the possibility of cracks and
will take necessary steps, spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said.  One in four of Air France’s A380s will require an
inspection after six weeks, she said.  Air France-KLM (AF)  shares
today fell as much as 2.9 percent and were later priced 0.2
percent lower at 4.96 euros.  Engine Blowout  Dubai-based Emirates plans to comply fully with the
airworthiness directive, and has so far examined one plane with
another now under inspection, a spokeswoman said. The directive
won’t affect schedules at the closely held carrier, which is the
No. 1 superjumbo operator, she said, declining to specify how
many of its A380s are impacted by the instructions.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  said in an e-
mailed statement that its engineers are working with EASA on the
issue. No North American carriers operate the jet.  Airbus has developed a “repair solution” that can be
applied if necessary, according to Enders. The planemaker is
also applying a fix on aircraft being built, he said, adding
that the issue won’t affect other aircraft types.  Engineers first discovered the wing-rib feet cracks in a
Qantas A380 under repair after a mid-air engine explosion in
November 2010. It was thought that the cracks were related to
the accident, until more were discovered in other A380s.  Korean Air Lines Co. hasn’t found any cracks in its five
superjumbos, it said in an e-mail. The stock rose 1 percent.  China Southern Airlines Co., which was unchanged, is
operating A380 flights as normal, said You Yingping, a
spokesman. He wasn’t able to immediately comment on any checks.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s fleet of eight A380s is as yet
unaffected by the cracks, Patrick Meschenmoser, a Frankfurt-
based spokesman, said by phone. The stock traded up 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  