-- Talanx Agrees to Purchase KBC’s Polish Insurance Division for $1 Billion
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-01-20T12:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/talanx-agrees-to-purchase-kbc-s-polish-insurance-division-for-1-billion.html
Talanx AG bought  Poland ’s
 Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA  from KBC Group
NV for 770 million euros ($999 million), beating rivals in a bid
to expand in eastern Europe’s largest insurance market.  When the purchase is completed in the second half of 2012,
Talanx’s Japanese partner  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. (0017)  will
take over 30 percent of Warta, Poland’s second-largest insurer,
the Hanover, Germany-based firm said in a statement today.  Talanx,  Germany ’s third-biggest insurer led by Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Haas,  sold  a 300 million-euro bond to
 Meiji Yasuda (0017)  in 2010, which will be converted into shares in
case of an initial public offering the German insurer has been
considering for more than a decade to fund international
expansion. Poland, central and eastern  Europe ’s biggest economy,
accounts for 40 percent of insurance premiums in the region.  “Through the acquisition of Warta we are participating to
a much greater extent in the further development of this highly
dynamic insurance market,” Talanx management board member
Torsten Leue said. “We are making a decisive step to reach our
strategic growth target.”  KBC rose as much as 10 percent in Brussels trading and was
up 4 percent at 12.04 euros at 12:14 p.m., giving the company a
market value of 4.3 billion euros.  Other Bidders  Vienna Insurance Group AG (VIG)  and  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) 
were the leading bidders for Warta, according to a Dec. 14
report by Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita, while Talanx,  Allianz
SE (ALV) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  were also shortlisted. Vienna
Insurance CEO Guenter Geyer said in October that he was
interested in Warta.  Warta is the second Polish takeover announced by Talanx
within two months, after the company said in December that it
will pay 912 million zloty ($275 million) for a controlling
stake in the insurer Europa SA. Meiji Yasuda will buy a stake in
Europa from minority shareholders in a public offer.  The German insurer is seeking to expand its retail business
in markets such as  South America , eastern Europe and Turkey, as
well as its industrial insurance arm. The company’s past
acquisitions include Deutsche Postbank AG’s insurance units,
which it bought for 550 million euros in 2008, the 2005 purchase
of Brazilian property and casualty insurer HSBC Seguros and the
2006 takeover of  Turkey ’s Ihlas Sigorta AS.  Investment Plans  Talanx will continue working with Warsaw-based Warta’s
existing management team, CEO Haas said.  “We plan to invest further in the business, maintaining
each of the subsidiaries and further improving the service and
product offer to the clients,” he said in the statement.  Warta, Poland’s second-largest insurer after state-
controlled PZU SA, has 1.5 million clients and premiums of 3.6
billion zloty in the first nine months of last year. Earnings at
Polish insurers fell 13 percent to 5.21 billion zloty over that
period.  The acquisition is among the biggest in Poland’s financial-
services market after Banco Santander SA,  Spain ’s biggest bank,
last year completed a purchase of Bank Zachodni WBK SA for 2.9
billion euros.  KBC, the recipient of 7 billion euros in Belgian government
rescue funds during the financial crisis, last year got European
Commission approval to sell Warta as well as its 80 percent
stake in Kredyt Bank SA.  KBC Capital Boost  The sale of Warta is expected to release almost 700 million
euros in capital for KBC based on figures at the end of
September, the company said in a separate statement. The sale
will boost KBC’s earnings by about 300 million euros at the time
of closing of the transaction, the Brussels-based company said.  “Taking the decision to divest Warta was a very difficult
one, especially in view of its profitable growth in recent
years,” said Jan Vanhevel, CEO of KBC. “This divestment
releases a significant amount of capital and further strengthens
the KBC group, with its focus on its core bancassurance
expertise and markets and with its reduced risk profile.”  Talanx, owner of a 50.2 percent stake in  Hannover Re (HNR1) , is
fully owned by German mutual insurer HDI Haftpflichtverband der
Deutschen Industrie VaG. It is working with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  on
an IPO as it forges ahead with plans for a share sale this year,
three people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this
month. The Frankfurt-based bank will help prepare the listing
alongside Rothschild, which was mandated in April as the IPO
adviser.  An IPO may raise between 1 billion euros and 1.5 billion
euros, depending on market conditions, and would take place in
the second quarter at the earliest, some of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  