-- U.S.’s Dirty War on Manufacturing (Part 3): Carl Pope
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-01-20T00:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/america-s-dirty-war-on-manufacturing-part-3-commentary-by-carl-pope.html
“I am told I cannot talk about
industrial policy in polite American company,” Dow Chemical Co.
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  told a business audience
last March. “I’m not sure why, since the world’s two strongest
economies, Germany and Japan, both have such policies.”  Liveris has just published a  book , “Make It in America,”
the theme of which is that we can, and must, return
manufacturing to American shores. The key insight, he said, is
this: “Companies cannot compete with countries. Only countries
can compete with countries.”  Liveris is part of an emerging consensus that includes New
Economy business gurus such as former Intel Corp. CEO Andy Grove, whose  essay  on the need to rejuvenate manufacturing,
“How America Can Create Jobs” is a seminal document. The
gospel is infiltrating Silicon Valley, where investors such as
 Vinod Khosla  and his former partners at Kleiner Perkins Caufield
& Byers are believers. It has been embraced by the American
labor movement, including AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka ,
United Steelworkers President  Leo Gerard , Teamsters’ head Jimmy Hoffa and former Service Employees International Union President
 Andy Stern .  Liveris’s analysis is bolstered by former General Motors
Co. Vice Chairman Bob Lutz, Honeywell International Inc. CEO
 David Cote  and ArcelorMittal’s U.S. CEO Michael Rippey. A
growing number of public officials, such as former Pennsylvania
Governor  Ed Rendell , have come to see manufacturing as the key
to economic revival and jobs. Remarkably, there is a fair amount
of agreement among this group on the policies necessary to
achieve that.  So why isn’t it happening?  Partisan Shots  Ideology, for one. A national industrial policy is anathema
to many conservatives. When solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC went
 bankrupt  after receiving $535 million in federal loan
guarantees, opponents of industrial policy eagerly cooked the
failure into a “scandal.” The attack was not only a partisan
shot against the Obama administration, which had signed off on
the loans. It was intended to preempt and disqualify federal
support for manufacturing in the future.  Although conservatives condemn the notion of a national
manufacturing policy, they embrace similar policies on the state
level. Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, Hyundai Motor Co. and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG have all been courted by Southern
states dangling tax breaks and industrial policies. Governor
Rick Perry’s manufacturing-friendly policies in  Texas  served as
the core of his appeal to Republican primary voters. And at the
close of the Wall Street Journal conference where Liveris was
criticized for his embrace of industrial policy, then-Governor
 Haley Barbour  boasted for an hour of the robustness of
Mississippi’s industrial policy. Yet the same participants who
had lambasted Liveris posed no objections to Barbour.  Why do we have such a difficult time recognizing that, as
Liveris puts it, individual companies (or states) cannot compete
effectively with nations such as China, India or  Germany ?  There are at least two reasons. First, for the  Tea Party 
and its financial backers, like the Koch brothers, weakening the
federal government is ideologically more important than
strengthening the national economy; if a unified, competitive
national economy requires a strong, powerful federal government,
the trade-off is not worth it to them. Second, the political
leaders who shape federal economic policy are responsive to the
sectors that have mastered lobbying -- oil, agribusiness,
finance and drug companies. Manufacturing for decades has been
left to take care of itself.  Fantasy Economy  Yet the notion of a strong economy without strong
manufacturing is a fantasy. “We cannot remain the world’s
engine of innovation without manufacturing activity,” the
president’s National Science Board  reported  this month. The
number of high-tech manufacturing jobs in the U.S. declined 28
percent between 2000 and 2010, according to the report. It
attributed the “erosion” of U.S. leadership in part to
investment in education and research by Asian governments.  Other sectors can’t replace the employment and wages of
manufacturing. Commodity production no longer generates enough
employment -- automation in agriculture and mining has gone too
far. Wyoming produces 40 percent of the U.S.’s coal with about
7,000 miners. “Knowledge work” pays well, but draws on a
narrow population: How many lawyers and bankers do we need?
Facebook Inc. is a remarkable innovator, but it employs only
about 3,000 people to serve a customer base of more than 800
million. Personal services, such as restaurants and retail, pay
poorly and rely on income streams from other sectors to pay at
all.  Henry Ford  paid his workers $5 a day so they could afford
to buy his cars. But they also patronized the grocers and
carpenters of  Detroit . We spent the last two decades paying our
grocers and carpenters with cheap second mortgages -- a strategy
bound to collapse.  Any attempt at a manufacturing revival should respect  Andy
Grove ’s core insight: that manufacturing is attracted to
markets, and that employment is sustained by that interaction.
The U.S. did not invent the original technologies of the
automotive revolution; they were European. The first major
American innovation, Charles Kettering’s self-starter, didn’t
emerge until 1912. But the U.S. built the roads and created the
markets on which Gottlieb Daimler’s and Rudolf Diesel’s engine
technologies drove to scale.  It is this interaction between innovation, markets and
manufacturing that drives competitiveness, growth and
employment. Oliver Kuttner, who won the X-Prize for his Edison 2
ultra-light vehicle, created it in Lynchburg, Virginia. Why?
Because previous nuclear plants in the town had spawned a
network of small workshops, places where people knew how to
invent the new widgets that Kuttner needed. Those are the skills
we need to “make it in America.”  Long-Term Commitment  Markets come first. If the U.S. would commit, long-term, to
replacing our outmoded coal-electricity power with energy
derived from wind and solar, new clean-energy companies would
flock to manufacture in America.  Applied Materials Inc. makes machinery for solar-panel
factories. In 2009, the company made a proposal to the Obama
administration: It would build solar factories in the U.S. if
the government would set up “solar reserves” on unused federal
reservations, and buy the power generated from the factories’
output. The new administration couldn’t, or wouldn’t, commit.
Applied Materials then shifted much of its focus to China,
moving top engineers there to follow the market, which enjoys
robust support from the Chinese government. The U.S. still has
more outdated, dirty energy to replace than any other country on
Earth -- a huge opportunity for clean-energy manufacturing.  To create markets, we must enforce trade agreements and
insist on fair play. China has been stealing wind-turbine
manufacturing by requiring 70 percent domestic content in its
turbines. U.S. manufacturers like General Electric Co. make
components in China solely to satisfy that demand. What is good
for the Peking duck should be good for the American gander.  In addition, we need to restructure the way we finance
industry.  Japan ’s essentially 0 percent interest rates, and
China’s dirt-cheap state-bank loans were key ingredients in the
rise of Japanese autos and now of the Chinese solar industry. In
the U.S., tax and finance policies still favor nonmanufacturing
sectors, and protect sluggish incumbents by cutting off capital
for companies and technologies that might disrupt them. In most
American states, it’s still illegal for a manufacturing company
to produce more clean electricity than it needs and sell the
surplus -- the utilities enjoy virtual monopolies.  Tax Help Needed  At the least, the U.S. should provide clean-energy
companies with the same tax-favorable investment structures that
underwrite oil and gas development. The U.S.’s  Advanced Energy
Manufacturing Tax Credit , which is capped at $2.3 billion, is
oversubscribed by a factor of three, revealing a hunger among
clean-energy providers to manufacture in the U.S. The production
tax credit for wind expires at the end of this year. On Nov. 15,
the Governors’ Wind Energy Coalition, a bipartisan group of two
dozen governors, sent a  letter  to Congress urging lawmakers to
extend the tax credit. The letter pointed out that when
“Congress allowed the tax credit to expire in 1999, 2001, and
2003, the development of new wind installations dropped
significantly, between 73 percent and 93 percent, and thousands
of jobs were lost.”  Even when the policies are right, the implementation may
not be. The key R&D tax credit is renewed for only two years at
a time, keeping manufacturers, who account for 70 percent of the
U.S.’s R&D, guessing about the future.  The failure to support manufacturing has been exacerbated
by a failure to make public investments at all. Total public
spending on infrastructure in the U.S. has fallen steadily since
the 1960s and now stands at 2.4 percent of gross domestic
product. (In contrast,  Europe  invests 5 percent of its GDP on
infrastructure, and  China  invests 9 percent.)  Manufacturing jobs in the U.S. transportation sector have
fallen from roughly 2 million positions in January 2000 to just
over  1.4 million  in December 2011. The refusal of Congress to
pass long-term funding for rebuilding U.S. roads, bridges and
transit systems will only accelerate that decline. Meanwhile,
 Korea , Japan and China continue to invest in high-speed rail,
advanced automotive batteries and other strategic
infrastructure.  Our cultural worship of white-collar “knowledge” work has
led the U.S. to underinvest in the skills and aptitudes of the
hand. We have the best universities in the world, but not the
best trained workforce. We applaud innovation and we hunger for
jobs, but fail to understand their dependence on manufacturing,
or that manufacturing itself is dependent on markets. Finance,
markets, manufacturing, employment -- all thrive, or wither,
depending on public policy. Manufacturing can still be revived
in the U.S., but only  Washington  can make it happen. Only
Washington.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the  Sierra Club . The
opinions expressed are his own. Read Part  1  and  2  of the series.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@sierraclub.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 