-- American Superconductor Rises on Talk Suit May Be Resolved
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-01-20T21:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/american-superconductor-rises-on-talk-suit-may-be-resolved.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , the
maker of wind-turbine parts suing its former largest customer,
surged for the third time in four days as investors covered
short positions amid speculation that the case may be resolved.  AMSC rose 7.4 percent to $5.64 at the close in New York.
The shares jumped 28 percent Jan. 18 and have increased 53
percent since the beginning of the month.  “A lot of rumors are swirling about the arbitration
case,” said Carter Driscoll, a Capstone Investments analyst in
Miami who rates AMSC shares a “hold.” “I’m sure there was
some massive short covering the other day in anticipation of
that.”  AMSC says Beijing-based Sinovel Wind Group Co. broke
contracts and stole its intellectual property. Sinovel denies
the charges and maintains AMSC’s parts weren’t meeting its
standards.  The case is due to be heard in  China  “early this year,”
said Jason Fredette, a spokesman for Devens, Massachusetts-based
AMSC. He declined to comment on the reason for the share move.  Short sellers borrow stock hoping to profit once the shares
decline and usually have to pay interest while their positions
are open. They eventually have to buy shares to cover their
positions. Most Chinese offices will be closed the week of Jan.
23 for the Lunar New Year holiday.  “When you get those big, 20-plus-percent moves without any
fundamental moves, it generally is short covering,” Driscoll
said.  The Beijing Arbitration Commission called off a hearing
about the matter earlier this month, according to a report in
the China Securities Journal on Jan. 10 that cited people from
the commission and Sinovel it didn’t identify.  A former AMSC employee in Austria pleaded guilty there in
September to charges including economic espionage after being
accused of passing software and source code to Sinovel, which is
China’s second-biggest wind turbine maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  