-- Anadarko, Kerr-McGee Can’t Limit $15.5 Billion Claim in Lawsuit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/anadarko-kerr-mcgee-can-t-limit-15-5-billion-damage-claim.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and its
 Kerr-McGee Corp. (KMG)  unit can’t limit the damages claim in a
$15.5 billion lawsuit over environmental cleanup costs brought
by the U.S. and Tronox Inc. creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  denied the
request from The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko and  Kerr-McGee (KMG) 
in court papers filed yesterday. His ruling paves the way for
Tronox creditors and the government to argue in a May trial that
the companies should pay billions of dollars to clean up
thousands of polluted sites around the U.S. and compensate
people who claim they were harmed by Kerr-McGee’s toxins.  “The amounts at stake are possibly enormous but at this
point wholly uncertain,” Gropper wrote, noting that a separate
estimate of tort and environmental damages in the case had been
$1.9 billion to $6.9 billion. Gropper heard more than two hours
of arguments on Nov. 29 and said he would later issue a written
ruling.  Tronox sued Anadarko and Kerr-McGee in 2009, during its
bankruptcy, to recover environmental liabilities that the
chemical maker claimed Anadarko dumped on it through a 2006
spinoff. U.S. government agencies also sued.  A trust created when Tronox exited bankruptcy in February
is now pursuing the lawsuit. The U.S. will get 88 percent of
whatever is won in the lawsuit and tort claimants will get the
remainder, according to court papers.  May 15 Trial  The case is set to go to trial May 15. Gropper said Nov. 29
that the parties should mediate the dispute.  Anadarko said in court papers that the plaintiffs shouldn’t
be able to profit from a recovery, and redacted their pleadings
to hide their estimates of how much the trust had allegedly
overstated its claim.  “They admit to you they’re seeking over $15.5 billion,”
Lydia Protopapas, a lawyer for Anadarko, told Gropper Nov. 29.
“That’s a windfall.”  Kerr-McGee transferred about 2,800 polluted sites and
liability for 70 years’ worth of pollution to Oklahoma City-
based Tronox after moving its most valuable oil and gas assets
to a new company that Anadarko acquired in 2006 for $18 billion,
Tronox said in its 2009 lawsuit.  Tronox has called the transactions a two-step fraud and is
seeking the full value of assets it says were fraudulently
transferred into Anadarko. Anadarko had sought to limit their
claim to what environmental and tort creditors were owed, which
it says was close to $1.5 billion in 2005.  Measure of Damages  Gropper said in his ruling that the appropriate measure of
damages should be determined after trial, and can’t be limited
only by the amount of fraudulently transferred property.  David Zott, a lawyer for the trust, had said the estate and
all its creditors, including environmental and tort claims, are
entitled to recover money that was fraudulently transferred out
of the estate.  “We’re entitled to avoid in entirety the fraudulently
transferred oil and gas assets,” Zott told Gropper at the Nov.
29 hearing.  Proceeds from the lawsuit will go to the litigation trust
which has taken on the case. The trust will distribute proceeds
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies.
Lawyers for the U.S. have said the federal government and
several states are involuntary creditors now dealing with
pollution strewn across the country.  In a separate related lawsuit, Tronox shareholders sued
Anadarko in July 2009, seeking unspecified damages over the same
two transactions. They claim they were misled by company
disclosures about the size of Kerr-McGee’s potential
environmental liabilities.  The bankruptcy case is  Tronox Inc. (TRXAQ) , 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  