-- Lang Lang, Howler, Garofalo, Winter Antiques Show: NYC Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/lang-lang-howler-garofalo-winter-antiques-show-nyc-weekend.html
Tender in age, but not attitude,
Minneapolis-based Howler infuse their guitar-rock with
infectious spit-in-your-eye energy. They play Williamsburg’s
Cameo Gallery on Friday night.  Their  debut album , “America Give Up,” just dropped. It’s
packed with surly surf riffs and youthful irreverence, so they
fit in well with fellow Rough Trade label mates The Strokes and
The Libertines.  At 93 N. 6th St., Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-302-1180;
 http://cameony.com .  Saturday  Visit “Rembrandt’s World,” an exhibition of 90 drawings
by important Dutch artists, just opened at the Morgan Library.  “A Beggar, Facing Left, Leaning on a Stick” (1628-29), is
a quick pen-and-brown-ink sketch capturing the man’s weary
discouragement, made early in Rembrandt’s career.  There are evocative landscapes, people buying slithering
eels and dried herring for dinner, and splendid fauna and flora
by his compatriots from the Dutch Golden Age: Ferdinand Bol,
Abraham Bloemaert, Aelbert Cuyp, among others.  Runs through April 29.  Eat lunch in the original Morgan family dining room. Start
with an English cucumber gimlet and then tuck into Garganelli
pasta with squash, black trumpet mushrooms and truffle butter.  For dessert, there’s a chocolate date cake with creme
fraiche ice cream.  At 225 Madison Avenue. Information: +1-212-685-0008;
 http://www.themorgan.org .  Saturday Matinee  Janeane Garofalo takes the stage as Diana, a Russian
immigrant struggling to make a life for her family in Sheepshead
Bay,  Brooklyn .  Trouble starts when her mysterious brother Boris, played by
Morgan Spector, arrives from the Old Country.  Directed by Scott Elliott, it’s the world premiere
production by the New Group of Erika Sheffer’s play “Russian
Transport.”  In previews at the Acorn Theater, 410 W. 42nd St. for a
Jan. 30 opening. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.thenewgroup.org .  Saturday Night  Classical music luminary Lang Lang has inspired more than
40 million Chinese children to take up the piano. See why when
he joins the  New York Philharmonic  to play Bartok’s Piano
Concerto No. 2.  The program starts with Magnus Lindberg’s “Feria,” and
ends with Prokofiev’s irrepressible Symphony No. 5. A week after
the U.S. premiere of the work, the Russian composer made the
cover of Time magazine.  Music director  Alan Gilbert  is on the podium.  Avery Fisher Hall ,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-875-
5656;  http://nyphil.org .  Saturday Late Show  Tony-winning baritone Paulo Szot brings his drop-dead looks
to the intimate Cafe Carlyle, mixing Broadway classics like “If
Ever I Would Leave You” with a turn through the hot rhythms of
 Brazil .  In March, he’s back in the big house, singing Lescaut in
the  Metropolitan Opera ’s new production of Massenet’s “Manon,”
starring  Anna Netrebko .  “An Evening With Paulo Szot” runs through Jan. 28 at 25
E. 78th St. Information: +1-212-744-1600;
 http://www.rosewoodhotels.com/en/carlyle/dining/cafe_carlyle .  Sunday  Need a suit of armor? Or maybe you’d like to have a letter
written by  Thomas Jefferson  or a portrait of  George Washington ?  Get them all and much more at the Winter Antiques Show at
the Park Avenue Armory. Porcelain, glass, silver, furniture,
jewelry and fine art are presented by 70 top dealers.  This year’s loan exhibition is “Historic Hudson Valley at
60: Rockefeller Patronage in Sleepy Hollow Country.”  Runs through Jan. 29 at 643 Park Ave. Information: +1-718-
665-5250;  http://www.winterantiquesshow.com .  Sunday Matinee  Avant-garde director  Robert Wilson  used light and simple
movement to create signature theatrical effects in everything
from dance pieces to Wagner’s “Ring.”  Conceived and directed by Anne Bogart and performed by Will
Bond, “Bob” uses Wilson’s words to summon up his spirit.  Presented by experimental theater group Siti Company.  At New York Live Arts, 219 W. 19th St. Information: +1-212-
924-0077;  http://www.siti.org .  Sunday Evening  In David Parsons’s stroboscopic showstopper “Caught,” a
man seems miraculously suspended in midair.  See his buff dance company, known for its athletic and
witty moves, perform at the Joyce Theater.  “Step Into My Dream,” with sultry music by pianist Billy
Taylor, is a knockout.  Parsons Dance at the Joyce, 175 Eighth Avenue at 19th St.
Information: +1-212-691-9740;  http://joyce.org .  (With assistance from Daniel Billy and Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 