-- U.S. Congress Shelves Hollywood-Backed Piracy Bills Following Web Protest
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-20T16:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/anti-piracy-bills-under-increased-pressure-after-google-protest.html
U.S. Senate and House leaders
shelved Hollywood-backed anti-piracy legislation days after a
global online protest by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia eroded
congressional support.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid today canceled a Jan. 24
procedural vote on the Senate measure, the Protect IP Act, while
House Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith  said his panel
would postpone consideration of the House bill, the Stop Online
Piracy Act.  “There is no reason that the legitimate issues raised by
many about this bill cannot be resolved,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said in a statement dropping the vote. Reid said he’s
“optimistic that we can reach a compromise in the coming weeks.”  The movie and music industries and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business-lobbying group, support
the Senate and House measures as a way to fight sales of pirated
content by non-U.S. websites. Internet companies say the bills
would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s architecture
and harm their ability to innovate.  The anti-piracy bills call for the  Justice Department  to
seek court orders forcing Internet-service providers,  search
engines , payment processors and online ad networks to block or
stop doing business with non-U.S. sites linked to piracy. The
measures would let private copyright holders seek court orders
forcing payment and ad companies to cut off such websites.  Google Protest  An offer by the bills’ lead sponsors to drop a provision
requiring Internet-service providers to block websites failed to
stop Google, Wikipedia and other websites from leading a protest
this week that unraveled the legislation’s prospects. At least
eight Senate co-sponsors, including seven Republicans, withdrew
their support or expressed reservations.  Visitors to Google, the world’s most popular search engine,
were greeted Jan. 18 by a black box covering the company’s
familiar icon, and a message that read “Tell Congress: Please
don’t censor the Web!” The message linked to a page outlining
Google’s opposition and an option to sign an online petition.  Google said yesterday it collected more than 7 million U.S.
signatures urging Congress to reject the legislation. Wikipedia,
the online encyclopedia that shut the English language version
of its website for 24 hours to protest the bills, said more than
162 million people saw its blackout page.  Reid’s move followed a call yesterday by Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  for delaying the chamber’s vote.  The “decision to set aside the bill will give Congress the
opportunity to study and resolve the serious issues with this
legislation and prevent a counterproductive rush ,” McConnell,
a Kentucky Republican, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Leahy Criticism  Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Judiciary Committee chairman who
introduced the Protect IP Act, criticized the delay in acting on
the measure.  Sellers of stolen U.S. content and counterfeit goods “are
smugly watching how the United States Senate decided it was not
even worth debating how to stop the overseas criminals from
draining our economy,” Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  “The day will come when the Senators who forced this move
will look back and realize they made a knee-jerk reaction to a
monumental problem,” he said.  Christopher Dodd , chairman of the Washington-based  Motion
Picture Association  of America, said today that shelving the
legislation would make it harder to police piracy.  “As a consequence of failing to act, there will continue
to be a safe haven for foreign thieves; American jobs will
continue to be lost; and consumers will continue to be exposed
to fraudulent and dangerous products peddled by foreign
criminals,” Dodd said in a e-mailed statement.  Summit Proposed  Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who served three decades in
the Senate, said in an interview with the New York Times
yesterday he would welcome a summit meeting between Internet
companies and content companies possibly at the White House.  “The perfect place to do it is a block away from here,”
Dodd said, pointing from his office toward the presidential
mansion, the Times reported.  Creative America, a nonprofit founded by Hollywood studios
and unions including the Screen Actors Guild, started a national
television and print ad campaign Jan. 18 in support of the House
and Senate measures. The campaign will continue indefinitely,
and will soon expand to include radio ads in 20 to 25 local
markets, said Craig Hoffman, a spokesman.  Megaupload.com Action  “Foreign criminals operating illegal websites are making
billions of dollars off the blood, sweat and tears of more than
two million middle-class American workers who are not
compensated when these thieves distribute stolen and counterfeit
goods,” Mike Nugent, executive director of Creative America,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Debate on piracy legislation coincided with a move by U.S.
prosecutors to shut down the Megaupload.com file-sharing website
and charge people associated with it of running a criminal
enterprise that cost copyright owners more than $500 million.  Leahy cited the Megaupload.com action as an example of why
legislation is needed to combat piracy by non-U.S. websites.  “Unfortunately there are no tools in the arsenal to
protect that same American intellectual property from theft by
websites hosted and operated overseas,” he said.  Smith said he has heard from critics of the House measure,
the Stop Online Piracy Act, and takes their concerns seriously.  “It is clear that we need to revisit the approach on how
best to address the problem of foreign thieves that steal and
sell American inventions and products,” Smith, who introduced
the measure, said in an e-mailed statement today. Smith had
previously said he expected the House Judiciary Committee to
resume consideration of the Stop Online Piracy Act in February.  The House bill is H.R. 3261 and the Senate bill is S. 968.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  