-- Apple’s Patent Dispute With Motorola Mobility Narrowed by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/apple-motorola-patents-in-dispute-limited-by-judge-says-trial-needed-on-5.html
The number of patents in litigation
between  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and a  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  unit
was reduced by a judge who invalidated two of them, said Apple
didn’t infringe a third and found that issues with five others
required a trial.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner, hearing by special
designation a lower-court case in  Chicago , struck down an Apple-
patented method for drawing graphics on a computer display
screen, concluding its terms were too vague.  Posner ruled against Motorola on a means for authenticating
and protecting telecommunications subscribers, concluding it had
been anticipated by earlier patents. Posner also decided in the
order dated Jan. 16 that Apple didn’t infringe a Motorola patent
for encrypting telecommunications data.  Apple, maker of the iPhone, has been waging a global fight
with the former Motorola Inc. unit that sells phones using
Google Inc.’s Android operating system. A U.S. International
Trade Commission judge on Jan. 13 made an initial determination
that cleared Motorola of violating Apple’s rights on three
patents.  Posner has scheduled a  jury trial  on liability in the case
before him on June 11. He has told lawyers for both sides to
tell him which claims they want tried by Jan. 23.  Motorola Mobility, which was spun off from Motorola Inc. --
now  Motorola Solutions (MSI)  Inc. -- last year, has agreed to be
acquired by Google for $12.5 billion.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on
the decision. A call to Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
press office also wasn’t immediately returned yesterday.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  