-- Apple, Microsoft, Patent Lawyers Spend Most Fridays in Mannheim, Not Pub
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-20T14:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/apple-microsoft-patent-lawyers-spend-most-fridays-in-mannheim.html
If you were searching for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s European patent lawyers on a Friday, you would have
better luck looking in the German city of Mannheim than on the
golf course or in a pub.  Judges in the southwest German city hold most patent
hearings on the last day of the week and will issue rulings in
smartphone disputes involving Apple,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. over four of the next five
Fridays starting today. The city, along with Dusseldorf and
Munich, has become the center of European patent litigation as
companies seek quick rulings from German judges that influence
courts throughout the continent.  “If you have a big multinational corporation setting up a
patent litigation strategy for  Europe , they will almost always
sue in Germany,” said  Rowan Freeland , a litigator at Simmons &
Simmons LLP in London. “Maybe you add other countries as well,
but if you have to choose, it’s almost certainly Germany.”  Mobile device makers filed dozens of cases in the three
cities last year. Samsung today lost a patent-infringement suit
filed against Apple in the Mannheim court. The judges also heard
another suit between the two rivals. A hearing in two disputes
between Motorola Mobility and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  originally
scheduled for this afternoon were postponed until next month.  Samsung said it was disappointed by today’s ruling and
added that the decision isn’t indicative for other pending
cases.  ‘Throw in the Towel’  Germany’s role in the European economy is just as important
as the speed of the rulings, issued by specialist judges, said
 Peter-Michael Weisse , an attorney at intellectual-property
litigation firm  Wildanger  in Dusseldorf.  “If you want to conquer the European market and you’re
being stopped in Germany, most of the time that’s enough to
throw in the towel,” Weisse said. “Many companies say if they
cannot sell in Germany, it’s no use to go ahead with a product
somewhere else.”  London  and  The Hague , Netherlands, compete with Germany as
venues for European patent litigation. The Netherlands’
disadvantage is a smaller economy, while the U.K. is hindered by
high legal costs, Freeland said. While there is no pan-European
patent, courts often look for similar rulings in other
countries.  “Litigants want judges who know about patents, they want a
procedure which is inexpensive, one which is fast, allowing for
a ruling within a year, and one where the result will secure a
commercial advantage,” Freeland said. “Holland and the U.K.
each provide three of those. Germany provides all four.”  Three-Hour Hearings  Germany has no U.S.-style pretrial evidence exchange and
the facts are submitted in writing. In the U.K., lawyers must
present their cases at oral hearings, and a trial can take as
many as 14 days, said  Thomas Bopp , a patent litigator at Gleiss
Lutz in Dusseldorf. By contrast, an average German hearing takes
three hours and the court may hear more than one suit in a day.  “German lawyers’ rates aren’t necessarily less expensive
than those of British attorneys, but it consumes more hours if
you have to dig through floods of documents and appear for weeks
in court,” Bopp said.  Germany  has become a key venue for the  lawsuits  between
Apple and Samsung over mobile technologies and designs since the
iPhone maker last year accused its South Korean rival of copying
products. Samsung, also a chip supplier for Apple, edged out the
U.S. company as the top smartphone seller in the third quarter,
helped by its Galaxy products.  MPEG 2-Standard  Another factor speeding German rulings is the separation of
infringement suits and actions seeking to nullify patents. While
in most jurisdictions a defendant can ask the court to rule that
the patent is invalid, a tactic that potentially can delay
proceedings, in Germany he has to go to a separate specialized
court.  German judges have had an important role in intellectual
property litigation for years, said Thomas Kuehnen, presiding
judge at the Dusseldorf Higher Regional Court. He pointed to a
Dusseldorf ruling in the 2000s that led to the resolution of
hundreds of lawsuits over the MPEG 2-Standard, a technology to
store video and audio data on DVDs. The court ruling formed the
basis of a global settlement involving more than 700 patents in
54 countries.  Kuehnen says German judges develop expertise because of the
number of cases they review. While about 50 patent suits a year
are filed in the U.K. and the  Netherlands , as many as 1,300
reach German courts, about half of them in Dusseldorf.  Expert Opinions  While patent suits can be filed in any German city, lawyers
prefer Dusseldorf and Mannheim, because the courts have
specialized patent-infringement chambers. Judges in others
cities, who rarely get these types of cases, need more time and
seek expert opinions on the technology more often than their
Dusseldorf and Mannheim colleagues.  In the last three or four years, about 60 percent of cases
filed in Dusseldorf involve parties from outside of Germany,
Judge Kuehnen said.  “Multinationals from  Asia , the U.K. or the U.S. are
changing the litigation landscape here. It has become much more
complex,” Kuehnen said. “We see the globalization in our
courtroom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Mannheim via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 