-- Marathon Petroleum Rises After Jana Stake Revealed: Dallas Mover
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-01-20T21:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/marathon-petroleum-rises-after-jana-stake-revealed-dallas-mover.html
Marathon Petroleum Corp (MPC) ., the
largest independent U.S. refiner by market value, gained 3.6
percent and outperformed competitors after hedge fund Jana
Partners LLC bought a 5.5 percent stake in the company.  The refining company, which was split off from its parent
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  last year, rose 3.7 percent to $37.17 at the
close in  New York . Earlier, the shares gained as much as 5.4
percent to $37.78.  Since an Aug. 1 high of $44.97, Marathon Petroleum has
fallen 17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marathon Petroleum has been under pressure from investors
to form a master-limited partnership for some or all of its
9,600 miles (15,450 kilometers) of pipelines, a step that might
unlock as much as $3 billion in value, said  Fadel Gheit , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. in New York.  Such partnerships, which are traded on exchanges, allow
companies to distribute cash generated by certain assets to
shareholders without having to pay corporate taxes on the
income.  Marathon Petroleum Chief Executive Officer Gary Heminger
has said keeping the pipeline assets inside the company is more
valuable to shareholders and provides the company with
flexibility. Gheit, who rates Marathon Petroleum “outperform”
and doesn’t own shares, said Marathon Petroleum should consider
stock buybacks instead.  Returning Cash to Shareholders  “By the end of this year, they will be swimming in cash,”
Gheit said in a telephone interview today. “Some of this should
be returned to the shareholder.”  From Nov. 22 to Jan. 11, Jana acquired 19.7 million shares
in Findlay, Ohio-based Marathon valued at $636 million including
options, according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  Jana leaders have held talks with Marathon’s management
about the company’s business strategy, assets, corporate
structure and related matters, according to the filing.  “We share Jana’s view that our company shares are an
attractive investment opportunity,” Angelia Graves, a Marathon
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail message today. “We are focused
on  shareholder value  and welcome the views of Jana and other
shareholders on ways to build such value.”  Charles Penner, a spokesman for Jana, declined to comment
yesterday.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest U.S. refiner by oil
processing capacity, rose 2.2 percent to $23.51 at the close in
New York.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , the largest U.S. refiner in the West
Coast, rose 0.5 percent to $24.18.  Independent refiners don’t explore for or produce oil and
natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  