-- Brevan Howard Says 2011 Choppy Markets Will Be Repeated in 2012
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-01-20T19:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/market-volatility-to-match-2011-amid-liquidity-trap-brevan-howard-says.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
the $32.6 billion hedge fund co-founded by  Alan Howard ,
predicted market volatility this year will match that of 2011 as
governments in  Europe  and the U.S. cut spending and growth in
emerging economies slows.  “Enthusiasm for additional stimulus appears to have come
to an end,” London-based Brevan Howard wrote in a note today.
“The largest economies are in a liquidity trap and  emerging
markets  are slowing markedly. Financial markets and the economy
are at the mercy of the convergence of these positive and
negative forces in 2012.”  Brevan Howard’s biggest fund, the $26.6 billion Master
Fund, returned 12 percent last year after it made a bullish bet
on U.S. Treasuries and U.K. gilts based on a view that
increasing market risk would prompt investors to pile into the
safest assets. The firm is expecting 2012 to “mirror the ups
and downs” experienced in 2011, when the Standard & Poor’s 500
finished little changed after tumbling as much as 19 percent
from an April high.  Global efforts to attack government debt with budget cuts
will come with risks that may threaten economic growth, Brevan
Howard said in the note. It was published by  BH Global Ltd., (BHGG)  a
publicly traded company that raises money for Brevan Howard’s
hedge funds.  “We are about to witness an unprecedented policy move,”
the firm said in the document. “Fiscal austerity is being
prescribed as the cure following the bursting of the credit
bubble. Unfortunately, there is no historical example of when
this approach has been successful.”  Traders Hired  Economic growth in the years after the 1929 stock market
crash was triggered by stimulus and “sizable depreciations in
the exchange of currencies,” Brevan Howard said.  The firm hired about 30 traders in 2011 and plans to “look
for opportunities to further enhance its global pool of trading
talent” this year, according to the document.  The Master Fund was the firm’s best performing hedge fund
in 2011, while the Brevan Howard Emerging Market Strategies Fund
was the worst with a loss of 6.1 percent, the note said. Hedge
funds posted an average loss of 4.9 percent last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Howard, 48, founded Brevan Howard in 2002 with four other
traders from Credit Suisse Group AG’s proprietary fixed-income
trading desk. The Master Fund has never posted a negative
calendar year return since its inception in April 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  