-- Martin Marietta, Vulcan Shareholder Southeastern Backs Merger
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-20T19:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/martin-marietta-vulcan-shareholder-southeastern-backs-merger.html
Southeastern Asset Management Inc.,
one of the largest shareholders of both  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  and
 Martin Marietta  Materials Inc., endorsed a combination of the
two sand and gravel companies amid a takeover fight.  Vulcan rose 2.9 percent to $42.83 at 2:53 p.m. in New York
trading after Southeastern said in a filing today it supports
Martin Marietta’s hostile bid. Martin Marietta, which rose 0.9
percent to $81.38, offered on Dec. 12 to exchange 0.5 share for
each Vulcan share, in a swap originally valued at $4.7 billion.  “Southeastern believes the proposed combination can
produce substantial economic benefits for both companies and
their shareholders,” Memphis, Tennessee-based Southeastern said
in the filing.  Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer
of sand, gravel and crushed stone, had rejected  Martin
Marietta (MLM) ’s offer, calling it “very low-ball” and saying it
takes advantage of a U.S. construction recession. Vulcan has
reported net losses in three of the last four quarters for which
results were released, and cut its quarterly dividend to 1 cent
a share, beginning last month, from 25 cents.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , has said
the proposed acquisition would result in $250 million of cost
savings and would partially restore the dividend for Vulcan
shareholders.  Southeastern, the largest shareholder of Martin Marietta
and the Vulcan’s third-biggest, said it sent a letter to Vulcan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Don James and the rest of
the board to urge discussion of the offer with Martin Marietta.  After failing to persuade Vulcan to negotiate, the fund said
it has changed its filing status with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, with respect to Vulcan, in order to “be
more proactive in discussions with the managements and boards of
each company, as well as other shareholders.”  Southeastern said today it holds a 13.3 percent stake in
Martin Marietta. The fund has a 9.9 percent stake in Vulcan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, trailing T. Rowe Price
Associates with 12.7 percent and Dodge & Cox with 10.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  