-- Harvard MBA Degree Earns Romney ‘C-’ on Tax Plan: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-01-20T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/harvard-mba-degree-earns-romney-c-on-tax-plan-caroline-baum.html
Conventional wisdom holds that
presidential candidates, once they secure their party’s
nomination, tack to the center for the general election. Having
appeased the more extreme elements that come out to vote in
primary elections, a candidate can drop the pretense of being a
far right- or left-winger and don the mantle of reasonable
centrist in order to garner the ever-growing share of the
independent vote.  Not so for  Mitt Romney . With the inevitability of his
candidacy increasing with each passing primary, the founder of
Bain Capital is going to have to demonstrate his conservative
bona fides, especially in the area of tax policy, if he wants to
convince the public he represents a clear break with the past.
(“Governor of  Massachusetts ” on the resume just doesn’t cut
it.)  Reducing the corporate income-tax rate to 25 percent from
its current 35 percent, one of Romney’s  five bills for Day One ,
is pretty standard fare. Even President  Barack Obama  talks about
lowering the corporate tax rate to make the U.S. more
competitive globally.  What about eliminating the corporate income tax altogether?  “There’s a consensus among economists that we shouldn’t
tax corporate income,” which is taxed a second time when it’s
paid out in the form of dividends, says Bob Litan, vice
president of research and policy at the Kauffman Foundation in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Gaming the System  We haven’t heard “boo” from Romney on the subject of
double taxation, no doubt an attempt to avoid getting snared in
Obama’s class-warfare net. Yes, Romney would eliminate the
estate tax, and he makes passing references to overhauling the
tax system to lower and flatten rates and broaden the base. But
the man with an MBA and law degree from Harvard has offered no
sweeping alternative to the current regimen, no support for a
simpler system that would, for example, tax all income once, at
the same rate and as close to the source as possible.  That’s the premise underlying “ The Flat Tax ,” first
published in 1985 by  Robert Hall  and Alvin Rabushka, senior
fellows at the Hoover Institution.  “Whenever different forms of income are taxed at different
rates or different taxpayers face different rates, the public
figures out how to take advantage of the differential,” the
economists wrote.  You betcha! That’s why executives prefer their compensation
in the form of  stock options , which will be taxed at the lower
capital-gains rate, rather than in salary.  Instead of radical  tax reform , Romney, in his 59-point,
160-page economic plan,  proposes  eliminating the capital-gains
tax on those earning less than $200,000 a year, an “arbitrary
nod to progressivity” that “would do nothing to incent
investment,” according to the  Tax Foundation , a policy-research
organization in  Washington .  The think tank  analyzed  each candidate’s tax plan on the
basis of fairness, neutrality, complexity and the impact on
competitiveness, economic growth and tax revenues. Romney earned
a “C-,” one step above the class dunce, presidential hopeful
 Rick Santorum , who scored a “D+.”  Under increasing pressure from his Republican rivals to
release his tax returns, Romney revealed this week that his
effective tax rate is 15 percent. Why, that’s lower than the
rate paid by  Warren Buffett ’s secretary! And it’s all perfectly
legit. The bulk of Romney’s income comes from investments, which
are taxed at a top rate of 15 percent.  Much of the income earned in his years as chief executive
of  Bain Capital  is believed to have been in the form of
“carried interest” income that’s taxed at the more favorable
capital-gains rate. If Americans want to be outraged about
something, it shouldn’t be the rough-and-tumble form of
capitalism practiced by private-equity firms, which may, or may
not, cost jobs. Rather, as the editors at Bloomberg View argued
in a  Jan. 18 editorial , the object of their ire should be the
 tax code ’s preferential treatment of debt, which is tax-
deductible, and carried interest.  Improve the GPA  Opinion polls suggest Americans want the rich to pay higher
taxes (at least until they become rich themselves), but I sense
more outrage at the unfairness of the system. By unfair, I mean
not  marginal tax rates  per se, which currently top out at 35
percent for individuals, but the gaping loopholes in the tax
code that allow and encourage avoidance. Large corporations,
with their hordes of lobbyists, buy influence with politicians
who reciprocate by crafting tax breaks and exemptions most of us
can only imagine. Such preferences breed inefficiency.  The only solution to this pay-to-play is a radical change
in the tax code. If a candidate doesn’t espouse bold ideas on
the campaign trail, where promises are easy, what’s the chance
of reform when he’s faced with the politics of governing?  Now comes the point where I say that, despite his wishy-
washy tax plan, Romney is the only candidate with a chance of
beating Obama in November. From everything that’s been written
about him, he sounds like a good businessman, a hard worker, a
problem solver and someone you can trust. (OK, we’re talking
politicians here.)  And he still has time to improve. Should he become the
Republican nominee and face Obama in November, Romney will need
to sharpen his debating skills, figure out how to own his
enviable record at Bain, rethink his protectionist trade policy
with  China , and raise his grade-point average on  tax policy .  If not, Republicans and independents will have to swallow
hard and remember that we go to the polls with the candidate we
have, not the candidate we might want.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View   To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  