-- Asia Stocks Gain for Fifth Week, Longest Winning Streak in Year
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-01-20T23:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/asia-stocks-gain-for-fifth-week-register-longest-winning-streak-in-year.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a fifth week,
the regional benchmark’s longest winning streak in a year, as
U.S. economic reports showed the world’s biggest economy is
recovering and falling European borrowing costs signaled the
debt crisis may be easing.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker by market
value, climbed 3.5 percent in  Tokyo .  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
the South Korean consumer electronics maker that gets 20 percent
of sales from  Europe , advanced 5.6 percent in Seoul.  China 
Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s No. 2 lender, jumped 5.9
percent amid signs policy makers may ease lending curbs to spur
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  “Everyone is breathing a collective sigh of relief as
European bond yields come down,” said  Angus Gluskie , who
oversees about $300 million as managing director at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “The U.S. economic data is another bright
spot. That’s adding to the market momentum.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 3.3 percent this week, its
longest winning streak since the five weeks ended Jan. 14 last
year, as rising confidence among homebuilders and declining
claims for jobless benefits added to signs of strength in the
 U.S. economy .  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 3.1 percent as
Japanese lenders rallied after the central bank delayed the sale
of shares purchased from the financial institutions. South
Korea’s Kospi Index rose 4 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 climbed 1 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index gained 3.3 percent, while Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  jumped 4.7 percent. Markets in China and Taiwan will be
shut next week for the Lunar New Year holidays, while those in
Hong Kong will be closed from Jan. 23 to Jan. 25.  Exporters Gain  Exporters advanced. Toyota increased 3.5 percent to 2,729
yen in Tokyo.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which counts North America as its
top market, climbed 4.1 percent to 2,658 yen. Li & Fung Ltd., a
supplier of toys and clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., advanced 7.8 percent to HK$17.20 in Hong Kong.  Companies that sell their products in Europe advanced after
France and Spain auctioned about 14.6 billion euros ($20
billion) of notes at lower yields.  Samsung Electronics increased 5.6 percent to 1.105 million
won in Seoul. Canon Inc., the camera maker that gets one-third
of its sales from Europe, rose 2.2 percent to 3,430 yen.  Cosco
Pacific Ltd., (1199)  which operates a port facility in  Greece , gained 4
percent to HK$10.90.  China Easing  Chinese lenders and developers rallied amid signs policy
makers may be easing monetary policy. The central bank will
allow the nation’s five biggest banks to increase lending,
people with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 19. Separately,
the China Banking Regulatory Commission may ease lending
restrictions on small businesses, four people with knowledge of
the matter said.  China Construction Bank advanced 5.9 percent to HK$6.08.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s biggest
lender by market value, increased 4.3 percent to HK$5.37.  China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the largest mainland developer
listed in  Hong Kong , jumped 10 percent to HK$15.16. Soho China
Ltd., which builds homes in Beijing and Shanghai, gained 4.8
percent to HK$5.49.  “The market is continuing its recovery amid some positive
economic readings, and there are hopes that the Chinese
government may take more measures,” said Chu Moon Sung, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management
Co., which oversees $28 billion. “Some investors who had taken
a defensive and conservative stance appear to be slowly letting
their guard down.”  Japanese Banks  Japanese lenders rallied after the Bank of Japan said
yesterday it will postpone the sale of shares it had previously
purchased from financial institutions by two years to March
2014.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest
publicly traded lender, jumped 4.8 percent to 350 yen. Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., the second-largest, gained 5.8
percent to 2,373 yen. Mizuho Financial Group Inc. advanced 5.5
percent 115 yen.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the retail partner of Swatch Group
AG in China, soared 26 percent to HK$3.04 in Hong Kong, the
 second-biggest  gain in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this week,
amid speculation the company will benefit from acquiring a stake
in Ming Fung Jewellery Group Ltd. The deal will close at the end
of this month, Hengdeli investor relations officer Shi Gao said
Jan. 18.  Completing the acquisition of the stake “will allow
Hengdeli to improve its luxurious watches and jewelry product
offerings,” said Larry Cho, head of mid-cap research at Royal
Bank of  Scotland . “I see this news as very positive for
Hengdeli.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  