-- AsiaInfo Surges Most Since August on Buyout Proposal From Government Fund
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-20T21:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/asiainfo-surges-most-since-august-on-buyout-proposal-from-government-fund.html
AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , a
telecommunications software provider whose largest customer is
 China ’s biggest wireless carrier, surged the most in five months
in the U.S. after receiving a buyout proposal from a state-owned
private-equity fund at a premium to its stock price.  Beijing-based AsiaInfo’s  shares  jumped as much as 26
percent before closing 19 percent higher at $11.78 in  New York ,
the highest level since Aug. 11.  AsiaInfo got a “non-binding” proposal from Power Joy
(Cayman) Ltd., a unit of CITIC Capital China Partners II LP, to
acquire all outstanding shares in cash, according to a statement
today from the company. The offer “represents a premium over
the current stock price,” and AsiaInfo has set up a special
committee to consider it, the company said.  “Private equity investors are seeing value here where
public investors aren’t willing to take the risk,” Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland  who
rates the stock “outperform,” said by phone today. “The
valuation has gotten really low because of uncertainties
surrounding China.”  AsiaInfo’s U.S. shares traded at 6.9 times  projected
earnings  before the bid, compared with 10.8 times for
Chesterfield, Missouri-based competitor Amdocs Ltd., data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s high cash levels, at
$3.10 per share, would also be a lure to private equity
investors, Barnicle said.  CITIC Capital is a private-equity fund owned by China’s
biggest state-owned investment company and the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, according to its  website .  Shorts Dropped  Investors’  short-sale interest  in AsiaInfo declined to 9.8
percent of its total outstanding shares as of Jan. 18, the
lowest level since May 9, according to  Data Explorers , a New
York-based research firm. In a short sale, an investor borrows a
security and sells it, expecting to profit from a decline by
repurchasing it later at a lower price.  Bids to acquire China- or Hong Kong-based companies have
totaled 182 in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average premium was 21 percent among deals that
have closed, the data show.  AsiaInfo’s shares plunged 53 percent in 2011, their worst
year since 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  