-- Asian Currencies Strengthen for a Third Week, Led by Rupee, Won
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-20T21:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/asian-currencies-strengthen-for-a-third-week-led-by-rupee-won.html
Asian currencies had a third weekly
gain, led by  India ’s rupee and South Korea’s won, as signs of a
global economic recovery and falling European borrowing costs
boosted demand for emerging-market assets.  The won reached a six-week high as reports this week showed
China’s fourth-quarter gross domestic product  expanded  more than
forecast,  remittances  by Philippine citizens abroad increased at
a faster pace and claims for U.S. jobless benefits dropped to
the lowest level in almost four years. Global funds poured a net
$2.9 billion into South Korean and Indonesian equities this week
through Jan. 20 and $485 million into India in the first three
days of the week, exchange data show.  “There’s some optimism over the U.S. and Chinese economic
conditions while  Europe ’s debt concern is at least not
worsening,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “That led to some fund inflows into
 Asia , supporting currencies. However, Europe’s problem won’t be
solved anytime soon and so sentiment may not recover sharply.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks 10
most-traded currencies in the region excluding the yen, climbed
0.6 percent from a week ago to 116.18. The three-week run of
gains is the first since June. The rupee climbed 2.4 percent to
50.3350 per dollar, the won surged 1.3 percent to 1,134.21 and
Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.9 percent to 3.1042, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  Philippine peso  added 1.1 percent to
43.263.  Won’s Winning Streak  The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-Pacific Index of shares posted its fifth
weekly advance as  France  sold 7.97 billion euros ($10.3 billion)
of debt with the average yield on the benchmark two-year notes
sliding to 1.05 percent from 1.58 percent in October.  Spain 
issued debt due 2022 at an average of 5.403 percent, down from
6.975 percent in November.  The won gained for a fourth day, its longest run of
appreciation in seven weeks. Data on Jan. 18 showed South
Korea’s department store  sales  increased 11 percent, the most in
eight months.  “Overseas situations have supported risk appetite recently,
and this trend will continue for some time, although the speed
of currency gains may slow,” said Kim Doo Hyun, a Seoul-based
senior currency dealer at Korea Exchange Bank.  The ringgit climbed for a third week and the rupiah jumped
1.5 percent this week to 8,945 per dollar as  Indonesia  attained
an investment-grade  credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service
on Jan. 18.  Good Data  “Risk appetite is the driving factor for Asian
currencies,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange
research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in  Singapore . “Attention is
more on the good data coming out of the U.S. market, sending the
focus away from the debt crisis in Europe.”  The rupiah touched a two-month high yesterday after foreign
funds bought $226 million more local shares than they sold in
the week, exchange data show. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
said Jan. 19 the government was targeting a 6.7 percent increase
in gross domestic product this year.  “The upgrade is the confirmation investors had been
waiting for, which led to some frenzy buying,” said Dastin
Mudijana, head of fixed-income in Jakarta at PT Trimegah Asset
Management, which oversees $423 million of assets. “Indonesia
is on the upswing with a favorable GDP outlook.”  China ’s yuan dropped 0.5 percent this week, the most in
about a year, to 6.3390, amid speculation policy makers will
limit appreciation to protect exporters as global economic
growth slows. The financial crisis is deepening, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing comments made by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  while visiting Chinese citizens in Qatar.  Elsewhere, the  Thai baht  gained 0.8 percent this week to
31.54 per dollar, while Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at
NT$29.99.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  