-- Most U.S. Stocks Rise on Technology Shares
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-01-20T22:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/asian-stocks-rise-as-korean-won-gains-on-stronger-economy-gold-retreats.html
Most (.TOTALAD)  U.S. stocks rose as higher-
than-estimated results at companies including  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. drove technology
shares higher and banks rallied. The euro fell amid talks
between Greek officials and private creditors.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1 percent to
1,315.38 at 4 p.m. in New York, erasing a loss in the final
minutes of trading. The  Dow (INDU)  Jones Industrial Average rose 96.50
points to 12,720.48, boosted by International Business Machines
Corp. after its earnings forecast topped estimates. The euro
lost 0.3 percent to $1.2936. Oil fell 1.9 percent, while orange
juice surged to a record on supply concerns. Ten-year Treasury
yields topped 2 percent for the first time in more than a week.  The  S&P 500  gained 2 percent for the week, and is up 4.6
percent for 2012 for its best start to a year since 1997. Sales
of previously owned U.S. homes rose in December to the highest
level since January 2011. Greek officials and private creditors
entered a third day of negotiations on a debt swap deal that’s
crucial to lowering the country’s borrowings and freeing up a
second round of international aid.  “The upturn is around the corner,” Chris Hyzy, the New
York-based chief investment officer at U.S. Trust Co., which
oversees about $325 billion, said in a telephone interview. The
rebound in banks “is a good sign. The financials have become a
more stable sector. That’s the first sign that within six to
nine months you could start to see the turnabout in the
financial sector.”  Banks Rally  Financial shares had the largest gain among 10 groups in
the S&P 500, advancing 0.7 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added more than 1.1 percent. Technology
stocks advanced 0.2 percent as a group, lifted by higher-than-
projected quarterly results from IBM, Microsoft Corp. and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)   IBM, which comprises 11 percent of the share-price-weighted
Dow, rose 4.4 percent and added 61 points to the 30-stock
average today. Microsoft climbed 5.7 percent as the largest
software maker’s Xbox business got a boost from Christmas
shoppers. Intel increased 2.9 percent as the chipmaker predicted
first-quarter revenue that may top analysts’ estimates.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  owner of the most-popular Internet search
engine, fell 8.4 percent as revenue and profit missed estimates.
 American Express Co. (AXP) , the largest credit-card issuer by
purchases, slid 1.8 percent as sales trailed forecasts.  General Electric Co. (GE)  ended  unchanged , erasing an earlier
decline of as much as 2.5 percent. Profit topped estimates after
its industrial order backlog rose to a record $200 billion even
as weaker demand in  Europe  hindered sales in health care.  ‘Mixed Bag’  Earnings probably grew 3.4 percent for S&P 500 companies in
the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
The projection is down from 4.6 percent last week and 6.2
percent at the end of last year. The global economy is forecast
to grow 2.3 percent in 2012, according to the median projection
in a survey of economists, down from the estimate of 3.4 percent
in July.  “It’s a mixed bag of earnings,” Bruce Bittles, chief
investment strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co.,
which oversees $85 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“Earnings growth is going to decline, but that’s already built
into the market to a certain extent. If earnings don’t collapse,
it won’t be a problem.”  Ten-year Treasuries fell for a third day amid optimism the
 U.S. economy  is strengthening and Europe will resolve its debt
crisis. Treasuries are off to their worst start since 2003 after
yields reached record lows in 2011.  Default Swaps Rise  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk rose from
almost a five-month low. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index of credit-default swaps, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased by 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of
109 basis points, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Oil in  New York  declined 1.9 percent to $98.46 a barrel and
the  S&P GSCI  (SPGSCI) index lost 1.2 percent. Copper trimmed a second
weekly advance amid concern manufacturing may contract for a
third month in  China , the world’s biggest user of the metal. A
Chinese purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics today showed a preliminary reading of 48.8
for January. The dividing line between contraction and expansion
is 50.  Orange-juice futures climbed the exchange limit 10 cents,
or 5 percent, to a record $2.1065 a pound as disease threatened
crops in  Texas  and the U.S. halted imports during a probe into a
banned fungicide.  European Shares  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.3 percent, reducing
this week’s gain to 2.7 percent. Cie. de Saint-Gobain, Europe’s
largest building-materials supplier, led construction shares
lower, falling 2 percent. BP Plc paced losses in oil and gas
shares. National Bank of  Greece  SA rose for an eighth day,
extending its advance to 44 percent, as talks between Greek
officials and private creditors continued.  The Stoxx 600’s 14-day  relative strength index , which
tracks momentum by comparing closing prices with daily trading
ranges, rose to 70.47 yesterday. When the RSI climbs above 70,
some technical analysts say the underlying security is likely to
fall.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.4 percent and is up
almost 9 percent in 2012, its best start to a year since 2001.
Benchmark gauges in China,  South Korea ,  Hungary  and the  Czech
Republic  climbed at least 1 percent today.  The euro slipped 0.4 percent against the yen.  Greece and its private creditors closed in on a debt swap
accord that’s crucial to lowering the country’s borrowings and
freeing up a second round of international aid.  “There’s been significant progress,” Hans Humes,
president of Greylock Capital Management and a member of the
creditor committee negotiating the deal with the government,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “There’s broad
agreement about the coupons and structural elements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  