-- AstraZeneca May Rethink Aversion to Big Deals After Setbacks
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-01-20T16:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/astrazeneca-may-rethink-aversion-to-big-deals.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZ) ’s pledge to avoid
big acquisitions may be tested after setbacks for three of the
company’s most promising drugs in development.  Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan  hasn’t announced an
acquisition of more than $1 billion since buying MedImmune Inc.
in 2007 for about $15.2 billion, and the company says it’s not
looking for another deal of that size.  Analysts at Credit Suisse AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. have
said AstraZeneca may undertake a bigger takeover to replace
revenue that will be lost to generic competition. With the
failure or delay in the past month of experimental drugs for
diabetes, ovarian cancer and severe depression, the risk is
increasing, said Credit Suisse’s Luisa Hector.  “They are gradually running out of options,” she said by
telephone yesterday. Hector, who rates the stock
“underperform,” declined to speculate on which companies may
be a target or how much AstraZeneca might spend on an
acquisition.  AstraZeneca fell 1.3 percent yesterday to close at 3,070
pence in  London . The stock sells for 6.6 times estimated 2011
profit. That’s the lowest among the world’s 10 biggest
drugmakers, reflecting investor skepticism about the company’s
earnings prospects.  AstraZeneca’s second-best-selling drug, Seroquel for
schizophrenia, loses U.S. patent protection in March, while the
patent on Nexium for ulcers, the third-biggest seller, expires
in 2014. The two probably generated $5.6 billion and $4.5
billion in sales last year, respectively, based on the average
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Increased Competition  Crestor, its top seller with $6.6 billion in estimated 2011
sales, faced increased competition from a copy of Pfizer Inc.’s
Lipitor in November. AstraZeneca declined to make an executive
available for an interview.  “We continue to believe in our focus on innovation, both
home grown and, increasingly, by accessing the best of external
science through partnering, collaborations and in-licensing,”
Abigail Baron, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail yesterday. “In
terms of acquisitions, we’ve said all along that we are not
looking for scale but would consider small, bolt-on acquisitions
so long as there is a good strategic fit and an opportunity to
add value to the pipeline.”  AstraZeneca is interested in partnering in areas in which
it already has drugs, such as neuroscience, gastrointestinal
illnesses, oncology and diabetes, as well as new areas such as
women’s health and wound healing, the company said in a
presentation last week at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference.  Cash Holdings  AstraZeneca bid last year to buy Enobia Pharma Corp., a
maker of experimental treatments for genetic metabolic
disorders, a person with knowledge of the sale said. The person
declined to be identified because the process was private. The
offer signals an attempt to move into new therapeutic areas, the
person said. Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. won the bidding for
Montreal-based Enobia and will pay as much as $1.08 billion for
the company.  Esra Erkal-Paler, an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said the
company doesn’t comment on rumors. The company is “increasingly
active” in looking for opportunities that fit with its existing
business, and it’s looking at new opportunities as well, she
said in an e-mail.  As of Sept. 30, AstraZeneca had $9.9 billion in cash on the
 balance sheet . Some investors and analysts said the company
overpaid for MedImmune and didn’t get enough out of the
purchase.  ‘Questionable Acquisition’  “Given AstraZeneca’s questionable acquisition of MedImmune
in 2007, investors are rightly very sensitive over how the
company deploys its excess cash,”  Justin Smith , an analyst at
Oriel Securities Ltd., said in a Jan. 9 note. He said he doesn’t
expect a big acquisition.  AstraZeneca so far has been devoting cash to buying back
shares and increasing the dividend. The company’s $5 billion
share buyback last year was its biggest ever. AstraZeneca
probably will announce another $3 billion of repurchases this
year, Alexandra Hauber, a JPMorgan analyst, said in a note to
investors on Jan. 5. An “underwhelming” buyback of about $2
billion “may increase deal risk concerns,” she wrote. She cut
the stock to “underweight.”  ‘Decade-Long’ Decline  “With the prospect of a potentially decade-long decline in
operating profit, management may resort to a sizable
acquisition,” Hauber wrote. “Even an earnings-accretive
transaction may not be appreciated by investors who may prefer
buybacks.”  The  Food and Drug Administration  wants more information on
the diabetes treatment dapagliflozin, and may require new
clinical trials, AstraZeneca and partner Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. said yesterday.  Last month AstraZeneca terminated development of olaparib
for ovarian cancer and ended a late-stage study of TC-5214 for
severe depression. If the company is asked to conduct another
large trial for dapagliflozin, the company may decide against
pursuing it, Mark Belsey, an analyst with WestLB, said in an
interview.  Given its cash holdings, AstraZeneca could make small to
mid-sized acquisitions without losing its AA-  credit rating ,
Britta Holt, a director on the corporate team at Fitch Ratings
Ltd., said in a telephone interview. Buying a few pipeline
products won’t be enough to compensate for the sales decline
that starts this year, she said.  “The expiry is putting a lot of pressure on AstraZeneca’s
pipeline and it may be tempting for the company to fill the
upcoming sales gaps with the help of medium-sized to larger
acquisitions and to lose the AA- rating,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 