-- Australia Unemployment May Hit 9-Year High
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-20T04:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/australia-unemployment-may-hit-9-year-high-bofa.html
Australia ’s  unemployment rate  may
rise to a nine-year high in 2012, as weak consumer spending
outweighs mining and energy investment, an economist in Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division said.  Gross domestic product will probably grow 3.25 percent this
year, up from an estimated 1.75 percent expansion in 2011, Saul Eslake, chief economist for Australia at Merrill in Sydney, said
in a report released today. The jobless rate may reach 6 percent
by year end, from 5.2 percent last month, he said. That would be
the highest level since July 2003.  Reflecting Australia’s so-called two-speed economy, retail,
manufacturing and tourism industries may struggle while
exporters of  iron ore , coal and natural gas propel GDP, he said.
The  Reserve Bank  will cut  interest rates  to help parts of the
economy not benefiting from the mining boom, Eslake said.  “Outside of the resources sector and those areas dependent
on it, it won’t feel like the economy is growing anything like
3.25 percent,” the report showed.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut rates at back-to-back
meetings for the first time since 2009 as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis weakens prospects for global growth. Investors are
pricing in an 80 percent chance he will lower borrowing costs by
a quarter percentage point to 4 percent at the next meeting on
Feb. 7, a Credit Suisse Group AG Index showed.  More Easing  “Mainly in response to the prospect of rising
unemployment, we believe the RBA will cut rates by 50 basis
points over the first half of this year,” Eslake said in the
report. “In response, and also driven by shifting external
influences, we expect the Australian dollar to fall back under
parity.”  Australia’s currency has dropped 6.1 percent since reaching
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983. The local dollar traded at $1.0406 at 3:40 p.m.
today in Sydney.  He predicted the nation’s currency will see a “material
sell-off” in the second quarter, weakening to as low as 94 U.S.
cents. “We expect this sell-off to be driven by an
intensification of euro-area worries and spillover risks,” the
report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  