-- Doctors Closer to Overhauling Autism Diagnosis Rules
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-20T13:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/autism-experts-moving-closer-to-overhauling-diagnosis-rules-after-studies.html
The  American Psychiatric Association 
is moving a step closer to overhauling the criteria for
diagnosing autism after two just-completed field studies found
the new definition won’t exclude patients who need treatment.  The change, to be included in a manual used by doctors, is
designed to help them better identify the disorder by including
several closely related conditions under the autism mantle, and
by making symptoms more precise. Disease advocates have said
they’re concerned the change may improperly reduce the number of
children diagnosed, limiting access to  health services .  One of the field trials showed a 1 percentage-point rise in
diagnosis rates under the new criteria and the other showed a
drop of 4 or 5 percentage points, said  Darrel Regier , the
association’s director of research. The trials were done in the
last year at Baystate Medical Center in Springfield,
 Massachusetts , and  Stanford University  in  Palo Alto ,  California .  “There was concern that by tightening the criteria we
would drop the bottom out from people with previously diagnosed
autism,” said Regier, who is also vice chairman of the task
force weighing the new guidelines. “We don’t think that’s
likely to happen, based on our assessment.”  The psychiatric association, based in Arlington,  Virginia ,
is scheduled in May 2013 to publish its fifth edition of the
 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,  the
definitive resource used by doctors to diagnose, study and treat
illnesses. The autism change, first proposed in February, 2010,
would be included in that edition, if it is approved.  Social Impairments  Autism now includes a range of complex disorders
characterized by social impairment, communication difficulties,
and restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, according to
the  National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland . About
six children in 1,000 will have autism, the NIH said.  The field trials involved about 600 people with several
closely related conditions, Regier said in a telephone
interview. He declined to give precise results from the tests
because the findings haven’t been presented in public or
published in a medical journal.  The latest research counters a study reported yesterday at
a medical meeting in Iceland that found the proposal may exclude
many patients. Investigators from the Yale School of Medicine in
 New Haven ,  Connecticut , analyzed data collected in the early
1990s, almost 20 years ago, from trials conducted when the last
diagnostic manual was released.  High-Functioning Patients  Using information from several hundred high-functioning
people with autism spectrum disorders, they found that about
half would no longer meet the criteria under the new definition
being considered, said  James McPartland , director of the Yale
Developmental Disabilities Clinic in New Haven, Connecticut, and
a researcher in the study.  “The implications of the study is that there is going to
be a change in who receives a diagnosis,” McPartland said by
telephone. “All this is very preliminary. This is a piece of
information to be considered as the  task force  moves toward a
finalization of the criteria.”  The new guidelines are designed make the diagnostic
criteria clearer and more consistent for autism disorders. While
there are several terms now that describe related conditions,
including autism, Asperger syndrome and childhood disintegrative
disorder, they have overlapping characteristics and it is often
difficult for clinicians to tell them apart.  Six Conditions  The new designation folds in six existing individual
conditions and places them on a scale, called autism spectrum
disorders. The description is more precise about what
constitutes the symptoms, said  Catherine Lord , director of the
Institute for Brain Development at New York-Presbyterian
Hospital in New York.  “The intention isn’t to exclude people who meet the
criteria for any of the conditions,” said Lord, who is also on
the task force considering the change, in a telephone interview.
“It’s just to be sure we aren’t including everyone who has any
kind of behavior problem.”  The old approach focused on meeting six broad behavioral
criteria. The new proposal breaks the guideposts down into two
distinct areas, communication and repetitive behavior.  Under communication, autistic people are those who will
have trouble with relationships, non-verbal communication such
as making eye contact or using gestures, and with social
reciprocity, such as taking turns or holding a conversation.
They must exhibit symptoms in each of these areas to be
diagnosed under the new plan.  Behavioral Concerns  With behavior, patients may have to meet only two of the
criteria among actions such as having limited interests, getting
stuck on repetitive activities, having strong or muted responses
to sensory stimulation like sound and taste, or developing
rituals. The behaviors may have been in the past.  “The new criteria are somewhat stricter,” said  Geraldine
Dawson , chief science officer of Autism Speaks, an advocacy
group based in  New York . “There are a group of people who
previously had Asperger Syndrome or high-functioning autism who
are now no longer meeting the criteria.”  The issue isn’t semantic, Dawson said in a telephone
interview. Patients need to be diagnosed to get access to
treatment such a behavioral intervention, social skills training
and support services, she said.  “From the scientific side, the changes make a lot of
sense,” she said. “It’s a question of how this might impact
services. We need to think through the implications for a well-
reasoned change or the real people who are in the real world
trying to obtain the services they need.”  The important next step, Dawson said, is to collect “very
careful data on that and see what changes need to be implemented
in how we qualify people for the services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 