-- Bacon’s Nude Model May Fetch $30 Million as Owner Tests Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-01-20T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/bacon-s-naked-model-sprawled-over-bed-may-fetch-30-million-at-christie-s.html
A 1963 female nude by  Francis Bacon 
may raise as much as $30 million at an auction next month.  Bacon’s sexually charged “Portrait of Henrietta Moraes,”
showing one of his favorite models sprawled across a bed, has a
formally undisclosed estimate of about 18 million pounds at
 Christie’s International (CHRS)  in its Feb. 14.  London  sale.  The painting’s owner, an unidentified  New York  collector,
is testing the market for high-value contemporary works. Bacon
is the U.K.’s most expensive artist at auction. The portrait has
never appeared at public sale before and has no guaranteed
minimum price, said Christie’s. It dates from the year that the
painter embarked on his relationship with George Dyer.  “Bacon’s lack of personal erotic interest in naked females
did nothing to prevent these paintings from being as passionate
as those of the male bodies that obsessed him,” said David
Sylvester, a U.K.-based art critic, who interviewed the artist
in the 1960s and 1970s.  Moraes was a close friend of Bacon’s during the 1950s and
1960s. Like Bacon and  Lucian Freud , she was a regular visitor to
the Colony Club Room in Soho. She battled drink and drug
addictions, had many lovers, once shared an apartment with
singer Marianne Faithfull and was sent to prison after an
unsuccessful attempt to become a cat burglar. She appears in a
number of paintings using photos taken of her by John Deakin.  Full Length  Her full-length portrait was done by Bacon about the time
of his first major exhibition in the U.S., held at the Solomon
R. Guggenheim Museum, New York. The work has only had two
owners. It was first part of the collection formed by the German
industrialist Willy Schniewind, then acquired by the current
seller in 1983, said Christie’s.  A 1976 Bacon “Triptych” sold for $86.3 million at  Sotheby’s (BID) 
New York, in May 2008, a record for the artist at auction.  Roman Abramovich  was the buyer, dealers said. Though demand slumped in
the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
prices have since recovered. The artist’s 1964 painting “Three
Studies for a Portrait of Lucian Freud” was sold at Sotheby’s
last February for 23 million pounds ($37 million), the highest
price achieved for a contemporary work in London in 2011.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 