-- Banks May Choose to Spurn State Bailouts to Meet EU Capital Requirements
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-01-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/banks-may-opt-to-spurn-state-bailouts-to-meet-eu-capital-targets.html
Banks (BEBANKS)  may choose to hold on to
profits and recalculate risks on loan books rather than take
state cash to meet extra capital requirements designed to make
them withstand  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Lenders have until the end of today to tell national
regulators how they plan to meet the capital targets, which will
then be discussed by the  European Banking Authority , the agency
that drew up the rules, at meetings with supervisors in London
on Feb. 8-9, the EBA said.  “Banks want to be autonomous from governments and they
value this higher than some business lines,” Nicolas Veron, a
senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics research
group, said in a telephone interview. “At this point, however,
no option is attractive. That’s why we see the turmoil in the
banking sector.”  Shares in  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-largest lender,
rose 15 percent yesterday after the bank said it’s more than
halfway toward its capital goal without resorting to  government
aid . Analysts at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. said on Jan. 10
they would “struggle to see how” the bank could meet the 5.3
billion-euro ($6.9 billion) requirement without state aid.  The EBA told banks last month to raise 114.7 billion euros
in fresh capital by the end of June as part of measures
introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes. Lenders
should look to bolster reserves by cutting bonuses, retaining
earnings or issuing shares, it said. Commerzbank said it had
fulfilled 57 percent of its EBA requirement by the end of 2011
through retained earnings of 1.2 billion euros and reducing
risk-weighted assets.  Spanish Shortfall  Spanish lenders must raise 26.2 billion euros in core Tier
1 capital, the  EBA  said in December, more than any other
European country.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest bank, was
required to plug a 15.3 billion-euro shortfall.  The bank said Jan. 9 it had met EBA’s requirements as it
sold stakes in South American lenders, issued new stock in
exchange for preferred shares and paid dividends in shares. The
bank is also counting 6.83 billion euros of bonds sold to retail
customers that automatically convert into shares.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, will “comfortably achieve” its goal using retained
earnings and adjusting risk weights, Chief Financial Officer
Manuel Gonzalez Cid said in a presentation in  Madrid  on Jan. 11.  Discounted Prices  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank, sought buyers for new
shares at a discounted price of 1.943 euros apiece on Jan. 4 as
part of its capital raising plans. Shares in the lender sank to
a 23-year low of 2.286 euros in the days following the
announcement.  No more Italian banks will propose a share sale to plug
their capital shortfalls,  Giuseppe Mussari , chairman of  Italy’s
Banking Association , said on Jan. 18.  Bank  capital requirements  are usually given as a ratio of
their reserves compared with loans weighted according to their
riskiness. That means lenders can boost their  capital ratios  by
cutting risk-weighted assets.  The EBA has said it would only approve asset sales that
“do not lead to a reduced flow of lending” to the European
Union’s “real economy.”  The EBA may eventually loosen requirements to hold reserves
against certain sovereign bonds, Huw Van Steenis, a  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  analyst, said in a research note yesterday. The EBA may
signal “a possible relaxation of the sovereign mark-to-market
haircut,” according to the note.  The need “to maintain the buffer, and its size, will be
reviewed if and when the policy measures to fight the sovereign-
debt crisis have an effect on the price of  government bonds ,”
Andrea Enria, the EBA’s chairman, said in a speech earlier this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  