-- Buffett Energy Firm To Buy Illinois Project in Wind Bet
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-20T14:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/berkshire-to-buy-invenergy-wind-project-to-expand-in-illinois.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s energy
business agreed to buy an 81-megawatt wind-power project from
Invenergy Wind LLC to expand production in Illinois.  The Bishop Hill II project, which is in construction, will
use 50  General Electric Co. (GE)  1.62-megawatt turbines, according to
a statement today from Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s
 MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. (329802Q)   Berkshire, led by billionaire  Warren Buffett , has been
expanding renewable production at the energy unit, which also
produces power with coal and natural gas. MidAmerican has
invested about $6 billion in wind generation and built or
acquired more than 3,300 megawatts of the renewable energy
source in states including Iowa, Wyoming,  Washington  and Oregon
since 2004. Last month, the energy unit agreed to buy the $2
billion Topaz solar project in California from First Solar Inc.  Wind “meets current and future energy needs in an
environmentally efficient and cost-effective manner,”
MidAmerican Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Abel in
the statement.  The Bishop Hill II wind project is near the town of Galva,
about 40 miles (64 kilometers) northwest of Peoria, Illinois,
according to the statement. The project is expected to be in
commercial operation in the fourth quarter. A unit of  Ameren
Corp. (AEE)  in Illinois has agreed to buy electricity from the project
under a 20-year power-purchase agreement. Terms of the Invenergy
deal weren’t disclosed.  MidAmerican also agreed last month to buy a 49 percent
stake in NRG Energy Inc.’s $1.8 billion Agua Caliente solar
project being built in Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  