-- Biogen, Elan Win U.S. FDA Approval of Tysabri Label Change to Target Use
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-20T23:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/biogen-elan-win-u-s-fda-approval-of-tysabri-label-change-to-target-use.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  won
U.S. clearance to modify the label of their multiple-sclerosis
shot Tysabri with new safety information that may double the
treatment’s worldwide sales.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the revision that
will help doctors identify patients with the highest and lowest
risks of developing deadly brain infections linked to the drug,
the agency said today in a statement.  The label change may push Tysabri’s global sales to $2.5
billion to $3 billion by 2016,  Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , said yesterday in an interview
yesterday. Without the modification, sales may have reached $1.5
billion to $2 billion that year, Yee said. Biogen and Dublin-
based Elan split the drug’s revenue.  “Tysabri has benefited thousands of patients worldwide who
are living with multiple sclerosis,” George Scangos, chief
executive officer of Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen, said in
a statement. “Research and scientific expertise has allowed us
to gain a better understanding of the benefit-risk profile for
Tysabri.”  Tysabri increases the risk of progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy, or PML, a viral infection in the brain that
usually leads to death or severe disability, according to a
boxed warning the drug’s label has carried since 2006.  New Label  The new label will retain the boxed warning, the FDA’s
strictest caution, while adding a notification that patients who
have antibodies against the JC virus are more likely to develop
PML while taking Tysabri than people who don’t have the
antibodies. Biogen developed a blood test known as a JCV assay
to determine whether a person has the antibodies.  “The revision of the Tysabri label to include the use of
the JCV assay as a risk-stratification tool is important for
doctors and patients because it allows Tysabri to be most
efficiently used in the safest group of patients,” Yee said.  The European Commission approved the label change in June,
and the JCV test has been widely used by doctors in  Europe  since
then, he said. The test, also approved today by the FDA, will be
offered exclusively in the U.S. by  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX) , the
Madison, New Jersey-based company said in a statement.  About 400,000 people in the U.S. and 2.1 million worldwide
have MS, according to the New York-based  National Multiple
Sclerosis Society . Common symptoms include numbness, loss of
vision and mobility, and cognitive dysfunction.  Risk Factors  Data collected by the companies shows a patient who tests
negative for the antibodies may have 1 chance in 10,000 of
developing PML while taking the drug, Yee said. Without the use
of the JCV test, patients are estimated to have a 1.5 in 1,000
risk of developing the brain illness after two years of
treatment, according to the drug’s label.  As of February 2011, 102 cases of PML had been reported
among 82,732 patients treated with Tysabri worldwide, the FDA
said April 22 in its most recent  safety update  on the drug.  Tysabri won FDA approval in 2004 for multiple sclerosis, a
neurological disorder that causes a person’s immune system to
attack healthy nerve cells.  The risk of PML emerged after Biogen and Elan began
marketing Tysabri, leading to the suspension of sales in
February 2005. The drug returned to the market in June 2006 with
a risk management program for patients who didn’t benefit from
rival medicines after research showed it was twice as effective
as other MS treatments.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone,  Merck
KGaA (MRK) ’s Rebif and  Bayer AG’s (BAYN)  Betaseron are among injectible MS
treatments that compete with Tysabri.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya,
approved by the FDA in 2010, is the first pill to treat the
condition. MS drugs generally must be taken throughout a
patient’s life to reduce flare-ups and delay disability.  The worldwide market for MS drugs, now $10 billion to $11
billion, may grow to $15 billion in 2016, Yee said. Tysabri’s
share of the market, now about 10 percent to 13 percent, may
grow to 20 percent that year with the revised label, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  