-- Biotechnology Funding Hits 4-Year High While Startups Seek New Investments
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-20T21:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/biotechnology-funding-hits-4-year-high-as-startups-suffer.html
Venture capital investment in
biotechnology increased 22 percent last year, while the number
of those receiving their first funding declined.  Funding for medical-device and equipment companies also
rose 20 percent, with first-time funding falling to a 16-year
low, the  National Venture Capital Association  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC said today in a report.  “Life sciences VCs are increasingly focusing on later-
stage opportunities that carry less risk, from a clinical and
regulatory perspective,” said Jonathan Leff, a managing
director at the New York-based venture-capital firm Warburg
Pincus LLC, on a conference call yesterday. “This reflects a
serious breakdown in the model that has fueled the U.S.
leadership in life sciences innovation.”  Venture firms spent $4.73 billion on 446 biotechnology
companies in 2011, the highest dollar amount since 2007, and
$2.81 billion on 339 medical device and equipment makers. About
153 life sciences companies -- a category that combines
biotechnology and medical devices -- received their first round
of funding last year, the lowest since 1996.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved 30 new drugs in
2011, a 43 percent increase from the year before, and the most
since 36 were cleared in 2004. Of those, 15 won expedited
approval as “priority” drugs, for therapies that may provide
major advances in treatment, and 13 were developed in part with
venture capital funding, Leff said.  Current View  The approvals “cannot be seen as a reflection of the
health of life-sciences venture-capital investing today,” Leff
said, because most of the drug therapies had been in development
for a decade or more. The current decline in early stage funding
will be seen a decade from now, he said.  “It will inevitably show up in future years as fewer new
innovative drugs and medical devices come to market,” Leff
said.  Last year’s biggest deal across all sectors was a $300
million investment in Irving, Texas-based Reata Pharmaceuticals
Inc., a developer of experimental anti-inflammatory drugs, by an
undisclosed firm, according to the report.  About 42 percent of venture capitalists surveyed last month
expect fewer life sciences companies to sell shares to the
public for the first time this year, compared with 18 percent
who expect more initial public offerings in the industry,
according to the venture capital group. In terms of funding, 58
percent expect U.S. investments in biopharma will decrease in
2012, with 7 percent estimating an increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  