-- Deadly Bird Flu Research to Be Paused Over Concern About Risks
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-20T21:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/bird-flu-scientists-pause-to-weigh-risks-after-creating-more-lethal-strain.html
Researchers creating a more lethal
strain of bird flu said in a letter they will pause for 60 days
to discuss the risks of releasing their findings.  The scientists engineered genetic changes to make a strain
known as H5N1 more contagious among ferrets. The information,
which may aid scientists combating a more lethal virus in
humans, could be dangerous if it falls into the wrong hands, a
U.S. biosecurity panel has said.  “We realize that organizations and governments around the
world need time to find the best solutions for opportunities and
challenges that stem from the work,” the 39 scientists said in
an  letter  announcing their decision in the journals  Science  and
Nature.  The researchers led by Ron Fouchief of the Erasmus Medical
Center in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, were asked last month to
censor details of their work that may allow people to make the
more lethal strain by the  National Science Advisory Board for
Biosecurity .  Avian flu is a serious public health concern with the
potential to cause a deadly pandemic, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. Since 2003, more
than 500 people have been infected with H5N1 in more than a
dozen countries. About 60 percent have died.  Most cases have resulted from people having direct or close
contact with infected poultry, according to the agency. The
virus has been found in  Asia ,  Africa ,  Europe ,  Indonesia  and
 Egypt , according to the CDC. The U.S. in 2004 issued a ban on
poultry from affected countries.  “Despite the positive public-health benefits these studies
sought to provide, a perceived fear that the ferret-
transmissible H5 HA viruses may escape from the laboratories has
generated intense public debate in the media on the benefits and
potential harm of this type of research,” the scientists said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  