-- Boeing to Pay U.S. $4.4 Million to End Chinook Billing Case
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-20T19:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/boeing-to-pay-u-s-4-4-million-to-end-chinook-billing-dispute.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , the second-largest
defense contractor, agreed to pay the U.S. $4.4 million to
resolve allegations that it overbilled the government for work
on Chinook military helicopters.  The settlement requires Boeing to retrain its employees and
make improvements to software it uses to track its billing,
Philadelphia U.S. Attorney Zane Memeger said today in a
statement. A whistle-blower lawsuit alerted the government to
the issue, according to the statement.  “Some of the most important cases begin with a citizen who
sees something wrong and speaks up,” Memeger said in the
statement. “Whistle-blowers who notify the government of
possible fraud allow us both to correct that specific problem
and to prevent similar misconduct from recurring in the
future.”  The U.S.  Justice Department  awarded Boeing a contract in
2003 to produce and modify new Chinook helicopters as part of
the Army’s effort to modernize its fleet. More than 100 Chinooks
were ordered.  A government probe revealed that Boeing managers instructed
mechanics to perform non-billable work while separately billing
the U.S. for their time resulting in the government being
charged for work for which it had already paid, according to the
statement.  Damien Mills, a spokesman at Boeing’s Chinook plant in
Ridley Park, Pennsylvania, said the company cooperated fully
with the government’s investigation.  “As the investigation revealed, this is a matter of
inadequate charging discipline in the past, not of any
deliberate wrongdoing,” Mills said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. The Boeing Co., 10-cv-00634, U.S.
District Court Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  