-- Bonds Show Crisis Return When ECB Loans Expire
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-01-20T12:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/bonds-show-return-of-crisis-once-ecb-loans-expire-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s unlimited three-year loans to euro-region banks
may give Italy and Spain only temporary respite from the
region’s debt crisis.  Two-year Italian and Spanish notes rallied since the ECB
said Dec. 8 that it planned to offer as much liquidity as banks
wanted in exchange for eligible collateral. The gain on the
short end of the market outpaced longer-dated debt on concern
the nations’ austerity plans won’t plug deficits and reduce
 Europe ’s largest debt load. Yields on Italian two-year notes
fell to the least relative to 10-year bonds in 21 months.  “This is about buying time,” said  John Davies , a fixed-
income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “It’s only when the
market believes  Italy  and Spain have returned to sustainable
debt levels that you can say the crisis has truly ended.”  Investor demand at sales of government bills and short-term
debt has increased across the euro region since the ECB injected
489 billion euros ($632 billion) of three-year loans into the
financial system on Dec. 21. The loans were offered at the
 benchmark rate , currently 1 percent, enabling financial
institutions to profit by lending the cash at higher rates,
including to governments. The banks that borrowed the cash may
also use the funds to finance their own maturing debt.  Yield Plunge  Rates on two-year Spanish notes  dropped  to as low as 2.80
percent on Jan. 13, the least since November 2010, from a euro-
era record of 6.12 percent on Nov. 25. The declines widened the
 difference in yield  between two-year notes and 10-year bonds to
223 basis points on Jan. 11, the most since March, based on
closing-market rates. The yield spread was 206 basis points, or
2.06 percentage points, at 12:32 p.m.  London  time, compared with
an average over the past five years of 142 basis points.  Italian and Spanish notes rallied on Jan. 12 after
borrowing costs for both nations declined at auctions of short-
dated debt. Italy sold 12-month bills at a yield of 2.735
percent, down from 5.952 percent at the previous auction. Spain
sold a new benchmark three-year note at an average yield of
3.384 percent, down from 5.187 percent at an offering of
similar-maturity securities on Dec. 1.  “For the time being, the ECB’s operations are working at
the short end, but for the long end, we have a lot of
uncertainties around,” said Frankfurt-based Werner Fey, a  fund
manager  at Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees the
equivalent of 6.5 billion euros of fixed-income assets.  While Fey said he’s more likely to buy Spanish and Italian
paper now, “the government problems for the euro-sovereigns are
unresolved and so we are still on the cautious side. We have an
underweight bias on the longer-term maturities,” he said.  ECB Buying  Even after the first three-year loan operation, the ECB has
been buying bonds, using its Securities Market  Program (ECBCSMPW)  to keep a
lid on yields. It settled 3.77 billion euros of bond purchases
in the week ended Jan. 13, up from 1.1 billion euros the
previous week.  Spain’s  10-year bonds  slid yesterday after the debt agency
agreed to sell more than its target amount of securities due
between 2016 and 2022, amid speculation the government is
rushing to raise money should it miss deficit targets.  Spain  has
completed 19 percent of its gross funding needs for the year, up
from 9 percent at the same time in 2011, according to Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  The Spanish government said Dec. 30 that its 2011 deficit
would reach 8 percent of gross domestic product, exceeding the
European Union’s 6.6 percent forecast, after growth stalled.
While Italy’s deficit was likely to shrink last year to 4
percent from 4.6 percent a year earlier, according to the EU’s
projections, its debt load, estimated at 120.5 percent of GDP
last year, is almost double the 69.6 percent forecast for Spain.  Contracting Economy  Bringing down yields beyond the period covered by ECB loans
may only be possible with evidence that nations are successfully
implementing measures needed to both control spending and ensure
growth, WestLB’s Davies said.  The ECB loan does “nothing to bring down debt levels, it’s
a liquidity measure to try to buy time to manage the solvency
issue,” he said.  Plans to trim spending and curb deficits risk falling short
as the euro-region economy contracts. The 17-nation region is
forecast to shrink 0.2 percent this year, while the  U.S. economy 
will probably expand 2.3 percent and the U.K. economy will grow
0.6 percent, Bloomberg surveys show.  While Italy’s government is basing its budget program on a
worse-case scenario for a 0.4 percent to 0.5 percent contraction
in GDP this year, the  Bank of Italy  said Jan. 17 that the
economy may contract as much as 1.5 percent.  Austerity Skepticism  “Confidence won’t be restored if growth is falling,”
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said on Jan. 18.
“Austerity on its own won’t bring growth.”  The need to promote an expansion may keep the pressure on
the central bank as it prepares for a second offering of three-
year loans next month.  “I see no short-term solutions to the sovereign crisis, so
the ECB must buy time for the governments to work on their
consolidation,” said Frankfurt Trust’s Fey. “The ECB will
continue to expand its balance sheet. They will probably have to
step in and support the long-end of the curve too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  