-- Boston’s Oddball Art Palace Gets Cool New Wing by Piano: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/boston-s-oddball-art-palace-gets-cool-new-wing-by-piano-review.html
A youth presents a dead hare to a
trio of elegantly dressed noblemen who appear to be dancing.
Sleek hounds bound across a bucolic landscape.  That is just a fragment of a deliriously beautiful
monumental 16th-century  tapestry  that hangs in the  Isabella
Stewart Gardner Museum  in Boston.  For years, bad lighting and stacked chairs used for
recitals have obscured the bunny. Now it’s visible thanks to the
just-opened $114-million addition.  Designed by  Renzo Piano , the extra space injects some air
into a beloved jam-packed museum (housing around 5,000 objects)
in which Raphaels and Rubens share space with eclectic
furnishings, textiles and bibelots.  The recitals have moved to a new room in the addition, and
the relit Tapestry Room hangings reveal the splendor of a wood-
beamed salon. It’s big enough to allow a platoon of medieval
knights to lounge in front of its massive carved stone
fireplace.  Director  Anne Hawley  has banished a cramped entrance, a
gloomy cafe, and a too-tiny bookstore to the new addition. Her
staff has quietly burnished and relit the loopy fantasy settings
Gardner assembled in her faux Venetian palace.  The galleries wrap a sky-lit garden courtyard where
feathery palms and lurid orchids run rampant.  Flamboyance  Gardner’s theatricality remains just as she left it,
because her will decreed that no curator’s vision should
supersede her own. She traveled extensively and cultivated the
company of artists and intellectuals snubbed by insular  Boston 
society, including  Henry James  and Bernard Berenson, who helped
guide her voracious collecting.  Many locals thought Hawley should not tamper with an
institution shaped by such a flamboyant personality, but
fortunately this is one of the architect’s better designs,
executed with sensitivity and delicacy.  Piano prudently set the addition 50 feet to the north of
the 1903 brick farrago concocted by Willard Sears. He contrasts
the introversion of the masonry palace with a suite of inviting,
outward-looking glass-enclosed rooms. A cubic volume faced in
rippling panels of copper pre-oxidized green surmounts the lobby
level. It contains a three-story-high temporary gallery and the
new recital hall.  Piano shifted the entrance to his new structure from the
cramped original doorway facing the park-like Fenway.  Gardens  I entered the light-filled ground floor that includes the
lobby, a cafe, and the Living Room, a comfortable lounge for
meeting and reading.  Piano deftly weaves Gardner’s outdoor gardens into this
sequence of rooms. A sloped-glass greenhouse puts the source of
the courtyard’s greenery on display.  As you look from one room to another, reflections multiply
as the planes of glass gently veil the movement of visitors --an
elegant, calming effect.  An almost invisible hallway that’s walled and roofed with
glass now links new to old under a canopy of trees, culminating
in the columned perimeter of the courtyard garden.  The new entry aids security as well. In one of America’s
most brazen art thefts, more than a dozen works were stolen from
the Gardner in 1990, including three Rembrandts and a Vermeer.
None have been recovered.  Gardner hosted concerts from the day the museum opened, and
Piano twinned his new gallery with a tall, 300-seat recital
hall, both accessed by a stair of glass and metal fittings,
suspended by skinny metal rods.  Two Eccentrics  The hall abandons convention. Instead of a stage, there’s a
flat-floor room that places performers in the center. Three
shallow seating tiers run up the walls, topped by a skylight.
Listeners are very close to performers, but the room impairs
sightlines. I was reminded of a wood-walled surgical operating
theater.  Of course, Piano’s idiosyncrasy is nothing compared to
Gardner’s, but he deploys his familiar kit of industrial-styled
parts to enhance the beloved intimacy of the original.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 