-- Brazil’s Attempt to Aid Small Banks Said to Bolster Foreign Subsidiaries
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-01-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/brazil-s-effort-to-aid-small-banks-said-to-bolster-foreign-units.html
Brazil ’s effort to prop up small
banks may instead steer financing to international companies’
local subsidiaries, two people familiar with the matter said.  Rules that take effect Feb. 24 let large Brazilian banks
use part of their central-bank reserve requirements to buy
credit portfolios and bonds from lenders with capital below 2.2
billion reais ($1.1 billion). Of the 30 billion reais in
financial-system injections the central bank projects will
result, as little as 10 percent may go to local banks, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.  Brazil’s biggest lenders can continue avoiding credit risks
from smaller rivals by using the freed-up funds to buy bonds
from international companies’ subsidiaries that also have
capital below 2.2 billion reais, the people said.  The new rules are intended to be a lifeline to small banks
facing a funding squeeze since Brazil’s deposit fund stepped in
to facilitate the 2010 bailout of Banco Panamericano SA. Victims
have included Rio de Janeiro-based Banco Morada SA, which the
central bank ordered liquidated last year after the company
couldn’t comply with capital requirements. At the same time,
President Dilma Rousseff is trying to expand credit to reignite
economic growth that stalled in the third quarter.  “The international crisis, Panamericano and Morada cases
have dried up the market for credit portfolios, leaving some of
these banks in a difficult situation,” Roberto Padovani, chief
economist at brokerage firm Votorantim Corretora SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in an interview last month.  Goldman Sachs, Mercedes  Companies that met the 2.2 billion-reais capital threshold
as of September include Brazilian units of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in the U.S.; Germany’s Volkswagen
Bank, Mercedes-Benz Bank AG and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and Paris-
based  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  A central bank spokesman confirmed that the new rules
wouldn’t prevent investments in foreign companies’ subsidiaries.
He declined to be named in keeping with official policy.  Foreign-bank subsidiaries may see their borrowing costs
decline below the country’s benchmark rate of 10.5 percent as a
result of the new policy while the intended beneficiaries,
Brazil’s small local lenders, remain without enough liquidity,
the people said.  Starting Feb. 24, the central bank will no longer pay
interest on 27 percent of funds that banks are required to hold
at the monetary authority as  reserve requirements  for  time
deposits . That threshold will gradually rise to 36 percent
starting April 27. Currently, such reserve requirements pay
interest at the country’s benchmark rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  