-- Broadbent Says BOE Sees Flat Growth Through First Quarter
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-20T09:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/broadbent-says-boe-sees-flat-growth-through-first-quarter.html
The  Bank of England  will maintain a
forecast for no growth over the fourth and first quarters,
policy maker Ben Broadbent told Market News International in an
interview.  The forecast in November that “output across Q4 and Q1
would be broadly flat is not going to change,” he said. His
comments were confirmed by the Bank of England in London today.
The Monetary Policy Committee will publish new projections next
month.  “It is clear that the economy is broadly flat and
therefore growing less than its potential rate and that
therefore -- somehow measured and broadly speaking -- the degree
of spare capacity is probably growing,” Broadbent said.  The biggest risks to the U.K. economy are “overwhelmingly
from continental  Europe ,” and are the  “main reason why growth
has weakened in the U.K. since the middle of last year,” he
said.  “Over six months, the downside risks have been lessened
slightly -- partly because of what the ECB has done, partly
because of QE itself and you can see that in risk asset markets
-- quite clearly,” he said. It’s also “reasonable” to
forecast faster growth in the second half.”  Broadbent said it’s “irrelevant” how quickly the bank
expands bond purchases through so-called quantitative easing as
policy makers view much of its effect on the economy as being
derived from the stock of purchases rather than the pace of
buying. They’re also not wedded to changing policy only in
months when new forecasts are published, he said.  “If we had wanted to vote for more QE, as measured by the
stock, and that is how we tend to understand its effects, then I
would have done that in October and, indeed, the committee could
have done it again in November or December,” he said. “We are
dealing in coarse, rather than fine-tuning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  