-- BTA Says Fitch Cut to ‘Restricted Default’ Fair on Restructuring
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-01-20T14:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/bta-says-fitch-cut-to-restricted-default-fair-on-restructuring.html
Fitch Ratings’ decision to lower BTA
Bank’s credit grade to “restricted default” was fair as it
reflects the Kazakh lender’s plan to restructure its debt for
the second time in two years, the bank said.  Fitch yesterday downgraded BTA’s long-term issuer rating
one level to RD from C, citing the bank’s failure to pay a $165
million coupon on dollar-denominated July 2018 bonds by a Jan.
18 deadline.  “The issue of the January coupon payment can’t be
considered outside the context of the debt restructuring,” BTA
said today in a statement on its website. “Restructuring is a
necessary step to guarantee the continued normal functioning of
the bank, allowing it to strengthen its financial position and
potentially restore its market position.”  BTA has scheduled a Jan. 26 vote by shareholders on the
non-payment of interest on its bonds as well as a “moratorium
on certain payments” to its creditors, excluding depositors.
The Kazakh sovereign-wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in
February 2009, two months before the central Asian nation’s
largest lender at the time defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  BTA said it’s fulfilling, and will continue to fulfill, all
obligations to its deposit holders, leaving them unaffected by
any possible restructuring. The bank also said it’s in full
compliance with central  bank regulations .  Chief Executive Officer Askhat Beisenbayev warned Jan. 17
that BTA planned to skip the coupon payment because it has an
“acute need to restore capital” and faces the risk of a run on
deposits. The coupon was due on Jan. 1, followed by a grace
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Belgrade at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  