-- Bulgaria Will Halt Electricity Exports on Miners Strike
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-01-20T16:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/bulgaria-will-halt-electricity-exports-on-miners-strike-1-.html
Bulgaria  will stop electricity
exports to secure domestic consumption after a miners strike in
the Maritsa East mining region cut coal supplies.  “Exports will be stopped at 1:00 a.m. tonight,” Energy
and Economy Minister Traicho Traikov told reporters in Sofia
today.  Bulgaria sells electricity to neighboring  Greece ,  Serbia ,
 Romania , Albania and Macedonia, where a drought reduced power
output from hydro-power plants. The strike at the state-owned
mines began on Jan. 15 after the government rejected miners’
demands to raise their wages to reflect increased output.  The Maritsa East mines produce 90 percent of Bulgaria’s
coal and service three power plants, including the state-run
Maritsa East-2, AES Galabovo AD and ContourGlobal Maritsa East-
3, which produce 25 percent of the country’s electricity output,
according to their website.  The three power plants have coal supplies for a week, which
forced AES Galabovo to reduce output to 180 megawatt from 440
megawatt, according to the Electricity System Operator in Sofia.  The country relies on the Kozloduy nuclear power plant,
which produces some 40 percent of Bulgaria’s electricity output
and on reserve units at coal-fired and hydro-power plants, which
are put into operation in emergencies to prevent power
shortages.  The Varna coal-fired heating plant, ran by Prague-based CEZ
AS, activated three power producing units with total output
capacity of 630 megawatt yesterday, the company said in a
statement. The three units cover 60 percent of the emergency
reserve and have imported coal supplies for the next 40 days,
CEZ said.  The government has yet to reach an agreement with the
striking miners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  