-- Canada Had Fastest Inflation in 2011 Since Central Bank Began Targeting
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canada-had-fastest-inflation-in-2011-since-central-bank-began-targeting.html
Consumer prices in  Canada  probably
grew last year at the fastest average rate since the country’s
central bank began targeting  inflation  in 1991.  Statistics Canada ’s consumer price index rose 2.7 percent
in December from a year earlier following November’s 2.9 percent
pace, according to median estimate of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The projected gain would bring the
average year-over-year inflation rate to 3 percent for 2011, the
fastest in two decades. The report is due at 7 a.m. in Ottawa.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  kept his benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent this week, prolonging a 15-month
pause. The central bank also said inflation would slow to a 1.5
percent annual pace in the April-June period, faster than the 1
percent trough it forecast in October.  The central bank is in an “uncomfortable” position with
inflation currently so far above its 2 percent target, said
Charles St-Arnaud, economist and foreign exchange strategist at
Nomura Securities International in  New York  and a former central
bank analyst. “We would need to see a broadening of inflation
pressure” for the Bank of Canada to react, he said, adding the
price gains have been concentrated in food and energy.  The average year-over-year increase for gasoline in 2011
has been 20.1 percent through November, more than double the
2010 pace, according to Statistics Canada data. Food price
increases have averaged 3.7 percent in 2011 through November,
compared with 1.4 percent the year before.  Core Inflation  The central bank’s  core inflation  rate, which excludes
eight volatile items such as gasoline, probably rose 2.2 percent
in December from the same month in 2010, according to a
Bloomberg survey, and has averaged 1.7 percent through November.
The central bank uses core inflation as a signal of future
inflationary pressures.  “The overall inflation profile is marginally firmer in
this projection, partly reflecting some expected persistence in
the slightly higher-than-anticipated prices observed recently
for motor vehicles and electricity,” the bank said in its Jan.
18  Monetary Policy Report .  Carney has said that he has “flexibility” in how soon he
brings inflation back to its target during an economic recovery
that may be prolonged by the need for countries to reduce large
trade and budget deficits. The bank said this week that economic
output will remain below its potential through the third quarter
of next year, suggesting downward pressure on prices.  A slowing world economy may also help moderate price gains.
Global growth of about 2.5 percent this year suggests that
commodity prices, including energy, will weaken this year, said
Dina Cover, an economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto.  Investors are anticipating inflation will be close to 2
percent, based on the gap between regular 10-year government
bonds and securities whose payouts fluctuate to adjust for
changes in inflation. The so-called  break-even rate  on 10-year
bonds was 2.08 percent yesterday.  “The bank has been targeting inflation for 20 years and
they have been very successful,” said Nathan Janzen, an
economist at Royal  Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “They have been
highlighting core as the big thing, and they are trying to
highlight where inflation will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 