-- Canada November Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-20T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canada-november-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for November from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales fell 0.4% to $49.0 billion in November,
following six months of consecutive increases. Lower sales
in the agricultural supplies industry and the motor
vehicle industry contributed to the decline.  In volume terms, wholesale sales fell 0.8% in November.  Wholesale sales decrease in November  Three out of seven subsectors post declines  In November, three out of seven subsectors reported
declines, with lower sales in the miscellaneous subsector
and the motor vehicle and parts subsector contributing to
most of the decrease.  The largest sales decrease was observed in the
miscellaneous subsector. Sales in this subsector fell 4.4%
to $6.6 billion in November, the lowest sales level since
April 2011. All of the component industries were down,
with the agricultural supplies (-8.2%) and the other
miscellaneous industries (-5.6%) accounting for most of
the decline.  Sales in the motor vehicle and parts subsector fell
1.1%, the first decrease in five months. The motor vehicle
industry (-1.6%), which accounts for 75% of the subsector,
was entirely responsible for the decline.  Wholesale sales in the building material and supplies
subsector (-0.5%) also registered a decrease.  The largest increase in dollar terms occurred in the
machinery, equipment and supplies subsector, which gained
1.3% in November. Of the four component industries, two
reported increases. The construction, forestry, mining,
and industrial machinery, equipment and supplies industry
posted a 2.6% increase. Sales in this industry have risen
16.5% since the beginning of the year. The computer and
communications equipment and supplies industry recorded a
2.7% increase for the month.  Lower sales in six provinces  Wholesale sales fell in six provinces in November, with
Saskatchewan,  Quebec  and  Alberta  accounting for most of
the national decrease.  Sales in Saskatchewan decreased 5.0% to $1.9 billion in
November, after large gains the previous two months. Lower
sales in the agricultural supplies industry contributed to
this decline.  In Quebec, sales fell 0.6% in November, after a similar
decline in October.  In Alberta, sales decreased 0.7% in November, following
a 4.5% advance in October. This is the province's first
decline in seven months.  Sales in Ontario edged down 0.1% for the month.  Inventories down slightly  Inventories edged down 0.1% to $57.7 billion in
November, posting their first decrease in 11 months.  Inventories edge down in November  Overall, 13 of the 25 wholesale industries registered
lower inventories. Wholesalers in the motor vehicle
industry (-3.8%) and the personal goods industry (-5.0%)
reported the largest decreases in dollar terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio rose to 1.18 in November
from 1.17 in October.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  