-- Canada May Sell Part of VIA Rail, Cut Routes as Costs Rise, Documents Show
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canada-may-sell-part-of-via-rail-cut-passengers-routes-as-costs-increase.html
Canada  may sell part of  VIA Rail  or
cut service provided by the money-losing passenger-rail company
as the government looks to pare spending, documents show.  The transport ministry is “assessing several options for
future support for passenger-rail services,” including
“significant reductions” in service and privatizing part of
the network, according to a briefing note prepared for Transport
Minister Denis Lebel, which was obtained by Bloomberg News under
Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government has promised to
eliminate its  budget deficit  by the fiscal year starting April
2015, in part by cutting operating spending by at least C$4
billion ($3.9 billion) annually.  Federal money for government-owned VIA has increased in
recent years as it “regularly requires additional funding to
cover operating shortfalls,” according to the documents.
“Privatization and public sector partnerships in the Quebec
City-Windsor corridor are being assessed,” staff say in the
documents, referring to the most densely-populated sections of
Quebec and Ontario, including Toronto and  Montreal .  VIA had an operating loss of C$261.5 million in 2010
according to its latest  annual report . Annual revenue fell 5.3
percent from 2005 to 2010 to C$274.4 million, while operating
expenses rose 15 percent to C$535.9 million.  Government Support  The government provided a combined C$1.2 billion for
operations and C$441 million for  capital spending  in that
period, annual reports show.  “At this time, there are no plans to privatize VIA Rail,”
said Pierre Florea, a spokesman for Lebel, in an e-mail. “While
the department can make suggestions, the minister is in charge
of government policy.”  A spokesman for Montreal-based VIA Rail said the company
“regularly discusses various plans and scenarios with
government.” VIA’s mandate remains to “operate the current
network,” Malcolm Andrews said in an e-mail.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in November he was
delaying plans to balance the budget by a year, amid a dimming
outlook for global growth and more conservative revenue
estimates.  Canada,  Germany , the U.K. and  Sweden  are the only Group of
10 countries with stable AAA ratings from the three main credit
assessment companies. Foreign investors purchased record amounts
of Canadian  government bonds  in 2010 and 2011, which returned
9.6 percent last year, compared with a 6.1 percent gain for
global bonds, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Remote Communities  VIA Rail, created in 1977, operates from British Columbia
to  Nova Scotia . While it serves remote communities such as
 Churchill, Manitoba , which bills itself as the “Polar bear
capital of the world,” about 80 percent of the company’s
ridership moves between Windsor, Ontario and  Quebec City , the
country’s main commercial corridor.  Transport Canada  has been reviewing the federal
government’s support for passenger rail since 2008, according to
the note, which is dated April 13, 2011.  “Potential service level reductions could include: reduced
frequencies on the western and eastern transcontinental service;
reduced frequencies to certain remote areas; and, removing
regional services in rural areas that are well served by other
public modes and highways,” staff say in the note.  It’s common practice for VIA to “adjust schedules based on
passenger demand,” Florea said. “Our government is committed
to safe and efficient passenger rail for all Canadians.”  Small Railways  Canada also spends C$16.1 million annually to provide
services to remote areas through small railways such as
Manitoba’s Keewatin Railway and Ontario’s Algoma Central,
according to the note.  VIA  plans  to use C$923 million in government funding to
meet maintenance and safety requirements and fund equipment and
infrastructure projects through 2014, according to the note.  It makes no sense for taxpayers to pay for VIA’s upgrades
if it’s going to be sold, said Bob Fitzgerald, national staff
representative with the Canadian Auto Workers union, which
represents VIA employees.  “It would be devastating to employees and the country to
scrape the cream off the top and let the rest of it die,”
Fitzgerald said in an interview, referring to privatizing
service in the Windsor-Quebec City corridor.  VIA could prove to be a tough sell to investors. The
company owns less than 2 percent of the 12,500 kilometers (7,750
miles) of track it uses, relying on freight railways such as
 Canadian National (CNR)  Railway Co. VIA’s fleet includes 396 passenger
cars and 78 locomotives, according to its website.  Services Uneconomical  “Under prevailing market conditions, passenger rail
services are uneconomical and, without continued and substantial
government support, will continue to decline,” Jean Dupuis, a
researcher for Canada’s Library of Parliament, said in a
November  report . ”High-speed passenger rail provides the best
potential for profitability and market growth but would require
substantial investment.”  While VIA’s total ridership dropped 9.8 percent between
2008 and 2010 to 4.15 million, the total was up from 4.1 million
in 2005.  The briefing note also shows Canada is looking at improving
service between Windsor and Quebec City, including through high-
speed rail.  Florea said a high-speed rail network would cost between
C$20 billion and C$40 billion.  “Given the very high public cost and in the current fiscal
circumstances, this project is not a priority for our
government,” he said.  Canada’s review of passenger rail comes amid a broader
debate about the future of the industry in  North America .  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has spent $10.1
billion to  speed up  passenger trains across the country.  Amtrak ,
the U.S. national passenger railroad, has proposed upgrades to
high-speed service from  Washington  to  Boston .  U.S.
representative  John Mica , the Florida Republican who chairs the
House transportation committee, has called for the private
sector to play a greater role in financing Amtrak’s upgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  