-- Canada December Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-20T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canada-december-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's consumer  price index  report for December released
by  Statistics Canada .  Consumer prices rose 2.3% in the 12 months to December,
following a 2.9% increase in November. The 0.6 percentage
point difference was led by a slower increase in gasoline
prices as well as declines for the purchase of passenger
vehicles. A slower year-over-year increase for food was
also a factor.  The 12-month change in the CPI and the CPI excluding
gasoline  The cost of gasoline rose 7.6% in the 12 months to
December, after advancing 13.5% in November. Gasoline
prices have declined steadily on a monthly basis starting
in June.  On a year-over-year basis, prices for the purchase of
passenger vehicles fell 0.2% in December following a 1.8%
rise the month before. On a monthly basis, prices declined
2.3% as manufacturers continued to offer discounts on
various vehicles, including new 2012 models.  Consumers paid 4.4% more for food in the 12 months to
December, following a 4.8% increase the month before. The
year-over-year change for food purchased from stores eased
in December to a 5.0% gain from 5.7% in November.  12-month change: Prices up in all major components  On a year-over-year basis, prices rose in all eight
major components in December. Transportation and food
continued to post the largest increases.  Prices rise at slower rate in five of the major components  The cost of transportation went up 3.3% in the 12
months to December, after rising 5.7% in November. The
December gain was the smallest increase in over a year.
The slower rise was largely attributable to a slower year-
over-year increase in gasoline prices as well as price
decreases posted for the purchase of passenger vehicles.  Food prices rose 4.4% in the 12 months to December.
Consumers paid more for food purchased from stores as
prices increased for common staples, including meat
(+5.3%), fresh vegetables (+11.1%) and bread (+8.8%).  Shelter costs rose 1.8% in the 12 months to December.
This followed a 1.5% increase posted in November. The
index for electricity went up 5.4%, led by price increases
in  Alberta . Consumers also paid more for fuel oil and
homeowners' replacement costs. Conversely, mortgage
interest cost decreased 0.7% year-over-year in December
after falling 1.1% the month before.  Provinces: Gasoline and food purchased from stores still
major factors in every province  Consumer prices rose at a slower rate in December in
every province except for Prince  Edward Island , where the
12-month increase matched the gain the month before.  New
Brunswick  (+3.3%) posted the largest increase while
British Columbia (+1.7%) recorded the smallest gain.
Gasoline and food purchased from stores continued to be
major factors in all provinces.  Prices increase at slower rate in every province except
for Prince Edward Island  Seasonally adjusted monthly  Consumer Price Index  declines  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, consumer prices
decreased 0.2% from November to December, after rising
0.1% from October to November. The transportation index,
which includes gasoline and the purchase of passenger
vehicles, fell 1.1% in December after increasing 0.3% the
month before.  Seasonally adjusted monthly Consumer Price Index declines  The clothing and footwear index decreased 0.1% while
the shelter index rose 0.4%. The indexes for health and
personal care as well as food also increased in December.  Bank of Canada's core index  The Bank of Canada's core index rose 1.9% in the 12
months to December, after increasing 2.1% in November.
Increases were recorded for food purchased from
restaurants and passenger vehicle insurance premiums,
while prices for the purchase of passenger vehicles
declined.  The seasonally adjusted monthly core index posted no
change in December.  Annual review of the 2011 Consumer Price Index  In 2011, the annual average increase in consumer prices
was 2.9%, following a 1.8% rise in 2010. The faster growth
in 2011 was largely attributable to higher prices for
gasoline and food. The 2011 increase was slightly higher
than the annual average growth rates observed in the early
2000s.  Note to readers  The Bank of Canada's core index excludes eight of the
Consumer Price Index's (CPI's) most volatile components
(fruit, fruit preparations and nuts; vegetables and
vegetable preparations; mortgage interest cost; natural
gas;  fuel oil  and other fuels; gasoline; inter-city
transportation; and tobacco products and smokers'
supplies) as well as the effects of changes in indirect
taxes on the remaining components.  Statistics Canada is moving to one release time, 8:30
a.m., for all data releases in The Daily. This will mean a
change in the release time for the CPI, which is currently
7:00 a.m. This change will be implemented with the release
of CPI data on April 20, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  