-- Canadian Stocks Cap Fifth-Straight Weekly Climb as Banks Rise
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-20T21:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canadian-financial-stocks-rise-as-inflation-slows-oil-declines.html
Canadian stocks  rose, completing a
fifth-straight weekly gain, as financial companies advanced
after the country reported slower inflation.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, climbed 1.4 percent after the country reported prices
climbed less in 2011 than all 23 economists in a Bloomberg
survey had forecast.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , Canada’s
second-biggest publicly traded copper producer, decreased 5.7
percent after a private report indicated manufacturing
contracted in China.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  increased 16.41 points, or 0.1
percent, to 12,397.10, extending the weekly gain to 1.4 percent.  “All of the news in terms of inflation under control, the
general economy getting better, that erases the pressure of
lower margins for the banks,” Marcus Xu, director of equity
investments at Genus Capital Management in  Vancouver , said in a
telephone interview. The firm oversees about C$1.7 billion ($1.7
billion).  The S&P/TSX has posted the longest streak of weekly gains
since October 2010 as data have shown stronger employment and
manufacturing in the U.S. Seventy-five percent of  Canada ’s
exports went to the U.S. in 2010, according to  Statistics
Canada .  Banks Rally  The  S&P/TSX Financials Index (STFINL)  rose for a fifth day, the
longest streak since July, after  Statistics Canada  said the
country’s year-over-year inflation rate slowed to 2.3 percent in
December from 2.9 percent in November. The Canadian dollar fell
for the first time this week against the U.S. currency.  Royal Bank increased 1.4 percent to C$53.85. Toronto-
Dominion Bank, the country’s second-largest lender by assets,
advanced 1.2 percent to C$79.15.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North
America ’s fourth-biggest insurer, climbed 2.6 percent to C$12.65
capping its fifth-straight weekly gain.  A purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc
and  Markit Economics  indicated manufacturing contracted for a
third month in  China , the world’s largest user of industrial
metals. Copper futures fell for the first time this week on the
Comex in  New York .  Base-Metals Producers  Base-metals and coal producers  in the S&P/TSX retreated the
most this month. First Quantum slumped 5.7 percent to C$22.55.
 Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , which produces base metals in  Europe ,
declined 4 percent to C$5.09.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, decreased 1.8 percent to
C$45.28 after Lindsay Drucker Mann, an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said a proposed reduction in Indian subsidies may
hurt the company. The country’s government plans to reduce
payments for potash and phosphorus fertilizers because prices of
the nutrients may decline, Hindu Business Line reported Jan. 18
without citing anyone.  B2Gold Corp. (BTO) , which mines in  Nicaragua , surged 6.5 percent
to C$3.28 after reporting drilling results from its Primavera
project.  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO) , which produces oil and gas in  South
Asia , rose 5.3 percent to C$53.37 extend its three-day rally to
13 percent. The company said Jan. 17 it signed a $250 million
credit facility with Royal Bank and Bank of  Nova Scotia .  New Zealand Energy Corp., which explores for oil and gas in
that country, soared 18 percent to C$1.71 after Bill Newman, an
analyst at Mackie Research Capital Corp., began coverage of the
Vancouver-based company with a “speculative buy” rating. The
closing price was the highest since the company’s initial public
offering in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  