-- Canada December Inflation Slows to 2.3% as Gasoline Price Increases Ease
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-20T14:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canada-december-inflation-slows-to-2-3-as-gasoline-price-increases-ease.html
Canada ’s  inflation rate  slowed more
than economists forecast in December as increases in gasoline
prices continued to fade and automobile costs fell.  The  consumer price index  increased 2.3 percent in December
from a year earlier following November’s 2.9 percent rise,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The increase was the
smallest since February and below all 23 estimates in a
Bloomberg News economist survey with a median of 2.7 percent.  The data may help ease concern that  Bank of Canada  Governor
 Mark Carney ’s policy of keeping the benchmark lending rate at 1
percent will fuel price increases. While inflation slowed more
than forecast, the result still capped  a year  that had the
fastest average increase since the central bank adopted
inflation targets in 1991.  “This is the inflation report the Bank of Canada was
dreaming about,” said  Derek Holt ,  Scotia Capital ’s vice-
president of economics in Toronto. “The bank is on hold for a
very long time” probably until the second quarter of 2013, he
said by telephone.  The  core inflation  rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, slowed to 1.9 percent from November’s
2.1 percent pace. Economists had a median forecast of 2.2
percent for  core inflation , with the result slower than all
estimates.  Dollar, Bonds Fall  The Canadian dollar depreciated following the report. It
traded for C$1.0147 per  U.S. dollar  at 9:04 a.m. in Toronto, 0.4
percent weaker than yesterday. Bonds fell, with the yield on the
 benchmark  2-year government bond rising 1 basis point to 1.04
percent.  Carney prolonged a 15-month pause in his policy interest
rate earlier this week, and projected inflation would slow to a
1.5 percent annual pace in the April-June period. The Bank of
Canada runs monetary policy with a goal of achieving 2 percent
annual inflation, the mid-point of a 1 percent to 3 percent
target range.  Gasoline prices rose 7.6 percent in December from a year
earlier, slower than November’s 13.5 percent advance and the
slowest since the 7.2 percent gain in November 2010,  Statistics
Canada  said today. Gasoline price increases have been slowing
since June, Statistics Canada said.  Food prices rose 4.4 percent in December following
November’s 4.8 percent year-over-year gain, while automobile
costs fell 0.2 percent after rising 1.8 percent in November.  Monthly Declines  On a monthly basis, consumer prices dropped 0.6 percent in
December from November, while  core inflation  fell 0.5 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted total and core rate
would both decline by 0.2 percent on the month.  Seasonally adjusted inflation fell 0.2 percent in December
from the month before.  Clothing and footwear prices fell 4.3 percent in December,
suggesting the slowdown may have been due to “intense
discounting” that may be reversed, said  Doug Porter , deputy
chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  “The question now is whether this is maintained -- we
suspect it will be a one-month wonder, and prices will nudge
back up next month,” Porter said in a note to investors.
“Still, the more moderate reading will give the Bank of Canada
plenty of comfort keeping rates on hold for an extended
period.”  Slower Inflation  Annual inflation averaged 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter
and 2 percent on a core basis, below Bank of Canada projections.
The bank had forecast total annual inflation to average 2.8
percent in the final three months of 2011 and 2.2 percent on a
core basis.  Consumer prices rose at an average annual pace of 2.9
percent last year, a two-decade high and up from a rate of 1.8
percent in 2010. Food and energy led the acceleration,
Statistics Canada said.  “The overall inflation profile is marginally firmer in
this projection, partly reflecting some expected persistence in
the slightly higher-than-anticipated prices observed recently
for motor vehicles and electricity,” the bank said in its Jan.
18 Monetary Policy Report.  Carney has said that he has “flexibility” in how quickly
he brings inflation back to its target during an economic
recovery that may be prolonged by the need for countries to
reduce large trade and budget deficits. The bank said this week
that economic output will remain below its potential through the
third quarter of next year, suggesting continuing downward
pressure on prices.  Investors are anticipating inflation will stay close to 2
percent, based on the gap between regular 10-year government
bonds and securities whose payouts fluctuate to adjust for
changes in inflation. The so-called  break-even rate  on 10-year
bonds fell 4 basis points to 2.05 percent today.  In a separate release, Statistics Canada reported  wholesale
sales  fell for the first time in seven months, declining 0.4
percent in November after economists forecast a 0.5 percent
monthly rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 