-- Canadian Dollar Snaps Four-Day Winning Streak on Slower Annual Inflation
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-20T22:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/canada-s-dollar-extends-loss-as-report-shows-december-inflation-slows.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped versus its
U.S. counterpart as a government report showed annual inflation
slowed more than economists projected, weakening the argument
for higher  interest rates .  The Canadian currency’s first decline of the week pared its
five-day advance to 1 percent against the greenback. It dropped
against a majority of its most-traded counterparts on
speculation the Bank of Canada will keep interest rates on hold
for longer as the European sovereign-debt crisis unfolds.  “There is a perception out there that when you get
external headwinds to growth, then there is the potential for
them to” cut interest rates, said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, in a telephone interview. “We don’t think they’ll do
that, but they’re going to be on hold. Better U.S. data has been
there, so that’s going to help the Canadian dollar, but it’s
going to be choppy trading.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known,
depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0132 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m.
Toronto time. One Canadian dollar buys 98.70 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to as low as 8.13 percent today
from 11 percent at year-end. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency.  ‘Slow and Steady’  “We see slow and steady improvement through the year,
which seemed difficult to foresee when implied volatility was
over 11, but easier now that it’s close to 8,” David Watt,
senior currency strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit, wrote in an e-mail message.  The  consumer price index  fell 0.6 percent in December,
compared with an advance of 0.1 percent in the previous month,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The index rose 2.3
percent from a year earlier, compared with a 2.9 percent
increase in the prior month. The median  forecast  of 23
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent
monthly drop and a 2.7 percent annualized increase.  “It was a below-consensus release on CPI on both the core
and the headline,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital, said by phone from
Toronto. “That implies there is decreasing inflationary
pressure in Canada and takes pressure off the  Bank of Canada .”
Sutton’s forecast is for the Canadian dollar to weaken to C$1.02
by the end of the first quarter.  Inflation View  The Bank of Canada raised its inflation forecast in a
monetary report this week. Inflation will average 2.2 percent
this quarter and 1.5 percent from April to June, faster than
October forecasts of 1.9 percent and 1 percent, the Jan. 18
report said.  Governor  Mark Carney  kept his benchmark lending rate at 1
percent this week, prolonging the longest pause since the bank
began using it as a policy measure in 1994. The economy will be
hobbled by a European recession and slowing growth in  China  and
the U.S., the central bank said.  Canadian  government bonds  fell for a third say, driving
benchmark 10-year yields up six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.06 percent. The 3.25 percent securities due in June
2021 dropped 49 cents to C$110.08.  A rally in Canadian  junk bonds  may spark a revival in sales
of the debt after a two-month hiatus when Europe’s debt crisis
led investors to avoid riskier assets.  Junk-Bond Gains  A recovery in risk appetite fueled a gain of 1.04 percent
for non-investment grade debt this month, beating Canadian
corporate, government and provincial bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Canadian High-Yield Index. Western
Energy Services Corp. priced the year’s first issue of high
yield bonds today, increasing the sale to C$175 million ($173
million) from C$125 million.  Sales of high-yield bonds in Canada stalled in the second
half as  Europe ’s crisis threatened to derail the global economic
recovery, and profits on the debt evaporated. With European
policy makers showing signs of making progress, demand for the
debt is returning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  