-- Capital One ‘Broadsided’ Investors With Surge in Costs, 42% Profit Decline
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-20T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/capital-one-broadsided-investors-with-cost-surge-profit-miss.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
credit-card issuer seeking approval to purchase ING Groep NV’s
U.S. online bank, was pressed by analysts on an increase in
expenses after fourth-quarter profit missed estimates.  At least six analysts out of 11 asking questions on a
conference call yesterday pushed for clarity on costs after the
McLean, Virginia-based lender said noninterest expense rose 25
percent to $2.62 billion. Net income fell 42 percent to $407
million, and earnings from continuing operations were 89 cents a
share, missing the $1.55 estimate of 28 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Communication is key in this business and if there are
sizeable one-time factors coming through it would have been nice
to discuss this in advance,” Jason Arnold, an RBC Capital
Markets analyst with an “outperform” rating on the firm, said
in a phone interview. “I think a lot of people felt
broadsided.”  Capital One said some expenses were one-time costs as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank readies
the firm to integrate acquisitions. The company spent more on
marketing, salaries, infrastructure and technology systems. The
firm expects to close the ING deal and the purchase of HSBC
Holdings Plc’s U.S. credit-card portfolio this year.  “We’re going to be adding tens of millions of new
customers, increasing our overall customer account base by more
than a third,” Chief Financial Officer Gary Perlin said on the
call. “Infrastructure that complex is something we would have
been building over time. We’ve accelerated these efforts.”  Future Expenses  Quarterly operating expenses may stay in the $2 billion to
$2.05 billion range, Perlin said. Capital One, which gets more
than half its revenue from credit cards, boosted its workforce
in 2011 as full-time equivalent employees climbed to 30,500 from
25,700 at the end of 2010.  Salaries and benefits rose to  $817 million  in the quarter
from $657 million a year earlier, while marketing costs advanced
to $420 million from $308 million. Expenses classified as
“other” climbed to $936 million from $691 million.  “People are still struggling with the expenses, I think,
at least based on the number of questions I’m getting,” Brian Foran, a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst, said on the call. Foran
rates Capital One a “buy” with a $58 price target.  Capital One fell as much as 5.8 percent in extended trading
yesterday after the earnings announcement. The stock has gained
about 3 percent in the past year, the second-best performer in
the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   ‘Top-Five Bank’  “We’ve been investing to build an infrastructure that’s
commensurate with the size and complexity and the growth of a
top-five bank we’ll soon become,” Fairbank said on the call.
Tatiana Stead, a Capital One spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Fairbank, 61, is seeking Federal Reserve approval for the
ING purchase, which would add more than 7 million customers and
$80 billion in deposits. The Fed held three hearings to allow
public input on the acquisition amid opposition from groups that
advocate for consumer rights and affordable housing.  Capital One agreed in August to buy the HSBC portfolio. The
transaction is set to be completed in the second quarter.  “If you would look at any bank that is growing in the way
that we are, Rich described it kind of going from top-10 to top-
five, you know the bar is being raised in terms of expectations
on the controls and the management and regulatory interactions
that take place,” Perlin said.  The bank may benefit as more consumers rely on credit to
sustain spending. Consumer borrowing in the U.S. surged in
November by $20.4 billion, the biggest jump since November 2001,
to $2.48 trillion, the Fed said Jan. 9. Revolving debt, which
includes credit cards, climbed by $5.6 billion, the biggest
advance since March 2008, according to the Fed’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  