-- Electric Cars No More Prone to Fires Than Gas-Powered Vehicles, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/chevy-volt-battery-fire-investigation-closed-by-u-s-regulator.html
U.S. regulators, who ended their
investigation yesterday into the Chevrolet Volt, said electric-
powered vehicles do not pose a greater risk of fire than
gasoline cars.  “Based on the available data, NHTSA does not believe that
Chevy Volts or other electric vehicles pose a greater risk of
fire than gasoline-powered vehicles,” the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  said in an e-mailed statement.  The conclusion by NHTSA came two weeks after  General Motors
Co. (GM)  told Volt owners to bring the vehicles to dealerships for
repair.  The government started investigating the Volt after a side-
impact crash test in May led to a fire three weeks later. During
that test, the lithium-ion battery pack broke open and coolant
leaked into the battery. When the car was physically rotated as
part of the test, more coolant leaked into a  circuit board ,
leading to a fire. NHTSA replicated the fire in November and
started an official probe Nov. 25.  “GM is proud of the technological innovation the Volt
represents,”  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. “We appreciate the confidence our Volt
customers continued to provide during the investigation.”  Post-Crash Fire  The June fire occurred following a May 12 crash test at a
facility in  Wisconsin  run by contractor MGA Research Inc., which
notified the regulator that the blaze burned a line of cars
parked near the Volt, NHTSA said yesterday in its  report .  The agency and its investigators concluded in July that the
fire originated in the Volt battery and performed another side-
impact test on a Volt in September. That crash, which didn’t
penetrate the battery compartment, didn’t lead to a fire. NHTSA,
which tested Volt batteries in November with the Energy and
Defense departments, hadn’t previously disclosed the September
crash test.  The June Volt fire was reported Nov. 11 by Bloomberg.  The Volt blaze had little effect on sales of the vehicles,
so there may not be any significant improvement with the
government completing its investigation, said  Jeremy Anwyl , vice
chairman of auto-researcher Edmunds.com, in an e-mail.  “Volt buyers tend to be passionate about their vehicle,”
Anwyl said. “They really want an electrified vehicle. The small
risk represented by the potential for fire wouldn’t have been an
obstacle for this group of buyers.”  New Technology  The attention focused on the Volt fire was, in part, a
result of the vehicle’s new technology, Anwyl said.  “We see gasoline powered vehicles blow up in the movies
all the time,” he said. “A vehicle with batteries catches fire
and it is portrayed as a big deal.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who
is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, plans to hold a hearing on Jan. 25 about the fires
and the regulator’s handling of the incidents. GM Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson and NHTSA Administrator  David Strickland  are scheduled to testify.  Issa has asked whether President Barack Obama’s
administration kept silent about the fires because of its
interest in the success of GM’s government-backed restructuring
and a U.S. goal of having 1 million electric vehicles on the
road by 2015.  Information Not Withheld  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told reporters in
December it was “absolutely not true” that his agency withheld
information about the Volt’s safety.  GM, based in  Detroit , said Jan. 5 it would provide a fix to
the 8,000 plug-in hybrids it has sold, to reduce the risk of a
post-crash fire. Strickland said in Detroit Jan. 8 that the
agency was pleased with GM’s plan.  The Treasury Department  owns  32 percent of GM’s stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  