-- China Repo Rate Falls Most in 11 Months on PBOC Fund Injection
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-20T09:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/china-repo-rate-falls-most-in-11-months-on-pboc-fund-injection.html
China ’s money-market rate completed
its biggest two-day drop in 11 months after the central bank
added funds before next week’s holiday and on speculation a cut
in banks’ reserve-requirement ratios is imminent.  The People’s Bank of China injected 353 billion yuan ($55.7
billion) using 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts this week,
the most since Bloomberg began collecting the data in early 2008.
The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding availability
in the financial system, rose to the highest level in almost
seven months this week as cash demand surged ahead of the week-
long lunar New Year holiday starting Jan. 23.  The reverse repo conducted this week is “an amount close
to one reserve-ratio cut,”  Ju Wang , a strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in Singapore, wrote in a research report today.
“Liquidity conditions improved and repo rates fell. We continue
to believe a reserve-requirement ratio cut is around the corner
and is needed to support credit growth.”  The  seven-day repo rate  fell 272 basis points, or 2.72
percentage points, to 5 percent in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It rose for a second week, adding 11 basis points from
Jan. 13. The rate touched 8.18 percent on Jan. 18, the highest
level since Jun. 24.  The central bank cut the amount of cash that banks must set
aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 last month as
 Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and economic
growth. The State Council asked that  reserve requirements  for
local financial institutions in the southern province of Guizhou
be lowered to promote the area’s economy, according to a
statement posted on the central government’s website this week.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, decreased nine
basis points to 3 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate fell eight basis points this week. The yield
on 3.55 percent government bonds due October 2016 declined one
basis point to 3 percent today, according to National Interbank
Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  