-- China’s Home Market Should Retreat After Curbs, Hang Lung’s Chairman Says
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-01-20T01:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/china-s-home-market-should-come-down-hang-lung-s-chairman-chan-says.html
China ’s home market, bracing for the
most severe slowdown in three years, should retreat after
“extraordinarily tough” measures by the government, said
Ronnie Chan, chairman of  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)   Home purchase limits and tighter mortgage requirements
imposed by the government “just choked the market,” Chan,
whose Hong Kong-based developer is investing more than HK$40
billion ($5.2 billion) building shopping malls in China, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today.  China’s December home prices posted their worst performance
last year, with only two of the 70 cities tracked by the
government posting gains. Prices in 52 of 70 cities monitored
declined from the previous month, the statistics bureau said
this week, while those in the nation’s four major cities of
Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and  Guangzhou  slid for a third month.  The nation’s home transactions will fall 10 percent this
year, according to Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, while UBS
AG says the curbs may boost supply to the highest in a decade.  Developers also slowed home sales toward the end of 2011 in
anticipation of a worsening property market. Contract sales, or
sales booked before apartments are completed, dropped 30 percent
last month at  China Vanke Co. (200002) , as the country’s biggest
developer by market value offered fewer homes from November.
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., the second-biggest Chinese
developer by revenue, said sales in November and December were
the lowest for the year.  ‘I’d be Cautious’  Chan, whose company has been developing real estate in
China since early 1990s, said he’s “not sure” when the
government will start easing its property measures.  “If I were them, I’d be cautious too,” he said. The
measures “have loosened a bit. But on the other hand, what
assurance will they have that prices will come down on a
sustainable basis.”  Hang Lung, which has opened four shopping malls in the
Chinese cities of  Shanghai , Jinan and Shenyang, will complete at
least one property in the country every year until at least 2015.  Shares of the company, which reported a 29 percent growth
in underlying  profit  for the second-half of 2011 on improving
margins at its China shopping malls, gained 9.7 percent
yesterday, the biggest increase since April, 2009, following the
earnings. The stock dropped 1.1 percent to HK$26.20 as of 9:38
a.m. in Hong Kong.  The  shares  lost 39 percent in 2011, the worst performer in
the seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, on investor concerns
about rising competition in China’s retail property market.  Performance for Palace 66, the Shenyang shopping mall it
opened in 2010, is improving, Chan said.  The country’s fourth-quarter economic growth of 8.9 percent
was “okay for China,” Chan said, adding he isn’t counting on a
hard landing for the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 