-- China Manufacturing Contraction Boosts Case for Monetary Easing: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-20T04:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/china-manufacturing-may-contract-for-third-month.html
A Chinese purchasing managers’ index
signaled manufacturing may contract for a third month as a
slowing economy boosts the case for the government to further
loosen credit controls.  The preliminary January  reading  of 48.8 for the gauge,
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today,
compares with a final 48.7 number for December. The dividing
line between contraction and expansion is 50.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  joined global officials today in warning that the world
economy is decelerating and faces “significant and urgent
challenges.” China has allowed its five biggest banks to boost
first-quarter lending and may relax capital requirements, people
with knowledge of the matter said.  “We expect more policy easing to stabilize growth and the
next reserve ratio cut is likely to be delivered in the coming
weeks,” said  Qu Hongbin  and Sun Junwei, Hong Kong-based
economists for HSBC. “Demand is likely to remain relatively
subdued for the coming months,” which may weigh on output and
employment growth, they said.  The data imply growth in industrial output of about 11
percent to 12 percent in the coming months and economic growth
of about 8 percent in the first quarter, the analysts estimate.  Asian stocks rose, with a regional benchmark index heading
for its fifth straight weekly advance, as fewer Americans than
forecast filed claims for jobless benefits and Spain and  France 
sold bonds at lower yields. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
increased 0.9 percent as of 1:22 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Easing Curbs  Stocks in China rose and are on track to send the benchmark
index to its first back-to-back weekly gain in two months. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.4 percent at the 11:30 a.m.
local-time break, on signs the government is easing lending
curbs.  China’s central bank last month reduced banks’ reserve
requirements for the first time in three years to encourage
lending and Premier  Wen Jiabao  this month reiterated a pledge to
“fine-tune” policies as needed to support growth. Zhan
Chunxin, chairman of Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co., China’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment, told Wen this month that a lack of access to credit
was hurting customers and suppliers.  The nation’s central bank is allowing the five biggest
lenders to increase first-quarter credit by a maximum of about 5
percent from a year earlier, said two people at state lenders
who have knowledge of the matter. Separately, the banking
regulator is weighing a plan to relax  capital requirements ,
according to four people with knowledge of the matter. The
agency is delaying implementing the most stringent capital
adequacy ratios and may lower risk weightings for loans to small
businesses, they said.  Australia Exports  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, a government gauge of
Australian export prices dropped 1.5 percent last quarter in a
nation where the economy is driven by shipments of  iron ore  and
coal to emerging markets including China. Import prices rose 2.5
percent from the prior quarter.  In Europe, U.K. retail sales including fuel probably
rebounded 0.6 percent last month after a 0.4 percent decline in
November, the median of 21  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  German producer prices probably advanced 0.1 percent in
December, the same as the prior month’s gain, according to the
median estimate of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., sales of existing homes may have gained 5.2
percent to a 4.65 million annual pace in December after a 4
percent increase in November, according to the median forecasts
of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Preliminary Reading  In  China , the preliminary reading for the manufacturing
index, also known as the flash PMI, is based on 85 percent to 90
percent of responses to HSBC and Markit’s monthly survey of
purchasing managers at more than 400 companies. It was carried
out from Jan. 9 to Jan. 16 and the final reading will be
released early next month.  Gauges of output and new orders probably remained below 50
in January, while an index of new export orders expanded after a
contraction the previous month, according to today’s statement.  “Manufacturing PMIs around the Chinese New Year get extra
weird as factories shut down en masse,” said  Stephen Green ,
Hong Kong-based head of Greater China research at Standard
Chartered Bank Plc. “But given Beijing’s shift to policy
loosening is happening only gradually, it makes sense that China
continues to slow.”  Migrant Workers  Economic data in January and February are often distorted
by the timing of the nation’s weeklong Lunar New Year holiday
when factories shut early to allow migrant workers to travel
home. The festival starts on Jan. 23 this year.  The separate  official  PMI, released by the China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing and National Bureau of Statistics,
is based on a survey of managers at more than 820 companies in
20 industries. The gauge showed an expansion in December after a
contraction the previous month.  Governments need to stem contagion in  Europe  and restore
confidence in financial institutions to end the sovereign-debt
crisis and spur growth, Lagarde and other members of the Global
Issues Group of the  World Economic Forum  said in a Call to
Action statement today.  China’s  gross  domestic product increased 8.9 percent in the
last three months of 2011 from a year earlier, the fourth
straight quarterly slowdown and the weakest pace in 10 quarters.
Growth may drop to below 8 percent this quarter, according to
estimates from UBS AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Societe Generale
SA, as export demand cools further and the government maintains
its campaign to rein in housing costs.  Home prices  fell last month in 52 of 70 Chinese cities from
November, according to government data released Jan. 18. The
world’s largest exporter posted the smallest gains in overseas
sales and in imports for two years in December from a year
earlier, excluding holiday distortions.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  