-- China’s Stocks Rise, Capping Second Weekly Gain, on Bank Lending Optimism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-20T08:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/china-s-stocks-rise-set-for-second-weekly-gain-on-bank-lending-optimism.html
China’s stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index to its first back-to-back weekly gain in two
months, on speculation the government will ease lending curbs to
bolster economic growth.  Huaxia Bank Co. (600015)  and China Everbright Bank Co. advanced at
least 2 percent after saying profit climbed last year. Kweichow
Moutai Co. and Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co., the
nation’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor and meat processor,
paced gains among consumer stocks on speculation demand during
the Lunar New Year holidays will boost sales. China’s markets
will be shut next week for the festival.  “The rally is supported by expectations that more
liquidity will be released,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 23.04 points, or 1
percent, to 2,319.12 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index  added 1.5
percent to 2,504.09. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, lost
less than 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Ten-day  volatility  on the Shanghai Composite increased
yesterday to the highest level since November 2010, after the
gauge rose or fell by more than 1.3 percent on eight of the 12
trading days this year.  The Shanghai index gained 3.3 percent this week on
speculation slowing growth will prompt the central bank to relax
monetary policies and the government will take measures to
support stocks. That’s taken this year’s gain to 5.4 percent.  Pension Funds  China ’s State Council is reviewing a proposal to allow
local pension funds to invest 10 percent to 20 percent of their
assets in stocks, Reuters said today, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the matter. That would amount to 180
billion yuan ($28 billion) to 360 billion yuan, Reuters said.  China’s manufacturing may contract for a third month,
boosting the case for the government to further loosen credit
control. The preliminary reading of 48.8 for a purchasing
managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today compares with a final number of 48.7 for
December. The dividing line between contraction and expansion is
50.  Huaxia Bank, partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG, climbed 3
percent to 12.12 yuan. China Minsheng Banking Corp., the
nation’s first privately owned bank, added 1.4 percent to 6.53
yuan. Both lenders said profits may have increased more than 50
percent last year. Everbright Bank gained 2 percent to 3.04 yuan
after it said in a preliminary earning statement profit rose 41
percent in 2011.  Earings Season  Chinese listed companies have started to announce annual
earnings reports and will finish before the end of April.
Thirty-five companies in the Shanghai Composite have released
annual profits for 2011 so far, with an average gain of 19
percent and trailing estimates by 2.2 percent, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an increase of 38
percent in the previous year.  Chinese bank lending in the first quarter may exceed the
2.26 trillion yuan a year earlier, the Shanghai Securities News
reports today, citing an unidentified person. Banks will
increase loans to small companies and the agricultural industry,
according to the newspaper.  China’s benchmark money-market rate fell by the most in 11
months after the central bank injected funds before the Lunar
New Year holiday and on speculation a cut in banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios is imminent.  Reverse Repo  The People’s Bank of China injected 353 billion yuan using
14-day reverse-repurchase contracts this week, the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in early 2008. The  seven-day
repurchase rate , a gauge of funding availability in the
financial system, rose to the highest level in almost seven
months this week as cash demand surged ahead of the weeklong
holiday.  The reverse repo conducted this week is “an amount close
to one reserve-ratio cut,”  Ju Wang , a strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore , wrote in a report today. “Liquidity
conditions improved and repo rates fell. We continue to believe
a reserve-requirement ratio cut is around the corner and is
needed to support credit growth.”  China this week reported the weakest quarterly expansion in
gross domestic product in 10 periods, while foreign direct
investment fell the most in more than two years in December.  Moutai gained 2.9 percent to 185.97 yuan, the highest close
in a week. Henan Shuanghui climbed 2.8 percent to 67 yuan.
 Zhengzhou Sanquan Foods Co. (002216) , China’s biggest listed frozen food
producer, jumped 7.3 percent to 25.91 yuan.  Holiday Shopping  “The Spring Festival effect is the main reason for
consumer stocks’ rally,” said Dazhong Insurance’s Wu. “They
are good investment options with relative stable earnings
growth.”  The one-week holiday, which begins Jan. 23, generated $64
billion in retail sales last year, according to government
statistics.  Retail sales  rose 18.1 percent in December from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said this week. That
compared with the median 17.2 percent estimate of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, and the 17.3 percent growth in
November.  The Shanghai Composite trades at 9.5 times estimated
earnings, near the record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. It was the worst
performer among the world’s 15 biggest markets in the two years
through 2011 with a 33 percent drop.  The yuan dropped 0.23 percent this week, heading for the
second weekly decline of the year, on speculation China will
limit appreciation to protect exporters as global economic
growth slows.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Shiyin Chen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  