-- China’s CIC Acquires 8.68% Stake in U.K.’s Thames Water Utilities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-20T04:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/china-s-cic-acquires-8-68-stake-in-u-k-s-thames-water-utilities.html
China Investment Corp. (CHIVCZ) , the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, said it bought an 8.68 percent stake in
Thames Water Utilities Ltd., the biggest U.K. biggest water and
sewerage company.  CIC made the investment through a unit, it said in a
 statement  on its website today, without giving further details.
CIC, which managed $409.6 billion at the end of 2010, is the
world’s fifth-largest government fund, according to the
 Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute .  Chairman  Gao Xiqing  said last month that the state fund has
held talks with developed countries’ governments on investing in
infrastructure projects by choosing “more than 10” major
projects and opportunities in nations including the U.K., the
U.S. and Canada.  Infrastructure in  Europe  and the U.S. “badly needs” more
investments, CIC Chief Executive Officer  Lou Jiwei  wrote in the
Financial Times on Nov. 28, pointing to  China ’s spending on such
projects. The fund also said in November it may give
“indirect” support to Europe through its investments.  Korea Investment Corp (KRINVTZ) ., the nation’s $43 billion sovereign
wealth fund, said this week that European assets are
“attractive” amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis. The Abu
Dhabi Investment Authority, the sovereign fund known as Adia,
bought a 9.9 percent stake in Kemble Water Holdings Ltd., the
parent of Thames Water Utilities, the National reported on Dec.
14. The report cited Macquarie Group Ltd., whose funds sold the
stake.  ‘Major Opportunities’  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged to
promote “major opportunities” for Chinese investments in the
United Kingdom’s infrastructure on a visit to Beijing this week.  CIC is also increasing its foreign acquisitions. The fund
will buy 25 percent of former South African politician Cyril Ramaphosa’s Shanduka Group for 2 billion rand ($252 million),
the company said on Dec. 22. It also agreed to tie up with
Singapore’s Global Logistic Properties Ltd. to buy 15 warehouses
in  Japan  last month.  CIC was set up in 2007 with an initial $200 billion of
capital from the nation’s finance ministry.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  