-- Churches to Be Exempt From U.S. Contraception Coverage Rule
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-20T20:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/churches-to-be-exempt-from-u-s-contraception-coverage-rule.html
Churches are exempted from a U.S.
rule requiring coverage of contraceptives under an Obama
administration decision that forces their affiliated schools and
hospitals to begin providing  birth control  in 18 months.  The 2010 health-care law requires health plans to offer
preventive medical services at no cost to patients. U.S. health
officials announced in August that those services would include
contraception, including birth control pills, implants and
sterilization procedures.  Religious organizations opposed to birth control demanded
an exception to the requirement, and two universities sued. In a
compromise, the government agreed to exempt churches and
businesses they administer while giving nonprofits affiliated
with them a one-year delay to comply, said Mary Wakefield of the
 U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services.  “Most women will no longer have to worry about having to
skip this critical preventive care because their plan doesn’t
cover it or they can’t afford an expensive co-pay,” said
Wakefield, administrator of the agency’s Health Resources and
Services Administration, in a conference call.  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said
the extra time gives the organizations more time and flexibility
to adapt.  “This proposal strikes the appropriate balance between
respecting religious freedom and increasing access to important
preventive services,” Sebelius said in a statement.  Schools’ Lawsuits  Belmont Abbey College in Belmont,  North Carolina , and
 Colorado  Christian University in Lakewood, Colorado sued the
government in federal court to overturn the requirement, arguing
that it violates their First Amendment rights and a law
protecting exercise of religion, said Hannah Smith, senior
counsel at the  Becket Fund , a nonprofit  law firm  in Washington
representing both schools.  “This is not really about access to contraception,” Smith
said in a phone interview. “The mandate is about forcing these
religious groups to pay for it against their beliefs.”  Health Benefits Weighed  Groups favoring abortion rights and access to contraception
say that the health benefits of birth control outweigh religious
concerns. The U.S.  Institute of Medicine , a nonpartisan
scientific agency that advises Congress and the government,
recommended in July that Sebelius include birth control among
preventive services that insurers should have to cover.  “Doctors and public health experts agree that increased
access to birth control is not only one of the best ways to
prevent unintended pregnancies, it also improves health outcomes
for women and their families,” said Cecile Richards, president
of  Planned Parenthood Federation of America , in a statement.  Wakefield said she wasn’t sure how the government would
enforce the requirement. Women whose employers don’t cover
contraception even after the requirement takes effect should
complain to state consumer assistance programs, said Mayra
Alvarez, director of health policy at HHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  