-- Cogent Declines After Megaupload.com Is Shut: Washington Mover
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-01-20T23:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/cogent-slumps-after-megaupload-com-is-shut-washington-mover.html
Cogent Communications Group Inc. (CCOI) ,
the Washington-based Internet-service provider, fell the most in
more than three years after customer Megaupload.com was shut by
U.S. authorities during a copyright-infringement investigation.  Cogent  dropped  19 percent to $15.30 at the close in New
York, the biggest plunge since December 2008. The stock has lost
9.4 percent this year after gaining 19 percent in 2011.  The company provided Megaupload with leased computers,
Internet bandwidth, hosting, and support services, according to
an indictment of the Hong Kong-based file-sharing site.
Megaupload transferred $30 million to a Cogent bank account from
February 2009 to last July, according to the indictment.  The FBI searched Cogent’s headquarters, according to a note
by David Dixon, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, who cited a
Wall Street Journal report and talks with Cogent. The company
may lose revenue and Cogent competitors such as  Level 3
Communications Inc. (LVLT)  and its Global Crossing unit may also be at
risk from shutdowns of file-sharing or cyberlocker sites,
according to the analyst.  “It remains unclear how many other similar file-sharing
sites may be at risk and the additional bandwidth related
revenue exposure for companies such as Cogent, Level 3 and
Global Crossing,” Dixon wrote in the note today.  Travis Wachter, Cogent’s marketing communications manager,
didn’t respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  “MegaUpload is not a customer of Level 3. Online file-
sharing customers represent a very small part of Level 3’s
diverse global customer base,” said  Mark Taylor , vice president
of Content and Media for Level 3 Communications. Level 3
acquired Global Crossing in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in  New York  at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  