-- Columbia Labs Tumbles After Failing to Win Backing for Preterm Birth Gel
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-20T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/columbia-labs-fails-to-win-u-s-panel-s-backing-for-preterm-birth-gel.html
Columbia Laboratories Inc. (CBRX)  and
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  failed to win the backing of
advisers to U.S. regulators for the companies’ progesterone gel
to prevent preterm birth. Shares of Columbia Labs fell as much
as 67 percent in extended trading.  The advisers also voted at a meeting today in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland , that the companies didn’t adequately prove the
gel prevents mid-trimester births in women with short cervixes.
The  Food and Drug Administration  is scheduled to decide whether
to approve the gel by Feb. 26 and isn’t required to follow the
panel’s recommendations.  The FDA asked the panel to weigh the adequacy of the data
after an agency staff report determined the gel didn’t work in
the  U.S. population . Watson, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey ,
and Livingston, New Jersey-based Columbia Labs sell the gel as
Crinone in the U.S. as part of an infertility treatment.
Management had suggested peak sales in preterm birth prevention
could reach as high as $275 million,  Michael Tong , a senior
analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York , said Jan. 17.  “There was basically no treatment effect in the U.S.”
said Lisa Soule, FDA’s clinical team leader in the reproductive
and urologic drugs division. “That concerned us.”  The advisers voted 13-4 that the risks of the gel
outweighed the benefits and the drug shouldn’t be approved. The
group also voted 13-4 that the data the companies provided
wasn’t adequate.  Additional Research  Panel members suggested the companies study the product
further, particularly comparing different doses and
concentrating on the U.S. population.  “Obviously, we’re very disappointed,” Frank Condella,
chief executive officer of Columbia Labs, said after the
meeting. He said the company would work with the FDA to gain
approval for the drug.  KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A) ’s Makena was approved in February
2010 to reduce the risk of preterm birth in women with a history
of the condition. Columbia Labs and Watson said their gel would
prevent preterm birth in women with a short cervix.  Watson’s shares fell 3.5 percent to $58.14 at the close in
New York. Columbia Labs fell to as low as 52 cents in extended
trading. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $1.58 and
trading was halted today during the advisory panel meeting. KV
rose 9.3 percent to $2.11.  KV faced criticism for charging $1,500 per injection when
it first brought Makena to market. The price was as much as 150
times the cost of compounds that pharmacies make outside of
normal FDA rules.  Price Reduction  The company dropped the price to $690 a shot two months
after its Feb. 3 approval. The FDA is investigating the safety
of the so-called compounded versions made by pharmacies.  “We are acutely aware of the issues related to the
pricing,” Kathleen Reape, vice president of medical affairs and
women’s health clinical research at Watson, told the panel. “I
can assure you that that approach will not be repeated.”  Of U.S. patients, 16.8 percent using Columbia Labs and
Watson’s gel experienced preterm birth before 33 weeks of
pregnancy compared with 19.2 percent using placebo, not a
statistically significant difference, FDA staff said.  A global study found a statistically significant reduction
in preterm birth compared with placebo of 8.9 percent versus
15.2 percent, according to a report from Columbia Labs. The
company’s final-phase study involved 465 women, including six
who dropped out, in 10 countries.  Preterm birth affects 10 percent to 12 percent of all
pregnancies in the U.S., according to Columbia Labs. A baby born
before 37 weeks is considered preterm, while Columbia Labs, in
agreement with the FDA, sought to determine whether the gel
worked before 33 weeks.  The safety of the gel was similar to a placebo, according
to the FDA staff report. There were no maternal deaths in either
the group using the gel or the placebo and the rates of fetal,
neonatal and infant deaths were similar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 