-- Columbia Labs Didn’t Provide Proper Data on Preterm Birth Gel, Panel Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-20T20:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/columbia-labs-didn-t-provide-proper-data-on-preterm-birth-gel-panel-says.html
Columbia Laboratories Inc. (CBRX)  and
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  didn’t provide sufficient data that
their progesterone gel reduces the risk of preterm birth,
advisers to U.S. regulators said.  A  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel voted 13-4
today in Silver Spring, Maryland, that the companies didn’t
adequately prove the gel prevents mid-trimester births. The
agency is scheduled to decide whether to approve the gel by Feb.
26 and isn’t required to follow the recommendations.  The FDA asked the panel to weigh the adequacy of the data
after an agency staff report determined the gel didn’t work in
the  U.S. population . Watson, based in Parsippany, New Jersey,
and Livingston, New Jersey-based Columbia Labs sell the gel as
Crinone in the U.S. as part of an infertility treatment.
Management had suggested peak sales in preterm birth prevention
may reach as high as $275 million,  Michael Tong , a senior
analyst with Wells Fargo & Co. in  New York , said Jan. 17.  “There was basically no treatment effect in the U.S.”
said Lisa Soule, FDA’s clinical team leader in the reproductive
and urologic drugs division. “That concerned us.”  KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A) ’s Makena was approved in February
2010 to reduce the risk of preterm birth in women who have a
history of the condition. Columbia Labs and Watson say their gel
would prevent preterm birth in women with a short cervix.  Watson shares declined 3.3 percent to $58.25 at 3:13 p.m.
New York time. Trading in Columbia Labs was halted during the
panel meeting. KV gained 15 percent to $2.21.  Of U.S. patients, 16.8 percent using Columbia Labs and
Watson’s gel experienced preterm birth at 33 weeks of pregnancy
compared with 19.2 percent using a placebo, not a statistically
significant difference, FDA staff said in their report.  A global study found a statistically significant reduction
in preterm birth compared with placebo of 8.9 percent versus
15.2 percent, according to a report from Columbia Labs. The
company’s final-phase study involved 465 women, including six
who dropped out, in 10 countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 