-- Community Health Systems Said to Seek Extension of $2 Billion of Term Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-01-20T16:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/community-health-systems-said-to-seek-extension-of-2-billion-of-term-debt.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the
second-largest U.S. hospital chain, is seeking to extend $2
billion of a $4.5 billion term loan to January 2017 from July
2014, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The debt will pay interest at 3.5 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. Lenders
will also be paid a 12.5 basis point fee to agree to the
extension, the person said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing for the
Franklin, Tennessee-based company and is asking lenders to
respond by Jan. 25 at 5 p.m. in  New York .  The proposed amendment will allow  Community Health  to
replace its existing $750 million revolving line of credit that
is currently due to expire in July 2013, the person said. As of
Sept. 30 the company had no borrowings outstanding under the
facility that pays interest at 2.25 percentage points more than
Libor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenders are also being asked to increase the company’s
ability to borrow additional funds to as much as $1.75 billion
from $1 billion by issuing a new term loan A, the person said.
Proceeds of such borrowings will be used to refinance debt.  Larry Cash, chief financial officer of Community Health,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  A  term loan  A is sold primarily to banks, while so-called B
loans are mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds .
In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again once
it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  