-- Connecticut Has Credit Ratings Lowered by Moody’s on Debt, Pension Costs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-01-20T17:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/connecticut-has-ratings-cut-by-moody-s.html
Connecticut (STOCT1)  had its general-
obligation bond rating cut to Aa3 from Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said debt and pension costs are consuming an
increasing amount of its budget.  Governor Dannel Malloy, who raised income taxes the most in
state history last year, said this week that receipts haven’t
met estimates, leading to a $94.9 million revenue shortfall this
fiscal year. The cut to the fourth-highest grade affects about
$14.6 billion in outstanding general-obligation bonds, Moody’s
said. The outlook was revised to stable from negative.  “Connecticut’s combined fixed costs for debt service,
pension and other post-employment benefits are already high and,
absent significant further reforms, will continue to consume an
increasingly larger portion of the state’s budget,” Moody’s
said in a release.  The rating company said  Connecticut  is susceptible to
“financial market fluctuations” because it depends on taxes on
capital gains from wealthy residents, who are concentrated in
the  New York  City suburb of Fairfield County. Connecticut has
the highest net tax-supported debt among the 50 states, Moody’s
said in a previous report. The state is also the wealthiest,
with per-capita personal income of $54,397 in 2009, according to
Department of Commerce data.  ‘Moody’s Is Wrong’  “Moody’s is wrong in its analysis of the state’s finances,
and wrong to change Connecticut’s credit rating,” Benjamin Barnes, secretary of the Office of Policy and Management, said
in a statement. “Connecticut has done all the right things to
shore up our finances, and Moody’s has responded with a
downgrade intended to satisfy their internal corporate need to
deflect attention from their historic lack of credibility.”  Lower-than-expected tax collections in Connecticut mirror a
trend in other states with high-wage earners, including New
York,  New Jersey  and  Massachusetts , Malloy, the Democratic
governor, said in a statement Jan. 17. Fiscal 2013 revenue is
projected to trail forecasts by $139 million, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  