-- Corzine Is Sued Under Racketeering Law by MF Global’s Commodity Customers
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-20T23:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/corzine-is-sued-under-racketeering-law-by-mf-global-s-commodity-customers.html
Jon Corzine ,  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s former chief executive officer, was sued under U.S.
racketeering law by commodity customers alleging he and other
executives “unlawfully” took money from their accounts and
failed to segregate their money as the law requires.  The suit alleges that hundreds of millions of dollars were
transferred from customers’ accounts to other MF Global units,
at a time when the company was short of cash and faced calls for
collateral as its risky Eurobond and other investments fell in
value.  Named in the suit,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the company’s
banker, should have noticed the “depletion” of customer money,
and should have investigated, according to the plaintiff. The
customers are seeking unspecified restitution and damages.  The suit, filed in federal court in  Manhattan  today on
behalf of Robert Marcin and other MF Global segregated account
holders by Grant & Eisenhofer PA of New York, is one of at least
10 against Corzine and other MF Global executives. Plaintiffs
including the Virginia Retirement System have been competing to
lead a consolidated lawsuit seeking so-called class-action
status.  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the suit. Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Following the Rules  JPMorgan did contact MF Global on at least one occasion
when customer money was used to pay an overdraft and was
reassured the transaction followed all the necessary rules,
according to a person familiar with the transfer. Corzine has
said his staff told him that a transfer of customer money was
following the rules, which allowed for some use of segregated
assets.  MF Global filed for bankruptcy listing $41 billion in
assets after making bets on European sovereign debt and getting
margin calls. The brokerage trustee is giving customers 72
percent of their assets after calculating that $1.2 billion or
more is missing from their accounts. The holding company is the
parent of a futures brokerage that is being liquidated in a
separate court proceeding.  The case is Marcin v. Corzine, 12-cv-0499, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  