-- Mortgage Principal Cuts Don’t Help Homeowners
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-20T20:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/credit-suisse-says-mortgage-principal-cuts-are-risky-don-t-aid-homeowners.html
Reducing mortgage balances is a
risky idea that hasn’t been shown to keep borrowers who owe more
than their  property ’s worth in their homes, according to  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Of the 11 million of “underwater” homeowners, about 6.5
million have never  missed a payment  and 2 million more are
making on-time payments after a delinquency, said Dale Westhoff,
the bank’s global head of structured products research.
Widespread principal reductions may drive defaults “much, much
higher” as borrowers seek the aid, he said.  “We’ve never done this before; we don’t know what the risk
is,” Westhoff, a top-ranked mortgage-bond analyst in polls by
Institutional Investor magazine for 15 years in a row while at
Bear Stearns Cos., said today at a briefing for reporters in New
York. Along with creating so-called moral hazard, the step may
also  tighten lending  by forcing banks to offer “price
protection” to borrowers, he said.  Credit Suisse’s view puts it at odds with Federal Reserve
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley; Amherst Securities
Group LP analyst  Laurie Goodman , a member of the Fixed Income
Analysts Society’s Hall of Fame; and hedge-fund manager Greg Lippmann, who last year advocated principal reductions, citing
data from his former employer, Deutsche Bank AG.  Debt Forgiveness  Dudley  said  this month policy makers should consider
allowing non-delinquent borrowers to earn debt forgiveness with
on-time payments, while state attorneys general and federal
regulators may encourage principal reductions as part of a
settlement being negotiated with the biggest banks over their
foreclosure practices.  Data Credit Suisse examined show essentially no difference
in re-default rates among delinquent borrowers given only
payment reductions and those also offered smaller mortgages,
Chandrajit Bhattacharya, an analyst at the bank, said at the
briefing.  Based on loans in mortgage bonds without government
backing, about 40 percent of borrowers whose payments were cut
between 20 percent and 40 percent defaulted again after 12
months, regardless of whether they were more than 60 percent
underwater or had  home equity  between zero and 20 percent,
according to Credit Suisse.  Data from  bank regulators  also show almost no difference in
re-defaults among loans in the portfolios of banks, whose
modifications include principal cuts 18 percent of the time, and
mortgages guaranteed by government-supported  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , which don’t lower balances, Bhattacharya said.  Resisting Calls  “You’ve got to base policy on something that’s factual,”
he said. “You can’t base policy on something that you expect
that hasn’t happened yet.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage firms overseen by
Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco,
and lenders including  Bank of America Corp . have resisted calls
for widespread reductions of mortgage balances, saying the move
is unnecessary or may encourage more homeowners to default.  The  New York  Fed’s Dudley said Jan. 6 that “analysis by my
staff that looks at likely borrower behavior over an extended
time horizon suggests that without a significant turnaround in
home prices and employment, a substantial proportion of those
loans that are deeply underwater will ultimately default --
absent an earned principal reduction program.”  Amherst’s Goodman says that principal reductions are needed
to avoid 8 million to 10 million more distressed-property sales.  Principal Reductions  “We have shown that, even controlling for all other
factors, principal reductions are more effective,” she said
today in an e-mail. “Realize also that banks are doing it on
their own portfolios and have been for years. Why would they
continue if it was not more effective?”  Among  subprime  borrowers who received payment reductions of
more than 40 percent in 2010, 19 percent defaulted after 12
months if their reworked loans included a lower balance, while
27 percent fell behind again if they only received a lower rate,
according to a December report by Goodman’s team.  Lippmann, the former Deutsche Bank trader who gained fame
for his bets against subprime mortgages before the housing
market collapsed, is urging debt forgiveness for U.S.
homeowners.  “Principal reductions are necessary to help ameliorate the
housing crisis,” Lippmann, chief investment officer for New
York-based hedge fund LibreMax Capital LLC, said in an Oct. 31
letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg News. The step will
also lower losses on loans underlying mortgage bonds, he said.  Borrowers are 1.7 times more likely to  default  again after
a loan is reworked without cutting the balance, he said, citing
a Deutsche Bank report the previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  