-- Crude May Advance on Signs of Economic Recovery, Survey Shows
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-01-20T22:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/crude-may-advance-on-signs-of-economic-recovery-survey-shows.html
Crude may rise next week on
speculation an economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s top
oil consumer, will boost demand, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Eighteen of 40 analysts, or 45 percent, forecast oil will
advance through Jan. 27. Fifteen respondents, or 38 percent,
predicted prices will drop and seven estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 50 percent of surveyed analysts
expected a decline.  The number of Americans filing for  unemployment benefits 
fell to the lowest level in almost four years, the Labor
Department reported yesterday. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said this year will be a “much better” one for
the euro area as the region’s debt crisis ebbs.  “Some of the economic data has been pretty upbeat and we
are seeing more confidence in the  U.S. economy ,” said Phillip Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.
“We’ve also seen some kind of progress being made in Europe”  U.S. weekly jobless  claims  plunged by 50,000 to 352,000 in
the week ended Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008,
according to the Labor Department.  “I am confident that the euro will be in better shape in
2012 because I look at the progress that has been achieved on
the two root causes of the situation, namely lack of fiscal
discipline and lack of structural reform,” Draghi said at a
press conference yesterday in  Abu Dhabi .  The 27 European Union member states accounted for 16
percent of global oil consumption last year, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. used 21 percent.  Crude oil for February delivery declined 24 cents to $98.46
a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract expired today.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 48 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  -- Editors: Margot Habiby, Charlotte Porter  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  