-- Czechs Don’t Need Higher Interest Rates in Near Term, Central Banker Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-20T11:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/czechs-don-t-need-higher-interest-rates-in-near-term-central-banker-says.html
The Czech central bank shouldn’t cut
 interest rates  further and doesn’t need to tighten policy in the
“near-term” given the lack of domestic inflationary pressures
in the economy, board member Pavel Rezabek said.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the  benchmark
rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent, a quarter-point below the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, since May 2010 as policy
makers weighed a slowing economy against accelerating inflation
at the last meeting on Dec. 21. The Czech economic outlook is
clouded by the debt crisis in the euro area, which takes about
70 percent of the country’s exports.  The economy is deviating from the bank’s baseline forecast
from Nov.3 that had assumed a decline in interest rates and is
converging with the alternative outlook which saw stable rates,
Rezabek said in an interview in Prague yesterday. Rezabek, who
has voted with the board’s majority to keep the rates stable
since the last change, said he isn’t in favor of a further
loosening of monetary conditions.  “Tightening monetary conditions doesn’t seem warranted in
the near term either given the fact that demand pressures are
curtailed by the economic situation abroad,” Rezabek said.
“I’m not concerned that more significant pressures would arise
and spark an increase in interest rates in the near-term.”  Policy makers across east  Europe  face resurgent price
growth due to weakening currencies and the worsening economic
outlook in the euro region, their biggest export market, which
may be nearing a recession under the weight of its debt burden
and government austerity plans.  Czech rates may stay stable through 2012 barring a
“surprise” buildup of inflationary pressures in the domestic
economy, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said in an
interview on Jan. 18.  Contracting Economy  The Czech economy shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months, the first quarterly contraction
since a 2009 recession.  Gross domestic product  growth slowed to
1.2 percent from a year ago in the July-September period, from 2
percent in the previous quarter.  Inflation (CZCPYOY)  was 2.4 percent in December, slowing from a 3-
year high of 2.5 percent in the previous month while remaining
above the central bank’s 2 percent target for a third month.
Inflation may have been influenced by prices rising ahead of the
increase in the lower value-added tax bracket at the start of
2012, with domestic demand-driven inflation pressures absent,
according to minutes from the December policy meeting.  “Inflation expectations are well anchored in the Czech
Republic, and even the VAT increase hasn’t changed that,” said
Rezabek. “Given the fact that inflation expectations are well
anchored, there is no reason to react with monetary policy.”  ‘Sharp Slowdown’  The central bank’s baseline forecast sees the koruna at
23.1 to the euro, GDP rising 1.2 percent and the three-month
 Prague  interbank offered rate averaging 0.9 percent. The bank
also prepared an alternative scenario that sees a “sharp
slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth this year, which
would result in a 0.4 percent Czech GDP contraction.  This outlook also sees a weaker koruna and the Pribor rate
at 1.3 percent on average. The three-month Pribor was 1.17
percent today.  The koruna has lost 1.3 percent to the euro in the past
three months, the second-worst performance, after Hungarian
forint, among 25 emerging markets currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The koruna weakened 0.3 percent to 25.374 to the euro
as of 10:58 a.m. in Prague.  “Factors mentioned in the alternative forecast scenario
appear to be materializing, including assumptions of relatively
weak demand in the  Czech Republic  and the impact of problems in
some more developed countries in Europe,” said Rezabek. “There
is also the assumption of lower growth compared with the
baseline scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  