-- Czech Policy Maker Says Troubled Countries Should Sell Property
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-20T11:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/czech-policy-maker-says-troubled-countries-should-sell-property.html
European Union countries
experiencing economic difficulties should sell state property as
part of efforts to overcome their troubles, Czech central bank
board member Pavel Rezabek said.  Rezabek commented on  Europe ’s debt crisis, Czech economic
developments and the outlook for  interest rates  in an interview
in Prague yesterday.  On Europe’s debt crisis:  “Europe has been taking steps for some time that are
eroding its competitiveness. These steps include environmental
measures, such as a precipitous shift away from nuclear energy,
that are pushing energy prices up. We are not talking about
catastrophic scenarios, but it’s difficult to be optimistic
about Europe’s future.  ‘‘There is a risk that measures from the past few years are
effectively pushing economic activity away from Europe, and that
is a key problem.  ‘‘When some countries in eurozone have problems, then I
would assume that they will first use their own resources to
solve these problems. These countries own significant amounts of
state property and this property can be sold off. Even the Greek
government has a significant role in the economy as an owner,
and there hasn’t been a major change in ownership there.  ‘‘We shouldn’t be debating loans to some countries when we
see how much property these countries own. They weren’t able to
conduct responsible policy, so they should lose the right to
manage this property and it should be sold off to other owners.  ‘‘It has been clear for more than two years that  Greece  has
no chance to repay its debts. I would stick to an old bankers’
rule that says that one shouldn’t throw good money after bad.  ‘‘Leaving the eurozone and even a 100 percent haircut on
debt to private investors wouldn’t be a solution for Greece.
Institutional investors would have to forgo part of their loans
as well.  On Czech economy, interest rates:  ‘‘Factors mentioned in the alternative-forecast scenario
appear to be materializing, including assumptions of relatively
weak demand in the Czech Republic and the impact of problems in
some more developed countries in Europe. There is also the
assumption of lower growth compared with the baseline scenario.  ‘‘Lower growth would be primarily caused by the impact from
external environment as the Czech economy is largely dependent
on exports.  ‘‘We can hardly expect demand-driven inflationary pressures
because upward pressures on wages aren’t appearing and the
government’s austerity policy in state spending is also reducing
demand.  ‘‘The cost impulses may fade away too due to weakening
demand globally, so this shouldn’t generate significant
inflationary pressures in the near term.  ‘‘Inflation expectations are well anchored in the  Czech
Republic  and even the VAT increase hasn’t changed that. Given
the fact that inflation expectations are well anchored, there is
no reason to react with monetary policy.  ‘‘I’m not in favor of a further loosening of monetary
conditions because it is not necessary to act at the moment and
also the market rates did not follow our previous moves all the
way.  ‘‘Tightening monetary conditions doesn’t seem warranted in
the near term either, given the fact that demand pressures are
curtailed by the economic situation abroad. I’m not concerned
that more significant pressures would arise and spark an
increase in interest rates in the near-term horizon.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  