-- David Tyree Sheds 49ers’ Gold of Youth to Help New York Giants’ Blue Shine
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-20T21:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/david-tyree-sheds-49ers-gold-of-youth-to-help-new-york-giants-blue-shine.html
The last time the  New York Giants 
beat the  San Francisco 49ers  in the postseason, it made a Giant-
hater out of David Tyree.  Tyree, a 32-year-old New Jersey native who literally used
his head in making an all-time-highlight catch for the Giants
late in their 2008 Super Bowl win over the  New England Patriots ,
grew up wearing the jersey of Jerry Rice, the 49ers’ Hall of
Fame wide receiver.  The Giants and 49ers meet again in two days at Candlestick
Park in San Francisco with a berth in the  National Football
League  title game at stake. There’s no question where the
rooting interest will lie for Tyree, now forever tied to New
York sports history and the team known as Big Blue. The 49ers’
gold rush stops here, he said.  “I got caught up in the ‘80s wave of Rice and (Joe)
 Montana ,’’ Tyree, who grew up in Montclair,  New Jersey , about
eight miles (13 kilometers) from the Giants’ home in  East
Rutherford , said in an interview today. ‘‘They were winning
Super Bowls and I was just enjoying it. I ended up hating the
Giants because Leonard Marshall smacked them around in the ‘90
game.’’  The Giants beat the 49ers 15-13 in that playoff game after
the 1990 season. Marshall, a defensive lineman, had two sacks.
New York went on to beat the  Buffalo Bills  20-19 in the Super
Bowl.  More than two decades later, Tyree was smiling and wearing
a Giants camouflage cap at a ceremony in New York where he
pulled the lever to light the Empire State Building Giants blue
for the next two days.  ‘‘The hatred has now totally evaporated,’’ he said.  Super Bowl  The Giants-49ers winner will advance to the Super Bowl on
Feb. 5 in Indianapolis and a meeting with either the Patriots or
 Baltimore Ravens , who also play on Jan. 22 to decide the
American Football Conference championship.  Tyree retired in 2010 and said he is now the director of
strategic partnerships for New York-based Tepidus Group, a
financial-planning company with a unit focused on philanthropic
endeavors such as building orphanages. In June he was back in
the spotlight after appearing in a video opposing same-sex
marriage. New York lawmakers passed a law allowing it later that
month.  Whatever he does, it will be tough for Tyree to gain more
fame than he did when he grabbed a pass from quarterback Eli Manning on Feb. 3, 2008, in Glendale,  Arizona .  The Giants trailed the Patriots by four points, with third-
and-five on their own 44-yard-line and 1:15 remaining in the
fourth quarter. Manning evaded tackles by three Patriots
defenders, spinning and reversing direction before throwing the
ball downfield.  Helmet Assist  Tyree, who had four receptions during the regular season,
leaped through the arms of  New England  safety Rodney Harrison
and caught the ball by pinning it against the top of his own
helmet. He held it there as he was tackled by Harrison for a 32-
yard gain and a first down. New York scored on Manning’s pass to
Plaxico Burress with 35 seconds remaining to win 17-14.  The play was called the greatest in Super Bowl history by
Steve Sabol, the president of NFL Films Inc. It also was the
last catch Tyree ever made in the National Football League.  Tyree underwent knee surgery in July 2008 and missed that
season. He was waived in September 2009 as part of the Giants’
final cutdown to a 53-man roster. He signed in October with the
Baltimore Ravens, playing 10 games mostly on special teams. He
signed a one-day contract with New York to retire as a Giant in
July 2010.  Clutch catches have become recurrent storylines in the
playoff histories of both the Giants and 49ers.  ‘The Catch’  Dwight Clark’s touchdown grab from Montana in the back
corner of the end zone, which occurred a week after Tyree turned
2, propelled the 49ers past the  Dallas Cowboys  in the National
Football Conference championship after the 1981 season.  San
Francisco  went on to beat the  Cincinnati Bengals  in the Super
Bowl.  The grabs by Clark and Tyree both have become known as
‘‘the Catch.”  Last week, the 49ers advanced to their first NFC
championship since the 1997 season when tight end Vernon Davis
caught a 14-yard touchdown pass from Alex Smith with nine
seconds remaining to beat the  New Orleans Saints .  The following day the Giants stunned the defending-champion
 Green Bay  Packers 37-20, seizing control of the game at Lambeau
Field on a 66-yard pass from Manning that was caught in the end
zone by receiver Hakeem Nicks above a crowd of defenders as time
expired in the first half. Nicks also used his helmet to help
secure the ball and the Giants took a 20-10 lead on the way to
their fourth straight victory.  The Giants’ most recent Super Bowl-championship team won 11
straight games away from their home field. Tyree has noticed the
similar streaks.  “Circumstances were just as monumental,” Tyree said.
“When Hakeem made that catch, everyone could say this was
unreal. Something’s happening here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 