-- Ex-Galleon Trader Slaine Who Led U.S. to Probe Rajaratnam Gets Probation
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/david-slaine-employee-who-led-to-rajaratnam-gets-three-years-probation.html
Ex-Galleon Group LLC trader David Slaine, who helped lead U.S. authorities to investigate the
hedge fund firm’s co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was sentenced to
three years probation for  securities fraud .  Slaine wore a wire to record dozens of conversations with
suspects including ex-Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer  who were later
charged with insider trading. He provided help that prosecutors
from the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called
“nothing short of extraordinary.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who sentenced Slaine
yesterday in Manhattan federal court, also ordered him to
perform 300 hours of community service and pay a $500,000 fine.
Sullivan praised Slaine’s cooperation, which began in 2007.  “Mr. Slaine, you have your life back,” Sullivan said at
the end of the sentencing hearing. “I think you’ve earned it,
by virtue of the work you’ve done over the last five years.”  Slaine’s evidence helped spur what became the biggest probe
of  insider trading  at hedge funds, prosecutors said in a letter
to Sullivan this month. His lawyer, Stephen Kaufman, said Slaine
already has paid $836,000 in criminal forfeitures and to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Slaine is now an investor at Spot, a Manhattan-based chain
that provides training, grooming and daycare for dogs, according
to Kaufman. Slaine also works there, Kaufman said.  ‘Humiliating’  “These last four years have been humbling and
humiliating,” Slaine told Sullivan at his sentencing hearing.
“I am ashamed of the bad decisions that I made back in 2002,
which haunt me to this day.”  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified at the trial of Goffer, his
brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman, that he cooperated
with federal agents for about 2 1/2 years to try to avoid
prison. He faced a sentence of as long as 25 years in prison.  Slaine testified that he became friends in the late 1980s
or early 1990s with Craig Drimal, another former trader who
pleaded guilty.  Rajaratnam reported to Federal Medical Center Devens in
Ayer,  Massachusetts , last month to begin an 11-year prison
sentence, the longest ever for insider trading. He was convicted
in Manhattan federal court last May of 14 counts of conspiracy
and securities fraud.  In a new round of arrests, prosecutors in Manhattan
announced Jan. 18 that they had charged seven men who they claim
formed a “criminal club” of friends and coworkers that reaped
almost $62 million from insider trades in Dell Inc. shares.  Guilty Plea  Slaine pleaded guilty to trading on inside information in
2002 when he was head trader of Chelsey Capital, a hedge fund,
according to the government letter, signed by Assistant U.S.
Attorneys Andrew Fish,  Reed Brodsky  and Richard Tarlowe.  The SEC claimed Slaine used illegal inside information to
trade for his own account and for Chelsey Capital. He made more
than 20 trades in his own account based on illegal tips,
personally profiting by more than $500,000. Both sides agreed
for sentencing purposes that the total illegal gain attributable
to Slaine was $2.5 million to $7 million.  Slaine was approached by the government in July 2007,
according to the letter. He told investigators about possible
insider trading by Drimal, then agreed to wear a wire and record
conversations with him. The conversations with Drimal led to the
Goffers and Kimelman, whom Slaine also recorded at the direction
of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , prosecutors said.  Cooperation with FBI  Investigators used Slaine’s conversations with Drimal to
get authorization for wiretaps on Zvi Goffer, Brooklyn lawyer
Jason Goldfarb, former Schottenfeld Group LLC trader Gautham Shankar and  Thomas Hardin , an ex-Lanexa Global Management
trader, prosecutors said.  Slaine worked closely with the FBI for many months,
providing general information about the securities industry and
the workings of particular hedge funds, they said. In May, he
testified against the Goffers and Kimelman, telling jurors he
followed the instructions of FBI agents in collecting evidence
for their investigation.  Slaine’s cooperation was key to convicting the Goffers and
Kimelman and led to guilty pleas from nine others connected to
the ring, the government said.  Government investigators used the wiretaps of Drimal and
Goffer to get a warrant to tap Rajaratnam’s mobile phone,
according to the letter.  Recordings of Rajaratnam’s conversations were the
centerpiece of his trial and implicated others who have been
charged in the investigation, including  Rajat Gupta , a former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director.  Slaine’s cooperation also led, through Shankar and Hardin,
to Karl Motey, an independent consultant whose cooperation with
federal investigators led to the prosecution of former Primary
Global Research LLC executive James Fleishman and others
connected to the expert networking firm.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in U.S. District Court in New York at
   ithomas15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  