-- Gingrich, Romney ’Neck and Neck’ in South Carolina
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-21T18:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/debate-exposes-tensions-as-republican-primary-race-reshaped-by-surprises.html
Striving to regain ground in the
final hours before the South Carolina Republican presidential
primary,  Mitt Romney  raised questions about rival  Newt Gingrich ’s business dealings as the former House speaker aimed
for an upset victory that could prolong the nominating race.  “I’d like to see what he actually told  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ,”
Romney told reporters gathered outside his campaign headquarters
in Greenville. “Let’s see what his report was.”  Gingrich, who might win or pull even with Romney in today’s
voting, has faced questions from his Republican presidential
rivals about his business dealings and consulting work for
 Freddie Mac , the government-backed home mortgage company, after
he left Congress. Freddie Mac and its sister company,  Fannie
Mae , have received about $153 billion in taxpayer aid since
losses from risky mortgages caused them to be brought under U.S.
conservatorship in September 2008.  Romney’s campaign is saying the former Massachusetts
governor may lose the state, leaving him with just one early
state victory heading into the Jan. 31  Florida  primary.
Traveling the state yesterday, Romney sought to downplay
expectations, describing the race as a “neck-and-neck”
competition.  “I said from the very beginning  South Carolina  is an
uphill battle for a guy from Massachusetts,” he told reporters
in Gilbert, South Carolina. “We’re battling hard.”  The winner of the South Carolina primary has gone on to win
the Republican nomination since 1980.  Slipping Support  A  poll  released yesterday, conducted by  Clemson University ,
put Gingrich ahead of Romney, 32 percent to 26 percent. Trailing
are U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  at 11 percent and
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  at 9 percent, with 20
percent undecided. The survey of 429 Republicans who said they
intend to vote today was conducted from Jan. 18 to yesterday and
has an error margin of plus-or-minus 4.7 percentage points.  During the first week in January, Romney had an 18-point
lead in a South Carolina poll. Now, he and his advisers may face
a drawn-out nomination fight extending into the spring.  Both candidates were scheduled to appear at the same time
at the same barbecue restaurant in Greenville. Romney arrived at
Tommy’s Country Ham House 45 minutes early and had left by the
time Gingrich arrived at the Greenville restaurant.  “Where’s Mitt?” Gingrich said. “I thought he was going
to stay and maybe we’d have a little debate.”  ‘ Massachusetts  Moderate’  Gingrich appealed to diners to remember that “I am the
only conservative who has the opportunity to stop a
Massachusetts moderate.”  Today, Romney told reporters that he would attend the next
Republican debate scheduled for Jan. 23 in Tampa, Florida, a
sign that his campaign anticipates a longer struggle for the
nomination.  Romney supporters argue that quickly claiming the
nomination would allow the party more time to prepare for the
campaign against Democratic President  Barack Obama .  “I want to end it in South Carolina because I’m watching
the Democrats raise money by the day,” South Carolina Governor
Nikki Haley, a Romney backer, said in Greenville this morning.
“It is good for all Republicans and conservatives to end this
in South Carolina.”  Romney’s efforts to lock up the nomination were dealt
another blow late last night, when Republican Party leaders in
 Iowa  officially declared Santorum the winner of the Jan. 3
caucuses.  Iowa party officials had named Romney the winner in the
early morning hours on Jan. 4 because he was ahead of Santorum
by eight votes in its initial tabulation.  Nominating History  The changing vote total means that Romney can no longer
claim to have made history by becoming the first Republican non-
incumbent to win both the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire
primary since the caucuses became the start of the presidential
nominating process in 1976.  Seeking to regain ground, Romney and his backers have
attempted to focus attention on Gingrich, raising questions
about his record in Congress.  Yesterday, Romney called on Gingrich to release details of
a 1997 congressional investigation into ethics charges when he
was House speaker. The investigation resulted in Gingrich being
reprimanded by fellow lawmakers and charged with a $300,000 fine
in chamber-reimbursement costs.  Gingrich scoffed at the demand, referring to what he said
is a 900-page cache of information publicly available on the
matter and Romney’s refusal to immediately release his tax
returns.  Disclosure Demands  “Give me a break,” Gingrich told reporters after the town
hall in Orangeburg. “I refuse to take seriously any request
from the Romney campaign to disclose anything, because they’re
clearly not going to disclose anything at any level that
involves him.”  Romney, a multimillionaire from his days as a private-
equity executive, has been trailed by questions during the South
Carolina campaign about why he’s refusing to provide any tax
returns until April -- when his party’s nomination contestmay
effectively be over.  On Jan. 17, Romney said his effective  tax rate  is
“probably” close to 15 percent because much of his income
comes from investments.  Romney supporters worked to discount the tax issue, arguing
that voters were more focused on  jobs  and the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  