-- Dexia Will Need to Tap EU75 Billion of Guarantees, Mariani Says
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-01-20T18:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/dexia-will-need-to-tap-eu75-billion-of-guarantees-mariani-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
being broken up after losing access to short-term funding, will
need to tap 75 billion euros ($97 billion) to 80 billion euros
of promised government guarantees to replace  maturing debt .  The Oct. 9 agreement between Belgium, France and Luxembourg
to provide as much as 90 billion euros of state guarantees
includes a safety margin of 10 billion euros to 15 billion
euros, Dexia Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani told
lawmakers in the Belgian parliament in Brussels today. That
margin will stay intact if market conditions don’t deteriorate,
he said.  The bank currently has 45 billion euros of temporary
government backstops available until May 31, pending the
submission of final guarantees for approval by the European
Union antitrust authority, and has been using those to repay 14
billion euros of unsecured loans granted by its former Belgian
banking unit.  Belgium  bought the local bank and its insurance
company for 4 billion euros on Oct. 20. Dexia needs to pledge
assets to the states in return for the temporary guarantees.  “The temporary guarantees don’t do anything to improve our
liquidity,” Mariani told the lawmakers. “We’re replacing
secured  funding  by collateralized guaranteed funding here.”  Both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service have
said the Dexia guarantees were one of the main reasons to lower
Belgium’s credit rating in recent months. Belgium agreed to
provide more than 60 percent of the government backstops and
this contingent liability may ultimately inflate the country’s
debt load, Moody’s said on Dec. 15.  Coming Weeks  Mariani said he expects to reach agreements in coming weeks
to sell Dexia’s Turkish banking unit and a 50 percent stake in a
joint venture with  Royal Bank of Canada .  Keeping employees and persuading the European Commission,
the EU’s antitrust authority, not to treat Dexia as a commercial
bank when it seeks compensations to offset the state aid, are
two key challenges during the breakup, Mariani said.  “We won’t have any commercial operations left after the
breakup, so the European Commission shouldn’t apply the same
measures to us as it does to other banks,” Mariani said. “The
fate of 90 billion euros lies in the hands of about 300
people.”  Mariani said Dexia lost about 6 percent of its  workforce  in
the past three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  