-- Dim Sum Loans May Triple This Year as BoCom Sees ‘Golden Era’
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-01-20T00:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/dim-sum-loans-in-hong-kong-may-triple-this-year-as-bocom-sees-golden-era-.html
Yuan loans in  Hong Kong  may triple
this year as the currency becomes more globally accepted in
trade and finance, according to Bank of Communications Ltd.,
 China ’s  fifth-largest  lender by market value.  Outstanding yuan loans may rise to almost 60 billion yuan
($9.5 billion), from 19 billion yuan as of Sept. 30, Xu Chengfa,
the deputy general manager of the Hong Kong branch, said in a
Jan. 18 interview. Standard Chartered Plc Chief Executive
Officer  Benjamin Hung  last month predicted 100 billion yuan.  Hong Kong deposit rates in the Chinese currency tripled in
2011 as credit tightening in China spurred demand for funds from
mainland companies. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the de-
facto central bank, relaxed capital rules for lenders this week
to boost the yuan’s availability as loan demand surged.  “This year will be the golden era for yuan loans in Hong
Kong,” said Xu. “We see great potential. Chinese banks have
the competitive advantage, with a better understanding of the
business environment and policies.”  China is trying to promote the use of the currency in
global trade and finance, designating Honk Kong as the major
offshore  yuan  centre. The government has awarded licenses to 21
mainland-based companies in December to start up yuan-
denominated funds in the city based on the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program. The target was to raise 20
billion yuan that could be invested in Chinese securities.  “The yuan QFII program has helped us to attract more yuan
deposits,” Xu said. “Yuan deposits in our banks are still
rising since the start of this year.”  Slower Yuan Appreciation  Prospects the currency will appreciate at a slower pace
this year than in 2011 are easing concern among borrowers about
their ability to repay loans, according to Xu.  The yuan will strengthen the least since 2009 as  Europe ’s 
debt crisis hurts exports, according to the most-
accurate forecasters. China’s currency has dropped 0.4 percent 
to 6.3185 per dollar since the end of December, after 
strengthening 4.7 percent last year, according to the China 
Foreign Exchange Trade System. In Hong Kong’s offshore market 
it gained 0.7 percent to 6.2970, according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg.  The yuan will appreciate 2.7 percent in 2012, said Andy Ji,
a strategist in  Singapore  at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  who
was the top forecaster for the currency in the past six quarters,
according to Bloomberg Rankings.  The six-month  interbank rate  was 2 percent yesterday, up
from 0.78 percent a year earlier, after reaching a record 2.9
percent on Dec. 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The HKMA boosted checks on local banks lending activities
in relation to China last year, Nelson Man, an  executive
director  said at a press conference in the city on Jan. 18. The
authority saw no systematic risk, Arthur Yuen, the deputy chief
executive officer, said separately.  “Yuan lending is gaining momentum because the currency is
more popular globally and more companies are using it to settle
trade,” said Xu. “Yuan loans also make sense as the yuan
 exchange rate  tends to be relatively stable, which means the
 currency risk  is low.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  