-- The Challenges of International Investing in 2012
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-01-20T04:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/the-challenges-of-international-investing-in-2012.html
     A lack of transparency poses a dilemma for international
investors in 2012, according to Alex Motola, a portfolio
manager at Thornburg Investment Management. Whether the worry
is corporate corruption in  China , bank exposure to European
debt or the pace of economic growth worldwide, it's hard to
know what's really going on.  In such uncertain times, Motola's funds have fared well
next to peers. He manages the Thornburg International Growth
Fund, which lost 3 percent in 2011 while beating 97 percent of
the international stock funds in its peer group, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Motola also manages the domestic
Thornburg Core Growth Fund, which had a return of 0.6 percent
in 2011, topping the returns of almost 80 percent of peers.  Bloomberg.com's Ben Steverman spoke with Motola about his
strategy and the challenges awaiting investors. Edited excepts
of their conversation follow.  1. What set your international fund apart from peers in
2011?  We weren’t afraid to buy things in  Europe , and a lot of
people were. We have a significant weighting in the U.K., for
example.  There is a certain scarcity value for growth right now.
In Europe, there is not a lot of growth. In the U.S., it's
muted. In  Asia , there's a semblance of growth but you have the
specter of fraud and heavy-handed government interaction. So
you have to be careful.  We found a bunch of companies in global e-commerce that
worked very well. One is Zooplus AG, which trades in  Germany 
and is like the Pets.com of Europe. What probably was an idea
before its time 10 or 11 years ago has turned into a business
that's growing more than 50 percent annually.  2. Given all the concern about the economy and fiscal
situation of the  euro zone , why aren't you avoiding it?  In 2008 and 2009, we owned stocks in places like
Ireland,  Italy  and  Portugal , and made money in those stocks.
It's not impossible. You just need to be very, very
selective. The closer the stocks have [to] a dependence on the
growth of gross domestic product in that country, the rougher
it's going to be. We try to find stocks that aren't correlated
to that country's economic growth.  There are also stocks benefiting from austerity. A stock
we've owned for a while is Orpea. They operate retirement
homes and rehabilitation clinics in  France , where the
population is aging rapidly. The government can't afford to
meet the demand for nursing homes. They need the private
sector to step up.  3. What is your view on financial stocks?  It's truly a love-hate relationship. There seems to be
tremendous opportunity in some names, but it’s really hard to
get a sense for what you’re buying. Banks have been really
careful about talking about what their exposures are. Given
the threat of a run on the bank, there's no incentive for them
to be transparent. You look at what write-downs could do to
your equity and it becomes really hard to see what your stock
is worth.  We own Credit Suisse. While we still have some discomfort
with that,  Switzerland  remains one of the bastions of safety
in an extremely volatile world. Their ability to gather assets
globally from high-net-worth individuals remains. We like
where Credit Suisse is positioned competitively, but we're
worried about what we don't know.  4. Is Asia more fertile ground for  growth stocks ?  Asia seems to be a pretty popular place. We see the
growth, we get why it's attractive, but we're also worried
about growth slowing down.  Among Chinese stocks, there is a pretty big bifurcation
in terms of valuation. You have companies trading at multiples
higher than the U.S. stock market and then you've got
companies growing pretty fast that are close to dirt cheap.
The reason they're at that level is people don't know which of
those companies are legitimate and which are complete
frauds. There are companies where we've peeled the onion and
said: "Wow, this is not something we want to be involved in
because the chance of it being a fraud are too high." This
could be a year when we see a lot more of that come to light.
You can't not invest in China, but you have to be really
careful.  5. What else should be on the radar of international
investors?  You could make a case that one or more countries won’t be
in the European Union by the end of 2012. If you’re an
international investor, you need to think about what that
means to you. Companies based in countries that leave the euro
would have a new, probably less stable and less valuable
currency. If your company does business with the rest of the
E.U., it's possible -- but less likely -- that border
restrictions and tariffs come back, which would increase costs
and lower demand.  If we don’t see a little pickup in the U.S., that’s
certainly not going to help the global economy. In the
Thornburg International Growth Fund, our companies are all
headquartered outside the U.S. Some like Orpea could care less
what’s happening in the U.S., but many of them do care. They
have customers there, or partners and suppliers. It makes a
difference.  In international investing, you typically see the usual
suspects loaded into people's portfolios. They might own
Nestle and  Rio Tinto  and a bunch of stuff that everyone in the
world knows. There's room to make money there, but everyone
can go after that. We've always had a pretty big exposure to
what I would call "stocks no one's heard of."  One of the best
reasons to invest is to go find stuff that's under-covered and
under-appreciated, like Zooplus AG and Orpea. If things are
going great at Nestle, it's hardly a secret.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story: Suzanne Woolley at
 swoolley2@bloomberg.net 
