-- Lehman Pays More Than $500 Million to Marsal Firm in 39½Months
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/lehman-fees-to-marsal-firm-top-500-million-in-39-months-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  has
paid more than $500 million in fees to restructuring firm
Alvarez & Marsal LLC in 39 1/2 months, according to a court
filing.  The firm, whose co-founder  Bryan Marsal  runs the defunct
investment bank, charged $504.2 million through December for
“interim management,” including $8 million last month,
according to the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Lehman, which has spent almost $1.6 billion on fees since
filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008,
paid $54.1 million to lawyers and managers in December,
according to the filing.  Lehman’s bankruptcy became America’s most costly in April
2010, when it surpassed the $757 million cost of  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ) ’s
three-year liquidation, according to data assembled by
bankruptcy professor  Lynn LoPucki  at the University of
California,  Los Angeles . The failed energy trader’s investors
were paid 53 cents on the dollar, while Lehman’s $65 billion
liquidation plan would give the average creditor less than 18
cents, according to court documents.  “It reflects the difference between a real economy company
-- even one with massive fraud -- and a financial institution,”
said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor at Seton Hall
University in Newark, New Jersey. “So many of the assets of a
financial institution just vaporize upon bankruptcy.”  New York-based Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, Lehman’s lead
bankruptcy law firm, has earned $375.1 million, including $8.5
million in December.  Hourly Bills  Marsal, who bills Lehman hourly, has said he will start
distributing some cash to the defunct investment bank’s
creditors by next year, more than three years after the
bankruptcy filing. He has court approval for the $65 billion
liquidation plan that intends to raise about $40 billion in the
next few years, excluding cash on hand, according to court
papers.  Lehman and its affiliates were holding cash and investments
of $28.1 billion on Dec. 31, compared with $27.2 billion on Nov.
30. About $2.9 billion of the December cash wasn’t available for
use, according to the filing.  Lehman’s creditors range from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
hedge funds to the  New York  Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, as well as individuals who hold Lehman bonds. Once
the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman filed for
bankruptcy with assets of $639 billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 