-- Televisa Jumped the Gun on Shared Control of Iusacell, Competitors Claim
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-20T17:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/televisa-jumped-the-gun-on-seizing-iusacell-control-competitors-claim.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the broadcaster
buying a 50 percent stake in Mexican mobile-phone carrier  Grupo
Iusacell SA (CEL*) , may have effectively seized control of the company
without yet obtaining antitrust approval, competitors claimed.  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  filed complaints to
Mexico’s Federal Competition Commission in October asking for
sanctions, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News.
The companies said Televisa gained representation in two of
Iusacell’s four board seats and chose a new chief financial
officer for the carrier even though the $1.6 billion investment
announced in April has yet to be approved by regulators.  Televisa bought a stake in a holding company in April with
special rights that let it immediately share control of  Ricardo
Salinas ’s Iusacell, competitors claimed. The information in the
complaints will probably be used by the commission as it
scrutinizes the deal, said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer at
Brownstein, Hyatt, Farber, Schreck LLP in  Washington .  “It’s going to be something the competition commission is
going to examine and will take very seriously,” Grunes said.
“It’s very hard to unscramble the egg once you’ve started
integrating operations.”  While America Movil’s complaint was dismissed in December
based on a technicality and NII withdrew the one it had filed,
just days afterwards the commission opened an investigation into
deals between unnamed phone carriers and TV-service providers.
The antitrust agency said such agreements could represent
prohibited concentrations of market power. A lawyer for Salinas
said in January that the probe likely targets the Iusacell deal.  $16,000 a Day  Televisa doesn’t exercise control of Iusacell and doesn’t
control management, said a Televisa official who can’t be named
under company policy. An official at Salinas’s companies who
can’t be named under that group’s policy declined to comment.  The commission’s board plans to discuss the proposed deal
on Jan. 24, agency President Eduardo Perez Motta told  Mexico 
City’s Radio Formula in an interview broadcast Jan. 18. The
agency has until Feb. 7 to notify the companies of its decision.  Televisa, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster,
is pursuing the investment in Iusacell to add mobile-phone plans
to its packages of pay-TV, home-phone and Internet service. A
finding that the two Mexico City-based companies violated an
order prohibiting them from proceeding with the transaction
while it was under review,  may lead  to each company being fined
as much as 8 percent of their annual sales in Mexico.  Complaints by competitors don’t necessarily prove rules
were broken, Grunes said. In the U.S., “gun-jumping” a
transaction before regulators have ruled is punishable by fines
of as much as $16,000 a day, he said.  Officials for  America Movil  and NII who can’t be named
under their companies’ policies declined to comment.  Potential Monopoly  Televisa Chief Executive Officer  Emilio Azcarraga  said last
year the investment in Iusacell would lead to lower prices and
better quality for consumers. That would mean more competition
for  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil and NII, the biggest and
smallest of Mexico’s four wireless carriers.  The plan also would also bring Televisa closer to its major
rival in the broadcast television business. Salinas is also the
majority owner of  TV Azteca SAB (AZTECACP) , which shares almost all of
Mexico’s broadcast viewing audience with Televisa. Televisa and
Azteca have both said the Iusacell deal wouldn’t reduce the
intensity of competition in broadcasting.  Allowing the two groups to work together would risk
creating a communications monopoly, the Mexican Association for
the Right to Information said in an October  statement .  GSF Deal  On April 7, the day the Iusacell agreement was announced,
Televisa bought a 1.09 percent stake in GSF Telecom Holdings
SAPI, which controls Iusacell, according to regulatory filings.
While the stake wouldn’t normally be enough to constitute
control, America Movil and NII claimed the shares carry special
rights that gave Televisa shared control.  Televisa and Iusacell filed their application for antitrust
approval the same day as the GSF transaction, and the agency
issued an order suspending the Televisa-Iusacell deal on April
8, according to the agency’s  website .  Televisa agreed to invest $37.5 million for 1.09 percent of
capital and $1.57 billion in convertible debt, said the Televisa
official. The acquisition of capital and convertible debt don’t
imply a concentration that would legally require requesting
approval from the competition commission, the official said.  America Movil and NII argued in their complaints that based
on the bylaws of Iusacell and its holding companies and
subsidiaries, Televisa’s GSF deal gave Televisa the right to
name one of Iusacell’s four board members. Televisa was to gain
the right to appoint an additional board member once the debt it
acquired from Iusacell was converted into shares following
regulatory approval, according to the complaints.  Board Members  The Televisa official said the company only has the right
to appoint one board member, and once the transaction is
authorized, Televisa will have the right to name half the board.  Iusacell’s four board members are Salinas; Pedro Padilla,
an executive in the Salinas group of companies; Jose Antonio
Lara del Olmo, Televisa’s vice president of tax; and Jaime Cortes Rocha, a lawyer who has done work for Televisa and served
on the board of airport operator  Grupo Aeroportuario del
Pacifico SAB .  According to the airport operator’s  annual report , Cortes
Rocha was a partner in the  law firm   Mijares, Angoitia, Cortes y
Fuentes SC  from 1995 to 2007. Alfonso de Angoitia, Televisa’s
executive vice president, was a founding partner of the same law
firm from 1994 to 1999 before joining Televisa.  Cortes Rocha declined to comment in a telephone interview.  CFO Appointment  Those relationships show that Televisa already has
representation on half of Iusacell’s board, America Movil and
NII claimed in their complaints. Iusacell’s bylaws require a
majority of board members for major decisions such as business
plans and capital increases.  The bylaws also allowed Televisa to appoint Iusacell’s CFO,
America Movil and NII claim. Carlos Ferreiro Rivas, the former
finance chief of Televisa’s Sky business, is now Iusacell’s CFO,
according to a June 30 U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission
filing by Iusacell.  Francisco Borrego, general counsel for Salinas’s group of
companies, said in an interview last week that it was natural
for Iusacell to hire executives from other companies in the
telecommunications industry, including Televisa.  “We’ve complied thoroughly with the order not to proceed
with the investment,” Borrego said in the Jan. 12 telephone
interview. “In Iusacell there are ex-employees from Nextel,
Telefonica, Telcel, Televisa. We have employees from all of
them.”  Commission Probe  NII withdrew its complaint after a December agreement with
Iusacell to drop lawsuits between the two companies, and the
antitrust agency rejected America Movil’s filing because the
transaction was still under review, according to a document
dated Dec. 12.  Three days later, the agency began investigating agreements
between phone carriers and TV-programming providers, without
naming the companies targeted. While the agency hasn’t contacted
Salinas’s ventures or Televisa about that probe, the companies
believe the investigation is directed at them, Borrego said in
the interview.  An antitrust official who can’t be named under the agency’s
policy declined to comment about the review of the Televisa-
Iusacell deal and about the probe that began in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  