-- Help Next-Generation Nuclear Advance During Building Lull: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-20T00:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/help-next-generation-nuclear-power-advance-during-long-building-lull-view.html
It’s been 34 years since the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission issued a new operating license for
a nuclear reactor. Not, that is, since before the partial
meltdown at Three Mile Island in 1979.  Finally, the agency is set to move ahead. In December, it
approved the design of a so-called generation III-plus reactor,
the  Westinghouse AP1000 . Soon the NRC is expected to license
four of these, two in  South Carolina  and two in Georgia. That’s
promising news for the U.S.’s energy future.  If the AP1000 were to lose electrical power for its cooling
system, as happened to the 40-year-old Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
after the earthquake and tsunami last March, it would
automatically cool down, its designers say, by making use of the
natural forces of gravity and convection. An enormous reservoir
above the reactor holds water for cooling. In an emergency
leading to loss of power, valves open, allowing water to fall
onto the reactor. As it then turns to steam, it rises, cools
beneath the roof and rains down again.  It is precisely this kind of innovation that gives us hope
that nuclear power can survive and prosper -- in the face of
Fukushima-heightened radiation concerns and, at least as
important, a stifling economic climate for investment in new
reactors.  Replacing Coal Plants  Coal-fired  power plants  now produce almost half the
electricity in the U.S. -- and most greenhouse-gas emissions. We
could shrink our carbon footprint significantly by replacing
much of our coal power with nuclear. Solar and wind can help,
but aren’t well enough developed to take on a major share of the
work. Both provide only intermittent power, and they require
enormous tracts of land.  In the first 10 months of 2011, renewable energy, not
counting hydropower,  produced  less than 5 percent of the
electricity the U.S. uses. The 104 old-fashioned nuclear
reactors in the U.S. generated almost 20 percent.  So-called generation III-plus reactors such as the AP1000
and Areva’s European Pressurized Reactor account for most of
those being built and planned worldwide. Although the U.S. will
have only a handful,  more than 200  are in the works in 30 other
countries. China will build about a third of them, and Russia
and  India  each foresee adding more than 20.  More promising still are  generation-IV  reactors. Many
varieties of these are being engineered, but in general they
will be smaller and use elements such as helium or sodium,
rather than water, for cooling. They are expected to operate
safely and efficiently, and consume more of their fuel (to
produce less waste).  The challenge is to make sure that research on these
futuristic designs continues even during the present lull in
American nuclear-plant construction. This lull will probably
last at least as long as the price of natural gas, nuclear’s
main competitor, remains so extraordinarily low. It’s currently
under $3 per million Btu, down from a peak of more than $13 in
2008.  The so-called levelized cost per kilowatt of nuclear --
accounting for spending to build and operate a plant over its
lifetime -- is about 11 cents, which is double that of natural
gas, according to the U.S. Energy Information Agency.  Southern Co. (SO)  expects to spend $14 billion constructing the
two new reactors at its Vogtle plant in Georgia.  Scana Corp. (SCG) 
estimates its cost for the two new reactors at its Summer plant
in South Carolina at $9.1 billion. Such investments can be
justified only over the very long term.  Obama’s Commitment  Of course, energy planning should be done for the long
term, and it should include nuclear plants, 60- to 80-year
assets that can provide a robust form of power with no climate-
altering greenhouse gases or deadly particulate air pollution.  We endorse President  Barack Obama ’s commitment to include
nuclear in his goal to have 80 percent of U.S. electricity come
from low-carbon sources by 2035. If, under that scenario, coal’s
contribution were cut by more than half and natural gas and
nuclear were used most heavily to replace it, then 105 new
nuclear generators would need to be built by 2035, according to
a Bloomberg Government analysis.  Policy makers can do three things to help make this happen.
First, they can provide loan guarantees to help power companies
shoulder the cost of new reactors. Congress has approved $18.5
billion in guarantees so far, $8.3 billion of which is helping
Southern build its reactors in  Georgia . Obama is reasonably
asking Congress to approve an additional $36 billion.  Second, federal investment is needed in research and
development. In 2012, the  Department of Energy  is set to spend
about $450 million on this essential work. In future budgets,
the amount of funding should gradually increase.  Finally, we need a price on carbon, through either a direct
tax on emitters or a cap-and-trade system such as the one
 California  is creating. Power companies themselves have
indicated that this -- along with a rise in the price of natural
gas over the long term -- is what would give them an incentive
to switch from dirty coal to clean nuclear power.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 