-- Emerging Stocks Climb to Extend Best Start to Year Since 2001
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-20T22:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/emerging-stocks-advance-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-almost-two-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, extending the best start to a year since 2001, as
economic data signaled an improved outlook for the U.S. and amid
speculation China may ease lending curbs.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.4 percent to 995.08
at the close in  New York , bringing its increase this year to 8.6
percent, the best performance since an 11 percent gain during
the same period in 2001.  Brazil ’s Bovespa rose for a fifth day,
gaining 0.6 percent. Hungary’s BUX Index and the PX Index in
 Prague  each climbed 1.9 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index
gained 1 percent on the last day of trading before China’s Lunar
New Year holidays.  U.S. existing home sales rose for a third month in December
to the highest level since January 2011, data today showed,
while a government report issued yesterday showed  the number of
Americans claiming jobless benefits fell to the lowest level
since April 2008 last week. The Shanghai Securities News
reported Chinese bank lending in the first quarter may rise from
a year earlier.  “In the fourth quarter of last year you started to see a
better patch of economic data coming out of the U.S.,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $35 billion at Van Eck Associates in
New York, said by phone. “If you do get better than expected
GDP growth in 2012,  emerging markets  should be a pretty
substantial outperformer over developed markets.”  The  MSCI gauge  for emerging markets, which has rebounded
after a 20 percent drop in 2011, is valued at 10 times estimated
earnings. Stocks in developed countries have climbed 4.5 percent
in 2012, recovering some of a 7.6 percent slump last year, and
trade at a multiple of 12 times estimated earnings.  ‘Surprise’ Rally  “While we expected market conditions to improve this year,
we have been surprised by the speed and intensity of the
rally,” Barclays Bank Plc strategists including Piero Ghezzi
and Michael Gavin wrote in a report released today. “We do not
think valuations are stretched and believe differing year-to-
date performance suggests relative value opportunities.”  In 2001, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose as much as 14
percent to a high of 379.02 on Jan. 31. It ended the year 4.9
percent below its starting point.  The  Bovespa (IBOV) ’s five-day advance is its longest winning
streak since the period ended Sept. 1.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  led a rally among homebuilders
after a report that Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  wants the
central bank to keep lowering borrowing costs. Cyrela advanced 4
percent to a seven-month high.  Extra Yield  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 411 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  The Shanghai Composite gained 3.3 percent this week on
speculation slowing growth will prompt the central bank to relax
monetary policies and that the government will take measures to
support stocks. The measure has advanced 5.4 percent this year.  China ’s central bank will let the nation’s five biggest
banks increase first-quarter lending by as much as 5 percent
from a year earlier, two people at state banks with knowledge of
the matter said this week, declining to be identified because
the move hasn’t been announced. Economic growth decelerated to
the slowest pace in 10 quarters in the three months to Dec. 31
as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed export demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  