-- Energy-Saving Software Turns Factories into Power Plants
-- B y   N i c k   L e i b e r
-- 2012-01-20T00:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/energy-saving-software-turns-factories-into-power-plants.html
     Jan. 19 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Audrey Zibelman spent
two years in the  Peace Corps  in the late 1970s, working in a
village in  Chad  which had no electricity. She was struck by how
the lack of power exacerbated poverty. “For these people I was
living with, about 80 to 90 percent of their day was spent just
on staying alive,” she recalls.  Today Zibelman, 54, heads a Philadelphia startup backed by
$24 million in  venture capital  that she hopes will eventually
help light up remote areas. For now, the 56 employees at Viridity
Energy make software used by dozens of large facilities in the
U.S., including commercial buildings and factories, to manage
their energy, which is usually their second or third largest
expense, according to Zibelman. She launched the company in 2008
after convincing Alain Steven, an expert in utility IT systems,
to help build the software. While other power-saving technologies
exist, she says Viridity is the first in the U.S. that also lets
power guzzlers sell their energy back to the grid. That’s an
important feature for institutions with on-site solar panels or
generators.  Viridity installs software that works with a building’s
energy systems to monitor and control heating and cooling,
appliances, generators, and more. The software constantly checks
the variables that affect how much a facility pays for energy.
This includes the price of electricity, which for wholesale
buyers like factories can change every few minutes. The software
also takes into account weather forecasts, which could cause
price spikes, and how much it costs a building to produce its own
energy. Viridity then tweaks electricity use to minimize costs.
At  Drexel University  in Philadelphia, a Viridity client, the
software knows that certain rooms are better insulated than
others. When electricity prices rise, it automatically reduces
heat in the law library, where the books trap a lot of warmth.
Drexel could make money during those hours by selling electricity
from its diesel generators to the grid.  The software builds on Zibelman’s more than 25 years in the
utility industry, including as general counsel to the New
Hampshire Public Utilities Commission. Viridity doesn’t charge
for its software; it takes a cut of any revenue its customers
make by selling to the grid. Jeremy Rifkin, an adviser on  energy
policy  to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and other European
heads of state, notes that similar technology has helped over 1
million buildings in  Germany  sell their power to the grid over
the past four years. “We’re beginning to democratize energy,” he
says. “Within 25 years, everybody is going to be their own power
plant.”  Zibelman expects Viridity’s software to be in hundreds of
facilities and projects over $10 million in revenue by yearend,
possibly bringing the startup into the black by next year. She
hopes that the same software used by Drexel could one day help
rural areas wring as much value as possible from small wind or
solar farms. “Energy consumption, energy costs—it’s a big part of
economic development,” she says.