-- Etta James, Sassy Singer of Jazz, Blues, ‘At Last,’ Dies at 73
-- B y   L a u r a   T i l l m a n
-- 2012-01-20T17:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/etta-james-legendary-at-last-blues-singer-succumbs-to-leukemia-at-73.html
Etta James, the versatile vocalist
who brought emotional intensity to songs such as “At Last” and
influenced performers from  Janis Joplin  to  Christina Aguilera 
during a six-decade career, has died. She was 73.  The singer died early today at Riverside Community Hospital
in  California  from complications of leukemia, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing her manager, Lupe De Leon. Her disease
was declared incurable early last month, according to the
Riverside Press-Enterprise.  James  defied musical labels. She started out singing
raunchy rhythm and blues and grew equally adept at southern
soul, jazz, blues, rock ‘n’ roll and standards. Even as she
neared her 70th birthday, she remained one of the sassiest
performers in music, rivaling some hip-hop artists with her
stage antics.  “Etta is earthy and gritty, ribald and out there in a way
that few performers have the guts to be,” singer Bonnie Raitt
wrote in a 2005 article for  Rolling Stone  magazine. “You can’t
overestimate her influence.”  For most of the 1960s and 1970s James battled heroin
addiction, though she kept performing. Her reputation as a
survivor only increased her popularity. She opened for the
 Rolling Stones  in 1978, sang at the Olympics in Los Angeles in
1984 and won four Grammy Awards, including one for  lifetime
achievement .  ‘Roll With Me’  James shot to fame in 1955 with “Roll With Me Henry,” a
so-called answer song to the risque “Work With Me Annie” by
Hank Ballard and the Midnighters. The title was so suggestive
that Modern Records released the song as “The Wallflower.” It
topped the R&B charts for four weeks.  Forty years later, she earned a new generation of fans when
her soulful 1961 rendition of the ballad “At Last” was
featured in a Jaguar commercial and several films. Her recording
of “I Just Want to Make Love to You” was used in a Diet Coke
commercial in 1996.  James shocked and delighted fans with her salacious live
performances. She would lick her lips and roll her eyes whenever
she sang the word “kiss” or sit in a black leather chair with
“Etta” emblazoned near her crotch. She simulated sexual acts
with various objects on stage.  In 1993, James was inducted into the  Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame , which cited her “raw, unharnessed vocals and hot-blooded
eroticism” and compared her influence on rock music with that
of Ray Charles, Little Richard and Chuck Berry.  Father’s Identity  Jamesetta Hawkins was born on Jan. 25, 1938, in  Los
Angeles , the daughter of Dorothy Hawkins, a 14-year-old black
girl who hung around that city’s jazz scene.  According to James’ 1995 autobiography,  “Rage to
Survive,”  Hawkins changed her story many times about the real
identity of James’s father. Then one day while watching
television, Hawkins pointed out the white pool shark Minnesota
Fats, whose real name was  Rudolf Wanderone Jr. , and told James
definitively that he was her father.  “I looked at his eyes, looked at his nose, looked at the
way he turned his head, and I knew for once Dorothy wasn’t
lying,” James wrote. “I could feel the man’s blood running
through my veins.”  James met Wanderone once, when she tracked him down at the
hotel in Nashville where he lived. He died in 1996.  A musical prodigy, James shook her ringlets and sang in
baby talk to the jukebox as an infant, wailing whenever a song
ended. By age 5, she was singing gospel music at St. Paul’s
Baptist Church in South Central Los Angeles.  Peaches to Etta  At 14, she moved to  San Francisco , where she formed a
singing group, the Creolettes, with two other girls. Bandleader
 Johnny Otis,  after hearing the trio at an impromptu audition,
brought them to Hollywood.  Otis, who died three days ago, used Etta’s nickname,
Peaches, to rename the group and inverted James’s own name from
Jamesetta. She would use that stage name for the rest of her
life.  “The Wallflower” by the Peaches shot to No. 1 on the R&B
charts. Rewritten as “Dance With Me Henry,” the song also
became a pop hit for singer Georgia Gibbs. A follow-up, “Good
Rockin Daddy,” hit No. 6. James also made a splash as one of
the first black women to dye her hair platinum blonde.  “I wanted to be rare, I wanted to be noticed, I wanted to
be glamorous,” she wrote in her autobiography, noting that her
image was largely created by her entourage of gay male friends.
“I wanted to be exotic as a Cotton Club chorus girl, and I
wanted to be obvious as the most flamboyant hooker on the
street.”  ‘At Last’  The group soon broke up, but James kept recording with
Modern Records. In 1960, she signed with Argo, a division of the
Chicago label Chess Records, home of Berry and  Muddy Waters .  At Chess, she recorded a pair of chart-climbing duets with
then-boyfriend Harvey Fuqua of the black harmony group  The
Moonglows.  On her own, she scored her biggest hits with the
label, including  “At Last”  and “All I Could Do Was Cry.”  In 1967, she traveled to  Fame Studios  in Muscle Shoals,
 Alabama , where she recorded two classics of Southern soul,
“Tell Mama” and “I Would Rather Go Blind.” She left Chess in
1975.  After a couple of abusive relationships, she married Artis
Mills in 1969. Both were heroin addicts, and they resorted to
robbing other junkies and passing bad checks in the early 1970s.
Mills would serve almost a decade in prison on drug charges.  The two stayed together through their recovery and after.  Dispute Over Estate  As of last month James was being cared for at her home in
Riverside while Mills and her son, Donto James, were in a legal
fight over her $1 million estate, the Riverside Press-Enterprise
reported.  In addition to Donto, James had another son, Sametto.  Though successful on the predominantly black R&B circuit,
James remained relatively unknown to most white listeners until
Joplin’s incendiary live performances of “Tell Mama” sent fans
looking for the original version.  Keith Richards  of the  Rolling
Stones  also cited her as a major influence.  James gained more white listeners in the 1980s after her
appearance in the film  “Chuck Berry Hail! Hail! Rock ‘n’
Roll.”  She won her first  Grammy  in 1994 for “Mystery Lady,”
her tribute to her mother’s idol,  Billie Holiday . She didn’t
attend the ceremony, saying the sudden recognition by the
primarily white music establishment made her feel like she was
being handed a “chicken and a watermelon.”  “You know, I’ve been out there on stage and making records
for all these years, and suddenly they want to turn around and
notice me?” she said. Still, James said she appreciated her new
fans.  New Voice  She struggled with her weight, growing to 400 pounds by
2002. Her size, combined with knee problems, forced her to begin
concerts by riding onstage on a motor scooter.  In 2002, she underwent gastric bypass surgery and lost more
than 200 pounds. Within her new body, James said she also found
a new voice, one that was higher, lower and louder.  “Etta James’ voice is just as commanding as it was when
she was young, but it’s different -- deeper, tougher,” film
director  Martin Scorsese  wrote in the liner notes to  “Blues to
the Bone,”  her 2005 album. “How could it not be? That’s what
life can do to you.”  In 2003, she was given two Grammys -- one for lifetime
achievement, the other for best contemporary blues album for
“Let’s Roll” -- and a star on  Hollywood’s Walk of Fame .
“Blues to the Bone” won her another Grammy in 2005.  “All The Way,”  a 2006 album of covers ranging from  John
Lennon ’s “Imagine” to R. Kelly’s “I Believe I Can Fly”
showcased James’s versatility.  “People always ask me, ‘Are you blues or jazz?” James
once said. “Who cares?”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  