-- Euro Declines From Two-Week High as Greek Debt Discussions Crimp Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-01-20T22:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/euro-falls-from-two-week-high-versus-dollar-on-greek-talks-stock-losses.html
The euro dropped from a two-week
high against the dollar as European stocks fell and Greek
officials held debt-swap talks for a third day, damping investor
demand for the shared currency.  The dollar rallied versus most of its major counterparts as
investors sought the relative safety of the U.S. currency. The
17-nation euro rose for the first week in seven after Spain and
 France  sold bonds at lower yields yesterday. The Canadian dollar
dropped versus the greenback after the nation’s inflation rate
fell more than economists anticipated, weakening the argument
for higher  interest rates .  “There’s been a few reversals of some of the trades that
were put on yesterday,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-
of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“People are trimming just a bit of long-euro exposure into the
weekend, given the Greek private sector involvement.” A long
position is a bet that an asset will increase in value.  Europe ’s currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.2913 at 5 p.m. New
York time after touching $1.2986, the highest level since Jan.
4. The euro trimmed its weekly gain to 2 percent, the first
five-day advance since the period ended Dec. 2. The euro
depreciated 0.4 percent to 99.62 yen. The dollar weakened 0.1
percent to 77.01 yen.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.3 percent,
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent.  Biggest Gainers  Brazil ’s real and  Mexico ’s peso are the best performing
major currencies against the dollar this year. The real has
appreciated 6.2 percent, its best start to the year since 2003,
and the peso has gained 5.7 percent, its biggest gain in the
first 20 days of the year since the government reset its nominal
value in 1993.  Mexico’s central bank kept its benchmark lending rate
unchanged for the 24th consecutive meeting today as slower
economic growth failed to head off a pick-up in inflation.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 13.1813 against the greenback.
The real rose 0.6 percent to 1.7552 per dollar.  Sweden’s krona declined against all 16 of its major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg on speculation this week’s
gains would be hard to sustain. The krona fell 0.2 percent to
8.7713 per euro after appreciating yesterday to 8.7429, the
strongest level since March 3.  ‘ Risk Aversion ’  “There seems to be a bit of risk aversion, which is the
reason why the krona is softer,” said  Niels Christensen , chief
currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “The krona
has done quite well against the euro and dollar this week, and
so it is making a little bit of a correction to the downside.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 0.1 percent to 80.158, rising from
the lowest level since Jan. 4. The gauge was still headed for a
1.6 percent weekly drop on reduced demand for a refuge.  Purchases of existing U.S. homes climbed 5 percent to a
4.61 million annual pace last month, the most since January
2011, the National Association of Realtors said today. The pace
was less than the 4.65 million median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. U.S. initial jobless claims slid to
the lowest level since April 2008, a Labor Department report
showed yesterday.  Debt Crisis  The euro has tumbled during the past three months on signs
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis was spreading to Italy and
 Spain . It dropped 4.2 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation
currencies. The dollar gained 2.4 percent, and the yen
strengthened 0.4 percent.  European officials and  Greece ’s private bondholders agreed
in October to carry out a 50 percent cut in the face value of
the nation’s debt by voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds
for new securities, with a goal of reducing the country’s
borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020. An
accord with bondholders is essential to a second financing
package for Greece, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro ($18.7
billion) bond payment on March 20.  Greece and its private creditors are close to a final
agreement on the framework of a debt swap plan, with the
European Union approving the terms so far agreed, newspaper To
Vima reported on its website, without citing anyone.  There are still legal, technical and other details that
need to be specified and while progress is being made in
meetings in  Athens , the negotiations are expected to continue
beyond today, the Athens-based newspaper reported on its
website.  More Talks  Officials were set to resume talks with the  Institute of
International Finance , a Washington-based industry group
representing more than 450 financial firms, today after a
teleconference with officials from the European Union, Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters. He met with
creditor representatives and Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
today.  “The euro had a very, very strong rally over the last
three days on the assumption that the Greek deal is going to be
done,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online
currency trader GFT Forex in  New York . “The fact that it’s
going into the third day created a little bit of concern and
people took profit ahead of the $1.30 level.”  Europe’s Economy  The euro region’s economy may drop 0.2 percent this year,
while the  U.S. economy  will probably expand 2.3 percent,
according to the median forecast of economists.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed, dropped 0.2
percent to C$1.0132 per  U.S. dollar .  Consumer prices fell 0.6 percent in December, compared with
an advance of 0.1 percent the previous month,  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa. The rate climbed 2.3 percent from a year
earlier. The median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.2 percent monthly drop and a 2.7 percent
annualized increase.  The Bank of  Canada  has held its benchmark interest rate at
1 percent since September 2010. The central bank raised its
inflation forecast for this year in a monetary report this week.
Inflation will average 2.2 percent this quarter and 1.5 percent
from April to June, faster than October forecasts of 1.9 percent
and 1 percent, the Jan. 18 report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  