-- Euro-Area Cuts Alone Won’t End Crisis, Westerwelle Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-20T19:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/euro-area-budget-cuts-alone-won-t-end-crisis-westerwelle-says.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said that European efforts to end the debt crisis
won’t work if they rest only on budget cuts, dismissing as an
“urban legend” talk of Germany’s drive to impose austerity.  As well as reining in debt, Europe needs to close a
widening gap in competitiveness between the 17 euro-area states,
including using European Union funds to finance economic growth,
Westerwelle said in a speech today to the  Brookings Institution 
in  Washington , according to an e-mailed text of his remarks.  “By no means do I advocate austerity alone,” said
Westerwelle, a former leader of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner. “Budget cuts alone won’t do
the trick.” It is false to say that  Germany  is obsessed with
the “awkward hobbies” of fiscal responsibility, he said.  Westerwelle’s comments signal a recognition in Merkel’s
government that more needs to be done to foster growth as the
sovereign debt crisis that emerged in  Greece  in late 2009
threatens to plunge the entire euro region into recession.
Merkel, as the leader of Europe’s biggest economy, has pressed
for stiffer rules on deficit control in a “fiscal pact” to be
at the heart of efforts to combat the crisis as it moves on to
menace Italy, Spain and France.  ‘Fix the Flaws’  “First we have to fix the flaws in the euro zone’s
construction,” said Westerwelle. European leaders will also
tackle structural reforms including efforts to ease labor-market
rules that have dampened economic growth in the currency area,
he said.  Earlier last decade, Germany was called the “sick man of
 Europe ” before it embarked on easing labor rules, he said.
“And we will do more: We will employ unused EU structural funds
to stimulate economic growth.”  “Germany is committed to Europe and to the euro zone,”
Westerwelle said later at a joint news conference with U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . “We will show solidarity on
the one hand but on the other hand we also will ask for
structural reforms because both is the answer to this present
crisis.”  The  Greek economy  may contract by 3 percent this year,
slightly less than the 3.2 percent contraction expected for
Portugal, according to November forecasts of the Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Spain  Target  Spain may miss its deficit target of 4.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 amid signs that economic growth
assumptions may fall short, the country’s Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro is cited as saying in an interview published
in today’s Financial Times Deutschland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  