-- European Luxury-Goods Stocks May Benefit From Weaker Currencies
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   S i m o n a   F e r r a r i
-- 2012-01-20T00:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/europe-luxury-goods-stocks-may-benefit-as-weaker-currencies-boost-earnings.html
Investors forecasting the euro and
Swiss franc will weaken against the dollar may find comfort in
shares of European luxury-goods companies.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  are among stocks that would benefit
disproportionately if the currencies fall further from year-ago
levels, according to Thomas Mesmin, a Paris-based analyst at
brokerage CA Cheuvreux. For every 1 percent decline in exchange
rates, the industry’s average earnings before interest and taxes
may rise 1.3 percent to 1.5 percent, he said.  “This will help luxury-goods companies, because a high
proportion of their sales come from outside of Europe, while
their cost bases are in euros, Swiss francs or the British
pound,” Mesmin said.  Richemont, owner of Cartier and Montblanc, will be “one of
the best currency plays,” because about 65 percent of its sales
are in non-European denominations, its costs and accounts are
euro-dominated, and its shares trade in Swiss francs, he said.  Worldwide sales for the Geneva-based company grew 24
percent at actual and constant exchange rates in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, compared with a year ago, it said Jan. 16.
Richemont reconfirmed its forecasts that operating profit for
the year ending March 31 will be “significantly higher than
last year,” Chief Executive Officer Johann Rupert said that
day.  A weaker euro helps  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA (SFER) , the Italian
maker of handbags and shoes, by making it more competitive and
boosting margins, Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said at
a Jan. 15 fashion show in Milan.  Rising Luxury Index  The newly-created  Bloomberg European Luxury Goods Index (BNLXGDEU) ,
which includes LVMH and  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , has risen 357 percent
since Nov. 18, 2008, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index has
increased 27 percent. The luxury index has outperformed the
market by 6 percent this year; between Sept. 21, 2011, and Dec.
30, 2011, it underperformed by 18 percent.  Industry organic growth, before the impact of exchange
rates and acquisitions or disposals, probably will outpace
global gross domestic product expansion during the next decade,
said Scilla Huang Sun, head of equities at Swiss & Global Asset
Management in Zurich. She oversees the  Julius Baer Multistock -
Luxury Brands Fund , with holdings in LVMH and Richemont.  Bloomberg’s luxury index is trading at 14.5 times Mesmin’s
estimate for 2012 earnings, before goodwill and extraordinary
items, and 12.8 times his 2013 calculation, compared with 19.3
times in 2007. The Stoxx 600 is trading at a multiple of 10.8.  This appeals to investors, particularly if the industry
grows 10 percent each year through 2015 and there’s a positive
impact from exchange rates this year, Mesmin forecasts.  Worldwide Sales  Because these companies operate in  Europe  and sell goods
worldwide, their sales convert to higher revenue in euros as the
currency falls relative to the dollar. There’s also a gain to
margins because profits grow more than sales given the euro cost
base, Mesmin said.  European currencies will weaken this year as a result of
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, said  Valentin Marinov , a
London-based senior foreign-exchange strategist at Citigroup
Inc. The average  exchange rate  between the euro and the dollar
will decline 10 percent to $1.25, compared with $1.3926 last
year, according to Citigroup’s estimates. The pound will drop an
average 4 percent to $1.53 from $1.6041, while the Swiss franc-
dollar exchange rate will fall about 11 percent to $1.00
compared with $1.1323 in 2011.  The euro will end the year at $1.30, the pound will trade
to $1.56 and the Swiss franc will be $1.01, according to the
median forecasts of currency strategists in Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Strong Growth’  The number of Chinese and Indians who can afford high-end
goods is increasing, and they may save for months to buy an
expensive handbag, Huang Sun said. “This is a European industry
with a high exposure to  emerging markets , where you are going to
see strong growth in  consumer spending .”  A “made in Europe” label is highly coveted abroad, and
brands such as Hermes and  Louis Vuitton  have pricing power,
which is “very rare in the current environment,” said Rahul
Sharma, founder and managing director of Neev Capital, a London-
based consulting company. “In emerging markets, luxury-goods
prices are actually much higher than in Europe.”  Shoppers in China accounted for 25 percent of industry
sales in 2010, compared with 21 percent for European shoppers,
according to a Jan. 4 report written by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by William Hutchings in  London . By 2025, China may
make up 46 percent of total revenue, they wrote.  India ’s Potential  The revenue potential is important from  China  and from
India, where market estimates for growth are “very
conservative,” Sharma said. India has a longstanding tradition
of jewelry consumption, and consumers now are increasingly fond
of European high-end brands, making them a significant
demographic for luxury products, he said.  Global travel also has been a “key driver” of revenue; as
much as 50 percent of sales at luxury-goods retailers in Europe
are to foreigners, which may increase to 60 percent by 2015,
Hutchings wrote.  Successful Chinese entrepreneurs have created more affluent
consumers who can afford brand-name clothing and accessories,
while the government has “deliberately encouraged
consumption,” said  Charles Robertson , global chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in London.  These wealthy shoppers are looking for places to spend
their money, given the Chinese stock market’s  poor performance 
and a slowdown in the housing market, Robertson said. Meanwhile,
there’s been easy access to credit, so “the incentive to spend
more is quite high.”  Flagship Markets  For London-based  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , “flagship markets”
including London and Hong Kong “benefit from the traveling
luxury customer” and performed well in the quarter ended Dec.
31, Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said on a Jan. 17
conference call. “China comparable-store growth was again
strong, up around 30 percent on top of the over-30 percent
growth in the prior year,” she said.  Investments for larger companies, including in retail
locations, aren’t outpacing sales, so their cash flows remain
strong even with these expenditures, Sharma said.  One change that may hurt high-end spending would be a
depreciation in luxury-property prices, which have supported
growth in the number of Chinese millionaires, Robertson said.
Meanwhile, wealthier European consumers may curtail spending if
the region slips back into another recession, triggered by a
“disorderly default” in  Greece , he said.  Slowdown in Spending  Tiffany & Co . already has experienced a slowdown in
spending by Americans and Europeans, prompting the  New York 
jeweler to lower its earnings estimate for the year ending Jan.
31. The company now forecasts earnings will be between $3.60 and
$3.65 a share, compared with its November estimated range of
$3.70 to $3.80, it said Jan. 10.  “Sales weakened markedly in the  United States  and Europe
during the holiday season,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Michael Kowalski said in a statement that day.  Even if the euro doesn’t fall any further in relation to
the dollar this year, current exchange rates still are “a very
big benefit” for European luxury-goods retailers, Sharma said.
The euro is down about 12 percent since May and traded at
$1.2667 on Jan. 16, the lowest since August 2010. The Swiss
franc has fallen almost 23 percent since August, and traded at
$1.0730 as of 4:30 p.m. in New York yesterday.  This means luxury stocks will continue to appeal to
investors, even as concerns about a euro-area recession persist,
Sharma said.  “These companies are much more resilient than they used to
be as exposure to new markets in  Asia  is up sharply from even
three years ago,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Simona Ferrari in London at 
 sferrari10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  