-- Ex-UBS Client Heller Gets 45-Day Jail Term for Tax Evasion
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-20T19:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/ex-ubs-client-kenneth-heller-gets-45-day-term-for-tax-evasion.html
Kenneth Heller, a disbarred New York
maritime lawyer, was sentenced to 45 days in jail for using an
offshore  UBS AG (UBSN)  account to hide income from U.S. tax
authorities.  Heller, 82, who pleaded guilty in June to three counts of
 tax evasion  for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, was sentenced
today by U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  Manhattan . The
parties agreed that the amount of taxes Heller avoided was
between $400,000 and $1 million.  Heller, who faced as long as 15 years in prison, has
cancer, memory loss and other physical and mental problems,
according to a defense filing in which his lawyers asked that he
not be imprisoned.  “He is in dire physical condition, has a very short  life
expectancy  and is in constant pain,” Heller’s lawyer, Robert Fink, told Castel today. Heller has already paid a $9.8 million
penalty to the  Internal Revenue Service .  He was one of seven ex-clients of Zurich-based UBS arrested
on the same day in 2010 and charged with hiding more than $100
million from the IRS. UBS admitted in February 2009 that it
helped U.S. clients evade taxes. The bank avoided prosecution by
paying a $780 million fine and turning over the names of U.S.
account holders to investigators.  Wegelin & Co.  Fink said his client cooperated with prosecutors, who this
month charged three Wegelin & Co. bankers with conspiring to
help U.S. clients hide more than $1.2 billion from tax
authorities. He provided information supporting the charges,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Massey said in a sentencing
memorandum filed with the court.  Prosecutors recommended a sentence shorter than the 30 to
37 months that both sides agreed would be called for under
federal sentencing guidelines, which are nonbinding.  Castel rejected Heller’s plea for a non-jail sentence,
saying it was necessary to deter others from evading taxes.  “The sting and the pain of some period of confinement”
was appropriate, the judge said.  Castel also ordered Heller to serve two years of supervised
release and pay a fine of $180,000. Heller must surrender to
begin his sentence on April 2, the judge said.  The case is U.S. v. Heller, 10-mg-742, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in Manhattan federal court at 
 ithomas15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 