-- Mexico May Keep Benchmark Rate at Record Low as Growth in Economy Slows
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-01-20T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/mexico-may-keep-key-rate-at-record-low-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Mexico ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged for the 24th
consecutive meeting today as inflation accelerates while
economic growth slows  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, will
leave the overnight rate at a record low of 4.5 percent,
according to all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It is the
first time since August that analysts are unanimous in their
forecasts. The decision will be announced at 9 a.m. local time.  Speculation the central bank may be preparing to cut rates
has dimmed after inflation exceeded expectations for three
months in a row following a region-leading slump in the peso
over the past six months. Inflation is now running at the
fastest pace in a year, even as  Europe ’s debt crisis dims the
outlook for economic growth.  “The international situation has generated more volatility
and for more time than we had estimated,” said  Rafael Camarena ,
an economist at  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in Mexico City. “We could be
on hold until economic conditions improve.”  Mexico’s peso has weakened 12 percent over the past six
months, the worst performer among major Latin American
currencies, pushing up import costs. The inflation rate  climbed 
to 3.82 percent in December from 3.14 percent three months
earlier. A record drought has also fueled farm prices.  ‘Moderate Growth’  The economy will have “moderate growth” of an estimated
3.5 percent this year, Carstens said Jan. 17, down from about 4
percent in 2011.  Growth eased to 3.68 percent in October from 4.52 percent
the month before, while industrial production increased a
monthly 0.1 percent in November, compared with the median
forecast among economists polled by Bloomberg of 0.6 percent.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index has risen 5.9 percent in
the last month. Yields on the nation’s benchmark bonds maturing
in 2024 have fallen 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point,
to 6.31 percent over the same period.  While the peso and  economic growth  remain weak, the central
bank will probably keep rates on hold through 2013, Nomura
Securities Inc. said in a Jan. 17 report titled “Mexico: 4.5%
forever?” Any pick-up in growth may create a “trade-off” with
a stronger peso, the report said.  The peso has rallied 5.2 percent against the dollar in the
year to date, as  risk aversion  subsides amid a rebound in
manufacturing in the U.S., the destination of 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports.  ‘Adequate’  The central bank said at its Dec. 2 meeting that the
“current monetary posture is adequate” although members were
divided over the need to raise or cut the key  interest rate  in
2012, according to the minutes.  The December decision took a more neutral and “slightly
less dovish” approach than the Oct. 14 statement because it
shifted the balance of risk on inflation to neutral from
improved,  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co ., said.  Still, consumer prices have absorbed the shocks to the
country’s exchange rate “very well,” central bank Deputy
Governor Manuel Ramos Francia said on Jan. 12.  Mexico’s monetary policy has been consistent with a
downward inflation trend and policy makers have felt comfortable
with their 4.5 percent benchmark interest rate, he said during
an event in Mexico City. The central bank targets 3 percent
inflation. It next meets to decide on rates March 16.  The central bank may still lower rates this year if signs
of a recession in Mexico increase, said  Eduardo Avila , an
economist with Monex Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City. “Growth risk
is increasing,” he said. There is still “the possibility that
 Banco de Mexico  could cut interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 