-- Mexico Keeps Benchmark Rate at Record Low of 4.5% as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-01-20T20:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/mexico-keeps-key-rate-at-record-low-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Mexico’s central bank said the
outlook for inflation is favorable after economic growth began
to slow, signaling its next step after leaving  interest rates 
unchanged for a 24th meeting may be a cut.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, kept
the overnight rate at a record low of 4.5 percent today, in line
with the forecast of all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It
was the first time since August that analysts were unanimous in
their forecasts.  Inflation has accelerated for three months in a row
following a region-leading slump in the peso against the dollar
last year. While the weaker peso has fueled increases in the
cost of some tradable goods, there is no evidence of that
pushing up prices of other goods and services and the increase
in the inflation rate is likely to be “transitory,” the
central bank said in a statement accompanying today’s decision.  “The majority of the board members are inclined to
eventually cut the overnight rate, even if the policy bias is,
for the record, neutral,” Credit Suisse Group AG said in a note
to investors. “We think that this will be more evident in the
monetary policy minutes due February 3.”  Labor and credit markets still show slack, with the output
gap narrowing more slowly than previously forecast and some
components of domestic demand weakening in the fourth quarter,
the bank said.  The bank stands ready to lower rates if the European debt
crisis deepens, depressing domestic growth and consumer prices,
it said.  ‘Dovish’  “The general tone of the communique is the same as the
last meeting, but there is a hint of dovishness,” Nomura
Securities Inc. said in a note to investors. “Banxico will keep
a lax monetary policy for a prolonged period of time.”  The yield on benchmark peso-denominated bonds due in 2024
slid five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.27
percent at 1:14 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price of the securities rose 0.48 centavos to
132.90 centavos per peso. The yield is the lowest since Sept. 8.  “We maintain our expectation of a rate cut, but instead of
a 50 basis point call, we now believe it will be of 25 basis
points, which will bring the Fondeo rate to 4.25% in March,”
Banco Santander SA economist Gabriel Lozano wrote to clients.  Weaker Peso  Mexico ’s peso has weakened 12 percent over the past six
months, the worst performer among major Latin American
currencies, pushing up import costs. The inflation rate  climbed 
to 3.82 percent in December from 3.14 percent three months
earlier. A record drought has also fueled farm prices.  The economy will have “moderate growth” of an estimated
3.5 percent this year, Carstens said Jan. 17, down from about 4
percent in 2011.  Growth eased to 3.68 percent in October from 4.52 percent
the month before, while industrial production increased a
monthly 0.1 percent in November, compared with the median
forecast among economists polled by Bloomberg of 0.6 percent.  Mexico’s monetary policy has been consistent with a
downward inflation trend and policy makers have felt comfortable
with their 4.5 percent benchmark interest rate, central bank
Deputy Governor Manuel Ramos Francia said on Jan. 12. The bank
targets 3 percent inflation. It next meets to decide on rates
March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 