-- Bonds Gain as Traders Pare Rate-Increase Bets: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-01-20T22:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/mexico-peso-drops-as-greece-debt-swap-talks-spur-risk-aversion.html
Mexico ’s benchmark peso bond yields
fell to a four-month low after policy makers said they expect an
inflation pickup to be “temporary,” damping speculation that
they’d raise  interest rates .  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bonds due
in 2024 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
6.29 percent at the close in Mexico City, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the securities rose 0.37
centavo to 132.68 centavos per peso. The yield is the lowest
since Sept. 8.  The central bank’s board left the benchmark rate at a
record low of 4.5 percent today, in line with forecasts from all
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, and said the recent jump in
consumer prices was not a reflection of  core inflation . The bank
said there’s been “practically no” change in inflation
expectations following the peso’s 12 percent, six-month plunge.
Investors pared bets on rate increases in overseas trading of
interest-rate swaps.  Today’s statement shows “it would be difficult for them to
raise” rates, Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage 40 billion
pesos at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a telephone
interview in Mexico City. “The perception is for no change.”  Santander Call  The two-year interest rate swap, the fixed cost investors
are willing to pay in exchange for receiving the benchmark
interbank rate known as TIIE, fell six basis points to 4.93
percent, suggesting traders are pushing back expectations for an
increase, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swap rate
reflects investors’ projections of the average central bank
benchmark interest rate during the period.  Some traders have been betting that central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens’s next move will be a rate cut as he seeks to
shore up  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy from a global
slowdown. Credit Suisse Group AG maintained today its call for
three reductions this year that would bring the benchmark rate
to 3.75 percent while Banco Santander SA said it predicts a 25-
basis point cut at the next meeting in March.  Mexico’s annual inflation rate climbed to a 12-month high
of 3.8 percent last month from 3.5 percent in November.  Policy makers are “trying to manage expectations of the
impact of the peso depreciation on inflation,”  Pedro Tuesta , an
economist at 4Cast Inc., said by phone from  Washington .  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 13.1813 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 13.2210 yesterday. It has appreciated 3.2 percent this
week, paring its sell-off since July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  