-- FAA, Surface-Transport Bills Near Votes as Lawmakers Compromise
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-01-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/faa-to-stay-open-as-u-s-lawmakers-compromise-on-union-votes.html
U.S. lawmakers agreed to compromise
on a labor provision in legislation to keep the  Federal Aviation
Administration  running.  The deal by House and Senate leaders will allow passage of
an FAA bill “very soon,” Justin Harclerode, a spokesman for
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said
yesterday. The compromise drops labor requirements that may have
made it harder for workers to join a union.  Congress has been forced to pass 22 short-term extensions
allowing the FAA to operate since the last long-term legislation
expired Sept. 30, 2007. The current extension expires Jan. 31.  “I am pleased that we were able to resolve the major
obstacles to an agreement in a manner that protects American
workers, and clears the way for a long-term extension of the
Federal Aviation Administration,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada , a Democrat, said in an e-mail statement.  A separate funding measure for surface-transportation
programs, which have been operating under short-term extensions
since 2009, may be considered by the House committee on Feb. 2
and move to the full chamber for consideration later that month,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The dispute over labor provisions for transportation
workers contributed to a partial shutdown of the FAA from July
23 to Aug. 5. About 4,000 employees were furloughed during the
period and the agency lost at least $468 million because it
couldn’t collect airline ticket taxes, according to government
and industry data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cooperation, Bipartisanship  House Republicans , in a move objected to by Senate
Democrats, included a provision in an FAA bill last year that
overturned a 2010 National Mediation Board decision that made it
easier for employees to vote to join a union. The compromise
drops the Republican measure from the bill, Harclerode said.  In exchange, Democrats agreed to require the mediation
board, which regulates labor issues for rail and airline
workers, to hold public hearings before adopting new rules,
Harclerode said. The compromise also alters some rules for union
runoff elections, and requires the Government Accountability
Office to review union certification rules under the mediation
board and compare them to other labor-regulation agencies.  The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, which
represents over 20,000 FAA controllers and engineers, praised
lawmakers for reaching an agreement.  “At a time when cooperation and bipartisanship are
considered near-blasphemy in our nation’s capital, the men and
women of NATCA are pleased to see lawmakers in Washington reach
a long-overdue compromise,” Paul Rinaldi, the union’s
president, said in an e-mailed statement.  Rural Airport Subsidies  Other disputes that have held up passage of an FAA bill
remain unresolved, Harclerode said.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who
chairs the Commerce Committee, and Representative  John Mica , the
Republican chairman of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, have said that remaining issues
include government supplements for rural air service, allocation
of flights into Reagan Washington National Airport and rules for
carrying lithium battery shipments on cargo flights.  The FAA shutdown occurred after Mica included a measure in
a temporary FAA bill that would have eliminated subsidies for
airline service at 13 rural airports. Rockefeller said it was
unfair to include the subsidy cuts in the temporary bill.  Majority Rules  The mediation board wrote regulations in 2010 to let a
majority of those voting decide whether to join a union.
Previously, a majority of all workers, regardless of how many
actually submitted a ballot, had to vote in favor of unionizing.  A U.S. appeals court ruled in December that the change was
proper.  Airlines, including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce trade group, have opposed the change.  Airlines for America, the Washington trade group
representing Delta and other carriers, declined to comment on
the compromise until it has had a chance to read the
legislation,  Steve Lott , the group’s spokesman, said.  “Delta has always supported a long-term FAA
reauthorization bill,”  Gina Laughlin , a spokeswoman for the
Atlanta-based airline, said in an e-mail. “We hope
Congress can agree to a final bill in the next few weeks.”  Surface Transportation  U.S. surface transportation programs have operated under
periodic extensions of the legislation that was set to expire in
2009, with the current authorization ending on March 31. A
Senate version of the measure was approved by the Environment
and Public Works Committee in November.  The House committee won a commitment from leaders for the
full House to debate the surface-transportation bill in
February. Transportation industry officials will be briefed on
Jan. 26, the people said.  Both the surface-transportation and FAA bills would need
additional funding to prevent cuts in highway, bridge and
transit projects, the committees have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  