-- Facebook Said to Weigh Doubling Size of European Headquarters in Dublin
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-01-20T15:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/facebook-weighs-expanding-european-hq.html
Facebook Inc. is seeking to more
than double the size of its European headquarters in Dublin as
the most popular social-networking site prepares for a possible
$10 billion initial public offering, three people with knowledge
of the matter said.  Facebook may move and lease as much as 11,150 square meters
(120,000 square feet) of  office space  in the Irish capital over
five years, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information is private. Facebook, which set up its
Dublin office in 2008, currently occupies about 5,000 square
meters of space in the city’s south docklands neighborhood,
according to one of the people.  The Dublin office is responsible for all of the company’s
users outside of the U.S. and Canada, according to the Irish
data-protection agency. Co-founded by Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook is examining a $10 billion IPO that
would value the  Menlo Park , California-based company at more
than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
November.  Among the real-estate options being considered are the
former Bank of Ireland headquarters building and two office
blocks in south docklands close to Facebook’s existing location,
the people said.  The deadline for building owners to pitch proposals for the
new space was Jan. 13, the people said. Emily Clarke, a
spokeswoman for Facebook in London, declined to comment.  Google Purchase  Some of the biggest technology companies are expanding in
Dublin.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in  Mountain View , California, bought
two Dublin buildings that make up its European headquarters in
March for an undisclosed price. Twitter Inc. will open an
international office in the city, Ireland’s Industrial
Development Authority said in September. Microsoft Corp. may
expand its Dublin data center by a third, the Sunday Business
Post reported that month.  Facebook has “demand” for office space in Dublin,  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in a report yesterday on the city’s
office market. Prime rents in Dublin are 28 euros to 32 euros
($36 to $41) a square foot, down from 55 euros in 2008, Jones
Lang said. The report didn’t say how much space Facebook might
seek.  Total sales at Facebook in 2012 may surge 52 percent to 62
percent from last year’s projected $4.27 billion through
increased ad revenue, according to Debra Aho Williamson, an
analyst at EMarketer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 