-- Farmers Bet on Rates as MetLife Battles Rural Lenders
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-01-20T17:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/farmers-bet-on-rates-as-metlife-battles-rural-lenders-mortgages.html
John Harder, a 65-year-old farmer
with 7,500 acres in  Iowa , said he’s taking out new loans almost
every month as profits surge and  land prices  reach records.  “If I can get the rate right and buy the property right,
I’d borrow millions every day,” said Harder, who is expanding
his corn and soybean plots with a 3.35 percent, variable-rate
loan from a U.S. Farm Credit System bank. “I’m kind of a
gambler anyway or else I wouldn’t be doing what I’m doing.”  Farmers are taking advantage of a resurgence in government-
chartered credit providers and Federal Reserve efforts to stoke
the economy by holding the fed funds rate near zero. Competition
from private lenders such as MetLife Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
is keeping borrowing costs near record lows as the value of
farmland in the third quarter rose as much as 25 percent in the
U.S. Midwest, driven by surging sales of corn to ethanol
producers and grain exports.  “We’re seeing very aggressive activity by the Farm Credit
System and commercial banks,”  Jason Henderson , vice president
and Omaha, Nebraska branch executive at the Federal Reserve Bank
of Kansas City, said in a telephone interview. “Everyone is
battling for market share.”  The  Farm Credit System (RDETCDET) , created by Congress in 1916,
increased its share of lending in the $136 billion farm real-
estate market to 45 percent from 41.5 percent in 2007 and 35
percent in 2000, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
data. The network, made up of banks and 83 associations owned by
farmers and funded by bond sales, won the business of those like
Harder by cutting rates and paying dividends to borrowers.  Top Credit Grades  It raises money for lending by issuing Federal Farm Credit
Banks Funding Corp. debt that according to  Fitch Ratings  has the
“implicit support” of the U.S. government. The bonds carry the
top credit grades from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch, and
are ranked at AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s , the same as the U.S.
government. They’re separate from Farmer Mac, a government-
supported enterprise that provides a secondary market for
mortgages created by commercial banks and other lenders.  “In agricultural banking, we have our very own rogue
elephant,” said John Blanchfield, who directs the ABA Center
for Agricultural and Rural Banking at the American Bankers
Association in  Washington . “It’s the federal farm system.”  The  average value  of an acre of U.S. farmland reached a
record $2,350 in 2011, the Department of Agriculture said in
August, climbing from $737 in 1980. Land prices at an average of
 $5,600  an acre in Iowa are more than triple what they were a
decade ago. Jason O’Connor, 34, is spending $8,500 an acre on a
corn and soybean farm near Herscher,  Illinois .  ‘Kind of Scary’  “It’s kind of scary,” said O’Connor, who turned to
AgFirst Farm Credit Bank of the Farm Credit System for a 5.9
percent loan and expects to close on the 80 acre (32 hectare)
plot next month. “We’re at a record high, and we’re all afraid
the balloon is going to burst.”  The land rally was cited in March 2011 by  Sheila Bair  as a
potential risk for farm banks. Bair, then chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said the “steep rise” in
farmland could cause instability in the system.  Investors ranging from Singapore-based hedge-fund managers
 Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings, and Stephen Diggle of
Vulpes Investment Management to Harvard University’s endowment
are betting on farmland as food prices rise. Perry Vieth, a
former fixed-income trader for PanAgora Asset Management Inc.,
founded Ceres Partners LLC in December 2007 to buy and oversee
farms. Investors in his Granger, Indiana-based firm receive a
share of farmland, while Ceres leases land to local farmers.  ‘Eager to Buy Ground’  “I was just talking to about 200 farmers in Southern
Minnesota and they’re still very, very eager to buy ground at
the current prices, even though they’re record prices,” said
 Michael Swanson , an agricultural economist and consultant for
Wells Fargo. “Structurally we’re very enthused about the
market.”  While some agricultural companies have used the rally in
land values to add to long-term borrowing, farmers are using
increased earnings to repay debt. The result, according to USDA
estimates, is a contraction in the market.  “The challenge is to find, or even maintain the loan
volumes that they’ve had in the past,” said Cole Gustafson, a
professor with North Dakota State University. “The existing
lenders have been very competitive, so loan margins have been
driven very low.”  Poaching Market Share  Outstanding loans backed by agricultural real estate were
poised to fall 3 percent to $132.1 billion in 2011, the USDA
forecast in November. To counter, lenders are seeking to grab
clients from competitors.  MetLife teamed with Wells Fargo and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
to poach farmer-owned Aurora Cooperative from Farm Credit’s
Cobank.  The New York-based insurer, which had about $13 billion in
agricultural investments as of Sept. 30, offered Aurora a lower
interest rate and provided a real-estate appraisal that more
than doubled the value of its collateral. That allowed Aurora,
based in the Nebraska city of the same name, to boost long-term
debt to $90 million from $40 million and cut the seasonal short-
term borrowings it uses to fund inventory purchases.  “These assets have really exploded in valuation over the
last 5 to 10 years,” Aurora Chief Executive Officer George
Hohwieler said in an interview. “The amount of leverage against
those assets was very small” under the previous deal with
Cobank, he said.  Interest Rates  MetLife (MET)  and Lincoln, Nebraska-based Union Bank & Trust Co.
provided Aurora’s long-term, property-backed debt. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Bank of America led the short-
term financing, which is collateralized by inventory such as
fertilizer, seed and grain, Hohwieler said. Arthur Hodges, a
spokesman for Cobank, declined to comment.  Agriculture real estate loan interest rates fell to the
lowest since at least 1974 at 5.36 percent in the third quarter
for the region that includes Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan
and Wisconsin, according to the  Chicago  Federal Reserve Bank.
Iowa, the largest corn producing U.S. state, had the lowest rate
in the region at 5.24 percent.  “It’s crazy not to use the money because the cash is so
cheap right now,” said Bill Couser, a 57-year-old farmer who
expects to close in March on a 10-year loan from State Bank &
Trust Co. Couser is using the loan to finance a $1 million land
purchase to expand his ownership of a corn-seed and cattle farm.  DuPont, FMC Beneficiaries  Lenders in the Farm Credit System are generally offering
variable rate loans at about 3.5 percent and fixed-rate loans at
5.5 percent, according to Doug Stark, CEO of Farm Credit
Services of America, an Omaha-based lender that is part of the
Farm Credit System. Landowners aren’t the only ones gaining.  “Ag-related names have benefited with farm incomes
rising,” said Jeff Windau, a St. Louis-based analyst for Edward
Jones & Co., who has “buy” ratings on  DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest
U.S. chemicals company by market value and  FMC Corp. (FMC)  “Farmers
have more money to invest in machinery, and with higher
commodity prices they’re able to go for the higher-value
seeds.”  The Farm Credit System required a bailout of as much as $4
billion of taxpayer-backed bonds in 1987 as land prices slumped
after rising in the 1970s. The network weathered the 2008 credit
seizure as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the residential mortgage
finance companies, had to be rescued by the U.S. Government,
costing taxpayers more than $153 billion.  Credit Perspective  “We had our challenges in the 1980’s,” Stark said in a
telephone interview. “We learned some valuable lessons from
those times.” Net income at Farm Credit System rose to $2.99
billion for the first nine months of 2011 from $2.63 billion for
the year-earlier period.  From a credit perspective, “investors love the Federal
Farm Credit bonds,” said Ralph Axel, a Bank of America analyst
in  New York . “They didn’t need a bailout, they have no big
investments in private label securities and they’re not
suffering from credit losses on their loans.”  He recommended this month that agency debt investors favor
the bonds of the Federal Farm Credit Banks and  Federal Home Loan
Banks  over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac after the government
tapped the two mortgage companies to pay for last month’s
extension of a payroll tax cut.  The Federal Farm Credit Banks’ $481 million of 0.54 percent
bonds due in October 2014 trade at 100 cents on the dollar to
pay 18 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Tremendous Equity  “There’s a tremendous amount of equity in agriculture,”
said Calum Turvey, a professor of agricultural finance at
 Cornell University . “This is why the bonds issued by the Farm
Credit System are trading just a couple of basis points above
Treasuries.”  MetLife expects to expand in agriculture, which accounts
for about 3 percent of its $493 billion portfolio, with growth
outside the U.S., Chief Investment Officer Steven Goulart told
investors in December. The company reported a 2.9 percent gain
in agricultural investments in the 12 months ended in September,
while holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities fell
8.7 percent in the same period.  “We continue to see ag lending as a good opportunity for
us,” Robert Merck, senior managing director of real estate and
agricultural investments at MetLife, said in a telephone
interview. “It has performed well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 