-- Fed Releases Format for Charts on Forecasts by FOMC for Main Interest Rate
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-20T21:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/fed-releases-format-for-charts-on-fomc-fed-funds-rate-forecasts.html
The  Federal Reserve  released blank
templates showing the format of the central bank’s forecasts for
the benchmark interest rate, which will be provided to the
public for the first time on Jan. 25.  The Fed said it will offer two charts along with the
forecasts, according to a statement today in  Washington . The
first chart will use shaded bars to show in which year
participants in the Federal Open Market Committee project that
the central bank will first raise interest rates.  The second chart will show projections from each
participant for the appropriate federal funds rate target at the
end of the next three years and the longer run. The chart will
indicate how quickly the  central bank  expects rates to rise once
they are no longer in the range of zero to 0.25 percent.  The projections aren’t specific about the timing of a rate
change, only indicating the year of such a move, said Michael Pond, managing director at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York .  “The thing I am surprised at is that it is not more
granular,” he said. “If the first rate hike is 2014, is it
January 2014 or December 2014?”  Minutes from the FOMC’s December meeting said that the Fed
would also provide an “accompanying narrative” providing
“qualitative information” regarding Fed officials’
expectations for the central bank’s $2.92 trillion balance
sheet. That information will be provided three weeks later in
minutes of the meeting. The minutes of the January meeting are
scheduled to be released Feb. 15.  ‘Future Path’  “Appropriate monetary policy, by definition, is the future
path of policy that each participant deems most likely to foster
outcomes for economic activity and inflation that best satisfy”
the central bank’s dual mandate for maximum employment and
stable prices, the Fed said in an explanatory note released with
the templates.  By releasing their forecasts, central bankers may alter
expectations for the timing of the first increase in the
benchmark  interest rate , which has been kept near zero since
December 2008. Fed officials repeated their view last month that
economic conditions would warrant “exceptionally low levels for
the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  