-- Finland’s Euro-Skeptic Timo Soini Set for Defeat in Presidential Election
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-01-20T11:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/finland-s-euro-skeptic-timo-soini-set-for-defeat-in-presidential-election.html
Less than a year after Timo Soini
led his anti-euro “The Finns” party in a fourfold surge in
 Finland ’s parliamentary election, voters are showing they won’t
reward candidates running on a bailout-bashing agenda.  Polls show Soini may place fourth in the Jan. 22
presidential election, trailing Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s
National Coalition candidate Sauli Niinistoe, a former banker
and finance minister who led Finland into the euro in 1999.  Finland, one of four remaining AAA rated euro countries,
has threatened to derail efforts to solve the debt crisis,
including demanding collateral to provide emergency funds to
 Greece . Niinistoe, 63, as finance minister for the seven years
through 2003 helped rebuild Finland’s economy after the early
1990s recession and banking crisis. He lost in 2006 to President
Tarja Halonen, who’s stepping down after a two-term limit.  “The single most important topic in these elections is the
economy and the euro crisis,” said Ville Pernaa, head of the
Center for Parliamentary Studies at Turku University, in an
interview. “If the results reflect the polls, it will be the
first time “The Finns” party has suffered an election defeat
since 2006. They will become more a party among others and they
will need to start rebuilding their support again.”  Europe ’s debt crisis is mired in its third year after
Greece was forced to seek a bailout in 2010, followed by Ireland
and  Portugal . Italy and Greece have appointed former central
bankers and bureaucrats as their prime ministers to push through
unpopular austerity measures.  Spread Widening  The difference between 10-year yields on Finnish government
debt and similar-maturity German bunds widened the most in the
euro region today, swelling five basis points to 39 basis points
as of 1:39 p.m. in Helsinki.  A poll by Taloustutkimus released on Jan. 19 by broadcaster
YLE showed Niinistoe had backing of 29 percent, beating the
Green League’s Pekka Haavisto on 12 percent and the Center
Party’s Paavo Vaeyrynen on 10 percent. Soini had the support of
6 percent, according to the poll, which had three percentage
point margin of error. The election will go to a second round if
no candidate gets more than 50 percent.  Niinistoe, who has been deputy chairman of the  European
Investment Bank  as well as speaker of parliament, has an image
as an “independent, wise banker,” Pernaa said.  Powers Curtailed  In Finland, the president is the head of state, while the
prime minister runs the government from day-to-day. The
president’s powers include steering foreign policy in
cooperation with the government, appointing top-ranking civil
servants such as the central bank governor and commanding the
armed forces. Other powers will be further curtailed by a
constitutional amendment that comes into force on March 1.  The Center Party’s Vaeyrynen has eroded Soini’s support by
arguing for Finland to quit the euro. Niinistoe has said the
only remedy to ending the crisis is reducing debt.  “Vaeyrynen has destroyed Soini’s political future,” Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief economist at Aktia Oyj, said by phone. “His
anti-euro campaign has managed to disarm Soini completely.”  Soini’s success in the April parliamentary vote also
mobilized voters of Haavisto, the Green League candidate who has
risen in a backlash against conservatism and xenophobia,
Tyrvaeinen said.  “People may be voting for Vaeyrynen and Haavisto to ensure
Soini won’t make it to the second round,” he said.  ‘Absolutely Not’  The rise of “The Finns” party in April reflected Finnish
taxpayers’ disgruntlement over handing over cash to governments
that overspent. Even so, two thirds of Finns support membership
in the euro, according to a Dec. 27 poll in  Helsingin Sanomat .  The anti-euro candidates also have the most voters refusing
to back them. A quarter of voters polled said they would
“absolutely not” vote for Soini, compared with 12 percent for
Vaeyrynen, 10 percent for Haavisto and 4 percent for Niinistoe,
according to a poll by broadcaster YLE on Jan. 5.  Not making it to the second round of voting would be “a
major blow” to Soini, and would allow the government “freer
hands” in designing policy without having to worry about the
oppositions’ popularity, Tyrvaeinen said.  The winner will replace Halonen. The first woman head of
state in the Nordic nation has served two consecutive terms and
is barred by the constitution from seeking re-election. In 2006,
she won 51.8 percent of votes to beat Niinistoe’s 48.2 percent
to secure her second six-year term.  Niinistoe is married to his party’s spokeswoman Jenni
Haukio, 34, a published poet. He has two sons from a previous
marriage to Marja-Leena Alanko, who passed away in 1995.  ‘Exceptionally Charismatic’  “Niinistoe is exceptionally charismatic and he’s had the
pole position since 2006,” Pernaa said.  Haavisto helped mediate peace in Sudan and Darfur from 2005
until 2007 as a special representative appointed by the  United
Nations , following in the footsteps of 2008 Nobel Peace Laureate
Martti Ahtisaari, also a former president of Finland. Haavisto
is one of the founding members of the Green League and lives in
a registered partnership with Antonio Flores from  Ecuador .  Vaeyrynen, 65, is a former minister in eight governments
and has worked as a lawmaker for 29 years.  Almost a third of voters are still undecided, even as 1.4
million votes were cast in advance ballots.  Polls open at 9 a.m. local time on Jan. 22 and close at 8
p.m. Vote counting is projected to be completed by 10 p.m.,
according to the Justice Ministry’s election website. A second
round for the top two candidates will be held on Feb. 5 if no
one gets more than half the votes.  “The election is important in determining the balance of
power between parties,” Pernaa said. “Who places second, third
and fourth is important feedback to the parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  