-- First-Place Rangers Are Second Thought Awaiting NHL Bruins as Giants Reign
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/first-place-rangers-are-second-thought-awaiting-nhl-bruins-as-giants-reign.html
The first-place  New York  Rangers sat
in the visitors’ locker room in  Montreal  before taking the ice
against the Canadiens and cheered for the football team that is
lighting up the skyline back home.  Forward Mike Rupp said he taped his sticks and dressed for
the Jan. 15 game at the Bell Centre while watching the  New York
Giants ’ 37-20 second-round National Football League playoff
victory over the defending-champion  Green Bay Packers .  The Rangers have 29 wins through 45 games, their best start
since the 1993-94 National Hockey League season. Tomorrow, a day
before the Giants face the  San Francisco  49ers for a spot in the
Super Bowl, the Rangers meet the defending Stanley Cup-champion
Boston Bruins, another club succeeding in the shadow of an NFL
playoff team, the  New England Patriots .  “When you’re playing in a city and that city’s football
team is doing well, you root for them,” Rupp, 32, said in an
interview. “The  Super Bowl  is the biggest thing going, it’s
pretty awesome to be in the city and share that.”  The Giants play the 49ers at Candlestick Park in San
Francisco at 6:30 p.m. New York time on Jan. 22, hours after the
Patriots host the Baltimore Ravens in the American Football
Conference championship at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,
 Massachusetts . The winners meet in the Super Bowl on Feb. 5.  The Eli Manning-led Giants, Super Bowl champs four years
ago, have become the sports focus of New York. The Empire State
Building, the tallest structure in the city’s skyline, will
light its tower in Giants’ blue tomorrow and on game day, as it
has on previous playoff weekends.  The New York Post has featured the Giants on its front or
back pages 20 of the last 22 days. Such appearances for the
Rangers -- zero.  No Pressure  That’s fine with Brian Boyle, a 27-year-old forward for New
York.  “It’s good for the Giants and it keeps the pressure off of
us,” he said.  Tomorrow’s game at TD Garden in  Boston  matches the Eastern
Conference’s top two teams in the standings and top two defenses.
The Bruins have allowed two goals per game and the Rangers 2.02.
Boston also leads the league in goals scored per game, with 3.54.  “We’re way behind them in that category,” Rupp said.
“You always want to use these games as a measuring stick.”  The Bruins won the Stanley Cup last season for the first
time in 39 years. Their success this year has been partially
overshadowed by the Tom Brady-led Patriots, the AFC’s top seed
and in the conference championship game for the sixth time in 11
seasons.  Days of Orr  Liam Fittz, a 46-year-old Boston native and Bruins fan,
said the hockey team’s recent title has placed it on par with
baseball’s  Red Sox  in popularity, still behind the Patriots.  “I compare it to the Bobby Orr days” of the early 1970s
when the Bruins last won the  Stanley Cup  prior to 2011, Fittz
said. “I see it with my 9-year-old who’s on a select team now
and I’m in a rink five days a week. The impact has been huge.”  The Giants won three of their final four regular-season
games to clinch the NFC’s East division playoff spot on the
final weekend with a 9-7 record. They beat the  Atlanta Falcons 
in the first round of the playoffs then upset the Packers, who
finished the regular season 15-1 and were favored by Las Vegas
sports books to repeat as Super Bowl champions.  The Rangers lost their first three games and six of the
first nine. Since then, they’ve won five straight games four
times and sit alone atop the Eastern Conference.  Playoff Berth  Support for the Giants has the Rangers excited about a
possible playoff berth, defenseman Ryan McDonagh said.  “You’re definitely seeing a lot more Giants jerseys,”
McDonagh, who played football at Cretin-Derham Hall High School
in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , said in an interview. “You get that
vibe that it’s a big city, but it’s a sports town -- a sports
town that really takes pride in their teams, and it’s fun to be
a part of that.”  The Rangers’ 3-2 victory over the  Philadelphia Flyers  in
the Jan. 2 Winter Classic outdoor game was seen by an average
3.7 million viewers, making it the fifth-most-watched regular-
season NHL game since 1975, according to NBC. The Giants’
victory over the Packers drew an average of 45.1 million, the
most-watched U.S. television show since the Super Bowl last
February, the NFL said in a statement.  Not all Rangers fans are able to watch their team’s success.
Due to a dispute with  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  over fees
charged to carry programming,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  has dropped
the MSG Network, leaving roughly 2.8 million subscribers without
coverage of the  National Basketball Association ’s Knicks, and
the NHL’s Rangers, New York Islanders and New Jersey Devils.  The Giants have earned the attention they’ve received,
McDonagh said. The Rangers have 37 games remaining in the
regular season.  “We’ve still got a long way to go to even make the
playoffs like the Giants,” said McDonagh, the nephew of former
Chicago Bears quarterback Steve Walsh. “It’s something that
we’re striving for and it’s great to see them doing well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  