-- For NFL Fans, This Is the Worst Time of Year: Stephen L. Carter
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-01-20T00:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/for-nfl-fans-this-is-the-worst-time-of-year-commentary-by-stephen-carter.html
For the professional football fan,
the playoffs are the most unhappy time of the year. One reason,
obviously, is that most teams don’t even make the playoffs, and
all but one of those that do end their seasons with defeats.  But the true cause of postseason depression -- especially
for those of us whom the  National Football League  has
successfully addicted to its product -- is that the playoffs
mean the whole shebang is rushing toward its end. Soon a long
dark will settle over the world of competitive football.  The playoffs are down to three games now -- a pair this
weekend, to decide the champions of each conference, and then
the  Super Bowl  itself two weeks later. Fans everywhere argue:
Are these the four best teams? The four most exciting? It
doesn’t matter. That is what is so fascinating about sport. All
that matters is the outcome of the game.  In baseball, the  World Series  is played to the best of
seven games, as are the league championship series before that.
In the  National Basketball Association  and the  National Hockey
League , so many teams wind up in the playoffs, and play so many
games in each round, that it is difficult to keep track of when
the season ends and the postseason begins. But in football, each
playoff is a single game. Win and move on, or lose and your
season is over. It is always Game 7.  To those who do not follow professional sports, the passion
of the fan (possibly a contraction, say the philologists, of
“fantasy” rather than “fanatic”) is inexplicable. But let me
try to unpack the mystery a bit.  Lurid Theories  Any number of theories have been propounded, some of them
lurid, some of them gendered. Perhaps, as  a popular book  of the
1990s had it, the rise of sexual egalitarianism pushed men to
celebrate the sports that are most punishing and brutal. Yet
some 44 percent of football fans  are women . So perhaps, in
Joseph Campbell’s influential formulation, we are simply
replaying, week by week, the Greek vision of the hero who, in
order to meet the deadly challenge, must master his faculties
and direct them to the necessary end; should his self-discipline
be too weak, he is bound to fail.  Or maybe it is just good fun.  My own love affair with football has simple roots: First,
my beloved Washington Senators baseball team absconded to  Texas ,
leaving me nobody to root for, then my father started watching
the color broadcasts (as we called them) of football. Sitting
beside him set the first hooks into me. The addiction became
complete after my family moved to Ithaca, N.Y., where  my high
school  team completed three consecutive undefeated seasons, to
which I contributed by sitting in the stands, screaming my head
off with the others.  Learned scholars once insisted that sports helped prepare
for life in a democracy -- learning to appreciate fair play, the
importance of teamwork, the value of rooting for the home team,
and so forth -- but the emphasis on victory has swamped the rest
of whatever life lessons sports once taught. It is disconcerting
indeed to see 20-something millionaires performing inane rituals
when they score touchdowns, as though reaching the end zone is
an unexpected surprise.  Rooting for the home side is fine, but it can go too far.
Vin Scully, the great Dodgers play-by-play announcer, used to
say that the fans see pitches with their hearts, booing umpires
who call a ball when the fans need a strike, or vice versa. His
implication was that not only umpires but also journalists have
the responsibility to see pitches with their heads. Here there
are lessons for our politics, too, and perhaps for the
commentariat most of all: The airwaves, like the stadiums, are
full of passionate rooters, for whom their side’s every pitch is
in the strike zone.  Crowd Abuse  True, every sport can be enjoyed badly. Incidents of
violence among fans are not uncommon. Even the most peaceable
home crowd loves to visit abuse upon the opposition. Much of
this is expected, but some of it is peculiar. Why, for example,
in a professional sports world that includes men who have
battered their partners or been involved in gun violence, have
so many fans developed an unreasoning hatred of quarterback  Tim Tebow ? Is it for such sins as vowing to wait until marriage to
have sex?  Of course, our obsessive attachment to our teams can be
harmful to our civic life in more tangible ways. Although
politicians (one sincerely hopes out of ignorance) continue to
tout the supposed benefits for municipalities of using tax
dollars to subsidize the construction of sports facilities, the
theory that new stadiums create windfalls in jobs or spending
has been as  thoroughly debunked  as a myth can be. The benefits
flow mostly to the club owners, individuals of considerable
wealth, who are no doubt grateful for the handouts of crony
capitalism, although hardly in need of them. (The state of  New
Jersey  opened a new stadium at the Meadowlands in 2010, but has
 not yet finished paying  for the old Meadowlands stadium, since
demolished.)  To be a true fan is to ignore such externalities. If
baseball is, in  John Updike’s fine coinage , the sport that is
most “ornamented by a loner,” football is the sport in which
the interaction of players on the same team is most complexly
regimented, and where the precision of the choreography is of
greatest import. If hitting the curveball is, by common consent,
the most challenging of individual tasks in all of sports,
throwing a football downfield may be the most delicate of team
tasks.  Fans cheer the long pass their team completes on third-and-
one. But purists know that the quarterback had to audible to the
pass when he came up to the line and saw the stacked defenders
in the box, that the back who stayed in to block had to pick up
the linebacker blitzing the gap, that the crossing tight end had
to lead the safety to the far side of the field, leaving the
wide receiver one-on-one with the cornerback, and that the
quarterback had to throw the ball 40 yards in the air, so that
it would land in the spot where the receiver, running full tilt,
would find himself when the ball reached the bottom of its arc,
and would drop over the receiver’s outside not inside shoulder,
without actually leading him out of bounds -- or else the pass
would have fallen incomplete, a forgotten failure that would
make no highlight reels.  Greek Wisdom  Epictetus, the first-century Greek Stoic, warned in “ The
Enchiridion ” against being carried away by pleasure. Delay your
pleasures, he taught, and if possible resist them, lest the time
after they have passed be filled with regret and reproach. Alas,
I am among those millions for whom it is too late; having taken
my pleasure in watching professional sports, I am indeed carried
away. Very soon, the greatest of them all, football, will go
dark for the while, and I am filled with regret, just as
Epictetus predicted.  Yet his reasons aren’t mine. What I regret is not that I
yielded once more to temptation, but that it will be seven
dreary months before temptation returns that I might yield
again.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
novelist, professor of law at  Yale University  and the author of
“The Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 