-- Forint Caps Biggest Weekly Gain in Seven on Orban IMF Reversal
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-20T16:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/forint-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-seven-on-orban-reversal.html
The forint gained, capping its
biggest weekly advance in seven, as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
said he would abandon policies that obstructed aid negotiations
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Hungary’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 303.81 per euro at
the close in Budapest. The forint gained 2.2 percent, the most
since the five days through Dec. 2 on a closing basis and the
second-biggest rally among more than 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Polish zloty.  The EU and the IMF broke off talks on a bailout last month
when Orban refused to withdraw legislation the organizations
said threatened the independence of the central bank. Orban
expects to reach a “political agreement” on disputed laws with
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  next week and will
abandon a planned merger of the central bank and the financial
authority, the premier said in a radio interview today.  “Hungarian markets have rallied aggressively over the past
week or so as the government has sent strong signals that it is
willing to ‘deal’ over securing a new IMF/EC financing
agreement,” Timothy Ash, global head of  emerging markets  at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a report today.  Hungary’s euro-denominated bonds due in July 2014 advanced
for a fourth day, cutting the yield 51 basis points to 9.741
percent, compared with 10.987 percent a week ago and 13.034
percent on Jan. 9, the all-time high for that security.  Disputed Laws  Hungary  is ready to change disputed laws should the
European Commission request it even if European law wouldn’t
require the modifications, Orban said at a press conference in
Budapest today. The government doesn’t want to bring the dispute
with the EU to court, he said.  Hungary must quickly resolve its dispute with the EU over
the central bank, Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s chief negotiator for
a financial bailout, told reporters today in Brussels after
meeting EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn .  Hungary must take “concrete steps” to ensure the
independence of its central bank, European Commission economics
spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels today.  “The risks still are of a long-drawn-out process of moving
to conclude an agreement,” RBS’s Ash said. “The market, and
the forint, in particular, has rallied aggressively, and the
risk now is that further near-term upside momentum might be
capped.”  The benchmark BUX stock  index  rose 1.9 percent, extending
its weekly gain to 8.7 percent.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s
largest lender, gained 1.8 percent, taking its advance this week
to 12.9 percent.  “We think the market is still short forint and hence
further short squeeze will likely occur if the newsflow remains
ok,”  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based strategist at UniCredit SpA,
wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  