-- France Suspends Afghan Military Operation After Four Soldiers Are Killed
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-01-20T13:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/france-suspends-afghan-military-operation-after-four-soldiers-are-killed.html
France  suspended its operations with
the Afghan army and may withdraw its forces, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said after an Afghan soldier killed four French military
personnel.  France halted training and support for the Afghan army and
is sending Defense Minister Gerard Longuet and its military
chief of staff to  Afghanistan  to assess the situation, Sarkozy
said in a speech to foreign ambassadors in Paris. Seventeen
French soldiers were injured in today’s attack, Matiullah Safi,
police chief of Kapisa province, where it occurred.  “If we are not satisfied with the level of security, we
will draw the consequences,” Sarkozy told the diplomats. “I
will go so far as to order an early withdrawal of our troops,”
he said. “We are there as friends of the Afghan people. We
cannot accept that an Afghan soldier fires on French troops.”  The assault was the deadliest on French forces since a
suicide bomber killed five as they rode in a convoy near Kabul
in July. France contributes almost 4,000 of the 130,000 troops
in the U.S.-led  International Security Assistance Force  in
Afghanistan, the fourth-largest contingent. Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  said in a statement he was saddened by the incident
and offered his condolences to families of the victims and the
French people. Karzai is scheduled to meet with Sarkozy Jan. 27
in Paris.  In today’s attack, the Afghan soldier opened fire at a base
shared by the two armies in the Tagap valley, 50 kilometers (30
miles) northeast of Kabul, the capital, Safi said by phone.
French troops detained the assailant, he said.  The French soldiers were unarmed, Longuet said in an
interview with France 2 television.  Longuet’s mission will be “to investigate the measures the
Afghan army is taking to secure its recruitment and what
security measures it is taking in its relations with the French
contingent,” Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said in a press
conference today.  Today’s attack came a month after a gunman in an Afghan
army uniform killed two members of the French Foreign Legion in
eastern Afghanistan.  Tensions Rise  Afghan troops or police attacked ISAF personnel in more
than three dozen incidents between 2007 and last year, according
to a classified report by the coalition cited today by the New
York Times. In one of the deadliest cases, an Afghan air force
pilot on April 27 killed eight U.S. military personnel and a
contract employee of the coalition.  Tensions between Afghans and the U.S. forces escalated last
week when video footage emerged showing U.S. Marines urinating
on the bodies of Afghan Taliban they had killed in a battle.
Karzai condemned the incident, and the U.S. Naval Criminal
Investigative Service said it had begun an inquiry.  The classified ISAF report said deep cultural clashes and
mutual anger between U.S. and Afghan troops are increasing the
threat of violence between the two forces, the Times reported.
The newspaper said it obtained a copy of the study, titled “A
Crisis of Trust and Cultural Incompatibility,” which was based
on interviews with more than 850 U.S. and Afghan troops and
their interpreters.  ISAF declined to comment on the report, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  