-- French Corn Farmers Plant Earlier, Lift Yields as Climate Warms
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-20T15:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/french-corn-farmers-plant-earlier-lift-yields-as-climate-warms.html
Corn farmers in  France , the European
Union’s largest producer, are planting their crop earlier
compared with a decade ago as climate change causes higher
temperatures, boosting yields, researchers and growers said.  Corn planting has advanced by about a month, giving crops
more time to grow and develop, Jacques Mathieu, head of crop
researcher Arvalis Institut du Vegetal, said in an interview
this week in Dijon in eastern France.  Average French corn yields rose to a record 10 metric tons
per hectare (2.47 acres) last year, from 8.95 tons in 2010,
according to data from crop office FranceAgriMer. The harvest is
estimated at 16 million tons in 2011-12, up from 15.2 million
tons a year earlier.  “We’ve advanced sowing by a month in not even 10 years,”
Mathieu said. “We still have a real potential to lift yields.
There’s a  climate change  element, but also the genetics.”  Average global temperatures are rising about 0.2 degree
Celsius (0.36 Fahrenheit) a decade and this will continue for at
least another 40 years based on climate-change models, according
to Philippe Gate, scientific director at  Arvalis .  For corn in France, “the yields continue to progress,”
Gate said in a presentation yesterday at a conference organized
by grain-industry lobby Orama. “In the central and northern
regions, where the temperatures were sub-optimal in the past,
nowadays they’re closer.”  Claude Menara, a farmer who grows corn on about 450
hectares in the Lot et Garonne department in southwestern
France, plants at the end of March rather than the end of April
or start of May, as he did 10 years ago.  Warming Climate  “Global warming means we sow earlier,” Menara said in an
interview in Dijon. “We’ve gained four weeks.”  A warming climate has already changed the geography of
European agriculture, with a northward expansion of crops, said
Jean-Paul Renoux, head of corn at Arvalis, in a presentation at
the Orama conference.  “The limit for corn in the 18th century was the Lorraine,
nowadays you have corn up to the Baltic,” Renoux said,
referring to a region in northeastern France bordering on
 Germany  and the  Baltic Sea  in northern  Europe .  Climate change also has a “negative side” for corn due to
an increased risk of water shortages, and warming means insect
pests are spreading northward, Arvalis head Mathieu said. Longer
and more intense drought conditions can interfere with nitrogen
uptake by plants, corn head Renoux said.  Driest Spring  Climate change means winter-planted wheat, barley and
rapeseed in France are at a rising risk of overly dry or hot
conditions, according to Mathieu. France had its driest spring
in 50 years last year, cutting soft-wheat yields to 6.8 tons per
hectare from 7.25 tons in 2010, according to FranceAgriMer.  “Climate change is hurting the winter crops,” Mathieu
said. “If you look in the past 10 years, every year there’s
been a weather mishap, it can be a summer that’s too hot, it can
be a spring drought.”  Wheat has several development stages in which adverse
conditions can reduce yields, Mathieu said. Climate change is
keeping in check yield increases achieved by plant breeding, he
said.  “There’s been a lot of progress in wheat,” Mathieu said.
“With the varieties of 25 years ago we would have had a larger
yield slide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  