-- G-20 Agrees on Need to Shore Up Sovereign Financing After Mexico Meeting
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 1 1 9 8 ]   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s   [ ]
-- 2012-01-20T21:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/g-20-agrees-on-need-to-shore-up-sovereign-funds-for-imf-europe-on-crisis.html
The G-20 agreed on the need to do
more to support indebted nations, Mexico’s Deputy Finance
Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said.  “Officials from the G-20 are in consensus about shoring up
schemes that support sovereign financing, for both  Europe  and
the IMF,” Rodriguez told reporters after a meeting of
representatives from the organization today in Mexico City.
“The discussions that we had yesterday and today are a very
important starting point in having achieved a consensus to give
more resources,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  proposed this week to raise
its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion to insulate the
world against any worsening of Europe’s debt crisis. Officials
in Mexico didn’t discuss how much they would loan the IMF,
though they did agree to move forward on the issue, Rodriguez
said.  Policy makers and business leaders will meet at the World
Economic Forum starting on Jan. 25 after the  World Bank  cut its
global growth forecast this month by the most in three years,
saying that a recession in the euro region threatens to
exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets .  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, according to the World
Bank.  Mexican policy makers have indicated that the country may
contribute more to the IMF and would push for greater support
for the fund through its leadership position in the G-20.  “This will be one of the important jobs under Mexico’s
presidency, to seek out ways to financially strengthen,” the
IMF, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Nov. 30.
Mexico would be “more than willing to collaborate and offer
resources to support a greater range of action” by the fund, he
said. 