-- Homebuilder Gafisa Drops Second Day as Unit Sales Plunge: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-01-20T21:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/gafisa-drops-second-day-on-sales-drop-at-tenda-sao-paulo-mover.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3) ,  Brazil ’s fifth-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, dropped for a second day after the
company reported a 77 percent decline in sales last year at low-
income unit Construtora Tenda SA.  Shares declined 0.2 percent to 4.31 reais in Sao Paulo,
bringing its two-day retreat to 2.7 percent. The BM&FBovespa
Real Estate Index rose 1.5 percent today.  Gafisa’s consolidated new projects fell 21 percent last
year and came at the bottom of its forecasted range of 3.5
billion reais ($1.98 billion) to 4 billion reais, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. Project cancellations at Tenda in
the fourth quarter contributed to a 75 percent decline in the
unit’s new projects in 2011.  “The main concern is now the impact of the cancellation of
Tenda’s projects on the financial front,” analysts from Credit
Suisse including Guilherme Rocha wrote in a note to clients
today in which they reiterated a “neutral” rating on the
stock. “Investors should remain cautious on the name since all
potential adjustments and revenue reversals are not yet clear.”  Consolidated contracted sales dropped 16 percent in 2011.
Tenda’s drop was partly offset by a 10 percent increase for the
stand-alone Gafisa unit and a 41 percent gain for high-income
unit Alphaville Urbanismo SA, according to the filing.  Tenda will experience “extremely slow” sales in the next
three quarters, Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Osmo said Nov.
23.  “We consider the operating results weak”, analysts from
Banco Bradesco BBI SA including Luiz Mauricio Garcia said in a
note to clients today, as they placed the stock’s
“underperform” rating under review.  The consolidated results “reflect the strategy to maximize
profitability, since we decided to hold back Tenda’s new
projects and cancel contracts with potential buyers that no
longer qualify for bank loans,” Chief Executive Officer Duilio Calciolari said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katerina Petroff in  Sao Paulo  at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  