-- Gazprom Brings Forward South Stream Natural-Gas Pipeline Project
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-01-20T16:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/gazprom-plans-to-start-building-south-stream-pipeline-this-year.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  brought forward the
start date for building the 15 billion euro ($19 billion) South
Stream natural-gas pipeline, which will bypass transit nations
such as Ukraine and supply European customers directly.  Russia’s gas export monopoly will begin construction in
December, earlier than the original date of 2013, the Moscow-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  ordered Gazprom, to speed up
the building program, according to a transcript of a meeting
with Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller held at the
end of December.  “The project is needed and awaited, and we are beginning
to implement it,” Miller said in today’s statement.  Gazprom plans to build the new supply route after pricing
conflicts with Ukraine, the main transit country for Russian
gas, cut off supplies to the European Union twice in recent
years. While Gazprom has been seeking access to Ukrainian
pipelines in exchange for price discounts, its neighbor has so
far resisted giving up control of its network.  Gazprom, which is building the pipeline with  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  BASF
SE (BAS) ’s Wintershall unit, and Electricite de France SA, has said
supplies will start in 2015. The link will run under the Black
Sea central and southern Europe and terminate in Italy.  South Stream will deliver as much as 63 billion cubic
meters of gas annually, or almost double its current deliveries
to Germany, the EU’s biggest economy.  The gas exporter started deliveries via another offshore
pipeline, Nord Stream, across the Baltic Sea, last year, and
plans to expand that project.  The EU plans to build a rival Nabucco pipeline from the
 Caspian region  through Turkey.  RWE AG (RWE) , one of the members of
Nabucco, may scrap the pipeline plans,  Juergen Grossmann , CEO of
the German utility, said in an interview with the Wall Street
Journal earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 