-- GE Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates Even as Sales Curbed by Europe Slowdown
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-20T21:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/ge-earnings-top-analyst-estimate-as-revenue-trails-on-slow-european-growth.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  profit topped
estimates after its industrial order backlog rose to a record
$200 billion even as weaker demand in  Europe  hindered sales in
health care.  Profit from continuing operations of 39 cents a share,
excluding some items, compared with the  38-cent average  from
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Orders for equipment such as
locomotives and medical-imaging machines outpaced growth in
related service contracts, which have higher profit margins.  Revenue dropped 8 percent, including the NBC Universal
stake sale, to $38 billion, lower than the average analyst
estimate of $40 billion. Sales were trimmed by about $1 billion
because the fourth quarter had six fewer operating days than the
year-earlier period, GE said.  “The nature of the report today, a little lighter on the
revenues, but slightly better on earnings, highlights the need
for GE to really work hard on driving their top line,”  Nick Heymann , a William Blair & Co.  analyst , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. Sales were up 4 percent excluding NBC.  About 21 percent of GE’s sales came from Europe in 2010,
the most recent year for which data were available. The company
is paring operations in the region, in areas like health care
and lighting, in response.  GE was unchanged at $19.15 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
trading. The shares declined on eight of the 10 previous
earnings days.  Industrial Drivers  “The most important thing for the stock is for the
industrial businesses to drive growth and we’re just not seeing
great results there yet,”  Mark Demos , who helps oversee $18
billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis , said in
a telephone interview. “They really haven’t had that quarter
where they come out and have a clean beat by a lot.”  Operating profit margins fell to 16.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from 17.6 percent a year earlier, according to a
 presentation  on GE’s website. The margin improved from the 13.7
in the third quarter, and Immelt repeated a goal of expanding it
50 basis points in 2012.  Profit from continuing operations increased less than 1
percent to $3.93 billion, from $3.9 billion, or 36 cents, a year
earlier, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said in a statement.  Including items such as pension costs and an increase in
reserves related to the Japanese consumer finance unit sold in
2008, net income fell 18 percent to $3.73 billion, or 35 cents a
share, from $4.54 billion, or 42 cents.  GE Capital  revenue dropped 9 percent to $10.7 billion,
while profit climbed 58 percent to $1.62 billion. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is simplifying the unit while
seeking to lessen the portion of the company’s total earnings
that comes from the finance division.  GE Capital  The company announced a new goal for GE Capital’s ending
net investment, a measure of a finance company’s assets, to a
range of $425 billion to $440 billion. The division is about a
year ahead of its target in shrinking assets, a plan instituted
in the wake of the global financial crisis.  GE plans to consolidate the GE Capital Corp. and GE Capital
Services Inc. entities to simplify reporting, Chief Financial
Officer Keith Sherin said on an earnings call. The move wasn’t
spurred by the  Federal Reserve ’s taking over as regulator.  GE Capital Services used to contain the company’s now
disposed-of insurance divisions and, in the 1990s, the long-sold
off Kidder Peabody division. With those gone, there is little
benefit to having two separate entities, he said.  Earnings in energy infrastructure, the largest industrial
division, were little changed with profit of $2.2 billion.
Energy sales rose 19 percent to $13 billion, helped by
acquisitions and shipments of equipment.  Pricing Pressure  “GE said they are seeing some signs of stabilization in
pricing discussions on commitments, but it takes six to 18
months for commitments to become orders,” Vertical Research
Partners co-founder Jeffrey Sprague said. He estimated it will
take the same time period to turn orders into revenue.  GE and competitors  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Alstom SA “all have
excess capacity and are likely to remain aggressive on price,”
Sprague said.  “As a result, GE continues to fill up its
backlog with poorly priced units” and improvement in that may
take all of this year and next, he said.  At year-end, GE had $85 billion in cash on its balance
sheet. Immelt and Sherin said on the call that priorities for
that include shareholder dividends, reducing outstanding stock
through buybacks, and making smaller acquisitions.  “Really, we don’t need acquisitions,” Immelt said. “We
have got a pretty full pipeline of new products, and so I think
the emphasis on dividend, reducing the float over time, those
take a very high priority.”  Order Backlog  The company’s order backlog rose to $200 billion from a
record $191 billion at the end of the third quarter. Total
infrastructure orders climbed 15 percent in the quarter to $28.6
billion, with equipment up 23 percent and services up 7 percent.  The company saw a 25 percent increase in industrial
“growth market” revenue, driven by emerging economies.
Expansion in organic industrial orders, or those from businesses
owned more than a year, slowed to 5 percent in the fourth
quarter from 8 percent in the three months through September.  Cash generated from industrial operating activities in 2011
was $12.1 billion, above the high-end of the December forecast
range of $11 billion to $12 billion.  “Job One for the GE team in 2012 is to grow the industrial
earnings more than 10 percent,” Immelt said on the call. “And
I like the backlog we have to do it with.”  Profit at  aviation , the world’s biggest jet-engine maker,
rose 4 percent to $850 million on sales of $4.92 billion. The
division is beginning to ship record orders spurred by newer
models including the GEnx on  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Dreamliner and the
Leap on Boeing’s 737 MAX and Airbus SAS A320neo.  ‘Peeling Back’  Health-care profit declined 5 percent to $953 million on a
sales increase of 1 percent as the division grappled with
declines in Europe. Competitors Siemens and Royal Philips
Electronics NV, both noted slower demand in imaging equipment in
the region earlier this month.  Home and Business Solutions earnings, including lighting
and appliances, declined 41 percent as revenue fell 4 percent.  “GE brought mediocre earnings to life this quarter, with
revenues missing our expectations by about $1.5 billion,” Joel Levington, managing director of corporate credit for Brookfield
Investment Management, said in an e-mail.  “Peeling back the onion, energy revenues came in light;
health care, much like peers Siemens and Philips, were soft, but
aviation was quite good,” he said. “All told, the quarter is
largely benign to  credit quality , but can’t see this print
exciting stock investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  