-- GE Targets Ability to Send Extra Capital to Parent, Sherin Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2012-01-20T19:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/ge-targets-ability-to-send-extra-capital-to-parent-sherin-says.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , hoping to
resume collecting an annual dividend from its finance unit in
2012, sees the business generating “billions” more in free
capital than needed for the payment, the finance chief said.  GE is waiting for its new regulator, the Federal Reserve,
to finish its evaluation before re-starting the dividend. The
payment of almost half of  GE Capital ’s earnings reached as much
as $8.6 billion before it was suspended after the 2008 financial
and economic crisis.  “Our stated goal all along was to have GE Capital pay 45
percent of its earnings as a dividend,” Chief Financial Officer
Keith Sherin said in an interview today, reiterating that the
company must wait for the Federal Reserve’s approval. “We
believe we will have excess capital on top of that amount. We
have not quantified that, but we believe it will be in excess of
billions of dollars.”  Under Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt , the company
is working to shrink the portion of the parent’s total earnings
derived from the finance division to about one-third from about
half. As the company winds down or sells assets GE Capital no
longer wants, excess capital is created, Sherin said.  Once the latest international guidelines for capital
funding at banks and large finance companies like GE Capital,
known as the Basel standards, are finalized and the unit
completes its restructuring, the company will have a more
refined idea of its prospects, Sherin said.  Regulatory Framework  Excess capital at GE’s finance unit may be more than $20
billion over a three-year period, Steven Winoker, an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., estimated in December.  GE said today its finance unit has the equivalent of a 9.9
percent Tier 1 common ratio, higher than some banks. The Tier 1
ratio measures the security of a finance company’s resources.  “We believe, when you go to whatever regulatory framework
that we’re held to, if it’s Basel I or Basel III,” that the
finance unit will have excess capital after paying the 45
percent internal dividend, Sherin said. “As we continue to
shrink, we build up capital in the business. As we earn money,
we build up capital in the business.”  “Any amount above what the maximum regulatory”
requirement is set at could be returned to the parent company,
he said.  As GE continues simplifying its finance unit, the company
will consolidate the GE Capital Corp. and GE Capital Services
Inc. entities, Sherin said on a call with the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company’s investors today.  Today’s move wasn’t spurred by the  Federal Reserve ’s taking
over as regulator, Sherin said. GE Capital Services used to
contain the company’s now disposed-of insurance divisions and,
in the 1990s, the long-sold off Kidder Peabody division.  With those gone, there is little benefit to having two
separate entities, he said.  GE announced a new target today of  $425 billion to $440
billion  for GE Capital’s ending net investment, a gauge of a
finance business’s assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Rachel Layne} in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  