-- German Bunds Fall for Second Day as Deficit-Control Plans Damp Safety Bid
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-01-20T16:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/german-bunds-head-for-weekly-decline-amid-optimism-over-crisis-measures.html
German bunds fell for a second day
amid signs European officials and policy makers are moving
closer to resolving the region’s debt crisis and after borrowing
costs for nations including  France  fell at auctions this week.  Two-year German  yields  climbed to the highest level in
almost a month as European stocks headed for a fifth weekly
gain, damping demand for the region’s safest securities.
European governments are working toward tougher rules on budget
deficits, according to a draft of a budget treaty obtained by
Bloomberg. Greek two-year notes slumped as talks between the
government and its private bondholders over a debt swap entered
a third day.  There’s “general relief that the bond auctions we’ve had
in the euro zone this week have gone pretty well and there’s a
generally firm tone to equities that we’ve had for most of the
week,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London.  The 10-year German yield climbed seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 4:52 p.m. London time,
extending this week’s increase to 16 basis points, the most
since the period ended Nov. 25. The 2 percent bond due in
January 2022 fell 0.6, or 6 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,293) face
amount to 100.66.  The two-year yield was little changed at 0.21 percent after
climbing to 0.24 percent, the highest since Dec. 23.  Budget Treaty  The draft of a planned treaty on budget rules, to be
discussed by European Union finance ministers on Jan. 23, will
require a centralized “correction mechanism” to be triggered
automatically in cases of “significant” deviations from a
target structural deficit of 0.5 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the document dated Jan. 19 obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Borrowing costs fell at auctions of Spanish, Belgian,
French and German debt this week, even after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the credit rating of nine euro-region nations, including
France and  Spain , on Jan. 13.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  of shares gained 2.7 percent
this week, extending this year’s gain to 4.6 percent.  Italian 10-year bonds gained for a fifth day, the longest
winning streak since Aug. 12. The yield declined 12 basis points
to 6.24 percent.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Italian
securities instead of similar-maturity bunds shrank 19 basis
points to 4.32 percentage points, the least since Dec. 12.  Greek Talks  Greece ’s government and private creditors have reached an
initial agreement for a voluntary swap of Greek debt, Athens-
based newspaper Proto Thema reported on its website, without
saying how it got the information.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said talks with
the  Institute of International Finance  on the final details of a
swap will resume later today, following a teleconference with
officials from the European Union.  “In Greece we think there is going to be an agreement on
the terms at which PSI are going to be offered but the next step
is seeing how many investors are going to accept those terms,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London. “There’s still plenty of hurdles to
overcome.”  The yield of the Greek bond due in 2022 rose 24 basis
points to 34.16 percent, with the price decreasing 0.19 to 20.64
percent of face value. Two-year yields jumped 412 basis points
to 180.42 percent.  German bunds have handed investors a loss of 0.2 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. French
bonds have also lost 0.2 percent and Greek debt is down 1.4
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  