-- Germany’s Westerwelle Says Financial ‘Firewall’ Needed to Stem Debt Crisis
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-20T23:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/germany-s-westerwelle-says-firewall-needed-to-stem-euro-crisis.html
The European Union remains committed
to the euro common currency and will erect a financial firewall
to stem the debt crisis, German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said.  “We have to erect a firewall,” Westerwelle said in an
interview on Bloomberg television today in Washington. “We have
to show solidarity. We have to support those countries that are
now in serious trouble.” He said “a long-term solution” is
being sought.  EU finance ministers will discuss tougher rules on budget
deficits at a meeting on Jan. 23, according to a draft of a
planned fiscal treaty obtained by Bloomberg News. Also on the
agenda is a second financing package for Greece, which faces a
14.5 billion-euro ($18.8 billion) bond payment on March 20. Key
to the new bailout package is a debt-swap deal between Greek
officials and private creditors, who have been continuing
negotiations in  Athens .  The “euro currency is strong, is successful and will
survive,” Westerwelle said. “It is absolutely decisive that we
stay together in the euro zone, that we understand  Europe  and
the euro zone is not only our destiny, it’s also our desire.”  He added that it was a crucial time “not only for Greece
but for the euro zone.”  17-Nation Region  Euro area countries have been setting up financial
arrangements designed to stop the crisis from spilling over to
countries outside the 17-nation region, a process known as
constructing a “firewall.” Those structures include the
European Stability Mechanism, known as the ESM, with a planned
funding of 500 billion euros ($647 billion).  European governments have redoubled efforts to set up the
ESM by July, a year ahead of schedule, after a credit rating
downgrade raised concerns over the strength of the temporary aid
fund created at the outset of the crisis.  “We have to support those countries that are now in
serious trouble,” Westerwelle said. “It is necessary that
structural reforms come through in  Greece .”  “Our German commitment is that all European countries stay
on board, that all members of the euro zone stay on board and
that we solve this crisis together,” Westerwelle said earlier
in a meeting with Bloomberg reporters and editors.  “There were some positive signals at the beginning of this
year, for example the decreasing interest rates for Italy and
 Spain ,” Westerwelle responded when asked whether he sees the
euro crisis abating. He said markets were not “too much
impressed” by  Standard & Poor’s  decision to downgrade the
credit rating of nine European countries last week “and I think
this is good news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  