-- German Stocks Drop as the DAX Trims Weekly Gain; Deutsche Telekom Declines
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-20T17:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/german-stocks-fall-as-bayer-daimler-decline-commerzbank-gains.html
German stocks  retreated, with the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index trimming its fifth weekly advance, as  Bayer
AG (BAYN)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  dropped and U.S. home sales rose less
than economists had forecast.  Bayer and Deutsche Telekom decreased more than 1 percent as
analysts downgraded the stocks.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s
second-biggest lender, jumped 6.3 percent, leading  rising
shares .  The DAX slipped 11.87, or 0.2 percent, to 6,404.39 at the
close in Frankfurt, its first drop this week. The gauge posted a
4.3 percent weekly rally as Spain and  France  sold bonds at lower
yields and a report showed that fewer Americans than predicted
had filed claims for jobless benefits. The broader HDAX Index
also dropped 0.2 percent today.  “It’s not a surprise the market is a bit tired at these
levels after a good run,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity
portfolio management at the Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of
Pioneer Investments KGmbH, which oversees about $221 billion
globally. “The overall mood is that the ECB will step in if
necessary, reducing the systemic risk. In my view, the weakness
is more an opportunity to buy.”  A report today showed  sales of previously owned  U.S. homes
rose to 4.61 million in December. That fell short of the  median
estimate  of 75 economists for an increase to 4.65 million sales.  Greek officials and private creditors meet for a third day
to seek agreement on a debt swap. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the government held “long and substantial”
discussions with Institute of International Finance Managing
Director  Charles Dallara  yesterday.  Greek Debt Swap  Greece ’s government and creditors have reached an initial
agreement for a voluntary debt swap, Proto Thema reported on its
website, without saying how it got the information. The parties
agreed new bonds to replace existing Greek debt with a 30-year
maturity, carrying a coupon beginning at 3.1 percent, reaching
3.9 percent and going as high as 4.75 percent, the Athens-based
newspaper said.  Bayer (BAYN)  declined 1.3 percent to 53.52 euros as Germany’s
largest drugmaker was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  lost 1.4 percent to 8.82 euros as the
phone company was cut to “hold” from “add” at Commerzbank.  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany’s second-largest utility , slid 2.6 percent
to 26.94 euros. Profit margins at coal-fired plants in Germany
may slide as much as 15 percent as more renewable energy and
fossil-fuel plants boost capacity in  Europe ’s biggest market
this year and next, Societe Generale SA said.  Commerzbank (CBK)  jumped 6.3 percent to 1.72 euros, extending
yesterday’s 15 percent gain. The lender yesterday said it had
reached more than halfway to its goal of raising capital and can
find all the remaining money without asking for state aid.  Lenders have until the end of today to tell national
regulators how they plan to meet their capital targets. The
European Banking Authority, the agency that drew up the rules,
will discuss the findings at meetings with supervisors in  London 
on Feb. 8-9, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  