-- Giants-49ers Fans Combine to Drive Ticket Prices to $650 as Patriots Lag
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-20T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/giants-49ers-fans-drive-ticket-prices-to-650-as-patriots-lag.html
The  San Francisco  49ers’ return to
the National Football Conference championship game for the first
time since 1998, plus the presence of the  New York Giants , has
sent ticket prices soaring.  The average cost for the 49ers’ Jan. 22 home matchup with
the Giants and quarterback Eli Manning was more than $650 on the
secondary ticket market yesterday, according to  TiqIQ , an event
ticket aggregator that tracks listings from StubHub, EBay,
TicketNetwork and TicketsNow. Face value for the seats range
from $105-$380.  The prices are about 60 percent higher than for the
American Football Conference championship game between the  New
England Patriots  and Baltimore Ravens earlier the same day in
Foxboro,  Massachusetts .  “There’s definitely a bigger fever for the NFC game in
terms of fan sentiment,” TiqIQ spokesman Chris Matcovich said
in a telephone interview.  The 49ers are 2 1/2-point favorites against the Giants,
according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, while the Ravens are seven-
point underdogs at  New England .  The Patriots, led by quarterback  Tom Brady , are playing for
a spot in the Super Bowl for the sixth time in 11 years, while
the 49ers’ last appearance in the conference title game was 14
years ago.  San Francisco was in the NFC championship game 10 times in
a 17-year span from 1982 through 1998 and won five Super Bowls
behind quarterbacks Joe Montana and Steve Young. The Giants,
meantime, have one of the  National Football League ’s biggest fan
followings, said Sam Soni, the president of Atlanta-based ticket
package specialist  PrimeSport .  Major Markets  “It’s San Francisco being back and hosting a game of this
caliber and you’re also seeing that there’s Giants fans all
across the country and they’re seeing the Giants make a pretty
impressive postseason run,” Soni said by telephone. “The
magnitude of the game and two major markets are what the
difference is when it comes to ticket sales.”  Sean Smith, a 34-year-old Giants fan from Bridgewater,  New
Jersey , said he jumped on StubHub’s website to buy NFC
championship tickets with about two minutes left in last week’s
37-20 playoff win against the  Green Bay Packers . He paid $420
per ticket to get seats for himself, his dad from Temecula,
 California , and his cousin from  San Jose .  “They’re not field level, they’re up in the nosebleeds,
but I’ve never been to Candlestick and it’s the Giants in the
NFC championship, so price wasn’t an issue,” Smith, who sells
software for  CA Technologies , said in a telephone interview.  California Focus  About 70 percent of ticket purchases for the NFC title game
are from California and a combined 12 percent have come from  New
York  and New Jersey,  StubHub  spokeswoman JoEllen Ferrer said,
adding that the demand has been approximately twice as high as
that for the AFC championship.  At PrimeSport, ticket prices for the NFC championship go
from $308 to $2,750, while the range for the AFC title game is
$209 to $1,443.  “New England is consistently a great supporter of
football, this is just one of those things where they’ve had
this game many times,” PrimeSport’s Soni said. “We see it in
baseball all the time. When the  New York Yankees  are in the
 World Series  as often as they are and then you get a new team
like the Rangers or Giants in for the first time in many years,
you get a heightened demand.”  The 49ers got the chance to host a second straight playoff
game when the Giants upset the top-seeded Packers.  “Everybody thought the road was going to go through
Lambeau,” 49ers quarterback  Alex Smith  told reporters this
week. “I think everybody assumed the NFC championship game was
going to get played there and look what happens.”  Perfect Record  San Francisco now gets to host its first NFC title game
since the 1997 season, when the 49ers were beaten  23-10  by the
Packers and quarterback Brett Favre. The 49ers have a 5-5 record
in conference championship appearances. The Giants are 4-0 in
the NFC championship game.  Ticket costs for the past two NFC championship games were
among the highest in history, and this year’s average price may
continue to rise as kickoff approaches. The average ticket price
for last year’s game at  Chicago ’s Soldier Field between the
Packers and Bears was $820. The price the previous year at the
New Orleans Superdome for the Saints’ first NFC title game
appearance was $784, according to TiqIQ.  “There’s a big sense that this is special,” 49ers Chief
Executive Officer Jed York said on a conference call with
reporters. “I’ve met a lot of folks wearing Niners gear that
they haven’t busted out of their closet in 10 years. It’s great
to see that excitement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  