-- Giants, 49ers Face Rain-Soaked Candlestick With Super Bowl Berth at Stake
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-20T15:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/giants-49ers-face-rain-soaked-candlestick-with-super-bowl-berth-at-stake.html
The New York Giants and  San
Francisco  49ers probably will have to deal with a rain-soaked
grass field at Candlestick Park when they try to reach the Super
Bowl.  After a storm that may leave as much as two inches of rain
passes through the San Francisco area tonight and tomorrow, a
second front will come through northern  California  on the
afternoon of the National Football Conference title game Jan.
22, according to  Tom Kines , a senior meteorologist at
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.  “It is going to have some heavy rain with it and I do
think there’s going to be heavy rain north of San Francisco,”
Kines said in a telephone interview today. “It’s just a matter
of whether it can get as far south as San Francisco.”  AccuWeather is calling for showers during the game and
temperatures near 50 degrees (10 degrees Celsius), Kines said.  The NFC championship game starts at 3:30 p.m. on the U.S.
West Coast. The Giants (11-7) have won three of their four
appearances in the  Super Bowl , including a 2008 win over the New
England Patriots, while the 49ers (14-3) never have lost the
National Football League title game in five tries. Their last
appearance was a win over the  San Diego Chargers  after the 1994
season.  The New England Patriots (14-3) host the Baltimore Ravens
(13-4) in the American Football Conference championship game
earlier that day. The game, which starts at 3 p.m. local time at
Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts, will be played
under a mostly sunny sky, with the temperature around 35 degrees
(2 degrees Celsius), Kines said.  The winners of the conference championships meet in the
Super Bowl NFL title game at a covered field, Lucas Oil Stadium,
in Indianapolis on Feb. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 