-- Candidate Gingrich’s Tax Returns Show a 32% Rate on $3.1 Million of Income
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/gingrich-tax-returns-show-3-1-million-income-32-rate-1-.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  reported an adjusted gross income of $3.1 million for
2010, according to tax returns he released last night before he
took part in a Republican presidential debate.  Gingrich, 68, and his wife, Callista, paid $994,708 to the
federal government in 2010, for an effective tax rate of almost
32 percent. That’s more than twice the rate that fellow
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said he pays.
President  Barack Obama  had an effective federal tax rate of
about 26 percent in 2010, according to his returns.  Gingrich called on Romney, a former Massachusetts governor
and co-founder of Boston private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
to release his returns. In last night’s debate, Gingrich, who
has portrayed the Republican front-runner as a member of a Wall
Street elite, suggested his opponent may have something to hide.
Romney said last night he will release his most recent tax
returns in April.  “If there’s anything in there that is going to help us
lose the election, we should know it before the nomination,”
Gingrich said. He said he released his own return, jointly filed
with his wife and that of his Washington-based charity, the
Gingrich Foundation, “so that people can see what we do and how
we did it and what our values are.”  The return for the foundation lists its fair market value
as $97,834.  Charitable Contributions  The Gingrich returns, prepared by a certified public
accountant in Potomac,  Maryland , disclose that the couple
contributed $81,133 -- or 2.6 percent of their income -- to
charities. That includes the Basilica of the National Shrine of
the Immaculate Conception, the campaign said in a statement. The
returns list a $19,800 alimony payment. The former Georgia
representative has been married three times and has two adult
daughters.  Gingrich, who resigned the speakership and his
congressional seat in January 1999, has worked as a consultant
on health-care issues and as an adviser to  Freddie Mac . The
mortgage-finance company paid Gingrich’s consulting firm at
least $1.6 million over eight years. The company’s retainer
ended in 2008.  He hasn’t released his contract with Freddie Mac.  Gingrich and his wife each earned $10,000 in fees from
boards of directors, and the candidate earned $21,625 in
speaking fees, according to the 2010 return.  Separate Disclosure  He reported in a separate financial disclosure total assets
of from $7.3 million to $38 million. That report, filed in July
with the  Federal Election Commission , allows candidates to
describe assets in broad ranges.  Presidential candidates aren’t required by law to disclose
tax returns. Most have done so since passage of the post-
Watergate campaign-finance laws.  Romney had as recently as Jan. 11 told reporters he had no
plans to release his tax returns. After calls from fellow
Republicans, including former-candidate-turned-Romney backer  Jon Huntsman , he said on Jan. 17 that he would “probably” release
his most recent tax filings in April.  Asked by the CNN moderator in the debate why he wouldn’t
make the documents public before tomorrow’s  South Carolina 
primary, Romney said, “Every time we release things drip by
drip, the Democrats go out with another array of attacks.”  ‘Probably Be Embarrassed’  Presidential candidate  Ron Paul , a U.S. House member from
 Texas , said in the debate that he “hadn’t thought it through”
as to whether he would release his tax returns. “I’d probably
be embarrassed to put my financial statement up against their
income,” said the physician, referring to his rivals for the
nomination.  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , the fourth
remaining candidate in the race, said he will make his tax
returns public as soon as he goes home and has access to the
computer on which he said they are stored.  Romney has a net worth of between $190 million and $250
million, according to his personal financial disclosure form
filed in August with the Federal Election Commission.  Romney told reporters that his effective  tax rate  probably
is about 15 percent because his income “comes overwhelmingly
from investments made in the past.”  Capital gains  on
investments are taxed at 15 percent rather than as much as 35
percent, the rate for ordinary income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  