-- Gingrich Confronts Personal and Professional Questions in Debate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-20T05:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/gingrich-knocks-media-for-open-marriage-questions-at-republican-debate.html
The final Republican presidential
debate before tomorrow’s South Carolina primary found Newt Gingrich forced to defend his personal and public lives and  Rick Santorum  repeatedly on the attack against his rivals.  In the debate’s opening moments last night Gingrich
chastised CNN moderator John King for starting off with a
question about allegations surfacing earlier in the day that he
had once asked for an “open marriage” with his second wife.  The former U.S. House speaker then faced attacks on his
ethics, policy positions and claims of accomplishments from
Santorum and  Mitt Romney . Gingrich has been surging in polls
ahead of South Carolina’s primary, threatening the lead Romney
enjoyed and presenting a hurdle to Santorum’s campaign.  “I am appalled that you would begin a presidential debate
on a topic like that,” Gingrich said in a comment directed at
King that drew applause from the debate’s audience in North
Charleston,  South Carolina .  Earlier in the evening, ABC News had broadcast a portion of
an interview with Gingrich’s second wife, Marianne Gingrich, who
told the network that in the 1990s her then-husband asked for an
“open marriage” during an affair with former congressional
aide and current wife, Callista.  ‘Painful Things’  “Every person in here has had someone close to them go
though painful things,” Gingrich said in the debate. “To take
an ex-wife and make it two days before a primary a significant
question in a presidential campaign is as close to despicable as
anything I can imagine.”  Gingrich said his two daughters had written to ABC and said
the network’s report, which aired in full later on its
“Nightline” program, was wrong and should be pulled.  “I am frankly astounded that CNN would take trash like that
and use it to open a presidential debate,” he said. “The story
is false.”  King asked the three other Republican candidates on the
stage whether they thought it should be a campaign issue.  Such issues are ones “of character for people to
consider,” said Santorum, a former U.S. senator from
 Pennsylvania . “But the bottom line is those are things for
everyone in this audience to look at.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and business
executive, said the conversation should move on.  “John, let’s get on to the real issues is all I got to
say,” he said.  ‘Setting Standards’  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  said all of the
candidates have faced attacks and incorrect news stories,
adding, “I think setting standards is very important, and I’m
very proud that my wife of 54 years is with me tonight.”  Gingrich, 68, has previously apologized for his infidelity.  Santorum and Gingrich were especially combative with one
another, as they sought to become the primary alternative to
Romney.  Santorum, 53, said he doesn’t want to have to worry about
what his party’s presidential nominee is going to say next.
Gingrich sometimes has a “worrisome moment,” Santorum said,
raising concerns “that something’s going to pop.”  “We can’t afford that in a nominee,” Santorum said. “I’m
not the most flamboyant and I don’t get the biggest applause
lines here, but I’m steady, I’m solid. I’m not going to go out
and do things that you’re going to worry about.”  “Grandiosity has never been a problem with  Newt
Gingrich ,” Santorum said. “He handles it very, very well.”  Gingrich responded that on that count Santorum was right.  “I think grandiose thoughts,” he said. “This is a
grandiose country of big people doing big things, and we need
leadership prepared to take on big projects.”  Tax Returns  During the two-hour debate, the Gingrich campaign released
the 2010 tax returns for the candidate and his wife,
spotlighting an issue that has dogged Romney in recent days.  The records show the Gingrichs owed more than $994,000 in
taxes on an adjusted gross income of $3.1 million.  Gingrich called on Romney to release his returns before
tomorrow’s primary.  “If there’s anything in there that is going to help us
lose the election, we should know it before the nomination,”
Gingrich said. “If there’s nothing in there, why not release
it?”  Romney said he would release his 2010 returns “when my
taxes are completed,” probably in April. He also said he would
“probably” release records for previous years. He said his
hesitance in doing so now was because he doesn’t want to give
Democrats repeated chances to attack his financial standing.  “I pay a lot of taxes,” Romney said. “I’ve been very
successful.”  Paul’s Embarrassment  Paul, 76, said he didn’t plan as of now to release his
taxes, saying he would be “embarrassed” by what he described
as modest income.  Santorum said he does his own taxes and would release them
the next time he is able to sit down at his home computer.  Romney, 64, went after Gingrich’s claims of helping spur
 job creation  as a lawmaker and through working with President
 Ronald Reagan . Romney said he had read Reagan’s diary and
Gingrich was only mentioned once, for having an idea that wasn’t
very good.  Santorum went after both Romney and Gingrich on health-care
policy. He said the health-care overhaul enacted in
 Massachusetts  during Romney’s governorship was government-run
and an “abject failure.”  Santorum also noted that Gingrich previously supported a
government requirement to buy insurance, a part of President
Barack Obama’s health-care law that has drawn the most fire from
Republicans.  ‘Clear Contrast’  “These are two folks who don’t present the clear contrast
that I do” with Obama on health care, Santorum said. “I’ve
been fighting for health reform, private sector, bottom up, the
way America works best, for 20 years, while these two guys were
playing footsies with the left.”  Romney, in defending the Massachusetts law, referred to the
legislation as “RomneyCare,” a term used by his rivals to
compare it to Obama’s overhaul.  Gingrich said he could address the issue of previously
supporting an insurance mandate in a debate with Obama.  “I can say, you know, I was wrong and I figured it out; you
were wrong and you didn’t,” Gingrich said.  Immigration Policy  On combating illegal immigration, Romney called dealing
with it “relatively straightforward compared to the tough
issues” the U.S. faces, including competing with  China  and
 government spending . He then stressed enforcement programs.  Gingrich also emphasized such programs, saying “you have
to first of all control the border.”  He also spelled out his plan for allowing some illegal
immigrants to remain in the U.S. -- an approach Romney once
favored but now criticizes.  “I don’t think we’re going to deport grandmothers
and grandfathers who have 25 years of networking and
relationships in a community,” he said.  He would create a “World War II-style draft board” where
local citizens would review such cases and have the power to
grant residency permits.  All the candidates criticized the Stop Online Piracy Act,
which prompted protests from the technology industry, for
potentially censoring content. Still, Santorum said that
property rights need to be respected.  Going Too Far  “I agree this goes too far, but the idea that anything
goes on the Internet, where did that come from?” Santorum
asked.  Until yesterday, it had appeared Romney would be seeking in
 South Carolina (SAEESC)  his third straight victory in the Republican
race. That changed when Republican officials in  Iowa  -- who two
weeks ago declared Romney an eight-vote winner of the state’s
Jan. 3 caucuses -- announced that a recount showed Santorum
ahead by 34 votes. With results from eight precincts missing,
the officials decided against declaring a victor, though
Santorum claimed the win.  Also yesterday, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  dropped out of
the race and endorsed Gingrich.  “Newt is not perfect, but who among us is?” Perry told
reporters as he ended his candidacy. “There is forgiveness for
those who seek God, and I believe in the power of redemption.”  Romney won the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary by 16
percentage points over his nearest rival, Paul, and hopes to
retain his status as the Republican front-runner in South
Carolina. A win in the state would give him momentum heading
into  Florida ’s Jan. 31 contest, and a victory there could
position him to quickly secure the nomination.  The debate, sponsored by  CNN  and the  Southern Republican
Leadership Conference , is the 17th in the primary season. Two
more are scheduled next week in advance of the Florida voting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in North Charleston, South Carolina at 
   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  