-- Gingrich Calling Obama ‘Food-Stamp President’ Draws Critics
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-01-20T16:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/gingrich-s-labeling-of-obama-as-a-food-stamp-president-draws-criticism.html
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack
said attacks on the U.S. food-stamp program, a standby of
Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich ’s criticisms of
President  Barack Obama , exploit stereotypes of aid recipients.  Those who get the federal assistance “are playing by the
rules,” Vilsack, whose department administers food stamps, said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News. “There are
misconceptions about this program and confusion” about
recipients caused by negative portrayals by some Obama
opponents, he said.  Food-stamp use has increased 46 percent since December
2008, a month before Obama took office and when the economy was 
shedding jobs. Total spending has more than doubled in four
years to an all-time high of  $75.3 billion , a level called
unsustainable by Republicans including Gingrich, who has labeled
Obama “the best food-stamp president in American history.”  Gingrich’s characterization of Obama’s food stamp policies
has drawn criticism from groups including the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People which issued a 
statement  Jan. 6 calling his comments “inaccurate” and
“divisive.”  Gingrich has dismissed the complaints as a smear from
“modern liberals” who are “off the deep end.”  Racial Breakdown  “I don’t think he is consciously whipping up bigotry, but
he is no fool and this is going to be seen through a racial
prism,” David Greenberg, an associate professor at  Rutgers
University  in  New Jersey , said in an interview. “It has to do
with how these issues are framed and understood. It wouldn’t be
hard for him to mute or disavow the racial component.”  About 34 percent of food-stamp recipients are white, while
22 percent are African Americans and 16 percent Hispanic, with
the rest being Asian, Native American or those who chose not to
identify their race, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  About half  are younger than 18, and 8 percent are
older than 60. Some 41 percent of all recipients live in
households where family members are employed.  Most Partisan Debate  Parke E. Wilde, an associate professor at  Tufts University 
in  Boston , said the debate over food stamps is the most partisan
that he’s seen in the 20 years he’s been following the issue.  In the past, political parties argued fundamentally about
cash and marginal changes in food stamps, including how to
penalize participants who fail to complete work requirements, or
whether to include legal immigrants, he said.  “But whether they were Republican or Democrat, farm-state
or urban, legislators tended to agree on the basic structure of
food stamps,” Wilde said. “I have never before heard anything
like Gingrich’s tarring of President Obama as a ‘food-stamp
president.’”  Gingrich’s discussion of food stamps echoes  Ronald Reagan ’s
portrayal of a “welfare queen” during his unsuccessful 1976
presidential campaign, said Rogers Smith, a political science
professor at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  With Reagan, the portrayal was “someone who may be taking
cash from the government to put beer in the refrigerator,”
Smith said.  ‘Welfare Queens’  Reagan and Gingrich, who often compares himself to the
former president, in both cases link government dependency and
wasteful spending with Democrats, he said. What’s changed, he
said, are the programs themselves.  “When Reagan talked about welfare queens, he was talking
about” Aid to Families with Dependent Children, a program for
low-income children eliminated in the 1990s. “Food stamps are a
much more tightly controlled program, but you still want to use
this image of associating programs with dependency, so the
example becomes food stamps,” he said.  In a poll released yesterday by the Washington-based anti-
hunger organization  Food Research and Action Center , most
Americans opposed cutting food stamps, with 92 percent of
Democrats, 63 percent of Republicans and 74 percent of
Independents saying cuts to the program are the wrong way to
reduce spending.  Congress in November approved a spending bill that projects
$80.4 billion in food-stamp funds for more than 47 million
people this year.  Economic Conditions  From 1970 until about a decade ago, average  annual
enrollment  rose or fell roughly with economic conditions. The
figure has declined only once since then, partly because
policies adopted under President  George W. Bush  encouraged more
eligible people to apply for aid, said David Armor, a professor
emeritus of public policy at  George Mason University  in Fairfax,
Virginia.  That, along with additional money for food stamps in the
2009 economic stimulus bill, has accounted for the increase in
program spending since 2008, he said. It also led to calls for
change by Gingrich, fellow Republican presidential contender
 Mitt Romney  and others.  Gingrich, a former congressman from  Georgia  and speaker of
the House, said yesterday on NBC’s “Today” show, that he began
calling Obama the food-stamp president in the 2010 election
cycle. He said the president’s policies “have put more
Americans on food stamps than any president in history.”  An e-mail to his campaign late yesterday seeking comment
drew no response.  Santorum Comments  In last night’s presidential debate in Charleston,  South
Carolina , another Republican presidential hopeful,  Rick
Santorum , took aim at food stamps, saying Obama’s policies
toward the working class make them more dependent on the
government.  “Give them more food stamps, give them more Medicaid” is
the administration’s approach, rather than creating jobs, the
former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  said.  Food stamps, created as a temporary measure in 1939 and
revived in the 1960s “War on Poverty,” are now provided via
plastic cards rather than stamp-like coupons through the
Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program. The aid is intended
as a safety net that includes more people when the economy
falters, as in recent years when the  unemployment rate  surged,
Kevin Concannon, the head of the USDA’s Food and Nutrition
Service, said in a recent interview. “That’s the way this
program is designed.”  Identifying food stamps with race is inappropriate, said
the USDA’s Vilsack, who declined to comment on how any specific
political candidate should speak on the issue. Given the
program’s importance in keeping working families out of poverty,
it also shouldn’t be mischaracterized as a handout for the
undeserving, he said.  “I think it’s important for us to take this opportunity to
educate the country,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  