-- Goldman Sachs Credit Head Donald Mullen Plans to Leave Firm After 11 Years
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-20T21:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/goldman-sachs-credit-head-donald-mullen-plans-to-leave-firm-after-11-years.html
Donald R. Mullen Jr., who runs the
global credit and mortgage business at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
is leaving after 11 years at the firm, becoming the seventh
member of the management committee to depart in a year.  Mullen, 53, will become a senior director at the New York-
based firm, according to an internal memo obtained today by
Bloomberg News.  Michael DuVally , a company spokesman, confirmed
the memo’s contents and said Mullen’s successor hasn’t been
announced yet. Senior directors advise the firm on matters
related to their areas of expertise and aren’t employees.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
this week that fourth-quarter profit fell 58 percent, capping
the firm’s worst earnings year since 2008. The company said its
credit and mortgage businesses struggled in the fourth quarter
even as revenue from commodities and foreign exchange improved.
The firm doesn’t provide revenue figures for those departments.  “Credit and mortgages remained challenging as activity
levels declined across most products and a divergence between
cash and derivative pricing impacted hedging and inventory
management,” David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial
officer, told analysts on a Jan. 18 conference call.  The memo to employees was signed by Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, and Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn, 51.  Goldman Sachs’s mortgage business, which outperformed
rivals in 2007, lost money in 2008. Goldman Sachs paid $550
million in 2010 to settle a lawsuit filed by the Securities and
Exchange Commission that accused the firm of misleading
investors on a mortgage-linked investment in 2007.  Other Departures  Mullen’s departure follows last week’s retirement by Edward K. Eisler, 42, and David B. Heller, 44, who were two of the four
co-heads of securities trading and also members of the
management committee. Other recent management committee
departures include Yusuf A. Alireza, who was co-president of the
Asia business; Edward C. Forst, who was co-head of the
investment management division; Kevin W. Kennedy, who supervised
the business in  Latin America ; and Richard M. Ruzika, who ran
the firm’s special-situations group before leaving at the end of
April.  Before joining Goldman Sachs as a partner in 2001, Mullen
was the head of credit and a board member at Goldman Sachs’s
smaller rival, Bear Stearns Cos. Prior to Bear Stearns, which
almost collapsed in March 2008 before being taken over by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Mullen held senior positions in high-yield
sales for Salomon Brothers Inc., now part of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
First Boston, now part of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , and Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., which failed in 1990.  Mullen didn’t immediately reply to a message left with his
office at Goldman Sachs. DuVally said Mullen declined to
comment.  Mullen’s departure was reported earlier today by Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 