-- Google Declines After Results Miss for First Time Under Page
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-20T22:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/google-ad-price-drop-leads-to-page-s-first-earnings-disappointment-as-ceo.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  fell the most in more
than three years after Larry Page delivered his first
disappointing quarterly results as chief executive officer,
showing that a mobile advertising push and weakness in Europe
curtailed growth.  Fourth-quarter sales, excluding revenue passed on to
partner sites, of $8.13 billion, falling short of the $8.41
billion average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, a
report yesterday showed. Profit before certain costs was $9.50 a
share, missing the $10.50 average estimate.  Page, CEO since April, is exiting poorly performing
businesses while expanding in new areas, including the mobile
Web, to lessen reliance on traditional search. While that’s
helping boost sales, it also crimps the amount of money Google
can collect from advertisers because ads viewed on handsets are
considered less valuable than those on a computer screen.  “Google looks more mortal this quarter,” said  Colin Gillis , analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York . “A lot of what
 Larry Page  is doing is a lot more tolerable to investors when
the business is firing on all cylinders.”  The average price Google gets when users click on an ad
slumped 8 percent last quarter. Growth was also hampered as
demand weakness in Europe dragged down the euro and eroded the
value of overseas revenue.  “Google is not invincible,” said  Herman Leung , an analyst
at Susquehanna Financial Group in San Francisco.  The company, which last year shut down services such as
Google Health and PowerMeter, said today it’s phasing out more
features. They include “Social Graph API,” which makes
connections between people available to developers, and
Needlebase, a data-management platform, according to a company
 blog .  Europe  Weakness  Google  shares  tumbled 8.4 percent to $585.99 at the close,
the biggest decline since Dec. 1, 2008, after Google reported
earnings yesterday. The stock climbed 8.7 percent last year.  International sales made up 53 percent of revenue in the
quarter, down from 55 percent in the third quarter,  Mountain
View , California-based Google said. Online ad sales in Europe
increased about 5 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a
20 percent increase in the first half of last year, said Clay Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Delray Beach ,  Florida .  Search-based advertising spending in Europe rose 14 percent
in the fourth quarter, compared with a 22 percent jump in the
U.S., according to  IgnitionOne Inc ., a digital-marketing
company.  Google’s net income rose to $2.71 billion, or $8.22 a
share, compared with $2.54 billion, or $7.81 a share, a year
earlier.  Operating expenses rose to $3.38 billion, or 32 percent of
revenue, in the recent period. In the year-earlier quarter,
operating costs equaled 30 percent of revenue, Google said.  ‘Major Concerns’  “One of the major concerns here is, given the performance
on the top line, what does the margin picture look like going
forward?” said Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc.
in New York, who rates Google shares “overweight.”  The number of total clicks on ads rose 34 percent during
the quarter, Google said.  The company has been working to offer customers more
options in mobile and display advertising. Google also has been
investing in its search engine to improve the quality of results
and maintain its market-share lead over  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing.  In  December , Google’s share of U.S. searches rose to 65.9
percent from 65.4 percent the previous month, according to
 ComScore Inc . Microsoft had 15.1 percent of searches, up from 15
percent, while  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  accounted for 14.5 percent.  Google is betting it can maintain its dominance in search
by offering faster, more personal query results. Last year,
Google rolled out the “Instant Pages” feature, which aims to
cut the time of searches for users by about 2 to 5 seconds.  Personalized Results  Earlier this month, Google introduced “Search, Plus Your
World,” intended to give users more personalized search results
by tapping content from the Google+ social-networking service.
The search service lists items that users may have put on
Google+ or related results from friends’ posts on the social
site, which competes with Facebook Inc. The Google+ service now
has 90 million users, more than double the amount in October.  Still, Google’s efforts to attract users have drawn
regulatory scrutiny. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
focusing on whether Google unfairly ranks search results to
favor its own businesses and increases advertising rates for
competitors, a person familiar with the matter said in August.  More recently, the FTC expanded its antitrust probe of
Google to include scrutiny of Google+, two people familiar with
the situation said last week.  Google, which also develops the Android operating system
for smartphones and tablets, has been using  acquisitions  in the
past few years to build up its services for display ads, which
features images, videos or animation, and ads on mobile devices.  Android, Display Gains  Last year, Google announced it was buying AdMeld Inc.,
which offers services to Internet publishers to manage display
ads, and in 2010 the company bought AdMob Inc., which
specializes in advertising on mobile phones.  Page, speaking on a conference call, said he was pleased
with company’s performance. Google is on pace to generate $5
billion in sales from display-based ads a year, and there are
now about 250 million devices that sport the Android operating
system.  “I’m very happy with our results,” Page said. “Google
had a very strong quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  