-- Monti Cabinet Approves Package to Spur Italy’s Growth by Targeting Guilds
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-20T19:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/government-approves-package-to-spur-italian-economic-growth-competition.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet
approved a plan designed to boost competition and spur  economic 
growth as the euro area’s second most-indebted country seeks to
fend off the fallout from the region’s debt crisis.  The package, Monti’s second major legislative effort since
last month’s 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) austerity plan, was
passed at an eight-hour Cabinet meeting in Rome. It will
facilitate access to and reduce the privileges of  Italy ’s so-
called closed professions, and also seeks to improve competition
by having  Eni SpA (ENI)  spin off its gas-transport unit  Snam Rete Gas
SpA. (SRG)   “Italy’s economy has for decades been hindered in its
economic and social growth by three big problems: insufficient
competition, inadequate infrastructure and too much red tape,”
Monti said at a press conference in Rome.  Monti, who as European Union competition commissioner
blocked  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s $47 billion takeover of  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , is lobbying European leaders to commit to
growth policies as the euro-area economy slips into a recession
amid a wave of austerity measures demanded to fight the debt
crisis. Monti has said jumpstarting the expansion is vital to
cutting the 1.9 trillion-euro debt of Italy, whose economy may
shrink 1.5 percent in 2012, the  Bank of Italy  said on Jan. 17.  Today’s plan will be followed next week by the approval of
a package of measures to reduce red tape in Italy, while the
government is also moving to overhaul the country’s rigid labor
laws, he said.  The package will include measures to reduce natural gas
prices, increase competition among service station, boost the
number of pharmacies, speed the selloff of local services and
make it easier to get public works projects off the ground,
Development Minister Corrado Passera said.  The measures will aid in opening 5,000 new pharmacies and
allow for 500 new notaries to increase competition in those
industries. Earlier drafts of the plan had indicated that 1,500
new notaries would be permitted.  The government also backed down from plans to double the
number of taxi licenses after a week of protests by cab drivers
in  Rome  and other cities. A newly created transport authority
will be set up to decide on new licenses in consultation with
the mayors of cities affected.  “Any increase in licenses will be counterbalanced by
tangible compensation for those taxi drivers who already own a
license,” Deputy Prime Minister Antonio Catricala said.  The government will also create part-time licenses to allow
new drivers to use cabs when they are out of service, Catricala
said.  Monti signaled that spurring competition doesn’t
necessarily mean the government will sell off state-owned assets.
“Liberalizations, greater competition doesn’t mean
privatization,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  