-- Greece Said to Seek Oil-Supply Assurances Under Potential Embargo of Iran
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-20T14:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/greece-said-to-seek-oil-supply-assurances-under-potential-embargo-of-iran.html
Greece  is seeking assurances that a
potential European Union embargo on oil imports from Iran won’t
push the  Greek economy  over the brink by forcing it to seek
higher-cost oil elsewhere, said a European diplomat with
knowledge of the matter.  Greece, which bought 14 percent of its imported oil from
Iran in the first half of 2011, wants the EU to ensure that any
new oil contracts would include terms similar to those in its
existing agreements with Iran, which doesn’t require financial
guarantees, the diplomat said on the condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  EU foreign ministers will discuss additional sanctions on
Iran over its nuclear program at a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels.
They may reach a political decision to impose an oil embargo,
with further work to alleviate Greece’s concerns in the weeks
that follow, the diplomat said.  The EU adheres to  United Nations ’ sanctions against Iran
and has applied additional restrictions of its own. The bloc  has
already banned  financing for and investment in the oil and gas
industries as well the export to Iran of related equipment and
technology.  Crude oil for February delivery slid 0.7 percent to
$99.68 a barrel at 8:51 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Oil Stockpiles  Iranian officials have threatened to close the  Strait of
Hormuz , through which almost 20 percent of globally traded oil
flows, in the event of military strikes or a blockade of
shipments over its nuclear program.  The International Energy Agency yesterday said it sees no
urgency to release oil stockpiles in response to Iranian threats
to oil shipping, according to Fatih Birol, the group’s chief
economist.  The EU is in contact with oil-producing countries, which
have declared they’re prepared to act to stabilize the market if
necessary, the EU diplomat said.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , says its
nuclear program is for civilian purposes only. The U.S., EU and
 Israel  suspect the program is a cover for the development of
weapons capabilities.  ‘War and Chaos’  Israeli leaders held talks today with the top U.S. military
commander, General Martin Dempsey, who arrived after the
postponement of a joint exercise that was to be the biggest ever
for the two allies. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other
U.S. officials have warned Israel not to strike Iran’s nuclear
facilities, which might trigger retaliatory attacks as well as a
naval confrontation in the Strait of Hormuz.  In a speech to foreign diplomats to Paris today, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said stronger sanctions were needed to
stop  Iran ’s nuclear program and prevent military action against
the Islamic Republic, which would “unleash war and chaos”
instead of solving the problem.  “There is only one solution: it’s a series of much harsher
sanctions, much more decisive, that include an oil-import ban by
all and the freeze of central bank assets,” he said.  A meeting of EU diplomats yesterday in Brussels left it to
foreign ministers to determine the timing of the oil ban, which
would include an exemption for existing contracts to enable
countries such as Greece,  Italy  and  Spain  to find alternative
supplies. The three countries accounted for about 68 percent of
EU imports from Iran in 2010, European Commission data show.  Compromise  Most governments back a Danish proposal for the start of a
full embargo on July 1, which could be a compromise between
nations led by  France , which have been urging the shortest
delay, and countries most reliant on imports from Iran that
originally pressed for an exemption of as long as 12 months,
another EU diplomat said.  Greece stuck to its demand of an eight-month delay at
yesterday’s meeting, according to a European official informed
about the talks, who asked not to be identified. Talks on the
ban will continue through the weekend, another EU official said.
Any decision to impose an embargo would have to be unanimous.  Greece’s economy is on the ropes as the country holds talks
with private creditors on a debt-swap deal that would free up
130 billion euros ($168 billion) of rescue aid.  The parties are near an initial agreement under which old
bonds would be swapped for new 30-year securities carrying a
coupon that would begin at 3.1 percent, reach 3.9 percent and go
as high as 4.75 percent, Athens-based newspaper Proto Thema
reported on its website, without saying where it got the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 