-- Greek Debt Deal Falls Short of What’s Needed to Save Euro: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/greek-debt-agreement-falls-far-short-of-what-s-needed-to-save-euro-view.html
At some point, possibly in the next
several weeks,  Europe  will run into a major flaw in its plan to
shore up the region’s finances: Some euro-area governments, such
as  Greece , simply aren’t going to be able to pay their debts.  The sooner Europe’s leaders recognize this and take
appropriate action, the less expensive the solution will be.  This week’s main event in Europe has been a standoff
between Greece and its private creditors over the terms of a
“voluntary” debt-relief deal. Agreement is crucial to avert a
Greek default on a 14.4 billion euro payment due March 20, and
to keep open the financing spigot from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund .  Whatever the outcome of those negotiations, though, it
won’t solve Greece’s debt problem. The  European Central Bank ,
the IMF and other official creditors aren’t taking part in the
deal, so it will affect only private creditors. They hold about
200 billion euros of Greece’s 338-billion-euro  net government
debt . In other words, even the 50 percent writedown Greece is
seeking will reduce its debt burden by only 100 billion euros,
or less than 30 percent.  That’s not enough. Any country’s solvency is a function of
its debt load, interest costs, growth rate and fiscal policy. In
Greece’s case, assuming an interest rate of 4 percent (the rate
it may get out of the debt talks) on its remaining 238 billion
euros in debt, and using the IMF’s projections of economic
growth, the government would have to run a primary  budget
surplus  (not counting interest payments) of 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product indefinitely just to keep its debt burden
stable.  Primary Surplus  Don’t count on that happening. Greece has managed to run a
 primary surplus  that large in only six of the past 24 years,
when economic growth was much stronger. To meet such a goal now,
it would have to reduce its deficit by some 10 billion euros a
year, the equivalent of about two-thirds of its  spending  on
social programs.  Portugal, which is not currently in line for debt relief,
faces a similarly daunting task. To maintain a stable debt
burden, it would have to run a  primary surplus  of 2 percent of
GDP, something it has done in only two of the past 16 years.  The dire state of the two governments’ finances raises a
troubling question at a time when German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  are trying to fast-
track a new fiscal compact for the 17-nation euro area: How can
the agreement, which seeks to toughen budgetary discipline,
restore confidence in Europe’s finances if at least two of its
signatories are insolvent from day one?  It’s possible that Merkel and her ideological soul mates
at the ECB are hoping that, by keeping strapped governments
dependent on official financing, they’ll have more power to push
through austerity measures. Problem is, heavy debt loads are
making the budget-cutting measures much more painful than they
need to be -- and probably too painful to put in place.  The likely result: slower growth, greater dependence on
official creditors and bigger losses for European taxpayers down
the road. Not to mention the deleterious effect the ongoing
uncertainty will have on the finances of core euro-area
countries, European banks and ultimately the ECB itself. At any
moment, doubts about the euro’s survival could trigger a
financial catastrophe.  A quicker and more honest reckoning would stand a better
chance of stopping the rot and creating the conditions for a
successful fiscal union. We have  advocated  writing down the
debts of Greece and  Portugal  by 70 percent and 40 percent,
respectively, leaving them with the much more realistic task of
achieving primary surpluses of about 1 percent of GDP. This can
be done only if official creditors take losses alongside their
private counterparts. With all euro-area governments on a
solvent footing, the ECB could then step in with credible
guarantees to recapitalize banks and calm market jitters.  All these elements will eventually be needed if the euro is
to survive. Enacting them now would dramatically increase the
chances of success.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 