-- Iceland Parliament to Decide on Charges Against Former Premier
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-01-20T23:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/iceland-parliament-to-decide-on-charges-against-former-premier.html
Iceland’s parliament will decide
whether to proceed with charges against former Prime Minister
Geir H. Haarde, who presided over the nation’s 2008 economic
collapse.  The late-evening vote by the Reykjavik-based Althing was 31
to 29 in favor of reviewing the charges.  A parliamentary committee accused Haarde of failing to
protect Iceland from “grave” financial danger and said he
should have forced lenders to reduce balance sheets that swelled
to 10 times the size of the economy before they failed. The boom
helped turn the Atlantic island into the world’s fifth-richest
economy per capita just one year before the collapse forced it
to turn to the  International Monetary Fund  for a bailout and
sent the krona plunging as much as 80 percent against the euro.  Haarde, 60, stepped down more than three years ago amid
street protests. While several former executives at failed banks
are being investigated and some have been convicted and jailed,
Haarde is the only politician to face trial.  A  special prosecutor  appointed by parliament presented
Haarde with an indictment in May, more than seven months after
the legislature agreed he should be charged for his role in the
meltdown. Haarde has said that the delay may be a violation of
“the constitutional right to a speedy trial.”  If Iceland’s parliament decides to withdraw the charges, no
further legal action can be taken against the former prime
minister, according to Iceland’s law on ministerial
responsibility.  “I declare myself innocent of all the counts,” Haarde
told a Reykjavik-based court on June 7. “During my long career
as a Cabinet member I always endeavored to take decisions based
on honesty and responsibility bearing in mind the best interests
of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  