-- IMF Postpones Review of Serbian Loan Due to Budget Issues
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-01-20T12:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/imf-postpones-review-of-serbian-loan-due-to-budget-issues-2-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
postponed the first review of its precautionary loan program
with  Serbia  because of the Balkan nation’s 2012 budget plan.  The plan “deviates from the program parameters” and
especially “issuance of public debt and guarantees and
projected implementation of investment projects are in excess of
what would be consistent” with expected budget gap and debt
targets, the Washington-based lender said in a statement
published on its website late yesterday. Further talks are
expected with Serbia on resuming the program, it said.  Keeping the  budget deficit  within 4.25 percent of economic
output was agreed on with the IMF, which in September approved a
1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) precautionary loan for Serbia in
case  Europe ’s debt crisis triggers capital flight from the
Balkan economy, putting pressure on its currency and the balance
of payments.  The IMF move “might cause some volatility on the foreign-
exchange front, and might cause” Serbia’s central bank “to
slow the pace of rate cuts” which has been the trend in recent
months, said Timothy Ash, the chief economist for  emerging
markets  at the Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London .  The arrangement is “precautionary” and “the cash is not
that important” and the budget financing isn’t in question, Ash
said in an e-mailed note to clients.  Government Spending  Serbia is emerging from its worst recession in a decade and
the government is trying to keep spending under control and
boost tax collection without cutting social benefits. The
government will increase subsidies this year for tourism,
agriculture, roads and railways and is keen on allowing a 5.5
percent annual increase in public wages and pensions affecting
as many as 2 million voters ahead of elections.  “Clearly, the government wants some flexibility to ‘‘pork
barrel’’ in the run up to the vote,” Ash said.  The government guarantees on loans for state-run companies
are probably the budget items the IMF saw as the biggest risk
that Serbia’s public debt will go above the self-imposed limit
of 45 percent of gross domestic product, said Vladimir Vuckovic,
a member of the country’s  Fiscal Council .  The dinar fell to 105.164 against the euro at 1:18 p.m. in
Belgrade from 105.04 earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  