-- Innate Pharma Gains Most in 2 Months on Discovery: Paris Mover
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-01-20T16:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/innate-pharma-gains-most-in-2-months-on-discovery-paris-mover.html
Innate Pharma SA (IPH) , a French drug
developer, rose the most in more than two months in Paris
trading after the company said a discovery published in the
journal  Science  may lead to new infection-fighting medicines.  Innate Pharma gained 13 percent, or 1.71 euros, increasing
the company’s market value to 64.4 million euros ($83.3
million). It was the stock’s biggest increase since Nov. 3.  A team of researchers led by Innate Pharma Co-Founder Eric
Vivier discovered that mice not expressing a receptor known to
activate the immune system’s so-called natural killer cells were
more resistant to some viral infections, the Marseille-based
company said in a statement today.  The discovery points to a “novel mechanism of regulation
of the immune system,” Innate Pharma Chief Executive Officer
Herve Brailly said during a telephone interview yesterday.
Innate Pharma will explore NKp46 as a potential target for
experimental drug candidates in the years to come, he said.  Innate Pharma and Inserm,  France ’s National Institute of
Health and  Medical Research , have filed patent applications and
co-own the intellectual property rights relating to the
discovery, Brailly said.  “This is the beginning of a new story, potentially,”
Brailly said. Innate Pharma will “continue collaborating with
the academic team” on NKp46 and try to develop drug candidates
targeting the receptor.  Early Stage  Research is in a “very early stage, with a lot of promises
but also a lot of risk” and “years away from the validation of
a candidate and the validation of an indication,” Brailly
added.  Natural killer cells are one of the first lines of defense
of the human body.  Innate Pharma was  founded  in 1999 by six immunologists,
including Brailly and Vivier. The company is  14.8 percent-owned 
by Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s
biggest maker of insulin, with which Innate Pharma also has a
partnership. The French company last year agreed to license an
experimental cancer treatment to  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  