-- Intel Names Krzanich COO, Perlmutter Product Chief in Management Shuffle
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-20T21:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/intel-names-krzanich-operating-chief.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, promoted Brian Krzanich to chief operating
officer, elevating a possible successor to Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Otellini .  Krzanich, 51, had been senior vice president in charge of
worldwide manufacturing,  Santa Clara , California-based Intel
said in a statement today. The stock closed at a more than four-
year high, bolstered by upbeat results released yesterday.  Intel has appointed CEOs from within the company since its
founding in 1968, and Otellini and his two predecessors held the
COO title before taking the top job. In his new role, Krzanich
will retain oversight of manufacturing, while taking on
responsibility for  information technology  and human resources.  “Are they grooming him to be the next CEO?” said  Patrick
Wang , an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York . “If
history is any guide, yes.”  Wang also said, “I wouldn’t jump to that conclusion just
yet.”  Under Intel bylaws, Otellini, 61, can continue to serve as
CEO until May 2016, when he’ll reach the company’s mandatory
retirement age, said Laura Anderson, a spokeswoman. Today’s
promotion isn’t related to CEO succession planning, and the
company continues to develop a deep bench of executive talent,
she said.  Intel  rose  2.9 percent to $26.38 today in New York, the
 highest  closing since Dec. 31, 2007. The stock has climbed 26
percent in the last 12 months.  Barrett, Grove  Otellini served as chief operating officer under his
predecessor,  Craig Barrett , who himself filled that role under
 Andy Grove . Grove also served as COO, a position that has been
vacant since Otellini became CEO in 2005.  Krzanich is taking on responsibilities held by Chief
Administrative Officer Andy Bryant, who -- as previously
announced -- is becoming chairman of the board, Intel said.  Intel typically moves senior managers into different roles
to give them broader experience and test their ability to handle
new challenges. That’s probably what Intel is doing with
Krzanich, said Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  “I’ll bet he’s going to have to prove himself,” said
Gauna, who has a “market outperform” rating on Intel and is
based in  San Francisco . “It doesn’t force their hand at this
juncture.”  Chemistry Major  Krzanich has been with Intel since 1982, when he joined the
company after graduating from San Jose State University with a
degree in chemistry.  Intel yesterday announced it would boost spending this year
on equipment and facilities to $12.5 billion, plus or minus $400
million. The company says its ability to produce microprocessors
with the most advanced technology is a key advantage. Krzanich
has played a central role in implementing new production
techniques, according to his company profile.  Intel announced the management rearrangement a day after
releasing a forecast for first-quarter revenue that may exceed
analysts’ predictions. The promotions “recognize outstanding
performance” and will occur in the coming 30 days, Intel said.  The company also named Dadi Perlmutter as chief product
officer. Kirk Skaugen, a vice president in charge of Intel’s
data-center business, will lead the personal-computer chip
business. He succeeds Mooly Eden, who is moving back to his
native  Israel , at his request, Intel said.  Diane Bryant, the company’s current chief information
officer, will take Skaugen’s position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  