-- Lira Declines First Day in Five After Central Bank Eases Monetary Policy
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-20T15:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/lira-declines-first-day-in-five-after-central-bank-eases-monetary-policy.html
The lira fell for the first day in
five after the central bank signaled it will ease  monetary
policy  by more than tripling its minimum funding to banks via
lower-cost one-week repo.  The lira dropped 0.3 percent to 1.8308 per dollar at 5:47
p.m. in Istanbul, paring its weekly gain to 1.7 percent and this
year’s increase to 3.3 percent. The lira was the worst
performing currency worldwide last year as the central bank cut
 interest rates  to a record low of 5.75 percent and the  current-
account deficit  hit 10 percent of gross domestic product, the
highest rate among 60 major economies tracked by the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The central bank is telling the markets that it will
continue with monetary easing,” Ugur N. Kucuk, a fixed-income
strategist at Is Investment Securities in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments. He said the average cost of funding from the
central bank decreased to 8.32 percent as of yesterday. “The
bank is saying it may reduce the funding cost further.”  The central bank in Ankara’s minimum funding will be 25
billion liras ($13.7 billion) via daily one-week repo auctions
until Feb. 2, increasing from a minimum of seven billion liras
during the past two weeks, it said today.  The central bank had more than doubled the cost of funding
it provides to banks to rates as high as 12.5 percent to curb
the lira’s 18 percent slump last year and cap inflation that
accelerated to a three-year high of 10.5 percent in December.
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  later said the gap between
the central bank’s benchmark interest rate and the market rate
must close because “the lower we can bring market rates, the
slower inflation will be.”  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year debt rose 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage points, to 10.51 percent, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS
index of the securities showed.  The Treasury will tap markets next week in the second week
of auctions this month to borrow 14.4 billion liras in domestic
debt, according to a borrowing program published on Dec. 30. The
Treasury will repay 17.8 billion liras of domestic debt this
month, the highest monthly repayment in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  