-- Irish Can’t Ignore Mortgage Debt in Insolvency, Hayes Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-01-20T15:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/irish-can-t-ignore-mortgage-debt-in-insolvency-hayes-says-1-.html
Ireland will have to deal with
mortgage debt as it overhauls bankruptcy laws and introduces a
personal insolvency regime,  Brian Hayes , a junior government
minister, said.  The government wants to shorten bankruptcy terms and
introduce out-of-court debt settlements. Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said yesterday the government had agreed with the
country’s bailout partners that publication of “the very
technically difficult bill” be delayed until the  end-April .  “The Department of Finance doesn’t want a situation
whereby mortgage debt can be written down without being declared
bankrupt given this may have significant capital implications
for the banks,” saidEamonn Hughes, an analyst at Dublin-based
Goodbody, said in a note yesterday.  Ireland is reshaping its bankruptcy and insolvency laws
after a real estate bubble collapsed in 2008, trebling
unemployment and leaving some homeowners unable to meet their
loans. Almost 13 percent of private residential mortgages were
either more than 90 days in arrears or had been restructured at
the end of September, according to the country’s central bank.  “We’re talking about the totality of debt,” said Hayes,
in an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE Radio today.
“You simply can’t ignore mortgage debt in that context,”  The state has injected about 62 billion euros ($80 billion)
into the country’s lenders over the past three years amid
soaring bad-loan losses.  Insolvency  While Irish banks have capital to deal with troubled
mortgages, “we are not going to see writedowns” until there is
“certainty” on insolvency laws, Hayes said.  Irish lawmakers last year reduced the term for bankrupt
individuals to be discharged from their debts to  five years ,
under certain circumstances, from 12 years.  Hayes said the government will deal with continuing
differences between Ireland and the U.K., where bankrupts can be
discharged after a year. Ireland is also working a regime that
will allow out-of-court debt settlements.  “The fundamental position of the industry is that a
personal insolvency regime should be limited to unsecured
debt,” said Eimer O’Rourke, director of retail banking at the
 Irish Banking Federation , said at an event in Dublin on Jan 18.  The IBF will engage with government “to ensure that if a
decision is taken to include secured debt within the personal
insolvency regime, that it’s done in a way which will minimize
the capital impact on balance sheets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  