-- Jets Owner Woody Johnson Says Santonio Holmes Will Return Next Season
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-20T06:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/jets-owner-woody-johnson-says-santonio-holmes-will-return-next-season.html
Santonio Holmes  is one of the best
players the  New York Jets  have ever had and will return to the
team next season, owner  Woody Johnson  told reporters.  Johnson said he may meet with Holmes and  Mark Sanchez 
because he’s concerned about the strained relationship between
the wide receiver and the quarterback. Johnson said he’s
confident the two can work through their differences.  “Santonio makes the quarterback a lot better and vice
versa,” Johnson told reporters yesterday, according to comments
on the Jets’ website. “So they have a good reason to iron this
thing out and I think they can do it.”  The Jets lost their final three games of the season to
finish 8-8 and miss the National Football League playoffs for
the first time under coach  Rex Ryan . The slump was capped by the
benching of captain Holmes following a verbal altercation with
teammates including LaDainian Tomlinson and Sanchez during the
fourth quarter of a season-ending loss in Miami.  Tomlinson said two days ago that he doesn’t know if Sanchez
and Holmes, who signed a five-year, $50 million contract in
July, will be able to co-exist and that the Jets’ organization
fostered an atmosphere that helped cause infighting.  “It got out of hand toward the end of the season,”
Tomlinson said.  Johnson also said he backs Sanchez, who Tomlinson said is
“a bit pampered because he has no competition.”  “I have a lot of confidence in Mark,” Johnson said. “My
feeling is that Mark is the kind of guy that will learn from
this and get better.”  Ryan and General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said Jan. 2 that
they’d spend the offseason assessing what went wrong and how to
fix it. Brian Schottenheimer was replaced as offensive
coordinator by former Miami Dolphins head coach  Tony Sparano .  “I have an extraordinary amount of confidence in both Mike
and Rex to put a team together to win in the NFL and take us
where we want to go,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 