-- JPMorgan Hires Granetz as Head of Global Finance Initiative
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-20T20:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/jpmorgan-hires-marc-granetz-to-lead-new-finance-initiatives-unit-under-cfo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . hired Marc Granetz,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s former chairman of investment
banking, to lead a new unit for global finance initiatives.  Granetz, 55, will report to Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein, according to a memo sent to employees of the New
York-based bank today. His group will work with executives and
businesses across JPMorgan on “critical issues related to
finance and strategy,” according to the memo. The memo’s
contents were confirmed by  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan
spokeswoman.  “Marc will play an instrumental role in leading
initiatives that help drive sustained market leadership and
long-term profitability across the firm, such as our liquidity
project and expense management,” Braunstein said in the memo.  JPMorgan last week said fourth-quarter net income slid to
$3.73 billion, or 90 cents a share, from $4.83 billion, or
$1.12, in the same period a year earlier as revenue from
 investment banking  fell. Full-year profit rose 9 percent from
2010 to a record $19 billion. The shares, which fell 22 percent
last year, rose 43 cents to $37.36 at 3:25 p.m. in New York
trading.  Credit Suisse said last month that Granetz would leave the
bank “to pursue an opportunity outside investment banking.”
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest lender by assets named Granetz to
chairman of investment banking at the end of 2009 after he
served five years as co-head of the department, which handles
merger advice and securities underwriting.  Granetz has overseen global mergers and acquisitions, run
media and telecommunications banking and managed a team that
advised oil and gas companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  