-- Judge-Drawn Voting Maps for Texas Set Aside by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-20T18:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/judge-drawn-voting-maps-for-texas-set-aside-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  threw out
judge-drawn voting districts for this year’s state and federal
elections in  Texas (BEESTX)  in a ruling that may help Republicans keep
control of the U.S. House of Representatives.  The justices today unanimously told a lower court to create
maps more similar to the Republican-controlled state
legislature’s plan. The case tested the strength of the 1965
Voting Rights Act, which protects minority rights.  The decision will require maps that “favor Republicans
over Democrats,” said Rick Hasen, a professor at the law school
at the University of  California ,  Irvine , in an e-mail. He called
the decision a “big win” for Texas Republicans.  The justices said a three-judge panel in  San Antonio  was
too quick to redraw some of the lines. The  high court  said the
San Antonio court should abide by the legislature’s districts
except where they probably would violate the Voting Rights Act,
which protects minorities.  The legislature’s maps generally favor Republicans while
the judges’ maps were more favorable to Democrats.  “Some specific aspects of the district court’s plans seem
to pay adequate attention to the state’s policies, others do not
and the propriety of still others is unclear,” the justices
said in an 11-page decision issued by the court as a whole
rather than written by a single justice.  Voting Rights Act  The case tested the Voting Rights Act’s so-called
preclearance requirement, under which jurisdictions with a
history of voting rights violations must get federal approval
before changing their district lines or election procedures.  That provision, which covers all or parts of 16 states, is
designed to ensure that states and other jurisdictions don’t
dilute the election power of minority groups.  The justices were considering the case on a fast-track
schedule because of the impending  Texas  primary, now set for
April 3 after a judge delayed the vote for a month. Texas
officials have said they will need a map in place by Feb. 1 to
hold the primary in April.  Texas gained four congressional seats after the 2010 census
showed the state added almost 4.3 million new residents.
Hispanics accounted for about 65 percent of that increase,
according to the census.  The maps will influence the makeup of the Texas
congressional delegation. Democrats are seeking to regain
control of the U.S. House, where Republicans control the chamber
242-192, with one vacancy.  Perry Approved Maps  The court dispute stemmed from maps the legislature drew
last year after the census. Governor  Rick Perry , who later
became a Republican candidate for president, signed the maps
into law. Minority groups sued to challenge them.  The three-judge panel blocked the Republican plan from
taking effect for 2012 and substituted court-drawn interim maps
on a 2-1 vote. The majority said the state maps couldn’t be used
because they hadn’t received preclearance from a different
court, as required under the Voting Rights Act.  Texas contended that the judges in San Antonio overstepped
their bounds and should have deferred to the legislature’s plans
in the absence of evidence that the state had violated the
voting law.  The Supreme Court said the lower court should have used the
legislature’s maps as a “starting point.” The justices pointed
to several instances where the three-judge panel fell short in
crafting new maps for the state House.  Different Interpretations  The two sides offered differing interpretations of the
decision.  “The court made clear in a strongly worded opinion that
the district court must give deference to elected leaders of
this state, and it’s clear by the Supreme Court ruling that the
district court abandoned these guiding principles,” Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott , a Republican, said in a statement.  Luis Roberto Vera Jr., national general counsel for the
League of United Latin American Citizens, said in an telephone
interview that 75 percent of the districts in the court-drawn
congressional map are identical to those in the legislature’s
plan.  “The Supreme Court didn’t reject anything,” said Vera,
whose group helped defend the court-drawn maps at the Supreme
Court. “The Supreme Court is telling the San Antonio court it
has to give deference to the state plan and tell the Supreme
Court why it made the changes it made to its map.”  Anthony Gutierrez, a Texas Democratic Party spokesman, said
that “we could still end up with a similar map.”  Timing Question  The timing is complicated because the preclearance issue
itself is before a three-judge panel in  Washington , where trial
started Jan. 17, with closing arguments scheduled for Feb. 3.
Texas sought preclearance from the Washington court, as is
permitted under the Voting Rights Act, rather than seeking
approval from the  Justice Department .  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts 
questioned the constitutionality of the preclearance requirement
in a 2009 ruling that narrowed the provision’s scope. The
requirement’s constitutionality wasn’t at issue in the latest
case.  Justice Clarence Thomas today issued a concurring opinion,
reiterating his view that the preclearance requirement is
unconstitutional.  The cases are Perry v. Perez, 11-713; Perry v. Davis,
11-714; and Perry v. Perez, 11-715.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  