-- Kenya’s Shilling Declines Before International Court Ruling
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-01-20T12:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/kenya-s-shilling-declines-before-international-court-ruling.html
Kenya’s shilling headed for its
biggest slide against the dollar in a week before a decision by
the  International Criminal Court  over whether six Kenyans,
including top politicians, will be tried at The Hague.  The Kenyan currency declined 0.2 percent to 85.96 per
dollar by 2:32 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital, paring this week’s
gain to 1.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given that we’re going into a weekend, most traders are
looking ahead to the implications of the ICC decision on
Monday,” Robert Gatobu, a dealer with Bank of Africa Kenya
Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi today. “Most traders are
remaining cautious ahead of that ruling because we’re not sure
how it will go, or affect the perception of Kenya.”  The ICC will decide Jan. 23 whether to confirm crimes
against humanity charges against the Kenyans, including Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , for their alleged role in spurring
violence after a disputed presidential election in 2007-08.  The clashes killed 1,500 people, displaced 300,000 and
slowed growth in East Africa’s largest economy.  The Ugandan shilling headed for its highest close in four
weeks, adding 0.3 percent to 2,395 per dollar, on increased
inflows of the U.S. currency from commodity exporters.  “The shilling tightness in the  interbank market  and some
dollar inflows from commodity exports are supporting the
shilling,” Faisal Bukenya, head of  currency trading  at  Barclays
Bank  of Uganda Ltd., said by phone from the capital Kampala.  Tanzania’s shilling was little changed for a second day,
climbing less than 0.1 percent to 1,592 amid thin trading.  “There is demand coming in from traders and influencing
the performance of the shilling although the market is generally
quiet today,” Hamis Mwakibete, head of trading at Commercial
Bank of Africa Tanzania Ltd., said in a phone interview from the
commercial capital of  Dar es Salaam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ; Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
   fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  