-- Kinross Gold Could Be a Takeover Target
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d ,   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-20T21:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/kinross-in-play-after-paying-too-much-in-african-gold-real-m-a.html
By paying too much for acquisitions
in western Africa,  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  is now turning itself into
the cheapest gold-mining target in the world.  Kinross,  Canada ’s third-largest gold producer, fell the
most in almost two decades after saying this week it will write
down the value of its Tasiast mine in Mauritania. The company
sold for 76 cents per dollar of net assets yesterday, versus the
industry median of 2.5 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Writing off the excess $4.6 billion it spent on
Tasiast would still leave Kinross at a 50 percent discount to
its competitors, the data show.  While Kinross bought the Mauritanian mine for almost three
times what the gold deposit is worth, the company is facing
rising labor and raw material costs that may delay production at
some of its projects. After more than quadrupling revenue in the
past five years as gold prices reached a record, Kinross may now
attract interest from Newmont Mining Corp. or  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PLGL)  as they try to boost capacity to meet demand,
said Stifel Nicolaus & Co. On its own, analysts say Kinross is
worth 50 percent more than its current price.  “This is a company whose management team has made some
aggressive, disappointing decisions,”  Keith Wirtz , who oversees
$14.6 billion as chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. “Every
dollar lower pushes the stock higher up the list of potential
takeovers. That will attract the sharks in the water.”  Wirtz said  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer
of the precious metal, could also be a potential acquirer.  Gold Diggers  Steve Mitchell , a spokesman at Toronto-based Kinross, said
the company doesn’t comment on market rumor or speculation.  Omar Jabara , a spokesman for  Greenwood Village , Colorado-
based Newmont, the world’s second-largest gold producer,
declined to comment on whether it is interested in Kinross.  Anton Arens, a spokesman for Polyus, didn’t immediately
return a telephone call or e-mail requesting comment outside
regular business hours.  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Toronto-
based Barrick, also declined to comment on whether it would
consider buying Kinross, citing company policy.  Kinross advanced as much as 2.8 percent today before
closing 1.1 percent higher at $10.21 in New York.  Founded in 1993, Kinross mines and sells more than 2.5
million gold ounces a year and has operations in  Mauritania ,
Ghana and Ecuador, according to its website. It ranked behind
Barrick and Goldcorp Inc. among Canadian gold producers and was
the sixth-largest gold mining company globally in 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Red Back Mining  Kinross, which has spent more than $14 billion on takeovers
since its inception almost 19 years ago, acquired the Tasiast
mine after completing its acquisition of Red Back Mining Inc.
for about C$8 billion ($7.8 billion) in September 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  When the deal was announced, Kinross Chief Executive
Officer Tye Burt called it a “transformational opportunity”
that would create a “gold growth powerhouse.”  After completing the transaction, Kinross has lost about
half its value as expenses to produce gold jumped and the
company said it spent too much to acquire Red Back’s assets.  Kinross Chief Financial Officer Paul Barry said Jan. 17
that the company will write down a portion of the $4.6 billion
in so-called goodwill, or the excess purchase price above the
underlying value of an acquired asset, on the Tasiast mine.  ‘Have to Monetize’  Kinross ended at $10.10 a share yesterday, giving the
company a capitalization of $11.5 billion. That’s about the same
as its market value before Kinross announced its deal for Red
Back in August 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Management screwed up,” Yemi Oshodi, managing director
of M&A and special situations trading at New York-based
WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a telephone interview. “At
which point do you throw in the towel and say, ‘I can’t do this
on my own, I have to monetize these assets.’”  After the slump this week, Kinross traded yesterday at a  24
percent discount  to its assets minus liabilities, the lowest of
any gold mining company with at least $1 billion in value.  While 65 percent of the Tasiast mine’s book value of $7.1
billion is recorded as  goodwill , writing down the entire
purchase cost above the gold deposit’s net asset value of $2.5
billion would leave Kinross at 1.09 times its shareholder
equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  The median gold mining company commanded more than twice as
much per dollar of net assets, the data show.  Newmont may be interested in Kinross’s projects to boost
production and because it already operates in western  Africa (NEM) ,
said  George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel.  Newmont said in November it suspended development of its
$4.8 billion Minas Conga project in Peru after weeks of clashes
between police and demonstrators who oppose the mine. The
company’s global gold output may stagnate until 2017, according
to Veritas Investment Research Corp.  “Newmont has no growth, whereas Kinross has plenty of
growth projects,” Topping said in a telephone interview.  Kinross may also entice Polyus,  Russia ’s largest gold
miner, according to  John Goldsmith , a  money manager  at Montrusco
Bolton Investments Inc., which oversees about C$4.5 billion.  Mikhail Prokhorov , one of Polyus’ billionaire owners, said
just over a year ago that the company plans to merge with a
global competitor to become one of the world’s three biggest
gold producers. Combining Polyus and Kinross, which owns two
properties in Russia, would create a company rivaling AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. as the third-largest gold miner by output globally.  Polyus, Barrick  Robert Buchan, Kinross’s former chief executive officer,
was also appointed chairman of Polyus in July.  “This could be really attractive for them,” Goldsmith
said in a telephone interview. “Maybe Polyus and another
company comes in and does a combined bid.”  Barrick, which analysts say will more than double its  free
cash flow  to $3.4 billion this year, can afford to shoulder the
costs to develop Kinross’s projects, according to Pawel Rajszel,
a Toronto-based analyst at Veritas Investment. This week,
Kinross estimated that those costs may reach $7 billion.  With Kinross’s mines, Barrick could exceed its five-year
gold production targets, he said. The company owns 74 percent of
 African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  and added a  copper mine  in Zambia when
it bought Equinox Minerals Ltd. last year.  ‘Use it Most’  “It would add significant growth to Barrick’s profile,
especially at a time when Barrick could use it most,” Rajszel
said in a telephone interview. “They can afford costs to go up,
they can afford to add this asset into their portfolio, and they
can definitely afford it with their free  cash flow .”  The cost to acquire Kinross may still deter potential
buyers, even with its attractive valuation, according to Adam Graf, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.  At $11.5 billion, Kinross’s market capitalization already
exceeded the value of the biggest gold mining takeover, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It would be challenging, and there’s a very limited list
of buyers,” Graf said in a telephone interview.  Kinross’s preliminary agreement with Ecuador’s government
over royalties and taxes for its project in that country raises
concern over how much profit the site will be able to generate,
according to David Christensen, chief executive officer of ASA
Ltd. in San Mateo,  California , which manages $600 million and
owns Kinross shares.  ‘Tremendous Upside’  Fifth Third’s Wirtz says Kinross is so  cheap  the potential
rewards now outweigh the risks in an acquisition. According to a
sum-of-the-parts analysis by Stifel, Kinross is worth $20.36 a
share, based on the underlying value of its net assets.  With the Tasiast mine valued at $3.71 a share, a potential
acquirer could pay a 65 percent premium to Kinross’s current
share price and still get the Mauritanian gold deposit for free,
according to data compiled by Stifel and Bloomberg.  “There’s tremendous upside to this high risk-high reward
equation,” Wirtz said. “A competitor of theirs might deem this
to be opportunistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at +1-212-617-3143 or  scasey4@bloomberg.net . 