-- Kodak Wins Approval for $650 Million Financing With Plans for Patent Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/kodak-wins-approval-for-financing-with-plans-for-patent-sale-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co., the photography
pioneer that filed for court protection, won a bankruptcy
judge’s approval to borrow as much as $650 million to support
operations as it pursues a sale of patents.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  approved
Kodak’s request for preliminary borrowing at a court hearing
yesterday. The company has a $950 million financing agreement
from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and will return to court for permission to
borrow the full amount.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy yesterday, listing assets of
$5.1 billion and debt of $6.8 billion. It needs “immediate
access” to the financing to refinance debt, pay suppliers, and
fund restructuring costs, it said in court papers.  “We’re here to save this company,” Marshall Huebner, a
lawyer for Citigroup, said at the hearing.  The company, based in Rochester,  New York , tried to sell a
portfolio of more than 1,100 digital-imaging patents and pursued
royalties to fund a shift to modern commercial and consumer
digital printers.  Terms of the bankruptcy financing require Kodak by June 30
to file a motion with the  bankruptcy court  seeking approval of
bidding procedures for the sale of its digital-imaging patent
portfolio, according to court papers.  Reorganization Deadline  The company must file its bankruptcy reorganization plan,
which requires court approval, by Feb. 15, 2013, under terms of
the financing requirements, according to court filings.  A group of noteholders objected to the financing request,
saying in court papers there should be “significant
restrictions” on Kodak’s ability to borrow and spend. Kodak
initially sought approval to borrow as much as $700 million on
an interim basis, according to court papers. It then agreed to
reduce the amount.  Andrew Dietderich, a Kodak attorney, said the judge’s
approval gives the company permission to borrow $650 million.  The noteholder group accused Kodak of “a misguided
strategy” of funding unprofitable businesses. Loan terms would
hurt creditors by allowing Kodak “to burn an additional $700
million in what may be further folly.”  The case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  