-- U.S. Teen McHale Hits Grand Slam Wall Again in Australian Third Round
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-20T12:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/new-jersey-s-christina-mchale-hits-grand-slam-wall-again-in-third-round.html
Christina McHale left the Australian
Open tennis tournament just as she had the  U.S. Open  last
September, with an upset victory and a third-round loss.  McHale, 19, from Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, failed to
convert 10 of her 11 break points in a 6-2, 6-0 loss today to
 Serbia ’s Jelena Jankovic, a former world No. 1.  “I had a couple of break points I didn’t get that could
have kept the score closer,” McHale told reporters afterwards.
“When you play a top player and you don’t keep it close at the
beginning, then it’s easy for them to run away.”  The McHale-Jankovic match was moved to the Rod Laver Arena
at  Melbourne  Park after former men’s champions  Rafael Nadal  and
 Roger Federer  won their matches there in straight sets. McHale
said she wasn’t nervous to be on the Grand Slam tournament’s
main court and that it was “special to follow those players.”  McHale’s father, John, works as a finance director in the
Rutherford,  New Jersey , office of Geneva-based industrial
inspection company SGS SA.  John McHale watched the match on TV early this morning at
home in New Jersey. At the U.S. Open four months ago, he was in
the stands as Christina upset No. 8 seed Marion Bartoli of
 France  before losing to No. 25 Maria Kirilenko of Russia 6-2,
6-3 in the third round.  McHale won her second-round match in Melbourne by fighting
back from a set down to beat Marina Erakovic of  New Zealand . In
the first round, she upset No. 24 Lucie Safarova of the Czech
Republic 6-2, 6-4.  Jankovic, 26, who is seeded 13th, was atop the WTA world
 rankings  in 2008 and has $12.7 million in career earnings,
compared to $500,000 for McHale.  Career-High Ranking  Though McHale entered the Australian Open with a career-
high-matching rank of 42, she struggled from the start against
Jankovic as her career record fell to 29-34.  McHale had 26 unforced errors and 12 winners in the match.
Jankovic converted six of her 10 break points against the
American.  “She hits a really good ball,” Jankovic said in a news
conference. “She’s a really great player. I think she has great
potential ahead of her.”  McHale and Jankovic also played on clay in the
quarterfinals of a tournament in Charleston,  South Carolina ,
last year and the result was the same, a 6-2, 6-0 victory for
the Serb.  “It’s pretty much the same thing that happened last time
happened again,” McHale said. “I felt like that I had chances
that I couldn’t capitalize on. As the match went on, I just kept
getting pushed more and more behind the baseline.”  She said she’ll head to her next tournament in Paris having
learned more about what she needs to do to become more
consistent.  “Overall there’s definitely some positives from this
week,” McHale said. “Winning my first two rounds and getting
out of some tough ones. I just have to keep working on my game
and looking to try and not get pushed back from the baseline as
much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  