-- Rams to Play Regular-Season Games in London Next Three Seasons
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-20T15:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/nfl-rams-will-play-regular-season-games-in-london-for-next-three-seasons.html
The  St. Louis Rams  will play a
regular-season home game in London, where team owner  Stan Kroenke  holds a majority stake in soccer team Arsenal, for the
next three seasons.  The Rams and  New England Patriots  will play at Wembley
Stadium on Oct. 28, the  National Football League  said in a  news
release . St. Louis will return to the British capitol in 2013
and 2014 against opponents that haven’t yet been identified.  The NFL, the most-watched U.S. sport, has played a regular-
season game in London since 2007 and agreed in October to
continue the international series for another five years.
Kroenke took control of north London Premier League soccer team
Arsenal, which plays in  Emirates Stadium , last year.  “We’ve seen firsthand the increased popularity of the NFL
not only in London, but throughout Europe,” Kroenke said. “To
play a role in that growth over the next three years will be
incredible.”  St. Louis finished 2-14 this season, tying the Indianapolis
Colts for the league’s worst record. The Rams named Jeff Fisher
coach after missing the playoffs for the seventh consecutive
year.  “We are confident that having the Rams host one game in
the U.K. in each of the next three seasons will allow us to
better serve the growing popularity of our sport beyond the
borders of the United States,” NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell
said.  New England  had the American Football Conference’s best
regular-season record at 13-3. The Patriots beat the Denver
Broncos 45-10 in their opening playoff game last week and will
host the Baltimore Ravens for the AFC title in two days.  This will be the Rams’ first regular-season game outside
the U.S., after playing a preseason game in 1987 at the old
Wembley. New England played a regular-season game in London in
2009, beating the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 35-7.  Tickets for the game will go on sale in early February, the
Rams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 