-- Nadal, Federer Advance at Australian Open; Isner Loss Ends U.S. Men’s Run
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-20T16:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/no-2-nadal-azarenka-advance-to-fourth-round-of-australian-open-tennis.html
Former champions  Rafael Nadal  and
 Roger Federer  advanced to the Australian Open’s round of 16,
which will be without a U.S. man for the first time in almost
four decades after  John Isner  lost.  Top women’s seed  Caroline Wozniacki  and No. 3-seeded
 Victoria Azarenka  kept on track for a semifinal matchup by
winning third-round matches in straight sets yesterday.
Defending champion Kim Clijsters beat 20th-seeded Daniela Hantuchova 6-3, 6-2 to set up a rematch of last year’s final
against French Open champion Li Na of  China .  Nadal, seeking his 11th Grand Slam singles championship and
second at Melbourne Park after taking the 2009 title, ousted
Slovakian qualifier Lukas Lacko 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 at Rod Laver
Arena. The Spaniard has won his first three matches in straight
sets playing with a taped right knee after experiencing pain on
eve of the tournament. He next faces another Spaniard, No. 18
seed Feliciano Lopez.  “The knee is fine, that’s the important thing,” Nadal
said in a news conference. “I’m very happy about my game. Being
in the fourth round without losing a set, it’s fantastic.”  In third-round action today, former champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  plays Germany’s Angelique Kerber, while
defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia meets France’s
Nicolas Mahut.  Serena Williams  faces Hungary’s Greta Arn, and
 Andy Murray  of Britain, twice a runner-up, plays Michael Llodra
of France.  U.S. Eliminated  Lopez’s five-set win against the 16th-seeded Isner left the
U.S. without a male player in the round of 16 at the tournament
for the first time since 1973, when no American men entered. At
last year’s French Open, American men failed to advance to the
fourth round for the first time since 1968.  Ten U.S. men, led by No. 8 seed Mardy Fish and 15th-seeded
 Andy Roddick , started in the 128-player main draw. Roddick is
the last American male to have won a major, at the 2003  U.S.
Open . Williams, a five-time champion in  Melbourne , and Vania King are the country’s remaining representatives in women’s
singles.  “That’s not a good effort from the Americans this
tournament,” Isner told reporters after his 6-3, 6-7 (3-7), 6-
4, 6-7 (0-7), 6-1 loss. “It’s very ugly, to be honest, to have
no one in the round of 16. We’ve got to try to rectify that next
time the big tournaments roll around.”  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles
titles, saved a set point against Ivo Karlovic before getting
past the service-speed record holder 7-6 (8-6), 7-5, 6-3.  Big Serve  Karlovic, who had a 251 kph (156 mph) serve in a Davis Cup
match last year, led 6-5 in the opening tiebreaker when Federer
hit a lob that the 6-foot-10 Croatian, the tallest player on the
men’s tour, could only get the frame of his racket to with both
players at the net. The Swiss right-hander then ripped a cross-
court backhand to bring up a set point of his own, which he
converted with a service winner.  “I got the angle right and was able maybe to surprise him,
we were that close to each other,” Federer said of the lob.
“Then I had a great return after that. I was almost home. It
was a good turn of events for me then.”  Federer took the second set with his first service break
and  broke again for a 3-1 lead in the third with a backhand
service return that dipped in by inches. He’ll next play 19-
year-old Australian Bernard Tomic, who ousted No. 13 seed
Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukraine in five sets.  Berdych Advances  No. 7 seed Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  and 10th-
seeded Nicolas Almagro of  Spain  set up a fourth-round meeting
with straight-set wins. Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina, the
No. 11 seed, beat Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan and will play  Germany ’s
Philipp Kohlschreiber.  Azarenka, who tuned up for the season’s first tennis major
by winning her ninth career title in Sydney, advanced to a last-
16 matchup against Iveta Benesova of the Czech Republic by
beating unseeded German Mona Barthel, who won her first WTA
title at an Open warm-up tournament in Hobart.  Wozniacki, who needs to reach the quarterfinals to have any
chance of keeping the No. 1 ranking, defeated Romanian Monica Niculescu 6-2, 6-2. The Dane will next play No. 13 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia, who defeated American Christina McHale 6-2,
6-0. No. 8 seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland and 22nd-seeded
German  Julia Goerges  will meet in Round 4 after wins.  Clijsters of Belgium took 75 minutes to defeat Hantuchova
of Slovakia and will next face Li, whom she beat in last year’s
final to win her fourth Grand Slam title. The fifth-seeded Li
advanced when Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain quit in tears in
the fourth game after twisting her ankle.  Slam Stimulus  Li said she had good memories of her meeting with Clijsters
last year.  “After that match I was feeling I really can win the Grand
Slam,” said Li, who became the first Chinese player to win a
major singles title at the  French Open  in June.  It was Clijsters’s first match at Melbourne Park’s No. 2
showcourt since losing 6-0, 6-1 to Nadia Petrova of Russia two
years ago, her worst defeat at a major.  “I wanted to play well, to really focus and not let that
happen again,” Clijsters said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Melbourne at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  