-- Northern Irish Court Finds Man Innocent of Soldiers’ Murder
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-20T12:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/northern-irish-court-finds-man-innocent-of-soldiers-murder-1-.html
A  Northern Ireland  court cleared a
man charged with the murder of two British soldiers in 2009 by a
dissident republican terrorist group.  Colin Duffy, 44, was found not guilty of killing soldiers
Mark Quinsey and Patrick Azimkar in March 2009 in a gun attack
on an army barracks in Antrim, a town 15 miles north of Belfast.
Duffy pleaded not guilty to the charge.  “The prosecution failed to establish that either he was
one of the gunmen or the driver,” Judge Anthony Hart said at
the sitting of the Antrim Court today.  The murders were the first of British Army personnel in
Northern Ireland since 1997, a year before a three decade-long
conflict known as the  Troubles  largely ended with a peace-deal.
The Real  Irish Republican Army , a dissident group which rejects
the region’s peace process and U.K. link, said it carried out
the murders, as it sought to reignite a conflict which claimed
3,500 lives.  The unrest has continued since the attack. Two explosions
occurred yesterday at two separate locations in Derry in the
north west of the region after telephoned warnings, Northern
Ireland police said.  The explosions happened at a state welfare office and a
tourist office, a spokeswoman said in a recorded phone message.
No injuries were reported. In April 2011, dissidents killed
policeman Ronan Kerr in Omagh, County Tyrone, with an undercar
bomb.  Evidence  Gunmen opened fire in front of a British Army base in
Antrim, on March 7, 2009, as a group of British soldiers stood
outside waiting for a pizza delivery. A car, which police say
was used in the attack, was found around 8 miles from the
shooting.  While the judge said he was satisfied that Duffy was in the
car at some stage, he found insufficient evidence “beyond
reasonable doubt” that he was involved in the attack. A verdict
on a second man accused of being involved in the attack is also
scheduled for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  