-- North Korean Torture Tale Begins With Shark Bites, Cattle Prods
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/north-korean-torture-tale-begins-with-shark-bites-cattle-prods-review.html
Pak Jun Do, the hero of  Adam
Johnson ’s novel “ The Orphan Master’s Son ,” is a North Korean
macho man who suffers deeply but silently.  That’s a good thing for the reader, given the amount of
bone breaking, shark biting, lip busting, flesh ripping, skin
burning, poison swallowing, cattle prodding and electronic
lobotomizing that goes on in this book, much of it directed
toward him. He grimaces and soldiers on.  Jun Do’s early training is in the tunnels under the
Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea, where he
learns fighting in the dark, a skill that will serve him later:  “In the tunnels, Jun Do had developed a sense of people he
couldn’t see. If they were out there, he could feel it, and if
he could get within range, he could home in on them.”  In the book’s first and most harrowing section, he’s
dragooned into kidnapping for the North Korean government, which
means sneaking onto Japanese shores to overpower and drag off
unsuspecting citizens who will never be heard from again. (He is
said to have received “special training” that makes him “not
have feelings when bad things happen to other people.”)  Later he spends time on a fishing boat as an intelligence
officer intercepting encrypted transmissions, disliked by the
crew for the danger he brings. They fear the American patrols in
international waters and, far more intensely, their own
government, which they know will ship them all to the gulag if
anything goes wrong.  Eating Moths  Johnson ships us there, of course -- to a prison mine where
 life expectancy  is six months and a slave laborer who lucks into
a handful of moths (“their furry abdomens drying his mouth,
despite the goop that burst from them”) is grateful for the
nutrition.  The horrors ramp up and up until, at some point, they turn
into storybook horrors. And with that, the tone changes.  “The Orphan Master’s Son” starts off as a grimly serious
examination of life and conscience in the totalitarian hell of
Kim Jong Il’s  North Korea . It winds up as an exciting escape
tale that pivots on the love between the bravest man and the
most beautiful woman in the land --a sweeping, schlocky,
Hollywood-style romantic thriller.  The plot is dense and full of surprises. It takes Jun Do
from the very bottom of the social heap all the way up to the
entourage of  Kim Jong Il , the fearsome “ Dear Leader ” who died
this past December. Kim is the most expertly drawn of Johnson’s
characters: a dimpled bundle of smiling menace who’s got a whole
country to practice his sadism on.  Channeling Orwell  The book’s second half also introduces a conscientious
torturer who could be one of the keepers of Room 101 in
“ 1984 .” The connection is hardly a surprise, since  Orwell 
wrote “1984” as a way of dissecting Stalinism, and Soviet
Stalinism was a grade-school version of the propaganda-
bellowing, leader-idolizing system that North Korea later
developed.  “Know that this is a story of growth and redemption, one
in which enlightenment is gained by the lowliest of figures,”
Johnson writes in one of many passages designed to parody North
Korean-style propaganda. Parody or not, that’s pretty much what
happens to Jun Do.  Johnson put several years of research into “The Orphan
Master’s Son,” but what he has come up with -- for better or
worse -- is a big, juicy, enjoyably pain-drenched potboiler. A
movie, which seems inevitable, could do for the Korean
instrument known as the gayageum what the big-screen version of
“Dr. Zhivago” did for the balalaika.  “The Orphan Master’s Son” is published by  Random House (BTG)  in
the U.S. and will be published in the U.K. by Doubleday on Feb.
16 (443 pages, $26, 18.99 pounds). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 