-- Northern Ireland Court Convicts Man of British Soldiers’ Murder
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-20T13:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/northern-ireland-court-convicts-man-of-british-soldiers-murder.html
A Northern Ireland court convicted a
man charged with the murder of two British soldiers in 2009 by a
dissident republican terrorist group, while clearing a second
man accused of the killings.  Judge Anthony Hart found Brian Shivers, 46, guilty of
involvement in the death of soldiers Mark Quinsey and Patrick
Azimkar in March 2009 in a gun attack on an army barracks in
Antrim, a town 15 miles north of Belfast. Co-accused Colin
Duffy, 44, was found innocent.  The murders were the first of British Army personnel in
Northern Ireland since 1997, a year before a three decade-long
conflict known as the  Troubles  largely ended with a peace-deal.
The Real  Irish Republican Army , a dissident group which rejects
the region’s peace process and U.K. link, said it carried out
the murders, as it sought to reignite a conflict which claimed
3,500 lives.  Gunmen opened fire in front of a British Army base in
Antrim, on March 7, 2009, as a group of British soldiers stood
outside waiting for a pizza delivery. A car, which police say
was used in the attack, was found around 8 miles from the
shooting.  In an earlier ruling today, Hart said while he was
satisfied that Duffy, was in the car at some stage, he found
insufficient evidence to prove that he was linked to the
incident. Hart said he was satisfied that the prosecution proved
beyond reasonable doubt that Shivers was involved in the
murders.  The unrest has continued since the attack. Two explosions
occurred yesterday at two separate locations in Derry in the
north west of the region after telephoned warnings,  Northern
Ireland  police said.  The explosions happened at a state welfare office and a
tourist office, a spokeswoman said in a recorded phone message.
No injuries were reported. In April 2011, dissidents killed
policeman Ronan Kerr in Omagh, County Tyrone, with an undercar
bomb.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  