-- Novartis’s Gilenya Pill Reviewed by EU, U.S. After 11 Deaths
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-20T21:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/novartis-s-gilenya-reviewed-by-eu-after-11-patient-deaths-2-.html
European and U.S. regulators are
reviewing  Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  Gilenya pill for multiple sclerosis
after reports of 11 deaths among patients who took the drug. The
shares fell the most in more than five months.  The reports raise concern that Gilenya, the first oral
treatment for the debilitating neurological disease, may harm
the heart, the European Medicines Agency said in a statement
today. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said it’s also
reviewing data on the medicine.  Novartis said last month a patient died Nov. 23 after
starting treatment with Gilenya. Ten other deaths have been
reported among patients who began taking the drug, including six
unexplained deaths, three heart attacks and one due to
disruption of heart rhythm, the London-based EMA said. It isn’t
clear what role if any Gilenya had in the deaths, it said.  “In my view this is highly unlikely to be related to the
drug, but of course they have to check that,” Karl Heinz Koch,
an analyst at Helvea SA in Zurich, said in a telephone interview
today. “With all the experience we have with the drug, my
comfort level is relatively high, but you can never be 100
percent sure. It certainly doesn’t help the share price.”  Novartis fell 3.9 percent to 52.05 Swiss francs in Zurich
trading, the biggest decline since Aug. 10.  ‘Possible Label Changes’  “We have been in touch with EMA, and similar to what they
are doing, the FDA is conducting an analysis of available data
and has not made any definitive conclusions,” Erica Jefferson,
a spokeswoman for the U.S. regulator, said in an e-mail. “We
will notify the public once our review is complete to
communicate any recommendations or possible label changes.”  Novartis said it’s working with the EMA on the review and
is notifying doctors of the agency’s recommendation to increase
monitoring of patients’ hearts after the first dose.  “The role of Gilenya in the reported cardiovascular events
has not been fully established and the cause of this patient’s
death is still unexplained,” Novartis said in an e-mailed
statement, referring to the first reported death. It didn’t
mention the other deaths reported by the EMA. “Novartis
continues to believe that Gilenya provides an important health
benefit.”  Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for Novartis, said in an e-mail
the death rate is in line with the broader expected death rates
based on the 30,000 multiple sclerosis patients who have been
treated with Gilenya to date. She also said no significant
differences in death rates were detected during clinical trials
between patients on the medicine and controls.  First Oral Treatment  Gilenya was approved in the U.S. in 2010 as the first oral
treatment for multiple sclerosis, and cleared for sale in  Europe 
in March. With sales of $291 million for the first nine months
of 2011, it’s among the products Novartis is depending on as
patents start to expire on the company’s best-selling drugs,
including the hypertension pill Diovan.  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  plans to submit its oral MS drug, called
BG-12, to regulators during the first half of this year after it
was safe and effective in a late-stage trial, the Weston,
Massachusetts-based company said in October.  “Increased alertness to toxicities is not what Novartis
needs,” said  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in
Zurich, in an e-mail. “Will the tox profile become Gilenya’s
Achilles’ heel?”  The risk of slow  heart rate , or bradycardia, after the
first dose was known when the drug was approved, EMA said. The
agency’s committee on human medicines expects to complete its
review in March, the regulator said.  Patient Monitoring  Doctors should increase patient monitoring after the first
dose is given, the EMA said. That includes electrocardiograms
before treatment and for the first six hours after the first
dose, and then checking  blood pressure  and heart rate every
hour, the EMA said. After six hours, patients with a slow heart
rate or problems with electricity conduction in the heart should
be watched until their condition has improved.  More than 30,000 patients worldwide have now taken the
medicine, according to the EMA statement.  Separately, the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for
Human Use  recommended approval  of Novartis’s Signifor, the first
treatment for Cushing’s disease in patients who can’t have
surgery or for whom surgery hasn’t worked.  Cushing’s is a rare and deadly condition in which a small
tumor produces too much of a certain hormone, resulting in
weight gain in the face and neck, easy bruising and excessive
growth of facial hair. It affects about 4 people in every
100,000 in the European Union, or about 20,000, the EMA said.  The European Commission usually follows the committee’s
recommendations and delivers a final decision within three
months, Novartis said in a statement.  The committee also recommended that Novartis’s cancer drug
Gleevec be approved to treat patients with gastrointestinal
stromal tumors for as much as three years, compared with one
year now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  