-- Obama Should Go Big and Bold for State of Union: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-01-20T00:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/obama-should-go-big-bold-for-state-of-union-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
The news media won’t learn what’s in
President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address until a few
hours before he delivers it Tuesday night. But we know one
thing: If the president doesn’t give us specific ideas of what
he wants to do in a second term, he’ll have a harder time
winning one.  Obama articulated new themes for his domestic presidency in
an important speech on Dec. 6 in Osawatomie,  Kansas , where
former President  Theodore Roosevelt , a Republican, had  unveiled 
his “New Nationalism” in 1910. Obama described the struggle to
“restore growth and prosperity, restore balance, restore
fairness” as “the defining issue of our time” and called this “a
make-or-break moment for the middle class.”  But the Kansas speech contained almost no proposals for how
to “make” the moment. The State of the Union is where the
president must actually explain how he would reduce  income
inequality , revive the middle class and restore faith in our
battered democratic institutions. Trashing  Mitt Romney  (or  Newt Gingrich ) all year won’t be enough to get Obama over the finish
line in November.  Four More Years  Last year, Obama used the  State of the Union  to explain
that the U.S. could “win the future” if we worked to “out-
innovate, out-educate, out-build” the rest of the world. The
mantra of innovation, education and infrastructure is smart and
effective, and he’ll probably repeat it. But because he spoke at
the high tide of concern about the deficit, he didn’t dare
propose anything bold to make that vision a reality.  This year, nobody expects anything serious to pass
Congress, so Obama should use the moment to lay out a four-year
agenda: a wish list that might inspire at least part of the
country and remind us that we elected him to be
“transformational.”  We know Obama will reiterate old arguments, including the
need for the jobs and infrastructure bill rejected by
Republicans (who forget that their party was founded in 1856 in
part on support for “internal improvements”), comprehensive
immigration reform and the $4 trillion in 10-year deficit
reduction that the president and House Speaker  John Boehner 
almost agreed to last summer (without any specifics, of course).
We’ll hear about new energy exploration that didn’t get the
publicity of the Keystone XL pipeline, protection of Medicare
and Social Security, and another promise that all of the
administration’s programs will be paid for.  But a speech that merely summarizes the ideas of a mean and
disillusioning year will land like a thud. Instead, we need to
know Obama’s investment strategy should he retain any of the
political capital that tends to dissipate quickly in a second
term.  The most pressing of those investments is in  jobs . He
should implement a creative growth policy that combines yet more
incentives for new businesses (it’s new, not just small,
businesses that create jobs) and fresh thinking like vouchers
for veterans to use for employment with nonprofits.  In the longer term, the most important investments are in
education. Obama will probably highlight the stark philosophical
differences between the two parties here. He wants to fund early
childhood education, hold schools and teachers accountable for
performance, act to reduce dropout rates, and expand  Pell grants 
for college. By contrast, the budget plan put forward by House
Budget Committee chairman  Paul Ryan , approved last year by all
but four of his fellow Republicans, proposes sharp cuts in
discretionary spending that are likely to severely curtail the
federal role in education.  Closing the Gap  The speech should introduce Americans to a first-tier issue
that somehow never gets talked about in presidential debates --
the now-acute skills gap that makes it much harder for the U.S.
to compete internationally. In the president’s hometown of
Chicago, for instance, unemployment is at nearly 10 percent
while local businesses are posting 100,000 job vacancies.
Obama’s old chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel , now mayor of  Chicago ,
has responded by blowing up the community college system, which
has a pathetic 7 percent average graduation rate. Under
Emanuel’s  plan , industries (e.g. health care, IT, hospitality)
will adopt a college, design the curriculum and train students.  Obama will surely repeat his support for “the Buffett
Rule,” whereby those making over a million dollars a year would
no longer be able to pay taxes at a lower rate than the middle
class. But the president should go further and embrace
fundamental  tax reform  that flattens rates and kills unfair
deductions and loopholes. If he really wants to be bold he would
propose replacing the  payroll tax  with a value-added tax
(popular with Republicans) and a carbon tax (popular with
Democrats). It’s much smarter to tax consumption and pollution
than jobs.  Finally, Obama needs to become a champion of political
reform. He has been weak on money in politics, opting out of
public financing and rarely discussing in public what Teddy
Roosevelt called “corrupt campaign practices.” He should use the
State of the Union to build support for reforming the primary
process (the root of polarization) along the lines of
 California ’s new “top-two” nonpartisan primary and amending the
Constitution in the wake of Buckley v. Valeo (1976) and  Citizens
United  (2010) so that money no longer equals speech. With
today’s disgust over super-PACs, the time is right.  No president can singlehandedly restore democracy or
reverse structural economic inequality, which is caused largely
by globalization, technology and forces beyond any leader’s
control. But reform ideas and long-term investments in human
capital might ease the problem at the margins, which in turn can
soften political edges and help restore the sense of common
purpose essential to continued American greatness.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 