-- Boehner, Obama Put Government in Deep Freeze
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-01-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/obama-boehner-put-lawmaking-in-deep-freeze.html
When President  Barack Obama  stands
in front of House Speaker  John Boehner  to give his State of the
Union address on Jan. 24, it will be the most time the two have
spent together since talks on the  U.S. debt  in July and August.  The president-speaker relationship, the critical nexus for
U.S. lawmaking, is now non-existent, said a White House official
with direct knowledge. The two leaders, known for forging
compromises and making deals, rarely even speak.  “The president regarded Boehner as someone with whom he
could do business and vice versa until the breakdown -- for
whatever reason -- of the  debt limit  talks,” said Bill Galston,
a domestic policy adviser to former President Bill Clinton who’s
now an analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. “I
don’t think the relationship has ever recovered.”  A Boehner adviser said the speaker has sized up Obama as an
ineffective negotiator. The White House official said Boehner
has been unwilling to make any deal that would risk alienating
his Tea Party-friendly freshmen members. The two officials
weren’t authorized to speak on the topic.  While friction between a president and congressional
leaders of an opposing party isn’t unusual -- Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada , a Democrat, publicly called then-
President  George W. Bush  a “liar” and a “loser” in 2005 --
the distance that has developed between Obama and Boehner stands
in contrast to some recent precedents.  Residual Effects  Publicly, Boehner has likened negotiating with the White
House to “dealing with a bowl of Jell-O.” Obama complained of
being “left at the altar” after negotiations on a
multitrillion-dollar  deficit  reduction plan collapsed. White
House advisers said their view that Boehner can’t deliver was
reaffirmed by  House Republicans ’ initial repudiation in December
of a deal to extend a payroll tax cut for two months.  As a result of last year’s events, the president’s State of
the Union is being prepared with the assumption that any major
deal with congressional Republicans is unlikely before the
November elections, said the administration official. The White
House team has concluded that Boehner’s latitude to deal with
them will only shrink once Republicans settle on their candidate
to oppose Obama, the official said.  A full-year extension of the  payroll tax  cut is
“essentially the last must-do item of business on the
president’s congressional agenda” in 2012, White House
spokesman  Josh Earnest  said in a Dec. 31 briefing.  Limited Contact  Since the debt talks, the president and the speaker have
spoken by phone only five times, none of the conversations
lasting more than 10 minutes and in one case only 2 minutes,
according to a Boehner aide. A congratulatory call between the
two on passage of free trade agreements with  South Korea (TBBLKREA) ,
Colombia and  Panama  on Oct. 13 was quickly followed by dueling
press statements, with each lecturing the other on their
competing jobs plans.  Their only meetings in person have been a brief social
encounter at the White House Christmas party and Boehner’s
ceremonial duty at the podium when Obama gave a 32-minute
address to Congress on his jobs agenda on Sept. 8, said the
Boehner aide. That speech was preceded by a rare public spat
over scheduling, with Boehner insisting Obama postpone the
speech a day.  The departing White House chief of staff, Bill Daley, who
dined with Boehner at a  Washington  steak house when the Obama
administration was seeking a deficit deal, hasn’t spoken with
Boehner in more than three months, according to a White House
official interviewed on Jan. 18.  Public Stances  Publicly, both sides say there is no ill will, while
maintaining opposing positions on the agenda ahead.  “The president and the vice president and their staffs are
in regular contact with the speaker and the majority leader and
their staffs,” Jamie Smith, an administration spokeswoman,
said. “The president remains ready and willing to work with
Congress to pass legislation that ensures everyone gets a fair
shake, a fair shot and pays their fair share.”  Brendan Buck , a Boehner spokesman, said, “The speaker
likes the president personally, but simply believes his policies
make it harder to create jobs.”  Though Obama and Boehner played a well-publicized round of
golf as the deficit talks were getting under way in June, the
two have never cultivated a close relationship. Boehner has
declined four straight invitations to state dinners at the White
House.  Policy and political differences don’t necessarily preclude
compromise.  Past Precedents  Republican  Ronald Reagan  and Democratic House Speaker Tip O’Neill clashed publicly over ideological differences while
developing an easy private rapport and forging deals such as
1983 agreement to stabilize the  Social Security (USBOSOCS)  fund.  Republican House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who initially
derided Democrat  Bill Clinton  as a “counterculture McGovernik”
and allowed the government to shut down in a 1995 dispute, later
worked with the White House to deliver legislative achievements
such as a welfare overhaul and a balanced budget deal.  Obama, 50, and Boehner, 62, both face political constraints
that Clinton and Gingrich did not.  Gingrich was perceived as the architect of the Republican
victories in the 1994 congressional elections that gave his
party House control after 40 years in the minority. By contrast,
the Republicans first elected in 2010 to regain the House mostly
ran on an anti-Washington theme that’s not in harmony with
Boehner’s record of compromise.  Political Support  “The really big difference is that, at the beginning and
especially over the first year, Gingrich had the affection and
strong confidence of the freshmen,” said  David Rohde , a
political science professor at  Duke University  in Durham,  North
Carolina . “Boehner doesn’t have the same confidence.”  Clinton also had the benefit of a strong economy that Obama
does not. The U.S. unemployment rate was below 6 percent during
the two years before Clinton’s re-election in 1996. Leading up
to it, House Republicans and Clinton concluded that a series of
legislative wins would be a “mutual interest” for their re-
election bids, said Dan Meyer, who was chief of staff at the
time to Gingrich.  That strategy may have undercut 1996 Republican
presidential nominee Robert Dole’s chances. Today, with Obama
more vulnerable than Clinton was, “there’s probably not a
willingness on the part of congressional Republicans to part
company with their nominee,” said Meyer, now a senior vice
president at the Duberstein Group, a Washington lobbying firm.  Approval Ratings  The political gridlock displayed in the deficit talks sent
the poll ratings of both Obama and congressional Republicans
plunging.  Approval ratings of Congress are at historic lows: 13
percent in a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted Jan. 12-15,
and 11 percent in a Dec. 15-18 Gallup poll.  Those sentiments have rubbed off on the leadership. Forty
percent of those  surveyed  by the Pew Research Center said they
had an unfavorable view of Boehner. A year ago, 25 percent said
they had an unfavorable view. Thirty-nine percent of the 1,502
adults surveyed Jan. 11-16 said they never heard of Boehner or
couldn’t rate him.  Obama’s approval rating in the Pew poll was 43 percent,
with 48 saying they disapprove of the job he’s doing.  Going into the 2012 election, the president has staked out
a populist position as a champion of middle-income Americans
confronting  Wall Street  and an obstructionist Republican
Congress. He underscored his new message with a Dec. 6 address
in Osawatomie,  Kansas , saying the nation is at “a make-or-break
moment for the middle class.”  Obama then prevailed against the House Republicans in a
December stand-off over the GOP’s efforts to block a two-month
extension of a payroll tax cut for workers.  Galston said both sides are now committed to election-year
political strategies that make compromise unlikely.  “I think the die is cast,” Galston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 