-- Ohio Grabs Acura From Japan as Yen Fuels Exodus to U.S.: Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-01-20T21:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/ohio-grabs-acura-from-japan-as-yen-fuels-exodus-to-u-s-cars.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s choice to build
what it calls a racing-oriented “supercar” in Ohio highlights
confidence in its U.S. engineers and plants. It also shows the
difficulty of producing autos in Japan as the yen rises.  When the high-performance hybrid Acura NSX goes on sale
within three years, it will be the most expensive and
technologically advanced car ever built in the U.S. by an Asian
or European automaker. Ohio will be the sole global production
site for the car executives suggest will sell for more than
$100,000.  “This is a halo vehicle,” said John Shook, a former
Toyota engineer, referring to a model that represents the
highest ideal of a brand. He is also chairman of the Lean
Enterprise Institute in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , which consults
on efficiency techniques. “Where you make it makes a statement.
It’s a great thing for their local operation, and indicative of
challenges in  Japan .”  The surprise  NSX  plan, revealed by President Takanobu Ito
in Detroit last week, follows Honda’s August announcement that a
Mexican plant will make small cars to curb losses from exporting
models such as the Fit from Japan. The two projects will give
Honda the ability to produce its entire vehicle range, from
cheapest to most expensive, within  North America , a first for
any carmaker based outside the U.S.  ‘Pulp Fiction’  The original $89,000 NSX that sold from 1989 to 2005 was
built in Suzuka, Japan, and was favored by performance-car fans
for its high power and light, all-aluminum body. It gained pop-
culture fame when it was driven in 1994’s “Pulp Fiction” by
Winston “The Wolf” Wolfe, played by Harvey Keitel.  Noting a destination is 30 minutes away, he says: “I’ll be
there in 10.”  Honda’s production shift along with rising North American
capacity for Toyota Motor Corp. and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  signal a
long-term move by Japan’s automakers to battle currency-related
losses.  The yen has risen 7.7 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months, the strongest performer against the 16 most-
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Each one yen rise
against the currency cuts Honda’s operating profit by 15 billion
yen ($195 million), according to the company.  “It may be an appeal to the U.S. market, to show Honda
starting production of an edgy car in the U.S.,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $600 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo . “It may also be a message
to the Japanese market of Honda’s actual start of a production
shift.”  Honda, which has its U.S. headquarters in Torrance,
 California , also needs the new sports car to attract customers
to other Acura models. U.S. deliveries of the brand’s cars and
sport-utility vehicles fell 7.7 percent last year to 123,299.  The company’s American depositary receipts rose 1.9 percent
to $34.54 at the close in  New York . They’ve gained 13 percent
this year.  ‘Hollowing Out’  Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Nissan and its
alliance partner  Renault SA (RNO) , has warned that unless Japan finds
a way to tame the yen’s rise, the country’s auto industry faces
a “hollowing out” of domestic production.  Nissan has moved fastest among Japan’s automakers to shift
production of low-cost autos to Thailand and  Mexico , and last
year was the second-biggest importer of vehicles into Japan,
behind only  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Honda’s choice to make its costliest model abroad is
unprecedented, said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced
Research Japan.  “I was surprised,” said Endo, who is based in Tokyo.
“Even with this currency burden, I believed NSX would be one of
the models that kept production in Japan, being high-end and
with a hybrid system.”  Responsible Fun  The all-wheel-drive NSX will have a newly developed two-
motor hybrid system that Honda says delivers high performance
and handling as well as fuel efficiency.  “Even as we focus on the ‘fun to drive spirit’ of the NSX,
I think a supercar must respond positively to environmental
responsibilities,” Ito said in Detroit on Jan. 9.  The company plans to race the car as well as sell it, said
Ito, who was lead engineer on the first NSX in the 1980s. Its
“mid-engine” design houses most of the weight of the
powertrain in the center of the vehicle for optimal balance and
agility.  While Honda doesn’t yet make any hybrids in North America,
this year it starts producing a gasoline-electric version of the
new Acura ILX sedan in Greensburg, Indiana.  ‘Stretch Goals’  “Honda believes in setting ‘stretch goals’ for engineers,
and that’s clearly what NSX represents,” said  Jeff Liker , an
engineering professor at the University of Michigan in Ann
Arbor. “Their U.S. engineers have a high level of capability,
but Honda also has these very expert engineers back in Japan to
ensure the U.S. team succeeds.”  Three reasons led to the choice to develop and build the
NSX in  Ohio ,  Tetsuo Iwamura , Honda’s chief operating officer for
North America, said in an interview last week.  “The U.S. is the largest market for it,” Iwamura said.
“It has a well-experienced, capable development team, and a
very efficient, high-quality production team. That made it
possible.”  From Ohio, Honda will export the car to Japan,  Europe ,
 China  and other markets, he said. The company isn’t yet
announcing the car’s price, how much it will invest in an
assembly line to build NSX or that factory’s precise location.  All Honda plants in Ohio, including engine and transmission
factories, will be involved in the project and many components
and materials will be locally sourced, Iwamura said.  “Final assembly will be done with a small-scale facility,
but including components we need to make use of the current Ohio
production base,” he said. “We have to ask suppliers,
especially U.S. suppliers, to accommodate our request as much as
possible.”  30 Years  J.D. Power & Associates rated four of Honda’s North
American assembly lines among the region’s five best in 2011.
The company’s Greensburg plant that opened in 2008 even won a
“platinum” rating last year for new-car quality, tying two
Lexus plants as the world’s best.  Honda was first among Asia-based manufacturers to open an
auto-assembly plant in the U.S., with its Marysville, Ohio,
factory in 1982, and added its premium Acura line in 1986, ahead
of  Toyota (7203) ’s Lexus and Nissan’s Infiniti.  In contrast to those two competitors, most Acuras sold in
the U.S. are already built in North America, while Lexus and
Infiniti count on Japan for most of their lineup.  Including the new ILX, five of seven Acura models sold in
the U.S. are made in the U.S. or Canada. Toyota builds only the
Lexus RX sport-utility vehicle in North America, and Nissan is
preparing to build Infiniti JX SUVs in Tennessee, after
previously ending U.S. production of Infiniti models.  Entire Line  Honda may eventually produce its entire Acura line in North
America, Iwamura said.  “Seeing the current trend, Acura models could be produced
more in the U.S.,” he said. The RL, now the most expensive
Acura with a $47,700 base price, may remain in Japan, Iwamura
said.  “If there’s a good reason to bring that model from Japan
to here, we could do that, but we don’t have a plan -- at this
moment,” he said.  Toyota, Japan’s largest automaker, plans to reduce exports
from its home-country factories and build up North America as an
export base, Yoshimi Inaba, chief operating officer for the
region, said in Detroit last week. That may include adding
production capacity in Mexico, Inaba said.  Nissan, Too  Nissan, too, is boosting production at auto plants across
the Americas to offset currency-related losses, Bill Krueger,
vice chairman for the region, said Jan. 11 in Detroit. The
Yokohama-based company’s goal is to get 85 percent of Nissan and
Infiniti cars and trucks sold in North and South America from
plants in the region, up from 70 percent now.  Honda, which typically sells the highest portion of autos
in the U.S. from North American plants among Asian automakers,
was already at an 85 percent local production rate in 2011.  For the Acura brand alone, 74 percent of models sold in the
U.S. were supplied by regional factories.  The Suzuka plant that made the original NSX is taking on
production of low-cost minicars and their small engines, the
company said this month. Such vehicles are sold mainly in Japan.  “Suzuka remains the base for next-generation technology,”
said Tomohiro Okada, a company spokesman in Tokyo. “Production
of these new minicars requires the top technology, in terms of
weight and cost savings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  