-- Oil Trims Weekly Gain as Greek Risk Offsets U.S. Rebound Hopes
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-20T13:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/oil-rises-in-new-york-on-optimism-over-economic-growth-tension-with-iran.html
Oil declined in New York, trimming a
weekly advance, as protracted negotiations to resolve  Greece ’s
debt crisis fanned concern that the region’s turmoil will harm
fuel consumption.  West Texas Intermediate futures dropped as much as 0.9
percent as talks in Athens on debt swaps entered a third day,
with Greek officials and private creditors struggling to agree
on a plan. Still, prices are up 1.1 percent this week on signs
of recovery in U.S. employment and manufacturing, and concern
that tensions between Iran and Western nations will lead to a
disruption in Middle East exports.  “The correlation between oil and the dollar is high this
morning as the market awaits news about the fate of Greece,”
said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH in
Zug,  Switzerland .  Crude for February delivery fell as much as 95 cents to
$99.44 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $99.81 at 1:12 p.m. London time. The
contract, which expires today, fell 20 cents yesterday to
$100.39, the lowest settlement since Jan. 13. The more-active
March contract lost 60 cents to $99.94 today.  Brent oil for March settlement declined 27 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $111.28 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to
West Texas Intermediate futures was at $11.34, compared with a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Persian Gulf  Provocation  Iran’s ambassador to  Russia  said today that the U.S. Navy’s
deployment in the Persian Gulf is a provocation.  “If Iran sees aggression from other countries, it will
resist, defend itself with all its might,” Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi
said at a press conference in Moscow today.  U.S. Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the U.S.
Joint Chiefs of Staff, held talks with Israeli military and
government officials and was scheduled to meet with President
 Shimon Peres  and Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to discuss
efforts to curb  Iran’s nuclear program .  Greek officials and private creditors are meeting for a
third day to seek agreement on a debt swap. European officials
and bondholders agreed in October to implement a 50 percent cut
in the face value of Greek debt by voluntarily exchanging
outstanding bonds for new securities, with a goal of reducing
borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  U.S. Economy   Applications for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S. dropped
last week to the lowest level in almost four years, adding to
signs that the world’s biggest consumer of crude is recovering.
Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded at the fastest
pace in nine months, according to a separate report this week.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. plunged by 50,000 to
352,000 in the week ended Jan. 14, less than forecast and the
lowest level since April 2008, according to the U.S. Labor
Department. Builders broke ground on 470,000 single-family
houses at an annual rate, the most since April 2010, according
to figures yesterday from the Commerce Department.  “The decent economic data that we’re seeing out of the
U.S. is probably the major thing that’s propping up the
positives,” said  David Land , head of analysis at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “There’s a fair bit of uncertainty, or risk, being
priced into the market.”  Crude prices declined yesterday after the U.S. Energy
Department said gasoline consumption dropped 2.2 percent to 8
million barrels a day last week, the lowest since the week ended
Sept. 21, 2001. Motor fuel stockpiles rose 3.72 million barrels
last week to 227.5 million, a 10-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  