-- Oil Declines to One-Month Low on Chinese Manufacturing, Europe Concern
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-01-20T20:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/oil-falls-for-third-straight-day-on-china-manufacturing-europe-concern.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in a
month as Chinese manufacturing contracted and negotiations to
resolve  Greece ’s debt crisis entered a third day, fanning
concern that  Europe ’s economy will slow.  Oil declined 1.9 percent as the preliminary January  reading 
of a Chinese purchasing managers’ index showed the country’s
manufacturing declined for a third month. The euro weakened as
talks in Athens on debt swaps resumed. Prices extended losses
after  sales  of previously owned U.S. homes grew less than
expected.  “We are reacting to the Chinese manufacturing index, which
is weak,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with PFGBest in  Chicago .
“The market is still worried about Greece and Europe. Oil
demand is not coming back yet.”  Crude for February delivery dropped $1.93 to $98.46 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Dec. 20. The contract expired today. The more
active March contract declined $2.21 to $98.33.  Brent oil for March settlement fell $1.69, or 1.5 percent,
to settle at $109.86 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The reading of 48.8 in the Chinese index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics compares with a final 48.7
number for December. A reading below 50 shows contraction.  China  is the world’s second-largest oil user, trailing only
the U.S. The country used 9.06 million barrels a day last year,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Greek Talks  Greece and private creditors are closing in on a debt-swap
accord that’s crucial to cutting the country’s borrowings and
allowing it to receive a second round of international aid.  An agreement with bondholders is key to a second financing
package for the cash-strapped country, which faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the world economy is decelerating and faces
“significant and urgent challenges.”  The euro weakened against the dollar, falling as much as
0.4 percent to $1.292 at 2:51 p.m. A weaker euro and stronger
dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “The correlation between oil and the dollar is high,”
said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH in
Zug, Switzerland. “The market awaits news about the fate of
Greece.”  Equities, Homes  Purchases (ETSLTOTL)  of U.S. existing homes increased 5 percent to a
4.61 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors
said today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 4.65 million.  Oil also followed losses in U.S. stocks as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent.  “I see oil taking a direction from S&P and the dollar,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
 New York .  Petroleum demand in the U.S. remains weak as the country
recovers from the financial crisis. U.S. gasoline consumption
fell to 8 million barrels a day last week, the lowest level
since September 2001, the Energy Department reported yesterday.  Stockpiles of the motor fuel climbed 3.72 million barrels
to  227.5 million , a 10-month high. Regular gasoline at the pump,
averaged nationwide, rose 0.4 cent to  $3.382  yesterday,
according to AAA data, up 8.6 percent from a year earlier.  U.S. Fuel Demand  “The fundamentals are still not looking good in the
U.S.,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an
energy research firm in  London , Arkansas.  U.S. fuel demand dropped to a 15-year low for the month of
December as gasoline use fell, the  American Petroleum Institute 
said today. Demand declined 5.9 percent from a year earlier to
18.6 million barrels a day last month, the industry-funded group
said in a report.  Gasoline use in December dropped 4.3 percent from a year
earlier to 8.53 million barrels a day. It was the lowest level
of December use for the motor fuel in 13 years.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 596,786
contracts as of 2:41 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 682,925
yesterday, 13 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.35 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  