-- London’s Top-Value Lobster Awaits at Bargain Mayfair Restaurant
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/london-s-top-value-lobster-awaits-at-bargain-mayfair-restaurant.html
There’s no menu. There are no
starters. Your choice is limited to burger or lobster. Each
costs 20 pounds ($31) and is served with fries and a side salad.  It’s my favorite new  London  restaurant.  Burger & Lobster isn’t in some distant suburb, where
Oysters are Tube tickets and Chardonnay is what you call your
baby girl. It’s in the heart of Mayfair, where 20 pounds is what
you tip the coat-check girl and public transport is a black cab.  Not that burgers are unknown in this part of London: You
can get one with foie gras and black truffles at 34, a smart new
restaurant where roast lobster with sea greens costs 39 pounds.  Burger & Lobster is the new project of the team behind
Goodman, which serves some of the finest beef in London at its
three steak (and lobster) restaurants in Mayfair, the City and
 Canary Wharf . It’s no wonder everything is already so slick at
the new venue.  You may spot some familiar faces among the good-looking
staffers. This place isn’t so much for business dining though:
It’s cramped and a bit noisy and there are no reservations. The
longest wait time so far has been 1-1/2 hours, which you may
while away in a pub until called.  The restaurant isn’t just a great idea: It’s a winner
because of the quality of the food. Even the salad -- tomato,
lettuce, onion, red and yellow peppers, pickled vegetables -- is
special: The colors are so vibrant it looks like it’s been
Photoshopped, while the dressing has just a hint of sweetness.  Air Miles  OK, down to business. The lobsters are from  Nova Scotia .
I’m assured they fly over first class and arrive refreshed. They
hang out in a basement tank -- hundreds of them at the time --
and their journey from tank to plate is so brief, they never get
the chance to spend their air miles. They go into an electric
machine called a  CrustaStun  which shocks them into
unconsciousness within seconds, the manufacturers say.  There are three deliveries a week. So the lobsters are
fresh and you have the choice of plain butter or lemon-garlic
butter on the side. They are steamed and finished on the grill,
though I guess most people take the option of a roll.  If 20 pounds is cheap for a lobster, it’s expensive for a
burger, and these are among the most expensive in London,
outpricing the regular 16.50 pound burger at 34. Burger &
Lobster uses a mix of Irish grass-fed beef from  O’Shea’s of
Knightsbridge  and U.S. grain-fed from  Nebraska .  The cuts are chuck, onglet and sirloin cap, and the
seasoning is  Worcestershire Sauce  rather than pure salt. The
semi-brioche rolls are made each day in the kitchens. The 10-
ounce (283 gram) patty comes with the option of Mont Jack and
Cheddar cheese and streaky bacon at no extra charge.  Spanish White  The wine list is short, ungreedy and very well chosen. Mumm
Cordon Rouge Champagne is 9 pounds a glass (10 pounds for rose)
and 54 pounds a bottle. Among the whites, it would be difficult
to go wrong with the Albarino A2O (8.75 pounds a glass) and the
Garnacha, “Lagrimas” Lodono -- Navarra,  Spain  at 6.25 pounds.  The cocktails are among the best bargains in London, at 9
pounds a pop. There are 10 and I tried several on your behalf
just to be sure they were as good as they sound. Anyone for the
Jenner -- Jameson’s, lemon, apple, egg white, honey, Laphroaig?  I have no plans to try either of the desserts: lime mousse
with gingerbread crumbs and chocolate mocha mousse.  Tamara Ecclestone --  “Billion $$ Girl”  -- or a lookalike
was at the next table when I ate there. She ordered the burger
without fries or a bun. So that’s how people stay slim.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 20 pounds.  Sound level? Above 80 decibels.  Inside tip? Get there before everyone hears about it  Special feature? Burger and, erm, lobster.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***1/2.  Burger & Lobster is at 29 Clarges Street, London, W1J 7EF.
Information: +44-20-7409-1699 or  http://burgerandlobster.com/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 