-- Hong Kong Consumer Prices Rise 5.7% on Food, Rental Costs
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-01-20T08:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/hong-kong-consumer-prices-rise-5-7-on-food-rental-costs-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s consumer prices rose 5.7
percent in December from a year earlier on food and rental
costs, exceeding analysts’ estimates.  The increase matched November’s rate and was more than the
median 5.6 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12
economists. Excluding distortions from temporary government
subsidies, the  rate  was 6.4 percent, unchanged from the previous
month’s record.  Accounting firms including KPMG Tax Ltd. and Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. expect Financial Secretary  John Tsang 
to dole out power subsidies and property-rate waivers in the
February budget, echoing previous relief measures. In March last
year, the government announced a HK$60.7 billion ($7.8 billion)
relief package, including HK$6,000 cash subsidies for 6.1
million permanent residents.  “‘The underlying rate remains elevated -- we expect the
government to offer a similar package of relief measures,’’
Raymond Yeung, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before today’s report.  Yeung sees inflation easing to 3.4 percent in 2012 from
5.2 percent last year.  Average private home rents increased 3.7 percent in the
three months ending December from a year earlier, Centaline
Property Agency, the city’s biggest closely held property
broker, said yesterday, citing a survey of 85 major residential
estates.  Subsidies, Waivers  The city’s electricity suppliers both raised tariffs this
year.  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2)  increased fees by 4.9 percent, and
Hongkong Electric Co. is boosting charges by less than 5 percent
for most households.  McDonald’s Restaurants (Hong Kong) Ltd. raised average
prices by 2.3 percent this month, citing ‘‘surging inflation
pressure” from rents, and utility and ingredient costs.  Hong Kong’s economic growth is expected to slow to 4
percent this year from an estimated 5 percent in 2011, according
to the median estimate of economists in a separate Bloomberg
News survey. Full-year economic data is due on on Feb. 1.  -- With assistance from Michael Munoz and Marco Lui in Hong
Kong.
Editor: Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  