-- Orange Juice Samples Passing Tests for Fungicide, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-20T16:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/orange-juice-samples-passing-tests-for-fungicide-fda-says.html
Testing of imported orange juice for
a banned fungicide has not turned up any product with dangerous
levels of the chemical since Jan. 4, U.S. regulators said today.  The  Food and Drug Administration  has collected 45 samples
of imported orange juice, the agency reported. Nineteen have
proven to be safe, and 26 are awaiting analysis, according to a
 weekly update  from the FDA posted online. Regulators have
released 12 of the 19 samples back to companies.  The safe samples came from  Canada , Mexico, Honduras,  Costa
Rica  and Belize, the FDA said. The agency began temporarily
holding and testing orange juice samples after trace levels of
the fungicide carbendazim were detected in products from  Brazil .  “If the FDA collects and analyzes three shipments of
orange juice products from the same manufacturer and all samples
are found to be in compliance, products from that manufacturer
will no longer be sampled under the current assignment,” the
agency said in its report.  Carbendazim is banned in use in U.S. oranges and has been
linked to liver tumors in animals. U.S. regulators were alerted
to use of the chemical in December by Atlanta-based  Coca Cola
Co. (KO) , which owns the Minute Maid brand.  The agency also is in the process of testing 14 domestic
orange juice samples, the FDA said in its report.  Imported juice containing concentrations of the chemical of
10 parts per billion or higher will be refused or destroyed, the
agency has said. Domestic juices face an 80 parts per billion
benchmark because the Environmental Protection Agency determined
there are no concerns at that level.  The U.S. is the biggest single importer of orange juice and
took in 190,000 metric tons last year, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 