-- Orange Juice Jumps to Record on Texas Disease, U.S. Import Probe
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-20T19:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/orange-juice-futures-surge-to-record-on-texas-disease-u-s-import-probe.html
Orange-juice  futures surged to a
record on mounting concern that U.S. supplies may be reduced by
citrus-greening disease in  Texas  and a slowdown in imports as
the government tests for a banned fungicide.  Texas confirmed a case of citrus greening on Jan. 18. The
disease has caused extensive damage to crops in Florida, the
world’s second-biggest grower. On Jan. 9, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  detained juice imports to check for carbendazim,
a fungicide used on fruit in  Brazil , the top producer. The
chemical was linked to liver tumors in animals.  “Citrus greening in Texas and the fungicide issue” are
driving the rally, Sterling Smith, an analyst at Country Hedging
Inc. in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , said in a telephone interview. The
crop disease “always makes the markets nervous because the
methods used to deal with it tend to be pretty draconian,”
including tree removal, he said.  On ICE Futures U.S. in New York, orange juice for March
delivery climbed by the exchange limit of 10 cents, or 5
percent, to a settle at $2.1065 a pound, the highest ever. The
price has surged 25 percent in January, heading for the biggest
monthly rally since October 2009. The previous all-time high for
a most-active contract was $2.094 on Dec. 7, 2006.  Higher prices may boost costs for companies including
 PepsiCo (PEP)  Inc., the maker of Tropicana, and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which
sells the Minute Maid and Simply Orange brands.  The retail cost of orange juice rose 12 percent in December
from a year earlier, according to data from the U.S. Labor
Department.  Price Forecast  “We are in unchartered waters, with what can take place in
Brazil,”  James Cordier , the founder and president of
Optionsellers.com, said in a telephone interview from Tampa,
Florida. “Citrus greening is one more thing that we didn’t
need.” Prices may rise as high as $2.50, he said.  The FDA said today that 19 samples of imported juice since
Jan. 4 haven’t shown any dangerous levels of carbendazim, while
26 still await analysis.  Agriculture in Texas was ravaged last year by the worst
drought in at least a century, while a frost hit the state’s
citrus groves in mid-February, reducing output, according to Ray
Prewett, the president of Texas Citrus Mutual.  The current crop has not been affected by citrus greening,
he said today in a telephone interview. About 75 percent of
output is used as fresh fruit and the remainder for orange
juice, he said. Texas is the third-largest U.S. grower, after
 Florida  and  California .  California Frost  The main citrus-growing region in California faced freezing
weather yesterday and on Jan. 17, Donald Keeney, a senior
agricultural meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc., said
today in an e-mail. Temperatures will be higher the rest of this
week, posing no immediate risk of frost, he said.  “California oranges are table oranges and not normally
used for juice,” Country Hedging’s Smith said.  On Jan. 12, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut by 2
percent its forecast for Florida’s crop this season as a dry
spell hurt fruit size.  Stockpiles of frozen orange juice monitored by ICE have
tumbled 65 percent to 22.8 million pounds (10,335 metric tons)
from a year earlier, exchange data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  