-- Morgan Stanley Diverged With Goldman Sachs on Value-at-Risk as 2011 Ended
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 2012-01-20T18:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/morgan-stanley-diverged-with-goldman-sachs-on-value-at-risk-as-2011-ended.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley reported diverging value-at-risk in the fourth quarter
as volatility of some trading positions increased in the wake of
the euro-zone crisis.  Morgan Stanley said so-called VaR was reduced to $123
million from $130 million in the previous quarter, the Bloomberg
Risk newsletter reported today. Goldman Sachs said its average
daily VaR increased to $135 million from $102 million amid
heightened volatility. The firms, which released quarterly
earnings this week, define VaR as their biggest anticipated one-
day trading loss 95 percent of the time.  Banks came under increasing pressure during last year’s
second half to manage risk linked to  interest rates  and  Europe 
amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis. In the first days of
this year, New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  took another step,
completing an amendment to derivative contracts it had with the
Italian government as a counterparty. That reduced credit
exposure by $3.38 billion before hedges.  Morgan Stanley cut its hedges against Italian default,
reporting $591 million of credit-default-swap protection, down
from $2.78 billion at the end of the third quarter. The bank
doesn’t recognize hedges on Italy purchased from Italian banks.  The Italian treasury uses derivatives, mostly interest-rate
swaps, to reduce the cost of interest payments on the country’s
$2 trillion bond liabilities. Morgan Stanley said its net
derivatives counterparty exposure to Italy was $4.2 billion
before the restructuring, which settled on Jan. 3. Morgan
Stanley didn’t disclose the notional amounts of its derivatives
with  Italy . European governments don’t normally post collateral
on swap contracts with banks.  French Risk  Morgan Stanley’s  disclosures  also show that the bank has a
short position on French sovereign debt, which it uses to offset
a larger long exposure to French non-sovereign institutions. The
short position was $1.7 billion on Dec. 31, down from $2.3
billion at the end of the third quarter, contributing to a net
positive French exposure of $1.7 billion. The bank has a net
$411 million short position on Portuguese sovereign debt, the
filings show.  Morgan Stanley’s chief financial officer, Ruth Porat, said
on a conference call with analysts yesterday that the fourth-
quarter decline in VaR was due to reduced activity, especially
in credit products, and the closing out of derivative positions
with MBIA Inc. as part of its settlement with the bond insurer.  Goldman Sachs said its exposure to European sovereigns and
companies before hedges was $3.9 billion, down by $300 million
from the previous quarter, without providing details. The New
York-based firm’s VaR increase was caused by “significantly
greater volatility in the interest-rate category,” Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar said on a Jan. 18 conference call
with analysts.  The bank includes sovereign and corporate debt within the
interest-rate category for VaR calculation purposes.  “A divergence between cash and derivative pricing impacted
hedging and inventory management,” Viniar said. “Very unusual
divergence made it very, very hard to manage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ted Merz in  New York  at 
 tmerz@bloomberg.net . 