-- Dodgers File Bankruptcy Exit Plan Based on Completing Sale by End of April
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/los-angeles-dodgers-file-bankruptcy-exit-plan-based-on-auction-of-team.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  filed a plan
for the Major League Baseball team to exit bankruptcy by April
30 and pay all debts after concluding an auction of the club.  Under the plan filed yesterday, which the team previously
said it would propose, the Dodgers will pay all creditors, owed
at least $643 million, in full. Under an agreement with MLB, a
sale of the team must be completed by the end of April.  “The Dodgers are not only a storied franchise with truly
global appeal, but also present the attractive potential for
strong cash flow and significant value enhancement,” the team
said yesterday in a statement.  The Dodgers’ owner,  Frank McCourt , agreed to sell the team
after battling MLB in court for months. To emerge from
bankruptcy, the team must win approval for its reorganization
plan from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,
Delaware.  The team said it expects to win approval of the plan and to
exit bankruptcy by April 30.  Since filing for bankruptcy in June, the Dodgers have
fought with MLB and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, which televises the
team’s games. To settle those disputes, McCourt agreed to sell
the team and the Dodgers dropped an effort to solicit separate
bids for future telecast rights.  Potential bidders for the team include Rick Caruso, the Los
Angeles real estate developer who is working with Joe Torre, the
former Dodgers and New York Yankees manager; Steve Cohen,
manager of the hedge-fund SAC Capital Advisors LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut; and Mark Walter, chief executive officer of
Guggenheim Partners LLC in New York, who counts Magic Johnson,
the former Los Angeles Lakers player and a basketball Hall of
Famer, among his partners.  The deadline for opening bids is Jan. 23.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  -- Editors:  Charles Carter , Stephen Farr  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  