-- Most of U.S. to Have Warmer-Than-Normal Weather, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-20T12:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/most-of-u-s-to-have-warmer-than-normal-weather-forecasters-say.html
Most of the U.S. will probably have
above-normal temperatures through next week, which is usually
one of the year’s coldest, forecasters say.  The eastern U.S. from  Maine  to  Florida  will average 6 to 10
degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 to 5.6 Celsius) above normal from Jan.
26 to Jan. 30, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  “It is with considerable confidence that we can believe
National Weather Service modeling is leading all to believe that
the coming week, usually the coldest of the year, will have
incredibly low heating needs,” Salmon said in a note to
clients.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling. Natural gas for
February delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  has
slumped 23 percent in 2012 as warmer weather sapped demand.
Gas rose 0.6 percent to $2.336 per million Btu as of 5:28 a.m.
in electronic trading today, trimming a 6.1 percent drop
yesterday that drove it to the lowest level in 10 years.  Salmon predicted the eastern U.S. will use 20 to 60 percent
less energy for heating from Jan. 21 to Jan. 27 than normal.  January’s gas-weighted heating degree days value for the
U.S. was 479, or 73 below the 30-year average of 552, through
Jan. 18, according to Travis Hartman, a meteorologist at MDA. It
is 61 below the 10-year average.  Degree Days  “That is the sixth warmest on record,” Hartman said
yesterday by telephone. “Here we are in what is supposed to be
the coldest month of the year and we are in the top handful of
warmest Januarys on record. We’re well below normal in terms of
heating demand no question it has been a warm, bearish January
so far.”  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses. Gas-weighted values are designed to
reflect natural gas usage.  Both Salmon and Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  are predicting warmer-than-normal weather will spread
across most of the U.S. in the coming week, with the exception
of the Pacific Northwest.  Temperatures in the bulk of the U.S., as well as eastern
 Canada , are expected to be about 5 degrees higher than normal,
said Rogers from his office in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Frigid Air  In his 11- to 15-day forecast, Rogers calls for frigid air
to return to Alberta and Saskatchewan in Canada and to seep into
the Pacific Northwest and northern Great Plains. The U.S. East
Coast will have more seasonal temperatures, he said.  Warmer-than-normal weather will spread across much of the
central and southern U.S., including  Texas , the lower
Mississippi and Ohio River valleys, from Jan. 30 to Feb. 3,
Rogers said. Salmon doesn’t issue an 11- to 15-day forecast.  For Jan. 27, the normal average temperature in  New York  is
32.5, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. In Boston it’s 29; in  Chicago , 24; Atlanta, 44;
Houston, 54; Seattle, 43; and Burbank,  California , 55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  