-- House Democrats Seek Hearing on Risks From J&J Mesh, Allergan Lap-Band
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-20T21:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/house-democrats-seek-hearing-on-risks-from-j-j-mesh-allergan-lap-band.html
House Democrats called for
congressional hearings on a gastric band made by  Allergan Inc. (AGN) 
and transvaginal meshes of the kind made by  Johnson & Johnson ,
saying the devices are hazardous to patients.  U.S. Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat,
and three colleagues urged Republicans who control the House
Energy and Commerce Committee to hold the hearing and demand
documents from manufacturers. The inquiry is critical as
Congress considers an overhaul of Food and Drug Administration
rules for medical devices, the Democratic lawmakers said today
in a  statement .  The FDA ordered  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J and 32
fellow manufacturers to conduct safety studies of the vaginal
implants earlier this month, citing reports of internal
injuries. The Democrats said studies also showed high rates of
complications with the Lap-Band made by Allergan.  “The committee should hold hearings to examine whether FDA
device regulation has been ineffective in protecting the public
from dangerous medical devices like the Lap-Band and
intravaginal mesh,” Democrats said in a  letter  to the
Republicans today. “We need to understand the safety of devices
on the market, the tactics device manufacturers and others use
to market these devices, and the extent to which these tactics
may increase risks.”  The Democrats cited a  study , published this week in the
medical journal Archives of Surgery, that found almost half of
patients with a gastric band had no  weight loss  or needed the
device removed after six years. More than 40 percent had long-
term complications, the letter said.  Older Product  The study used an older band and an older surgical
technique, said Naziah Lasi-Tejani, a spokeswoman for  Irvine ,
California-based Allergan, in a telephone interview. Using a
newer version and updated techniques, the rate of patients
needing a follow-up operation is three times lower, she said.  Complication rates in the study were also “significantly
higher” than what  Allergan (AGN)  has seen in clinical practice,
suggesting doctor training is key, Lasi-Tejani said.  Matthew Johnson , a J&J spokesman, didn’t return a message
seeking comment.  Congress has until October to reauthorize a law that funds
the FDA’s review of new products. House Republicans’ hearings so
far threaten to give a “skewed” portrait of the situation, the
Democrats said in today’s letter. They said Republicans still
haven’t responded to an October request to hold a hearing on
artificial hips and implanted brain stents that have also raised
safety concerns.  Thorough Review  The Energy and Commerce Committee is “thoroughly
examining” device rules and plans another hearing on Feb. 15,
said Debbee Keller, a spokeswoman for the committee’s Republican
majority. She didn’t give specifics on the hearing’s agenda.  “Both the majority and minority have selected witnesses to
testify, bringing patients, innovators, investors, job creators,
and administration officials before the committee in the last
several months,” Keller said in an e-mail. “Members on both
sides of the aisle agree the status quo is unacceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  