-- House Republicans Head to Retreat Amid Frustration, Low Ratings
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-01-20T19:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/house-republicans-head-to-retreat-amid-frustration-low-ratings.html
House Republican leaders have a
delicate task as their members gather for an annual retreat:
pulling together a caucus that shares in Congress’s low approval
ratings and crafting a legislative agenda that unifies the
party.  The retreat being held at a harbor-front hotel in Baltimore
comes one month after U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  had to
capitulate in a standoff with the Democratic-controlled Senate
and accept a two-month extension of a  payroll tax  cut deal.  The message from Republican leadership is “unity, unity,
unity,” Nebraska Representative Lee Terry told reporters today.
“Every leader from Boehner on down” talked “about unity and
working together and communicating to each other.”  The speaker is facing frustration from House freshmen, many
backed by the Tea Party movement, who say their party fell short
of its goals of slashing federal spending and the government’s
debt.  “We have a very long way to go on a lot of issues that are
really important,” said Representative James Lankford, a
freshman Republican from  Oklahoma . He said Congress succeeded
last year by not further increasing spending on discretionary
programs. “But what we have not succeeded at is stopping the
avalanche of  debt  that is coming on us,” he said in a telephone
interview. “That’s the frustration.”  The election in 2010 of 87 House Republican newcomers
presented both an opportunity and challenge for Boehner as his
party took control. Many of the freshmen have been impatient for
quick results and are pushing to move faster. They were at the
center of battles last year over legislation to extend
government spending authority.  ‘Around the Edges’  His fellow Republican freshmen view spending cuts imposed
by Congress in the  debt-ceiling  legislation and spending
measures as “nibbling around the edges,” said Michigan
Representative Bill Huizenga. “In my class, a consensus of a
large number of my colleagues is we have got to go further,
faster,” he said in a telephone interview. He thinks that
Boehner has “got to push hard” for more spending cuts.  House Republican Leader  Eric Cantor  vowed today to do just
that.  ‘Aggressive Budget’  “We will produce a very aggressive budget to try and get
the fiscal house in order so that the federal government stops
spending money it doesn’t have,” he told reporters.  Public opinion polls for Congress are grim, and indicate
that voters are looking for compromise -- not a reminder of last
year’s fights over the debt limit and payroll tax cuts.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted Jan. 12-15 put
approval of Congress at 13 percent, a record low for that
survey. A Dec. 15-18 Gallup poll had the figure at 11 percent,
also a record. A Pew Research Center poll found that 53 percent
of those surveyed Dec. 7-11 said Republicans were more extreme
than Democrats, and 51 percent said Democrats are more willing
to compromise.  Some  House Republicans  acknowledge that their policies
haven’t won them a lot of public support.  “It’s natural that some folks are going to be upset with
us,” Illinois Representative  Joe Walsh , who has voted against
budget and deficit deals Boehner negotiated, said in a Jan. 17
telephone interview. “We are asking everybody to toughen up and
do what’s right.”  Huizenga said he got an earful of the public’s displeasure
from constituents in his western Michigan district during the
payroll tax fight in December.  ‘Figure It Out’  “For God’s sake, you figure it out,” was a common
expression of their frustration, he said. “The other was just
such disbelief” that lawmakers couldn’t complete their work,
with the tax cut set to expire on Dec. 31.  Earlier this week, House Republican leaders convened a
closed-door meeting to let members vent about how the payroll-
tax issue was left unresolved before Congress adjourned for a
year-end recess. For some members, such as freshman New York
Representative  Tom Reed  that ‘conversation got the air clear.’’
Others say there is lingering anger over how the issue was
handled by Republican leaders.  Some More Talking  “We’ve got some more talking to do; there’s more
’splaining yet to be done,” said fourth-term Texas Republican
Louis Gohmert.  In December, the House initially rejected a two-month
extension of a two percentage point cut in the  payroll tax 
proposed by the Senate and then capitulated under political
pressure to avert a jump in withholding taxes this month. The
impasse gave congressional Democrats and President  Barack Obama 
a chance to portray Republicans as standing in the way of a tax
cut for workers.  At the time, Boehner called the deal “the right thing for
the American people even if it’s not exactly what we want.”  The December experience taught many members “individual
lessons” about “falling in behind when there is consensus
behind the plan instead” of “different splinter groups going
off and creating havoc,” Terry said.  The House and Senate agreed to convene formal negotiations
on an extension through the end of 2012, which are set to start
next week when the Senate returns from its recess.  Walsh said that working in Boehner’s favor on the payroll
 tax cut  issue is that members are eager to “get this thing off
the table, out of the way” so Congress can move on to other
issues.  Boehner’s Speakership  Though Democrats have accused Boehner of losing control of
his caucus, Republicans say the episode hasn’t weakened the 11-
term Ohio lawmaker’s hold on the speakership. Walsh and other
freshmen say they don’t detect overt friction between Boehner,
62, and Cantor, a 48-year-old Virginia lawmaker regarded by many
Republicans as a rival to the speaker.  “They are very different men, but I think they have been
both on the same page to handle this delicate situation” of
negotiating with Senate Democrats and Obama, Walsh said.  Nor does Cantor have more support than Boehner among the
freshmen, which could pose a political threat to the speaker,
Walsh said. “There is an even split among conservatives” over
who best represents their views, he said.  Guest Speakers  At the retreat, Republicans will hear speeches by former
Washington Redskins Coach Joe Gibbs and New Jersey Governor
 Chris Christie , a popular figure in the party who defeated
Democratic incumbent Governor  Jon Corzine  in 2009. Christie may
be considered this year as a vice presidential running mate.  For the second year in a row, Republicans will hold their
retreat just a few blocks from the girlhood home of their
political nemesis, House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi . Now a
Californian, Pelosi grew up in the Little Italy neighborhood of
Baltimore, a city where her father and brother both served as
mayor.  Getting away together may help quell animosities lingering
from the payroll-tax fight yet “we are a family and we get past
those” tensions, said Representative  Jason Chaffetz  of  Utah .
The retreat may help “build those bonds back up” so
Republicans can “come out stronger after that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Baltimore at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  