-- How IBM's Sam Palmisano Redefined the Global Corporation
-- B y   B i l l   G e o r g e
-- 2012-01-20T13:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/how-ibm-s-sam-palmisano-redefined-the-global-corporation.html
     In the 20th century, a select group of leaders — General
Motor's Alfred Sloan, HP's David Packard and Bill Hewlett, and
GE's  Jack Welch  — set the standard for the way corporations
are run. In the 21st century only IBM's Sam Palmisano has done
so.  When Palmisano retired this month, the media chronicled
his success by focusing on IBM's 21% annual growth in earnings
per share and its increase in market capitalization to $218
billion. But IBM hasn't flourished because it kowtows to  Wall
Street . In fact, five years after Palmisano took over, IBM
stock was stuck where it had been when his tenure began.  The real story behind IBM's success is the course
Palmisano set for 21st century global enterprises. Recognizing
that the company's command-and-control culture wouldn't work
in the 21st century, he defined leadership as leading by
values and created a unique collaborative organizational
structure.  In 2002 Palmisano succeeded a legendary leader in Lou
Gerstner, who saved IBM from being broken up and put it on a
viable course. Whereas Gerstner famously declared "the last
thing IBM needs is a vision," Palmisano had a clear vision for
the company. He saw its unique strength as offering complete
solutions tailored to customers' needs — something no other
company could match. To concentrate on customer
solutions, Palmisano spun off personal computers and disk
drives and acquired PriceWaterhouseCoopers' consulting
business.  Executing this strategy required seamless integration of
IBM's product capabilities with its geographic reach. This
meant abandoning IBM's existing organization, in which product
silos and geographic entities operated independently and
frequently were more competitive than collaborative. Palmisano
reorganized IBM into a "globally integrated enterprise"
focused on worldwide collaboration. He cajoled, pushed, and
pulled the company into a client-centric, agile structure able
to customize delivery of IBM's software assets, hardware
assets, and intellectual property.  With 440,000 employees in 170 countries, Palmisano
recognized that IBM couldn't be run solely from the top;
rather, it needed thousands of leaders operating
collaboratively around the globe to fulfill its customers'
diverse needs. His first act was to abolish IBM's corporate
executive committee.  Palmisano understood that reorganizing IBM's formal
structure wouldn't be sufficient; he had to thoroughly
transform the company's culture and do so in a sustainable
way. His ingenious first step toward creating a collaborative
culture was a massive, global collaboration. In 2003 he
launched an online, interactive "values jam" involving all
employees for 72 hours to determine what IBM's values should
be. The three principles that emerged from that event guided
decision-making throughout the organization, giving IBM's
huge, globally dispersed workforce the discipline necessary to
execute the company's new strategy.  Palmisano could not have succeeded at placing values at
the center of IBM's operations without strong principles of
his own. These are the qualities I believe made him the best
CEO, so far, of the 21st century:  Humility and openness. Palmisano has an engaging manner
and keen sense of humor. Colleagues say his humility and humor
are disarming. In a speech on IBM's 100th anniversary, he
said:  The old model of the heroic superman is increasingly
archaic. The most active and successful leaders today see
themselves as part of the global community and peer groups.
They listen as well as they speak. Never confuse charisma with
leadership. The first job of a leader is to enable an
organization to survive without him or her. The key to that is
to build a sustainable culture.  He practiced this by listening intently to employees
throughout the organization. He also talked to customers on a
daily basis and circumnavigated the globe six times a year to
meet customers in person. These relationships were essential
in gaining the confidence of customers who had qualms about
outsourcing to IBM.  Patience and a long-term view. Palmisano warned against
prioritizing shareholders or other constituents, calling this
"a false choice," and explaining that "Long-term management is
a serious challenge in a world driven by short-term thinking.
Forward-thinking leaders are not just achieving measurable
success in the short-term. They are innovating in ways that
create virtuous circles for a generation or more." He was
comfortable making smart bets to position IBM for decades-long
growth, such as creating the Emerging Business Organization to
incubate new businesses and shield them from P&L pressures.
And his time leading IBM's Asia-Pacific business taught him
about the value of building long-term relationships, not just
doing transactions.  Directness. Palmisano believes the technology industry
requires "a high-performance, in-your-face, speak-your-mind
culture." He's personable, but blunt. Known for walking out of
long meetings to make sales calls, he shortened IBM's
two-month annual budget process to six days. Instead of formal
performance reviews, he regularly engaged in short
conversations, focusing on key initiatives. Many who know him
cite his impatience as a strength; it kept him relentlessly
focused on execution.  Pragmatism. When the U.S. government cut back on work
permits for foreign nationals, IBM had thousands of Indian
employees forced to return to their home country. He turned
that problem into competitive advantage by relocating most of
IBM's software operations to  India  as its Indian operations
grew from 3,000 to 100,000 employees. He also forced partners
and distributors to commit in writing to uphold IBM's strict
ethical standards. In 2009 he called off the $7 billion
acquisition of Sun Microsystems in part due to Sun's egregious
golden parachutes.  As Palmisano built  IBM  into the world's leading
information technology company, its competitors dithered. HP
suffered from a progression of strategic missteps and failed
leaders. Microsoft's enterprise services stagnated. Cisco now
sells mostly commoditized products. In contrast, IBM kept
laser-like focus on building the global organization to
execute its strategy, and financial results followed.  Palmisano once said, "The CEO is not the brand! It is not
about you. You are a temporary steward of a wonderful
enterprise, so leave it in better shape than you find it." As
he concludes his career, he leaves his successor, Virginia
Rometty, with an iconic giant poised to dominate its industry
for decades to come.  This post draws upon several resources, including: the
IBM archives; Palmisano's own
article, "The Globally Integrated Enterprise" in  Foreign
Affairs  and his speech on the Future of Leadership; a Harvard
Business Review interview with
Palmisano, "Leading Change When Business is Good;"<a
href=" http://hbr.org/product/leaders-who-make-a-difference-sam-palmisano-s-smar/an/311701-MMC-ENG ">Rosabeth
Moss Kanter's case on IBM</a> and
Joseph Bower and Sonja Ellington Hout's case on IBM. The
author and  Sam Palmisano  together serve on the board of
directors of the Exxon Mobil Corporation. 