-- Parker Hannifin Falls After Outlook Cut on Weak Sales Abroad
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-20T21:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/parker-hannifin-falls-most-in-two-months-after-forecast-cut-1-.html
Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , a maker of
fluid power systems and air-conditioning products, dropped the
most in more than two months after paring its forecast for full-
year earnings because international demand is slowing.  The shares  dropped  4.1 percent to $81.52 at the close, the
biggest decline since Nov. 9. The slide was the fifth-worst in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and manufacturers such as
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  also slumped.  “Internationally, we are seeing some softening in business
conditions consistent with global macroeconomic indicators,”
Don Washkewicz, chief executive officer of Cleveland-based
Parker Hannifin, said today in a statement.  Industrial companies are struggling with sagging demand as
economic growth in  Europe  slowed to 1.6 percent in 2011 from 1.9
percent the year before and is predicted to contract 0.2 percent
this year, the average of 21 economists’ forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey. Parker Hannifin last fiscal year got at least
42 percent of  sales  and more than half of pretax income from
outside the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “European weakness will not be fully offset by resiliency
in  North America ,” Jeffrey Hammond, an analyst with KeyBanc
Capital Markets, wrote in a note today. “Order rates suggest
further deceleration across the businesses in December.”  Parker Hannifin said in the statement that profit from
continuing operations would be $6.90 to $7.30 a share for the
year ending in June, less than its  previous forecast  of $7.25 to
$7.85. Earnings in the fiscal second quarter ended in December
also fell short of analysts’ estimates.  The company said  net income  for the second quarter rose to
$1.56 a share, from $1.39 a year ago. The earnings were short of
the $1.63 average of  analysts’ estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  