-- PayPal to Expand In-Store Buying to 2,000 Locations by March
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-01-21T00:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/paypal-will-expand-in-store-payments-to-2-000-locations-by-march.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal e-commerce
payment business plans to let shoppers pay with its service in
more than 2,000 Home Depot Inc. stores by March, part of an
effort to win away customers from credit-card companies.  The company began a trial with shoppers this week in 51 of
Home Depot’s home-improvement stores, primarily in the San
Francisco area, said Anuj Nayar, a spokesman for PayPal. It
intends to extend the offer to all national  locations , or about
2,200, he said.  PayPal, the fastest-growing part of EBay, aims to maintain
that expansion by moving into the offline world, challenging
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  on their home turf. While EBay
says payment volume from in-store terminals will be
“immaterial” to next year’s financial projections, it expects
to profit from the shift during the next three to five years.  “Longer term, this could move the needle for PayPal, but
right now it’s still in testing mode,” said  Herman Leung , an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in San Francisco. “You
will have to see a larger commitment from  Home Depot (HD)  than the 51
stores to truly incentivize the consumer to use it. There’s a
little bit of a customer adoption cycle that needs to ramp.”  PayPal also is seeking new leadership. EBay Chief Executive
Officer John Donahoe is serving as interim president of the
division following the departure of  Scott Thompson , who became
CEO of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  this month.  More Retailers  The in-store service introduced this week lets consumers
purchase items at checkout with a PayPal card or with a phone
number and pass code. PayPal will hold trials with 20 more
retailers by the end of this year, Nayar said.  EBay reported fourth-quarter sales and profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, boosted by PayPal’s growth and an expansion
of its retail offerings. Revenue at PayPal helped  San Jose ,
California-based EBay reach sales of $3.38 billion in the
period.  Still, growth at the payments division slowed from the
previous quarter, down to 28 percent from 32 percent. PayPal’s
mobile payment volume will rise to $7 billion this year from $4
billion last year, EBay said this week.  EBay shares climbed 1.3 percent to $31.93 today. The stock
rose 9 percent in 2011, marking its  third straight year  of
gains.  EBay also has created a so-called mobile wallet that stores
credit- and debit-card information from a range of providers,
giving the company control over the experience. It plans to
offer users the option to choose which payment system they want
to use as many as 30 days after the sale.  “This is the beginning of a fundamental change in the
company,” Nayar said. “What we are finally rolling out will
ultimately be, in part, an international phenomenon. It’s a
change in how retailers and consumers are going to connect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  