-- Pentagon Said to Propose Ending $6.8 Billion Missile, Satellite
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/pentagon-said-to-propose-canceling-weather-satellite-missile.html
The Pentagon will propose canceling
a potential $6.8 billion Army missile program that pits  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  against  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , a  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
weather satellite, and an Air Force light-attack aircraft,
according to a government official.  The Joint Air-to-Ground Missile, the Defense Weather
Satellite System, and the plane are included on a list of
weapons programs that would be terminated under the fiscal 2013
defense budget to be sent to Congress next month, according to
the official, who spoke yesterday on condition of anonymity
before Defense Secretary Leon Panetta releases some budget
details on Jan. 26.  The three programs would be ended along with a 10-year-old
initiative costing about $4 billion under which  Boeing Co. (BA)  is
upgrading C-130 Hercules transports with modern cockpit
electronics.  The satellite for environmental monitoring is in the
initial stages so there’s no specific dollar value for savings
from calling it off. The  Air Force  planned to buy two
satellites. Northrop Grumman said in May it received
authorization and funding to proceed with development for a
projected initial launch in 2018. The Pentagon requested $445
million in fiscal 2012.  The Senate’s defense appropriations panel in its fiscal
2012 bill called for terminating the program, citing “a
difficult and confusing set of management issues.” The final
House-Senate negotiated version spared the satellite while
cutting funds.  Northrop Grumman spokesman  Randy Belote  said the Falls
Church, Virginia-based company had no comment “until the Air
Force publicly issues a statement on the status of the
program.”  Raytheon Versus Lockheed  The new joint missile that would be canceled is a potential
$6.8 billion project pitting Raytheon of Waltham,  Massachusetts ,
the world’s largest missile maker, against Lockheed Martin of
Bethesda,  Maryland , the world’s largest defense company, which
arms many of the U.S. military’s helicopters and drones with its
Hellfire missiles.  The contest winner was to build about 33,853 of the
missiles for helicopters, drones and fighter jets flown by the
Navy, Army and Marines. Each missile is expected to cost
$202,000, according to the Government Accountability Office.  The Joint Air-to-Ground Missile, or JAGM, is designed to
equip the Army’s Apache AH-64D made by Boeing, the MQ-1 C Gray
Eagle drones made by General Atomics, and the OH-58 Kiowa
Warrior helicopters made by Bell Helicopter, a unit of  Textron
Inc. (TXT)  of Providence,  Rhode Island .  Navy, Marine Plans  The Navy and Marine Corps plan to install it on the F/A-18
E/F Super Hornet fighter jets made by Boeing, the Seahawk MH-60R
helicopter made by Sikorsky Aircraft, a unit of  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , and the AH-1Z Super Cobra helicopters made
by Bell.  “Lockheed Martin has not been notified of any change to
the JAGM program,” Melissa Hilliard, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. Raytheon spokesman Michael Nachshen declined to comment
on the program’s status.  Also to be canceled is the Air Force’s new Light Attack and
Armed Reconnaissance aircraft program for irregular warfare.  The program is in the early stages with no approved
acquisition strategy and was under review, Air Force Major
General Jay Lindell told a House Armed Services Committee panel
in November.  “The acquisition strategy has not been fully approved,”
Lindell said. “It is on hold.”  Lockheed Martin and Hawker Beechcraft Corp. formed a team
in 2009 to vie for the program. Boeing also was prepared to
compete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  