-- Pinnacle Falls 12% as CEO Sees Bankruptcy Without Cost Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-20T21:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/pinnacle-s-ceo-warns-of-chapter-11-amid-worsening-financials-1-.html
Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) , a provider
of regional flights for larger carriers, tumbled the most in a
month after saying it may be forced to file for  bankruptcy
protection  unless it pares costs.  Pinnacle, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , declined 12 percent
to 84 cents at the close in New York, the steepest drop since
Dec. 20. It fell 90 percent in 2011.  “On the current path, our financial position will continue
to worsen at an alarming rate; we need to act immediately,”
Chief Executive Officer Sean Menke said today in a letter to
employees. “What happens next is not yet clear.”  Menke said
the company needs to reach cost-cutting agreements with labor,
vendors and other partners.  Menke’s warning of a possible Chapter 11 filing followed
Pinnacle’s hiring of advisers, including Seabury Group LLC last
year to review its business plan and rework debts. The CEO said
in December that 2012 would be “extremely challenging” without
new labor and debt accords. The carrier had $81.8 million in
cash as of Sept. 30.  A new pilot contract and efforts to integrate seniority
lists resulted in higher costs and more complexity than
anticipated, Menke said in the letter. Other problems include
contractual rates with  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  for Q400
planes that “are not covering the expenses” to operate that
fleet, resulting in losses, and higher maintenance costs on the
Delta CRJ-900 fleet that will “worsen over time,” he said.  ‘High Probability’  Pinnacle, operator of flights for United Continental and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , has a “high probability” of filing for
bankruptcy, said  Ray Neidl , a Maxim Group LLC analyst, last
month.  “We do not see any indicator of a significant
turnaround over the next 12 months” and Pinnacle may run out of
cash first, the New York-based analyst, wrote in a note.  Pinnacle’s Colgan Air unit was involved in the parent
carrier’s deadliest accident ever: a 2009 crash in Buffalo,  New
York , that killed 50 people when a turboprop plunged to the
ground. That disaster focused attention on Colgan’s pilot
training. National Transportation Safety Board investigators
concluded that while the captain’s maneuvers were the main
cause, the airline’s “inadequate” procedures and management
contributed.  Nine months after that accident, Colgan assigned 84 new
flight attendants to 172 flights after an inspector notified the
company that they hadn’t finished required training, the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration said in September. The agency
proposed a $1.89 million fine against Colgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  