-- Wells Fargo Protesters Arrested After Blocking Headquarters
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-20T23:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/police-arrest-protesters-at-wells-fargo-s-hq.html
At least 18 people were arrested in
 San Francisco  as Occupy protesters, taking aim at what they
called Wall Street West, attempted to shut down  Wells Fargo &
Co. ’s headquarters in the financial district.  Demonstrators shouting “Give us our money back!”
surrounded the bank’s offices and chained themselves to the
doors. Others converged on a federal courthouse to protest a
2010  Supreme Court  ruling that corporations have the same rights
as individuals to spend money on political campaigns.  The activists “demand that banks end predatory evictions
and foreclosures and that corporations lose the rights of
personhood,” they said in a  statement .  The protests marked the largest return to the streets by
the Occupy San Francisco movement since police dismantled its
tent camp near the Federal Reserve Bank last month.  “They were given numerous warnings and opportunity to stop
blocking those exits and to leave,” Sergeant Michael
Andraychak, a police spokesman, said of the arrests at Wells
Fargo. “There was concern for a safety hazard for people would
not be able to exit the building in case of an emergency.”  The arrests were made at the request of a Wells Fargo
representative, according to police Lieutenant Liam Frost.  Safety Issue  Wells Fargo acted “to protect the safety of our team
members and customers,” spokesman Ruben Pulido said in a
statement. “Wells Fargo continues to be a responsible corporate
citizen and assists those facing financial hardships.”  About 250 peaceful protesters gathered outside the  U.S.
Court of Appeals , said David Madden, a court spokesman. He said
a court official planned to step outside to accept a proposed
constitutional amendment from the leaders of the demonstration.
The proposal seeks to overturn the Supreme Court’s so-called
 Citizens United  decision that made it easier for corporations
and unions to spend money in political campaigns.  The protest was echoed in  Chicago , where between 40 and 50
people, some bearing signs reading “Overturn Citizens United,”
demonstrated outside the federal office building and courthouse
amid falling snow and sub-freezing temperatures.  “The Supreme Court said corporations are people and that
money is speech,” Lora Chamberlain, a Chicago physician, said
in an interview. “We disagree.” The high court made a bad
decision from which it should retreat, she said.  Other demonstrations were planned at the San Francisco
offices of Bechtel Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement detention center, and California Governor  Jerry Brown .  Occupy protests across the U.S. have highlighted the plight
of Americans who have suffered from home foreclosures and
soaring  unemployment  while the largest U.S. banks have recovered
from the 2008 financial crisis.  Wells Fargo rose 1.29 percent to $30.54 in  New York . The
stock is up 10.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  