-- Polkomtel Gets $1.2 Billion in Biggest Polish Company Bonds
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-01-20T15:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/polkomtel-sells-bonds-in-poland-s-biggest-corporate-debt-sale.html
Polkomtel SA, Poland’s second-
largest mobile-phone company, raised the equivalent of $1.2
billion in the country’s biggest sale of corporate bonds to help
pay for its leveraged buyout.  The junk-rated company sold 542.5 million euros ($700
million) of eight-year bonds as well as $500 million of similar-
maturity dollar debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on the euro notes was 12.5 percent, compared with 9.49
percent on the non-investment grade 2018 euro bonds from Polish
television network  TVN SA. (TVN)   “This was a huge sale and so they had to offer a solid
premium,” said Dariusz Kedziora, a  fund manager  who helps
oversee the equivalent of $2.9 billion at Warsaw-based fund
Aviva Investors Poland TFI SA. “The company generates steady
cash flows, has a strong position in the market and also good
prospects, which helped attract investors.”  The proceeds will repay a bridge loan used in the
acquisition of Polkomtel by billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak in
June for 18.1 billion zloty ($5.4 billion). The buyout left the
company with debt amounting to five times its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Warsaw-based Polkomtel’s multi-currency issue surpassed PKO
Bank Polski SA’s sale of 800 million euros of bonds in 2010 as
the largest by a Polish company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Polkomtel’s offering is the biggest junk-rated issue
in  Europe  this year, topping a 250 million-euro bond sale by
Fresenius Medical Care AG on Jan. 18, the data show.  Yields Climb  Yields on euro-denominated bonds from TVN, which has debt
equal to 4.1 times Ebitda, surged to a record 9.92 percent on
Jan. 13 as investors sold riskier assets on concern Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis will worsen. Rome-based Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA,  Italy ’s third-biggest wireless operator,
has seen the yield on its 2017 bond climb 365 basis points, or
3.65 percentage points, to 15.88 percent today from its Oct. 27
low, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Polkomtel, the operator of the Plus network, has about 14
million customers for voice and Internet services from a market
of about 38 million residents where its two biggest rivals are
Deutsche Telekom AG and France Telecom SA’s Polish unit.  “We were able to close this transaction and I think it
will be a benchmark on the market,” Wojciech Pytel, a member of
Polkomtel’s management board, said in a phone interview today.
“The sale gained a lot of interest and the price was in line
with our expectations.”  The bonds were rated B3, seven levels below investment
grade, by Moody’s. The sale was managed by Deutsche Bank AG,
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Societe
Generale SA and the bonds were issued by Polkomtel’s Eileme 2 AB
unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  