-- Progress to Record $288 Million in Costs for Florida Accord
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-20T22:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/progress-to-record-288-million-in-costs-for-florida-accord-1-.html
Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) , being
purchased by  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  to form the largest U.S. utility
owner, will record pretax costs of $288 million in the 2011
fourth quarter for a Florida power-rate settlement announced
today.  The costs will reduce results for the quarter by about 59
cents, Bob Drennan, a spokesman for Progress, said today in a
telephone interview.  A $288 million refund to customers is part of a
comprehensive rate settlement with the Florida Public Service
Commission, Progress, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , said
today in a statement. Progress will get a $160 million rate
increase next year under the agreement. The average household
bill will rise 4 percent, or $4.93 a month, according to today’s
statement.  Progress Energy’s  Crystal River (CLRVST3)  reactor, located about 80
miles north of Tampa,  Florida , has been out of service since
September 2009 after workers discovered a crack in the wall of
its containment building. Progress has estimated the plant can
resume operation in 2014 if regulators decide it’s worth
repairing.  New Nuclear Plant  The customer refund represents the extra cost of generating
or buying power to replace the output of the 838-megawatt
reactor, Progress said. The reactor will be removed from
calculations setting the utility’s base rate until its fate is
determined, according to today’s statement.  The agreement also “limits” through 2013 the amount
Progress can bill customers for a proposed new nuclear plant in
Levy County, Florida.  Duke Energy, based in  Charlotte , agreed to buy Progress a
year ago in an all-stock deal now valued at $16.3 billion. The
companies extended their deadline for completing the deal until
July 8, 2012, after the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
demanded additional concessions to preclude Duke from
manipulating power prices in eastern North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  