-- Putin Lacks Trust to Meet Russia Opposition Leaders, Kudrin Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-01-20T10:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/putin-lacks-trust-to-meet-russia-opposition-leaders-kudrin-says.html
Vladimir Putin  hasn’t met with
opposition leaders over the biggest protests at his 12-year rule
because he doesn’t trust them, said  Alexei Kudrin , a former
finance minister and long-time ally of the Russian premier.  Tens of thousands of people took to the streets in Moscow
and other Russian cities over alleged fraud in December’s
parliamentary polls, which brought victory for Putin’s ruling
United Russia party.  The prime minister has “a lot of mistrust toward the group
that’s trying to position itself as representing the interests
of the protesters,” Kudrin, who is mediating between the
government and the opposition, said in a recorded interview with
Kommersant-TV to be aired Jan. 22.  Putin, 59, is seeking to return as president in March after
four years as prime minister, taking over from his successor in
the Kremlin,  Dmitry Medvedev . Opposition groups are planning to
rally in Moscow on Feb. 4, with more than 20,400 people signing
up to attend the event via the organizers’ Facebook Inc. page.  Kudrin, who left the government in September after clashing
with President Dmitry Medvedev over plans to increase military
spending, has called for a new parliamentary vote within 18
months and the dismissal of the country’s election chief.  Putin doesn’t understand who the protesters are or who
should represent them, according to Kudrin, who said he met with
the premier after rallies in December and this month.  Putin said Jan. 18 he is ready to open a dialogue with
political opponents. No meetings are scheduled as yet and no
opposition figure has requested time with the prime minister,
his spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  