-- QE3 May Come in April, Credit Suisse’s Jersey Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-20T16:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/qe3-may-come-in-april-credit-suisse-s-jersey-says-tom-keene.html
The  Federal Reserve  may implement a
third round of quantitative easing this spring to bolster the
economy, according to Credit Suisse Group AG’s Ira Jersey.  “We do think the Fed is going to do another round of asset
purchases later in the quarter, probably aiming for April,”
Jersey, director of U.S. rates strategy at Credit Suisse in  New
York , said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “We are growing,
we just don’t feel prosperous. It is a part of the job of the
Fed to assure prosperity, one of the ways to do that is to kick-
start housing,”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  meets Jan.
24-25. The central bank is forecast to keep its target for the
federal funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent. The target has been
at that level since December 2008 and the Fed has pledge to keep
it there until mid-2013.  The central bank has purchased $2.3 trillion of mortgage
and government bonds in two rounds of so-called QE. In
September, it announced plans to sell $400 billion of short-term
debt and use the proceeds to buy an equal amount of longer-
maturity securities, in a program as nicknamed Operation Twist
after a similar action in 1961 designed to contain borrowing
costs for companies and consumers.  Round Three  Jersey said a third stimulus effort may be more focused
toward the housing market and buying mortgage-backed securities.  A Bloomberg news survey conducted in November found 16 of
the 21 primary dealers of U.S. government securities said Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers would start
another purchasing program during the first half of 2012. The
dealers’ estimated that the Fed may buy about $545 billion in
home-loan debt.  “We need to get confidence up, in particular business
confidence up,” Jersey said. “That would help stimulate jobs,
which helps stimulate the residential housing market, and that’s
what gets you out of the doldrums.”  The Fed will wait for more economic data before deciding
whether more bond buying is merited, the Wall Street Journal
reported today. The central bank is planning to announce a
revised communications strategy, including more information
about interest-rate projections and objectives for inflation and
jobs, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  