-- Rand Retreats From Two-Month High After Central Bank Leaves Rate Unchanged
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-20T15:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/rand-retreats-from-two-month-high-after-central-bank-leaves-rate-unchanged.html
The rand weakened for the first time
in five days against the dollar, trimming its biggest weekly
rally in almost a month, as metal prices fell and Greek
officials continued debt-swap talks with private creditors.  South Africa ’s currency retreated 0.6 percent to 7.9562 per
dollar as of 4:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its advance this
week to 2.1 percent, the most since the week ending Dec. 23.
Against the euro, it declined 0.6 percent to 10.2853.  Prices of commodities including copper fell as a gauge
signaled manufacturing may contract for a third month in  China ,
the biggest buyer of South African raw materials. Greek
officials and private creditors started a third day of
negotiations on a debt swap deal that’s crucial to lowering the
country’s borrowings and freeing up a second round of
international aid.  “The release of a preliminary PMI reading for China that
pointed to on-going weakness in the manufacturing sector has
somewhat tempered the market’s optimism,” Nomvuyo Guma, a
currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said in e-mailed comments. “Developments in  Europe  are likely
to remain a key focus.”  The rand reached its highest level in more than two months
yesterday after South Africa’s central bank left its  interest
rate  unchanged and Governor Gill Marcus said the monetary policy
committee didn’t discuss a possible rate cut.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 declined for a
second day, driving the yield up four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  