-- RBS, BP, JPMorgan, Cantor Fitzgerald, J&J in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-20T11:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/rbs-bp-jpmorgan-cantor-fitzgerald-news-corp-in-court-news.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
said it did nothing wrong when it fired a former  Singapore 
trader because he sought to manipulate  London  interbank offered
rates to boost his own profits.  Tan Chi Min, the former trader, sued the bank over his
dismissal and is seeking to recoup $1.5 million in bonuses and
3.3 million RBS shares that he claims he’s owed.  Tan deserved to be fired because he was guilty of “gross
misconduct,” RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender,
said in court papers filed in Singapore High Court on Jan. 18.
He tried to improperly influence  RBS’s (RBS)  rate setters from 2007 to
2011 and persuade them to submit Libor rates at particular
levels to his benefit, RBS said.  RBS is cooperating with investigations by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S. Justice Department
and European Commission into whether Libor had been manipulated.
Since as early as 2007, investors have accused several banks on
the Libor panel of distorting market prices by hiding true
borrowing costs, leading to a series of lawsuits filed in 2011
that are making their way through courts in  Europe  and the U.S.  Tan said in his complaint dated Dec. 27 that he was in no
position to influence the rate on his own. The former head of
delta trading for RBS’s global banking and markets division in
Singapore said the bank failed to detail the allegations against
him and didn’t specify how he had improperly influenced the
setting of Libor.  Suresh Nair, Tan’s lawyer, declined to comment on RBS’s
filing.  The case is Tan Chi Min v. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Megaupload Shut Down in U.S. Criminal Conspiracy Case  Megaupload.com, a file-sharing website, was shut down while
companies and individuals associated with it were charged with
running a criminal enterprise that cost copyright owners more
than $500 million.  Charges against seven individuals, Megaupload Ltd. and
Vestor Ltd. were unsealed yesterday in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia , after four of the defendants were arrested
in Auckland,  New Zealand . Three of the suspects remain at large,
according to a Justice Department statement.  “This action is among the largest criminal copyright cases
ever brought by the United States and directly targets the
misuse of a public content storage and distribution site to
commit and facilitate intellectual property crime,” according
to the e-mailed statement.  The Megaupload indictment was filed as the U.S. Congress
considers anti-piracy legislation supported by the movie and
music industries that has prompted a backlash from companies
including Google Inc. and the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation
Inc. as well as Web consumers. The opponents say the Stop Online
Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP Act in the Senate
would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s architecture
and harm their ability to innovate.  About an hour after the indictments were unsealed, the
public websites of the Justice Department, the Motion Picture
Association of America, and the Recording Industry Association
of America wouldn’t load. The so-called hacker-activist group
Anonymous took credit for the disruptions, citing protest
against the Megaupload prosecutions, according to Twitter
accounts used to publicize the group’s activities.  The case is U.S. v. Kim Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BP, Anadarko Should Be Held Liable Before Trial, U.S. Says  BP Plc (BP\) , Transocean Ltd. and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  should
be found liable before trial for violations of federal pollution
laws stemming from the April 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill,
lawyers for the U.S. argued yesterday at a hearing in federal
court in New Orleans.  The Justice Department is asking U.S. District Judge  Carl
Barbier  to find the companies violated the Clean Water Act on
the basis of so-called strict liability because they were
operators of the doomed project. Barbier, who’s overseeing much
of the spill litigation, has scheduled a nonjury trial for Feb.
27 to determine liability and apportion fault for the disaster.  A ruling by Barbier against the companies would mean they
couldn’t fight allegations of Clean Water Act violations at the
trial and would allow the U.S. to seek fines of as much as
$1,100 from each company per barrel of oil spilled. The
government has also asked Barbier to find Anadarko and
 Transocean (RIG)  liable under the Oil Pollution Act, a separate
environmental law, for cleanup costs and damages. BP already
accepted responsibility for those costs.  The judge said he wouldn’t rule yesterday.  Even if Barbier does rule for the U.S. on its bid for a
pretrial decision, the question of gross negligence, which will
determine whether the companies are subject to enhanced fines
under the Clean Water Act, will be considered at trial.  If Barbier denies the U.S. motion, he’ll determine at trial
which companies can be held liable and thus subject to fines.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
The accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against  BP (BP/)  and its
partners, including Transocean, the Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded,
and Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the well.  BP, Anadarko and Transocean argued that they should be able
to defend themselves at trial against the federal claims.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  News Corp. ‘Startling’ E-Mails Trigger New U.K. Computer Search  News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit must search nine more
computers for evidence ex-employees sought to cover up a scheme
to hack into celebrities’ phones, a U.K. judge ruled after
seeing secret e-mails he called “startling.”  The publisher’s recent “limited admission” that senior
managers knew of the voice-mail interceptions and tried to
conceal them from police by destroying e-mail archives isn’t
sufficient reason to avoid new searches that could reveal more
damaging evidence before a trial, Judge Geoffrey Vos said
yesterday in London. The order applies to three laptops used by
an unidentified former senior employee and six other computers.  “They are to be treated as deliberate destroyers of
evidence,” Vos said of London-based News International at the
hearing. “I have been shown a number of e-mails which are
confidential. Suffice it to say they show a rather startling
approach to the e-mail” practices at the company.  News International’s lawyer, Dinah Rose, argued the
searches were a waste of time because there was little chance
they contained anything relevant to the trial.  “We accept we are the villains,” Rose told Vos. “We have
the horns and the tails.”  A message left at News International’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned.  The Jude Law case is Jude Law v. Newsgroup Newspapers, Case
No. HC11C02065, High Court of Justice Chancery Division.  For more, click here.  Chinese Issuer, M&A Claims Boost Securities Lawsuits  Securities class-action lawsuits in the U.S. increased 6.8
percent last year, led by claims against companies involved in
mergers and acquisitions and Chinese companies listed on U.S.
exchanges through reverse mergers, a study found.  The lawsuits include M&A claims involving  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Terremark Worldwide Inc. (TMRK) ,  Smurfit-Stone
Container Corp. (SSCC)  and  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT) , and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , according to Stanford Law
School’s Securities Class Action Clearinghouse, which conducted
the study with Cornerstone Research.  M&A-related cases constituted almost 23 percent of the 188
total federal securities class actions filed in 2011,
Cornerstone Research said. That’s unchanged from 2010, when 176
total class actions were filed, according to the study. Overall,
the number of class actions filed last year was 3 percent below
the annual average of 194 filings from 1997 to 2010, the
report’s authors said.  “It’s only the growth of merger-related litigation, which
has historically been brought in state courts, that inflates the
aggregate statistics so that they even approach historic
norms,” Joseph Grundfest, director of the Stanford
clearinghouse, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lawsuits alleging violations of accounting rules and
financial restatements by Chinese issuers comprised more than 17
percent of all federal securities class actions, according to
the report. Twenty-four of the 33 lawsuits against Chinese firms
were filed in the first half of 2011, which Grundfest said may
mean that this type of litigation is subsiding.  “The rapid run-up and subsequent decline of litigation
against Chinese issuers that entered the U.S. market through
reverse mergers suggest that this form of litigation may be
close to having run its course,” Grundfest said.  Lawsuits against Chinese issuers involved  China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) ,  Sino Clean Energy Inc. (SCEI)  and  Deer
Consumer Products Inc. (DEER) , according to Stanford’s clearinghouse.  U.S. Judge Denies ‘Occupy’ Request to Allow Courthouse Rally  A group calling itself “Occupy the Courts” lost a bid to
force the U.S. to issue a permit for a rally outside a  New York 
federal courthouse today.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan yesterday denied a last-
minute request by the group and by Jarret Wolfman, an organizer
of the rally, for a court order compelling the U.S. General
Services Administration to allow it to take place today outside
the courthouse, on Pearl Street in lower Manhattan.  “Mr. Wolfman, go and demonstrate to your heart’s content,
but not outside the Pearl Street entrance on the federal side,”
Kaplan told Wolfman at the end of a hearing in the same
courthouse yesterday.  The event, intended to coincide with similar protests
outside 120 U.S. courthouses in 46 states, was planned to begin
in the plaza outside the Daniel Patrick Moynihan U.S. Courthouse
between 4 and 6 p.m. today, then move to a march and rally at
nearby Foley Square. Organizers said they want to call attention
to a 2010 Supreme Court decision that made it easier for
corporations to spend money in election campaigns.  “The purpose of the day of action is to mark the second
anniversary of the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) ’s infamous Citizens United
v. Federal Election Commission decision that opened the
floodgates to unlimited corporate money in elections,” Occupy
the Courts said in a complaint filed with the court last night.  The suit was filed against two U.S. General Services
Administration officials, Wesley French and Joanna Rosato. The
GSA denied the rally permit on Jan. 13, citing a conflict with
the swearing in of new citizens and a ceremony to seat a new
judge, Occupy the Courts said in the complaint.  Kaplan ruled that the area outside the courthouse, which he
said is a potential terrorist target, isn’t a public forum. As a
result, the government may impose restrictions on free speech if
they are reasonable and content-neutral, he said. Kaplan said
that no permit has ever been issued for a demonstration outside
the courthouse. He cited the government’s security concerns in
refusing to order a permit.  “We’re considering our options,” Gideon Oliver, a lawyer
representing Occupy the Courts, said after the hearing. “The
organizers of tomorrow’s protest will have to take the court’s
decision into account and determine where and how they’ll end up
protesting.”  Wolfman, asked after the hearing what he planned to do in
response to Kaplan’s ruling, said “I don’t know yet.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s office, which represented the government in the case,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Wolfman v. French, No. 12-CV-443, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Chevron Loses Another Bid to Block $18 Billion  Ecuador  Award  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  lost another bid before a U.S appeals court
for an order blocking enforcement of an Ecuadorean court’s $18
billion environmental damages verdict.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, had asked a
panel of judges at the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York to set
aside its Sept. 19 ruling rejecting a trial judge’s decision in
March that blocked collection of the Ecuadorean judgment.  In a related decision, U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan
this month refused Chevron’s request to restrain Ecuadorean
assets that could be seized as part of the Ecuadorean judgment.  Chevron was ordered on Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18
billion in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s
alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the Ecuadorean
jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-
old lawsuit decided by a judge in Lago Agrio, a provincial
capital near the Colombian border.  On Jan. 3, an Ecuadorean appeals court upheld the February
ruling “in all of its parts, including the conviction for moral
reparation or its alternative and costs,” according to the
decision. Chevron can appeal the decision to the next level of
Ecuador’s judiciary, a company spokesman said at the time.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York (Manhattan). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  For more, click here.  Jefferson County Wins Access to JPMorgan Settlement Documents  Jefferson County (3681MF) , Alabama, won permission to review a
settlement between  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and an investor who sued
the bank for fraud related to the county’s defaulted sewer
bonds.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham
approved a request by the county to question the investor, James
R. Crane, and to review the settlement that ended his lawsuit
against JPMorgan, which underwrote the bonds. Bennett ordered
Crane to appear at the Houston offices of his law firm to answer
questions about the case.  The county is seeking information to use in its own lawsuit
against New York-based JPMorgan. Now that Crane has settled, the
county said it is concerned information he collected as part of
his case may be thrown away.  “If such information is discarded, destroyed or otherwise
lost, the county may be unable to obtain the documents,” the
county said in its request.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November after the
county, state officials and bondholders failed to implement a
tentative agreement to reduce its $3 billion in sewer debt by
about $1 billion, raise rates and win financial support from the
Alabama state legislature.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  Ex-Cantor  Hong Kong  Managers Say Resignations Were Independent  Jason Boyer, the former head of  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP’s Hong
Kong business, denied coordinating his resignation last year
with other employees of the New York brokerage or helping to
poach them.  “I wasn’t 100 percent sure they were leaving until after I
left,” he told Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance yesterday.
Boyer and three other former managing directors are defending a
lawsuit from Cantor’s Europe and Hong Kong units accusing them
of breaching their employment contracts.  Boyer, Brett McGonegal and Bradford Ainslie -- formerly of
Cantor’s Asian cash equities desk -- and Uwe Parpart, Cantor’s
former Asia chief economist and strategist, resigned last May to
join Reorient Financial Markets Ltd., a boutique investment bank
backed by an asset manager under  China ’s State-owned Assets
Supervision and Administration Commission.  Ainslie, who also testified yesterday, said that his
decision to leave was “at all times” his own.  Nicholas Cooney, Cantor’s lawyer, said the defendants’
resignation on the same day and their joint meeting with Johnson
Ko, an executive director of the Hong Kong-listed company that
owns Reorient Financial, show they were working in concert.  At least three of them used the same lawyer to review their
employment contracts and Boyer’s draft contract showed edits
that were incorporated into those of his co-defendants, Cooney
said while questioning Boyer.  Thomas Chan, Cantor’s chief financial officer in Hong Kong,
testified Jan. 18 that the departures resulted in a 29 percent
decline in average monthly revenue for the Hong Kong cash
equities business. At least three other staff left Cantor on the
same day in July to join Reorient, Cooney said.  The case is Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, Cantor Fitzgerald
(Hong Kong) Capital Markets Ltd. and Jason Boyer, Bradford
Ainslie, Brett McGonegal, Uwe Henke von Parpart, HCA1160/2011 in
Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  News Corp. (NWSA)  Settles With Jude Law, Other Phone-Hack Victims  News Corp.’s British newspaper unit settled 36 lawsuits by
phone-hacking victims including actor Jude Law and soccer player
Ashley Cole, with compensation set on the basis that senior
managers at the company knew of the practice and tried to
conceal it.  The settlements by London-based News International resolve
more than half of the 60 lawsuits filed by victims of voice-mail
interceptions at its now-defunct News of the World tabloid. News
International agreed to a range of cash payments to victims and
provided details about hacking, including the number of
journalists involved, three lawyers representing victims said in
a statement ahead of a hearing yesterday before Judge Geoffrey
Vos in London.  News International “is ready, willing and able to settle”
all the claims and a trial shouldn’t be necessary, company
lawyer Michael Silverleaf said at the hearing. The compensation
is “generous.”  The settlement amounts are larger than those normally paid
in privacy-violation cases, according to yesterday’s statement.
They range from 5,000 pounds ($7,700) for less-serious phone-
hacking instances to about 100,000 pounds for the most-offensive
cases, a person familiar with the matter said. Of the 18
settlements outlined in court yesterday, total payouts will be
at least 642,000 pounds plus legal fees.  The agreements come about a month before the first civil
trial in the matter is scheduled to begin. Vos said a trial is
still important for resolving various issues stemming from phone
hacking to help settle future cases.  There are 10 cases prepared to go to trial, including those
by sports agent Sky Andrew, comedian Steve Coogan and pop star
Charlotte Church, who sang at News Corp. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch’s wedding in 1999 when she was
13 years old, lawyer Hugh Tomlinson said.  “The claimants themselves now know much more about what
private messages were listened to, who intercepted their
messages and who authorized it,” according to the statement
from the victims’ attorneys. The information provided by News
International also covers “who was paid and how much.”  News International, which previously denied phone hacking
was widespread, apologized to victims in court yesterday.  For more, click here.  J&J to Pay $158 Million to Settle Texas Risperdal Drug Case  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to pay $158 million to settle
Texas officials’ claims that the drugmaker fraudulently marketed
its Risperdal anti-psychotic drug, ending a trial over the
allegations.  J&J’s settlement will resolve claims it defrauded the
state’s Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not
approved by U.S. regulators, including for children with
psychiatric disorders, the company said yesterday. The state
also claimed the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based drugmaker
downplayed the health risk of Risperdal. The settlement was
about one-quarter of the $579 million the state was seeking.  “Under the terms of the settlement, Janssen will pay $158
million in full resolution of all claims in Texas,” Teresa
Mueller, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “This
settlement represents a resolution to claims brought by the
state in 2004 for alleged Medicaid overpayment during the years
1994-2008, and will circumvent potentially lengthy and costly
appellate activities.”  The Texas settlement is the first time J&J and Janssen have
agreed to resolve a state’s claims over Risperdal, Mueller said.  J&J, the world’s largest health-care products company, and
its  Janssen  unit agreed to the accord in the middle of a four-
week trial of the state’s lawsuit.  “Today’s agreement sends a strong message that the state
will pursue those who defraud Texas taxpayers,” Greg Abbott,
Texas attorney general, said in a statement. “Johnson &
Johnson’s scheme to profit from the Medicaid program by
overstating the safety and effectiveness of an expensive drug
and improperly influencing officials ended up costing taxpayers
millions of dollars.”  Texas joined a lawsuit filed in 2004 by a whistle-blower,
Allen Jones, an ex-investigator for the Pennsylvania Office of
Inspector General. Jones said he was fired after probing company
payments to a top pharmacist in Pennsylvania’s government who
hid the money.  “We’re not disappointed at all” by the size of the
settlement, Tom Melsheimer, Jones’s lawyer, said in an interview
yesterday. The settlement is “the largest in a Texas Medicaid
fraud case brought by the state,” he said.  The settlement will be split between the state, the federal
government, Jones and his attorneys, Mueller said.  “I’ve no idea what the distribution of the settlement will
be,” Jones said in an interview yesterday. He said his first
reaction to the settlement was, “Damn, I wanted another two
days of testimony.”  The trial showed that Janssen “subverted science and
induced others to betray the people they were supposed to take
care of,” Jones said. “To me, that’s reprehensible.”  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  London Lawyer Pay Increases 10% as Firms Compete for Talent  Pay for London lawyers rose 10 percent last year to 146,500
pounds ($225,800) as firms competed for a limited supply of
attorneys, a legal recruiter said.  Average base pay for salaried lawyers in the British
capital rose 4 percent to 111,000 pounds and bonuses increased
to 35,500 pounds, recruiter Laurence Simons said in a statement.
In comparison, base pay rose 2.1 percent in 2011 for
accountants, and 1.2 percent for all U.K. professionals, the
recruiter said.  Pay and bonuses for lawyers have “been pushed up by the
limited supply of talent in their market, making retention the
name of the game,” said Lucinda Moule, managing director at
Laurence Simons. “A tough 2010 means employers have focused
primarily on boosting salaries rather than increasing
headcount.”  At least three top London-based law firms raised salaries
for lawyers last year after freezing or cutting pay by as much
as 11 percent.  Clifford Chance LLP (1000L) ,  Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP (1002L)  and  Slaughter and May  raised salaries and said they
would pay bonuses last June. More experienced lawyers that have
partnership interests in a firm are paid based on the firm’s
financial performance rather than receiving a set salary.  Top U.S. firms still offer higher salaries in London, with
Bingham McCutchen LLP and others paying 100,000 pounds to start,
to match New York levels. London legal salaries are comparable
to entry-level pay at a financial company, without the promise
of a large bonus.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  