-- RCS Will Consider Approaches for Non-Core Assets Including Flammarion
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-01-20T08:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/rcs-will-consider-approaches-for-flammarion-non-core-assets.html
RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS) , the publisher of
newspaper  Corriere della Sera , said it will study approaches for
assets including French publisher Flammarion.  RCS’s executive committee, which met yesterday in Milan,
said there will be a preliminary review of any expression of
interest “in relation to assets not straightly included in the
core business, comprising Flammarion, and non-core assets,” the
company said in a  statement  last night.  RCS received an approach for Flammarion from French
competitor Gallimard, Economiaweb reported on its website on
Jan. 17. RCS is seeking to raise as much as 200 million euros
($259 million) from the sale of Flammarion, the website said.  “The French business in the past has ever been strategic
for the company, but a disposal could help to reduce debt by at
least 15 percent, lowering risks for a capital increase,” Fabio Pavan, an analyst at Mediobanca Securities, wrote in a note
today.  There may be advantages in the potential disposal “taking
into account the significant reduction of RCS financial risk,”
according to Andrea Devita, an analyst at Banca Akros. RCS had
net debt of about 980 million euros at the end of September.  The company said in June that it received “inadequate”
offers for eight of its publications after receiving expressions
of interest for magazines including weekly  Il Mondo . RCS
authorized Chief Executive Officer Antonello Perricone to carry
out “further enquiries necessary to identify the most suitable
measures for restructuring the magazines and improving their
profitability, or for selling them,”  it said at the time .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  