-- Treasuries Head for Biggest Weekly Loss in a Month Before Home Sales Data
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-20T11:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/treasuries-set-for-weekly-loss-on-speculation-home-data-to-signal-recovery.html
Treasuries headed for their biggest
weekly decline in a month before a U.S. report forecast to show
home sales increased in December, adding to signs the world’s
largest economy is gaining momentum.  U.S. government securities are having their worst start to
a year since 2003 after data yesterday showed employment and
manufacturing improved, while declining yields at European debt
sales stoked speculation the region’s crisis is easing. The Citi
Macro Risk  Index (SXXP)  dropped to a five-month low of 0.601 yesterday,
showing increased demand for higher-yielding assets.  “Domestic data has been reasonably good and that’s been a
catalyst to the selloff in Treasuries,” said Eric Wand, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
 London . “Risk sentiment has been generally positive this week,
which reduces the safe-haven bid, pushing yields higher.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.98
percent at 6:41 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note due in November 2021 traded at
100 5/32. The yield increased 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, this week, the most since the five-day period
ended Dec. 23.  The difference between two- and 10-year  yields  widened one
basis point to 1.75 percentage points after reaching 1.76
percentage points, the most since Jan. 6. The spread was as
narrow as 1.47 percentage points on Oct. 4.  Worst Since 2003  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.3 percent loss in 2012
as of yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. U.S. corporate bonds returned 0.7 percent
this year and German bunds fell 0.1 percent, the indexes show.
The MSCI All Country World  Index (MXWD)  of stocks rose 5 percent.  U.S. home purchases increased 5.2 percent last month to a
4.65 million annual rate, the most since May 2010, according to
 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg before the National Association
of Realtors reports the figures today.  Initial jobless  claims  plunged to 352,000 in the week ended
Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, the Labor Department
said yesterday. A Federal Reserve report on Jan. 18 showed
factory output increased.  Treasuries rose earlier today as European stocks fell from
a five-month high, spurring demand for safer assets. The Stoxx
Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  dropped 0.4 percent.  The  World Bank  said this week that the  U.S. economy  will
expand 2.2 percent in 2012, while the euro area will contract
0.3 percent.  ‘Challenged’  “The global economic outlook will remain challenged,”
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities primary dealer unit, wrote in a note to clients. “We
advocate that longer-term investors use back-ups to reload on
longs,” or bets bonds will gain.  Most economists are advising the opposite. The 10-year
yield will advance to 2.59 percent by year-end, according to a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies with the most
recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Ten-year rates will rise to 2.5 percent by Dec. 31,
according to a report yesterday by RBC Capital Markets LLC, one
of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  “Weak but positive growth should allow rates to grind
higher barring an increase in European stress,” according to
the report by analysts including  Michael Cloherty , the head of
U.S. rates strategy in New York.  France,  Spain   France and Spain sold 14.6 billion euros ($18.9 billion) of
bonds yesterday, with funding costs in both nations falling in
the first sale of medium- and long-term debt since  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded their credit ratings on Jan. 13.  Greece ’s government and private creditors convene today for
a third session of talks on how to reduce the nation’s debt and
avert a collapse of the economy.  Yields indicate investors are becoming more willing to
lend. The three-month  London interbank offered rate  for loans in
dollars was at 0.561 percent yesterday, headed for a second
weekly decline.  The  difference  between five-year swap rates and the yield
on same maturity Treasuries shrank for a third week to 31.5
basis points. Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The difference, the gap between the
fixed component and the Treasury rate, is a gauge of demand for
higher-yielding assets versus sovereign debt.  The Fed is seeking to keep longer-term borrowing costs
capped by selling $400 billion of its short-term Treasuries and
reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term government debt in a
program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $2.75
billion of Treasuries due from 2036 to 2041 today as part of the
program, according to the  New York  Fed’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  