-- Treasuries in Worst Start Since ’03 on Stronger Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-20T22:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/treasuries-set-for-biggest-weekly-loss-in-a-month-before-home-sales-data.html
Treasuries are off to their worst
start since 2003 on signs the  U.S. economy  is strengthening and
Europe is moving closer to resolving its debt crisis.  Treasury  10-year notes  fell for a third day as a U.S.
report showed home sales rose for a third month in December,
adding to signs including falling claims for jobless benefits
that the world’s largest economy is gaining momentum. Greek
officials held debt-swap talks for a third day after Spain and
 France  sold bonds at lower yields yesterday.  “The lack of blowups in European sovereign debt have
allowed calm to erupt, and that has weighed on Treasuries,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion
in fixed-income assets. “Home sales are improving, though from
very poor levels, which underlies the improving data we’ve had
of late,”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.03 percent at 5:02 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in November 2021 was down 13/32, or per $4.06 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 25/32. The yield increased 16 basis points
this week, the most since the five-day period ended Dec. 23.  U.S. government securities lost 0.342 percent this year,
the most since a 0.693 percent loss in 2003, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. Treasuries finished 2003
returning 2.25 percent despite the weak start and have posted
annual gains every year but one since 2009, when they fell 3.7
percent in 2009. U.S. corporate bonds returned 0.5 percent this
year and German bunds fell 0.1 percent, the indexes show.  Widening Spread  The difference between two- and 10-year  yields  widened four
basis points to 1.78 percentage points after touching 1.79
percentage points, the most since Dec. 13. The spread was as
narrow as 1.47 percentage points on Oct. 4.  The Citi Macro Risk Index dropped to a five-month low of
0.601 yesterday, showing increased demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “Domestic data has been reasonably good and that’s been a
catalyst to the selloff in Treasuries,” said Eric Wand, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
 London . “Risk sentiment has been generally positive this week,
which reduces the safe-haven bid, pushing yields higher.”  Initial jobless  claims  plunged to 352,000 in the week ended
Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, the Labor Department
said yesterday. A Federal Reserve report on Jan. 18 showed
factory output increased.  Labor ‘Traction’  “There is some significant traction in the labor market,”
said  Richard Gilhooly , an interest-rate strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities Inc. in New York. “There is
beginning to be some consistency and some acceleration in the
U.S. economic numbers. Once we get through the first quarter,
you should get a big spike in Treasury yields.”  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose to the highest
level since January 2011, with purchases increasing 5 percent to
a 4.61 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors
said today in  Washington . The pace was less than the 4.65
million median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Even as core consumer prices are running at almost the
Fed’s ideal of about 2 percent, investors are snapping up
inflation-protected debt for insurance against a risk that  price
levels  rebound. The U.S. sold a record $15 billion in 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities yesterday at a negative
yield for the first time.  Negative Yield  The TIPS were auctioned at a so-called high yield of
negative 0.046 percent, compared with a forecast of negative
0.027 percent, the average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers that are required to
bid on U.S. debt sales. The last four sales of five-year TIPS
were at negative yields.  The  World Bank  said this week that the U.S. economy will
expand 2.2 percent in 2012, while the euro area will contract
0.3 percent.  The 10-year yield will advance to 2.59 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  “Weak-but-positive growth should allow rates to grind
higher, barring an increase in European stress,” according to
the report by Royal Bank of Canada analysts including  Michael Cloherty , the head of U.S. rates strategy for RBC Capital
Markets LLC in New York.  ‘Cover to Sell’  Greece ’s government and private creditors convened today
for a third session of talks on how to reduce the nation’s debt
and avert a collapse of the economy.  “There’s been significant progress,” Hans Humes,
president of Greylock Capital Management and a member of the
creditor committee negotiating the deal with the government,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  “The European situation may be dislocating itself some
from the Treasury market,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New
York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.
“As the complexion gets better in  Europe  there is less need for
the flight-to-quality to trade. If we didn’t have the European
situation we would be further north of 2 percent on the 10-year
note. We’ve had no new bad news, which has given investors cover
to sell Treasuries.”  Yields indicate investors are becoming more willing to
lend. The three-month  London interbank offered rate  for loans in
dollars was at 0.561 percent yesterday, headed for a second
weekly decline.  The Fed is seeking to keep longer-term borrowing costs
capped by selling $400 billion of its short-term Treasuries and
reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term government debt in a
program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The central bank bought $2.52 billion of Treasuries due
from 2036 to 2041 today as part of the program, according to the
New York Fed’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  