-- Redwood Said to Sell Fourth MBS Offering Since 2008 Credit Markets Seizure
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a
-- 2012-01-20T21:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/redwood-said-to-sell-fourth-mbs-offering-since-2008-credit-markets-seizure.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold bonds tied
to about $405 million of new U.S. home loans, the fourth sale of
such debt without government backing since credit markets seized
in 2008, according to a person with knowledge of the offering.  A $179.7 million, top-rated portion yields 2.83 percent, or
1.90 percentage points more than benchmark swap rates, said the
person, who declined to be identified without authorization to
speak about the deal. The debt had been marketed at spreads of 2
percentage points to 2.1 percentage points.  Mill Valley ,
California-based Redwood, which focuses on so-called jumbo
loans, issued all three prior  non-agency  transactions.  Redwood’s offerings, backed by a total of less than $1.5
billion of mortgages, followed the collapse of the market as
prices tumbled, foreclosures soared and  home values plunged ,
helping spark the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.
Issuance peaked at about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006,
and may total $5 billion this year, according to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  analysts.  The market is “not dormant, but we expect it to be largely
closed,” Dale Westhoff, the global head of structured products
research at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , said today during a
presentation to reporters in New York. Zurich-based Credit
Suisse has managed Redwood’s last three deals.  Government-supported mortgage programs and demand from
banks have been limiting the supply of home loans that Wall
Street banks and other issuers can package into bonds, JPMorgan
Chase analysts led by Matthew Jozoff said in a Nov. 23 report
discussing their outlook for 2012.  Other issues include limited demand for the portions of
securitizations most exposed to defaults as home prices decline,
tougher rating companies and unfinished regulation on issuers’
obligation to retain parts of their deals, Westhoff said.  Michael McMahon, a spokesman for Redwood, declined to
comment.  Editors: John Parry, Alan Goldstein  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  