-- TreeHouse Foods Falls as Profit Trails Estimates: Chicago Mover
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-20T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/treehouse-foods-falls-as-profit-trails-estimates-chicago-mover.html
TreeHouse Foods Inc. (THS) , the maker of
McCann’s Irish Oatmeal spun off from  Dean Foods Co . in 2005,
fell the most in more than 17 months as preliminary earnings
missed analysts’ estimates after consumers limited purchases.  TreeHouse  dropped  9.7 percent to $56.76 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Aug. 5, 2010. The shares gained
28 percent last year.  Consumers are gravitating to club and dollar stores instead
of traditional grocers, and switching to less costly brands and
smaller-size selections, the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based maker of
hot cereals, pickles, jams and other foodstuffs said today in a
statement. TreeHouse said it also saw a “negative effect” on
seasonal sales from warm weather in the U.S. Midwest and
Northeast.  “The consumer took a little bit of a step back in their
buying patterns of food,” Akshay Jagdale, a New York-based
analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets who advises holding the
shares, said in an interview.  “Volumes are expected to be weak when pricing goes up and
there’s been a significant amount of pricing that the industry
has taken to cover commodity costs,” Jagdale said.  Adjusted profit was probably 84 cents to 87 cents a share
in the fourth quarter and $2.70 to $2.73 for the full year,
TreeHouse said. The average of analysts’ profit estimates in a
Bloomberg survey was $1.07 for the quarter and $2.94 for the
year. The company is  scheduled  to release earnings on Feb. 10.  TreeHouse typically locks in raw ingredient costs six
months going forward, Chief Executive Officer Sam Reed said in a
conference call on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  