-- Reliance Plans $2 Billion Share Buyback After Profit Declines
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-20T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/reliance-has-first-profit-drop-in-two-years-on-lower-fuel-demand.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the owner
of the world’s largest oil refining complex, said it will
repurchase as much as 104.4 billion rupees ($2 billion) of
shares after reporting its first drop in profit in two years.  Net income  declined 14 percent to 44.4 billion rupees, or
13.6 rupees a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31 from a
year earlier, the Mumbai-based energy explorer and refiner said
in a statement yesterday. The median  estimate  of 29 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was a profit of 45.6 billion rupees.  Reliance shares slumped 35 percent last year, prompting the
company to announce a buyback, and earnings from processing
crude may weaken further in 2012 as increased capacity pressures
margins. Europe’s deepening debt crisis and slowing growth in
China and  India  eroded fuel demand, while output from Reliance’s
biggest natural gas field fell.  “The earnings are below expectations because the refining
margins have been lower,” said K.K. Mital, a fund manager at
Globe Capital Market Ltd. in New Delhi. “The pressure on the
company’s operations will continue in the first half of this
year at least as the global economic situation remains weak.”  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , rose 0.9
percent to 792.65 rupees in Mumbai before the earnings
announcement, giving it a market value of about $52 billion. The
stock has gained 1.7 percent since Jan. 18, when the company
said it would consider buying back shares.  Cash Hoard  The board approved buying back 120 million shares at 870
rupees apiece for a total of 104.4 billion rupees, according to
a separate statement. The price is 9.8 percent higher than
yesterday’s close and the number of shares is equivalent to 3.7
percent of its equity.  Reliance in December 2004 offered to repurchase 10 percent
of its equity at 570 rupees apiece, spending as much as 30
billion rupees. The company bought 2.9 million shares, paying
1.5 billion rupees, according to a stock exchange filing on
April 26, 2007.  Reliance’s cash hoard surged after BP Plc,  Europe ’s second-
largest oil company, bought stakes in 21 fields in India for
$7.2 billion last year. The Indian explorer had cash and
equivalents of 745.4 billion rupees as of Dec. 31, Reliance
said. Debt was 745 billion rupees, making it debt-free on a net
basis.  Reliance, India’s biggest company by market value, operates
two adjacent plants at Jamnagar in India’s western state of
Gujarat, which together make up the world’s biggest refining
complex. The plants can process 1.24 million barrels a day and
can turn cheaper heavy grades of crude into high-value products.  Refining Margins  Earnings from turning a barrel of crude oil into fuels fell
to $6.8 in the quarter from $9 a barrel a year earlier,
according to the statement. The company earned $10.1 a barrel in
the three months ended Sept. 30. Sales in the quarter climbed 42
percent to 851.4 billion rupees.  “The global nature of our businesses and weakness in
economic conditions resulted in reduced earnings in the
quarter,” Ambani said in the statement.  A wide price difference between heavy and light grades of
crude benefits Reliance.  The average  difference between  light Brent crude oil and
heavier Dubai oil was $2.62 a barrel in the quarter ended Dec.
31 compared with $2.95 a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread was $4.76 a barrel in the
preceding quarter.  Capacity Additions  Additional capacities will shrink refining margins as fuel
supplies rise. Refineries in Asia Pacific will add the most
supply in 2012 as  China  brings 730,000 barrels a day of capacity
online, mainly to produce gasoline, according to a note by Bank
of America Corp. analyst Sabine Schels dated Oct. 5.  Morgan Stanley downgraded Reliance last week and cut its
earnings estimates on expectations of weak refining margins.  “We believe refining margins peaked in 2011 due to
shutdowns from  Japan  and a slowdown in additions from China,”
Morgan Stanley analysts Vinay Jaising and Rakesh Sethia wrote in
a Jan. 13 report. “We reckon the reverse could happen in 2012,
with Japan production expected to ramp back up in the second
half of this year, and China and India setting up new
capacities.”  Lower refining margins may add to pressure on Reliance’s
earnings from declining gas output at the KG-D6 field, located
off the east coast in the  Bay of Bengal .  Gas Output  Production dropped to about 38 million cubic meters of gas
a day from about 45 million cubic meters in the three months
ended Sept. 30. A peak of 60 million cubic meters a day was
reached in 2010. Output has since slid because of technical
issues, the company has said, without elaborating.  “Gas production is the key for Reliance and it’s a must
that they raise output,” Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based  fund
manager  at FIM Asset Management Ltd. who oversees about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) of emerging market assets,
including Reliance shares, said before the earnings. “But for
that they would need some time.”  Gas output may increase after satellite fields in the KG-D6
block start by 2015, three people with direct knowledge of the
matter said Jan. 3. Reliance and BP got approval to spend $1.5
billion to develop four discoveries in the area, three other
people said the next day.  Reliance, which also owns chemical plants, fuel outlets and
a retail-store chain, is diversifying from its core energy
business in India to telecommunications, hotels and media. The
company bought shale gas acreages from three companies in the
U.S. in 2010 and plans to buy assets in  Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  