-- Republicans May Tie Pipeline Approval to Payroll-Tax Cut Talks
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-01-20T18:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/republicans-look-for-alternatives-after-keystone-xl-rejected.html
Congressional Republicans say they
may try again to tie the Keystone XL pipeline to an extension of
the U.S. payroll-tax cut, as they prolong a debate with the
Obama administration over jobs and the environment.  “We are going to do everything we can to move this issue
forward,” said Oregon Representative Greg Walden, at a
Republican party retreat in Baltimore today. “America needs the
jobs” that would be created by the pipeline project, he said.  Lawmakers are set to begin discussions next week on
extending the payroll-tax cut through year’s end. A measure
Congress passed last month to avert an increase in payroll-tax
withholding until March 1 required President  Barack Obama  to
decide the issue in 60 days.  On Jan. 18, Obama rejected Calgary-based  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7 billion pipeline from  Alberta ’s oil sands to
the refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast, saying the
congressionally imposed deadline didn’t allow sufficient time to
weigh the risks.  The company said it would accept the administration’s
invitation to reapply with a route that avoids the
environmentally sensitive Sand Hills region in  Nebraska .  Transfer to FERC  One option under consideration by Republicans is to try to
attach a bill introduced by Representative Lee Terry, a Nebraska
Republican, that would transfer authority to the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission , which regulates electric and natural gas
markets, said Michigan Representative Fred Upton, who is the
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The bill
would require FERC to approve the pipeline within 30 days as
long as the project was deemed safe.  The committee’s energy and power subcommittee has scheduled
a hearing on Terry’s bill for Jan. 25.  “We’re seeing jobs flee, we’re seeing refiners being shut
down because of the lack of crude that’s coming to our ports,”
Upton said. “This is a win-win for just about everybody.”  The issue has gained political momentum now that the public
is aware of the pipeline dispute and will continue to grow in
importance as gasoline prices rise later this year, Upton said.  In the Senate, Republicans led by John Hoeven of  North
Dakota  are drafting a bill giving Congress the power to approve
the pipeline, overriding the president’s authority over cross-
border projects.  Passage Unlikely  The Republicans’ efforts on Keystone are unlikely to clear
Congress, said Christine Tezak, senior policy analyst with
 Robert W. Baird & Co. , in a note to clients.  She said the firm was “skeptical a big legislative change
would pass.”  Even if Congress did pass such legislation, Obama could
simply ignore the directive, citing his authority over
international projects, Pat Parenteau, a professor at Vermont
Law School, said in an interview.  “The president gets an edge in these kinds of foreign
relations issues,” he said. “I don’t know that Congress has
any Constitutional authority” to circumvent that power, he
said.  Ryan Bernstein, an aide to Hoeven, said the senator’s bill
relies on Congress’s authority under the Constitution to
regulate commerce with foreign countries.  ‘Keep Issue Alive’  The New York-based NRDC and other environmental groups
hailed Obama’s move to reject the Keystone pipeline. Opponents
argued that producing oil from  tar sands  in  Canada  would result
in more greenhouse gas emissions than would conventional oil
drilling.  Transporting the oil along the proposed Keystone route
through Nebraska’s permeable Sand Hills risked polluting the
Ogallala aquifer, a drinking water source for 1.5 million
people, environmentalists said.  The Republican effort to expedite the pipeline’s approval
“appears to be to keep this issue alive as a point of
politics,” said Anthony Swift, an energy analyst at the NRDC.  Some labor groups backed the pipeline as a job creator. The
State Department, in a report to Congress, said the project
would create between 5,000 to 6,000 construction jobs during the
two years needed to build the pipeline.  The House energy committee’s energy and power subcommittee
plans to hold a hearing on the pipeline Jan. 25. Kerri-Ann
Jones, assistant secretary of State for oceans and international
environment and scientific affairs, will testify on behalf of
the State Department, Baker said.  FERC Approval Sought  Jones will appear in place of Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who was invited to testify. Upton said that governors
of states along the pipeline route will also be invited.  Jon Wellinghoff, FERC’s chairman, declined to comment on
the legislation.  Bernstein said Hoeven’s bill would allow construction to
start immediately on the project except in Nebraska. Work there
could begin after the governor approved that section of the
pipeline that would cross over the state.  “We need jobs and we need a secure, stable supply of
energy,” he said in an interview. Bernstein said senators were
considering other legislation to push Keystone forward,
including a version of Terry’s House bill.  TransCanada also is seeking to advance the project. Alex Pourbaix, TransCanada’s president of energy and oil pipelines,
said the company is considering an all-U.S. route that would
start in  Montana , which wouldn’t require State Department
approval. The company would then apply later for permission to
connect the pipe to the Canadian  oil sands .  Approval Seen  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion for First
Asset Management Inc. in Toronto, said he thought the pipeline
would be approved after the November election.  Even if their bills don’t reach the president’s desk,
Republicans can benefit if gasoline prices rise this summer by
pointing out the president’s opposition to a project that would
carry as much as 700,000 barrels of crude a day, said Mike McKenna, an oil industry lobbyist and president of MWR
Strategies Inc. in Washington.  “The one thing about which everyone agrees is that we need
to keep talking about KXL and educating people about KXL,”
McKenna said in an e-mail, referring to Keystone XL.  Terry’s bill is H.R. 3548.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  