-- Romney’s Tough China Talk May Fall Flat as South Carolina Trades
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/romney-china-stance-may-fall-flat-in-s-carolina.html
While  Mitt Romney  is a long way from
the White House, he already knows what he would do on his first
day in the Oval Office: crack down on Chinese “cheating” on
trade.  Romney vows to designate China a “currency manipulator”
and impose duties on its imports if the yuan isn’t allowed to
float freely. As Republicans prepare for tomorrow’s presidential
primary in South Carolina, that pledge may cheer companies such
as steelmaker  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , which has a plant in Darlington and
is among those blaming Chinese subsidies for eroding profits.  Yet South Carolina, long a battleground for textile makers
fighting to block imports, is increasingly prospering through
overseas ties and could suffer in any trade war. Companies such
as  France ’s  Michelin & Cie. ,  Germany ’s Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG and  Sweden ’s Husqvarna AB employ more than 102,000 state
residents. And a dozen Chinese manufacturers have set up shop.  “We can’t be protectionist; look at who our biggest
employers are,” said Bob Faith, former state commerce
secretary, who cited several foreign-owned companies. “That is
South Carolina, and these are South Carolina jobs.”  Faith, a Romney supporter, said he doesn’t see a risk that
the candidate’s views could hurt trade-dependent U.S. states.
And  trade  isn’t a major issue in tomorrow’s primary, nor is it
likely to sway reliably Republican South Carolina in the
November election. Nationally, it could be a different story.  Looming Larger  China  looms much larger today than it did four years ago
when Democrat  Barack Obama  and Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona 
campaigned for the presidency.  U.S. exports  to China in the
first 11 months of 2011, the most recent data available, were 67
percent higher than during the same period four years earlier.  That means a bigger domestic constituency with a stake in
the Asian country -- and a tougher balancing act for Obama and
his Republican challenger as they court workers and businesses
feeling trade’s sting.  “We in the  United States , some 800,000 jobs, are dependent
on American-made goods and services being sold to China, from
our soybeans to airplanes to machinery,”  Gary Locke , the U.S.
ambassador, said on “The  Charlie Rose  Show” on Jan. 16. “We
have an interest in greater prosperity of the Chinese.”  Still, attacks on China resonate with part of the American
electorate: The country’s economic rise was seen as a “major
threat” by 59 percent of those responding last month to a  Pew
Research Center  poll.  China ‘Threat’ Plays  “The ‘Communist Chinese are a threat to our economy and
way of life’ gets play among a broad spectrum conservative base
no matter where you sing that tune,” e-mailed  Scott Huffmon ,
director of the Social and Behavioral Research Laboratory at
Winthrop University in Rock Hill. “It just so happens that the
2012 tour is swinging through S.C. this week.”  Other Republican candidates have warned of China’s
emergence. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  has described the
nation’s rise as a “threat,” although he says the U.S., which
ran a $26.9 billion trade deficit with China in November, can
defeat the challenge by rebuilding its manufacturing base and
maintaining a strong defense.  At a candidates’ debate last night in North Charleston,
Representative  Ron Paul  said Americans “shouldn’t be frightened
about trade” because it often helps them to save money by
buying cheaper products from overseas. Former Senator  Rick Santorum  said the corporate  tax rate  should be cut to zero for
companies that manufacture in the U.S. to stem the loss of
American jobs.  Seeing Opportunity  South Carolina  officials see more of an opportunity than a
hazard and began targeting China with a 2003 trade mission led
by then-Governor Mark Sanford. Textile magnate Roger Milliken,
who died in 2010 at the age of 95, was deeply suspicious of the
Chinese and opposed the initiative.  “He came to my house on a Sunday and read me the riot
act,” Faith said.  Two years later, the state dispatched a Chinese-born
executive,  John Ling , to  Shanghai  to woo companies that were
considering expanding abroad. Since then, Chinese manufacturers
have set up South Carolina plants making everything from auto
parts and printing equipment to cutting tools.  They followed the lead of appliance maker Haier Group of
Qingdao, China, the first Chinese manufacturer to invest in the
U.S. The company established a refrigerator plant in Camden in
1999.  ‘Lot of Jobs’  “Haier’s presence in the United States has created a lot
of jobs,” said Joseph Sexton, president of Haier America
Research and Development Co. “That’s little understood by the
people here and the majority of politicians, other than state
politicians.”  South Carolina officials estimate Chinese manufacturers
have invested a total of $308 million and created 1,900 jobs.
China also was the state’s third-ranked export market in 2010,
up from fifth place two years earlier, according to the U.S.
Commerce Department. Those export figures are likely to grow
once  Boeing Co. (BA)  begins shipping 787 Dreamliner aircraft from its
new production facility in North Charleston.  The 335,000-square-foot Haier plant lies off Highway 521 in
Camden, the site of a Revolutionary War battle. Inside, just
under 200 workers manufacture a variety of refrigerator models
beneath Chinese and American flags. The factory walls bear
motivational injunctions in “Chinglish,” the fractured blend
of Chinese and English.  “Strive for a clearly defined objective and make
impossible possible without any excuse,” reads one blue and
white banner.  $1 Million Overhaul  Employment here peaked at about 350 in 2005, near the
height of the housing bubble. The assembly line was quiet one
recent day because of a $1 million overhaul of the line’s
product test segment.  The past few years, Haier has moved some additional work
from China to Camden.  Rising wages  in China and the yuan’s
gradual appreciation have made the U.S. more competitive as a
manufacturing location.  On an inflation-adjusted basis, the Chinese currency has
appreciated almost 10 percent against the dollar over the past
year, Locke told Charlie Rose.  Haier, which already bins its steel from a local supplier,
responded to that shift by moving production of some
refrigerator parts, such as door bins and plastic crispers, to
Camden from China, Sexton said.  The Math Works  If the company can improve its sale of heavy refrigerators
and freezers, additional production could follow.  “Large products are expensive to ship from China to the
U.S.,” Sexton said. “I could see where that math would work.”  Though the yuan’s gradual rise could boost U.S. employment,
Romney wants to push China for faster change. His supporters
such as Faith, now a real estate executive in Charleston, see
little danger in that for states such as South Carolina.  “Even if there are short-term skirmishes, the outcome will
be better, frankly for both of us,” he said.  Governor Nikki Haley has endorsed Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor. A spokesman for Haley didn’t respond to
an e-mail requesting comment.  Locke said the Obama administration shares Romney’s concern
about the yuan. The administration has filed five World Trade
Organization complaints against China and in 2009 imposed
tariffs on imported Chinese auto and light-truck tires.  $500 Million Plant  In October 2011, Continental Tire the Americas LLC, a unit
of German tire maker Continental AG, announced plans for a $500
million plant in Sumter County. A company official told the
Columbia Regional Business Report that domestic demand and easy
access to Charleston’s port were key reasons for its decision.  Others saw trade policy at work.  “Tire production is coming back to the U.S.,” said
economist Doug Woodward of the University of South Carolina.
“We’re benefiting from that in South Carolina.”  China, too, has resorted to trade levies. In December, it
imposed tariffs on imports of U.S.-made cars, including  luxury
vehicles  made at BMW’s Spartanburg plant.  “I wouldn’t call that a trade war,” said Woodward. “But
that’s a skirmish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ; To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  