-- Roubini Sees ‘Significant’ Slowdown in China
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-01-20T22:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/roubini-sees-significant-slowdown-in-china.html
China’s economy  will slow in 2012,
prompting policy makers to reduce  interest rates  and loosen
lending restrictions, said  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the 2008 financial crisis.  “It’s going to be a significant growth slowdown this
year,” Roubini, co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC,
said in a Bloomberg TV interview today. “Housing is deflating.
Export growth is slowing down. If they don’t do something --
stimulus in monetary and fiscal credit -- the risk is that the
growth will slow down well below 8 percent.”  China’s  gross domestic product  increased 9.2 percent last
year, matching the slowest pace since 2002, as the housing
market cooled and the European debt crisis eroded export demand.
The central bank cut the amount banks must keep in reserve last
month for the first time in three years, and the government has
allowed its five biggest banks to boost first-quarter lending
and may relax  capital requirements , people with knowledge of the
matter said this week.  The world’s second-largest economy, China will further
reduce the reserve-requirement ratio for banks in the first half
of this year and reduce benchmark rates for the first time since
2008 to “jump start the economy,” Roubini said. Growth below 8
percent will create “political noise” as China undergoes a
leadership transition, he said.  China is in the midst of a planned shift in its ruling
elite that will culminate late this year at the 18th Communist
Party Congress. The meeting, which occurs every five years, will
probably see Vice President  Xi Jinping  tapped as China’s next
president and Li Keqiang, currently vice premier, put forward as
prime minister.  Roubini, a professor at  New York University , predicted the
U.S. housing bubble before the market peaked in 2006, while
failing to foresee a rebound in global stocks in 2009.  Home prices  fell last month in 52 of 70 Chinese cities from
November, according to government data released on Jan. 18.
Exports increased 13.4 percent in December from a year earlier,
slowing from 24.5 percent in August, according to customs bureau
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  