-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Probably Rose to Highest Level Since May 2010
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-20T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-probably-rose-to-highest-level-since-may-2010.html
Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned U.S. homes
probably rose in December to the highest level in more than a
year, a sign the housing market ended 2011 with momentum,
economists said before a report today.  Purchases increased 5.2 percent last month to a 4.65
million annual rate, the most since May 2010, according to the
 median forecast  of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Historically  low   mortgage rates  and a pickup in employment
may be giving Americans the confidence to purchase homes that
have fallen in value. At the same time, another wave of
foreclosures may inhibit a faster recovery in real estate as
more distressed properties are put on the market.  “We should continue to see moderate housing market growth
in 2012,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, an economist at BNP Paribas
in  New York . “The fundamentals are still weak for the market to
recover by itself, but certainly there are some pockets of
strength. Housing prices, though, will continue to decline.”  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ sales  estimates  ranged from 4
million to 5 million following November’s 4.42 million pace.  Last month, the group revised down housing figures going
back to 2007 by an average 14 percent, showing that the industry
that helped spark the 18-month recession was a bigger drag on
the  U.S. economy  than previously estimated.  The report also showed the inventory of unsold homes was
reduced to 2.58 million as of November, the lowest level in more
than six years. Barring a pickup in foreclosures, less supply of
unsold properties may help stabilize  home prices . The median
price of an existing home in the U.S.  fell  3.5 percent in
November from a year earlier. The average year-over-year price
decline in 2011 was 4.6 percent.  Sales, Traffic Rise  Homebuilders are growing more optimistic. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index  rose 
this month to the highest level since June 2007 as sales and
buyer traffic improved.  The economy added 200,000 jobs in December and the
 unemployment rate  declined to an almost three-year low of 8.5
percent, Labor Department figures showed earlier this month.
Meantime,  mortgage rates  averaged a record-low 3.88 percent in
the week ended Jan. 19, according to data by  Freddie Mac .  “Consumers are beginning to realize that housing
represents an undeniable value proposition, and accordingly
demand is growing,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at
Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said on a Jan. 11 conference call.
“As I look ahead to 2012, I’m cautiously optimistic that we’re
seeing a real bottom form and that we will begin to see signs of
recovery.”  Builder Shares  Builder shares have responded. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12 builders has  surged  56
percent since the end of the third quarter, compared with a 16
percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Nonetheless, Federal Reserve officials are concerned that
“high unemployment and weak income growth have made it
difficult for many households to purchase homes despite the
large declines in  house prices  and mortgage rates,” policy
makes said in a Jan. 5 report delivered to Congress. “Weak
demand to purchase homes and the restricted supply of mortgages
has put considerable downward pressure on house prices in many
areas,” they said.  Streamlining the refinancing process, easing borrowing
requirements to allow investors to buy single-family properties
in bulk and modifying existing loans were among measures the
central bank’s report proposed to assist the market.  “One of the questions that potential buyers or potential
investors are looking at is how much inventory is there still to
come on the market,” Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said during a
Jan. 16 speech. “Such low levels of sales” indicate “it’s
still going to be a long time before the inventory backlog is
worked through.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  