-- Author Salman Rushdie Pulls Out of Indian Literary Festival Amid Threats
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-01-20T10:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/salman-rushdie-pulls-out-of-india-literary-festival-amid-death-threats.html
Novelist  Salman Rushdie  pulled out
of India’s largest literature festival after receiving warnings
that assassins were planning to kill him at the five-day event
for writing a book that some Muslims condemn as blasphemous.  Rushdie said that while he has doubts about the veracity of
the intelligence that members of the Mumbai underworld were
going to “eliminate” him, it would be reckless to attend the
event in the Rajasthan city of  Jaipur  that started today.  “It would be irresponsible of me to come to the festival
in such circumstances; irresponsible to my family, to the
festival audience, and to my fellow writers,” Rushdie said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Rushdie, born in  India  in 1947, spent nine years in hiding
in Britain after  Iran ’s then-leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a
religious decree calling for his death on the grounds his 1988
book “The Satanic Verses” was blasphemous. He has since
returned to public life. The book was banned in India.  Leaders of some Muslim groups, including the head of the
Darul Uloom Deoband seminary, had said this week that they
planned to protest the visit of Rushdie, the best-selling author
whose book “Midnight’s Children” won the  Booker Prize  in 1981.
The chief minister of Rajasthan called for Rushdie to stay away,
citing security concerns.  “It is embarrassing and presents a very bad image of India
as if we were stuck in an age where free speech is not
allowed,” said Satish Misra, a political analyst at the New
Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation. “There has been a
complete overreaction from some political leaders, it is very
tragic and shouldn’t be happening.”  The festival, a six-hour drive from  New Delhi , has become a
magnet for top authors, chief executives, bankers, and Bollywood
celebrities.  Oprah Winfrey , Tom Stoppard and Steven Pinker are
among the authors speaking at the festival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  