-- Same-Sex Marriage Push Wins Support of Mayors From New York to Los Angeles
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-20T20:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/same-sex-marriage-push-wins-support-of-mayors-from-new-york-to-los-angeles.html
Mayors of about 80 U.S. cities from
New York to  Los Angeles  to Houston are backing a campaign to
remove legal barriers to same-sex marriage nationwide.  “The more support we build in our cities and states, the
stronger case we can make for extending the freedom to marry to
loving couples no matter where they live,” Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles said today at a news briefing on the
issue. Same-sex marriage is illegal under California law.  Legislators in  Washington ,  New Jersey  and Maryland are
pushing measures to permit the practice, while voters in North
Carolina and Minnesota will face ballot questions this year on
banning it. Federal law doesn’t recognize same-sex marriages,
which are legal in New York,  Iowa ,  Connecticut , New Hampshire,
 Vermont , Massachusetts and the District of Columbia.  “Law-abiding, tax-paying families and their children
deserve the same opportunities, the same rights and the same
responsibilities afforded to every other family,” said
Villaraigosa, a Democrat, at the briefing in Washington, where
the U.S. Conference of Mayors is meeting. He spoke in support of
Freedom to Marry, a New York-based advocacy group that says bans
discriminate against homosexuals and infringe on their rights.  Critics say the practice undermines the traditional
definition of marriage as a union between a man and a woman.  New York Law  Other big-city mayors at the briefing included independent
Michael Bloomberg of New York, Democrat Annise Parker of Houston
and Republican Jerry Sanders of San Diego.  New York  state made
same-sex marriage legal last year, supported by Bloomberg and
other city leaders.  “On average in New York City, 700 gay and lesbian couples
are now getting married at the city clerk’s offices” each
month, Bloomberg said. “That means every month, hundreds of
more parents and children are gaining the economic stability and
protections that come with being a formal family unit.”  The mayor added that the change has been an economic boon
for the largest U.S. city. He has said that the new law helps
companies attract top talent and draws same-sex couples as
tourists, including some who intend to marry while in New York.  Same-sex marriage has been a divisive political issue since
at least 1996, when Congress passed the Defense of Marriage Act
that lets states refuse to recognize such unions.  Efforts to make the practice legal gained momentum in 2003,
when the top Massachusetts court ruled 4-3 that a ban was
unconstitutional. In 2004, the city of  San Francisco  initiated a
court battle by letting gay couples wed. Massachusetts became
the first state to permit same-sex marriage in May of that year.  Since then, the issue has become the subject of ballot
fights in states such as  California , where voters passed a
constitutional change to overturn a state Supreme Court ruling
and ban the practice.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  