-- Samsonite Says Tumi Is ‘Natural Fit’ in $1 Billion M&A Hunt
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-20T12:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/samsonite-says-tumi-is-natural-fit-in-1-billion-m-a-hunt.html
Samsonite International SA (1910) , the
world’s largest branded-luggage maker, said an acquisition of
bagmaker Tumi Holdings Inc. is a “natural fit” as it readies
to spend at least $1 billion on buying rivals.  “One way we’d like to accelerate our growth is via the
route of acquisitions,” said Ramesh Tainwala, Samsonite’s
president for Asia Pacific and  Middle East . Buying smaller rival
Tumi would “make sense,” he said.  Samsonite (1910)  intends to use its  cash flow  to acquire a brand
this year that complements its products, said Tainwala, in a
Jan. 18 interview. The maker of backpacks, luggage and travel
gear fell 1.4 percent to HK$12.32 at close in Hong Kong. It has
dropped 15 percent since listing on the market last year as
unemployment curbs consumer spending in developed markets and
economies in  Asia  slow.  “Samsonite is already the biggest luggage maker and it’s
doing much better than rivals,” said Katherine Chan, an analyst
at Royal Bank of  Scotland  who recommends buying its stock. “Its
business is very cyclical and it’s clouded by the grim macro-
economic picture right now.”  Buying Tumi, the designer of black-nylon luxury travel bags
that’s seeking as much as $300 million in an initial public
offering in the U.S., may help  Samsonite (1910)  build on its strengths
in the market, Tainwala said.  Natural Fit  The company isn’t interested in deals that involve
“becoming just a shareholder,” said Tainwala, “Tumi is a
natural fit to us, but it’s always subject to valuations.” He
declined to say whether the two parties are in any type of
talks.  Nick Bastin, a spokesman for Doughty Hanson & Co., the
London-based private-equity firm that took over Tumi in 2004,
declined to comment on a possible takeover by Samsonite when
reached by phone yesterday.  Samsonite has “no negotiations or agreements” that
require disclosure to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange, it said in
an exchange statement after the market closed today.  Samsonite raised about HK$9.73 billion ($1.25 billion) in
its June IPO in Hong Kong and has cash and equivalents of $101.8
million as of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsonite’s 15 percent decline from its IPO price of
HK$14.50 a share  compares  with an 10 percent drop for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  since June 15, the day before the
stock started trading.  Hungry for Acquisitions  “Cost of borrowing being low, a debt-free balance sheet
and a healthy generation of free cash, all these factors put
together makes us hungry for acquisitions,” Tainwala said.  Samsonite (1910)  also sees room for organic growth in  China ,
 Russia ,  India  and  Indonesia , and plans to add 300 stores a year
in China, Tainwala said, bringing its number of outlets to 1,800
in 2012 from 1,500 a year ago.  Foreign brands are increasingly counting on China for
growth, as consumers in the world’s most populous nation become
more affluent. The country’s urban disposable income rose 14
percent to about 21,810 yuan in 2011.  Tainwala expects China to overtake the U.S. as the
company’s largest market in the next three to five years. China
contributed about 10 percent to the group’s total revenue in
2011, while the U.S. contributed 25 percent.  “In China, more people are now moving to cities. When
there are more  urban people , they travel more,” said Tainwala.  Dividend Plans  The firm is “on track to deliver all of its IPO
promises”, which include delivering a net income target of no
less than $64.2 million in 2011, Tainwala said.  Net income dropped to $16.4 million for the first half of
2011, from $30.7 million a year earlier after taking into
account IPO transaction costs of $24.8 million, the company said
Aug. 29 in a statement. Sales rose 33 percent to $1.17 billion
in the first nine months in 2011, according to an October filing
to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  “Only a third of our profits are needed to plow back to
the existing business in terms of working capital,” said
Tainwala. The rest can be used for acquisitions, he said.  Samsonite plans to pay dividends to investors in March for
the first time, according to Tainwala.  The company expects  sales  growth in the U.S. to slow to
between 8 percent and 9 percent this year from 20 percent last
year and European growth to drop to 2 percent to 4 percent from
the year earlier 18 percent, Tainwala said.  “We are injecting caution in our growth outlook, guiding
investors with a smaller growth rate,” said Tainwala, without
giving a target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  