-- San Francisco Gasoline Climbs on Work at Tesoro Hawaii Refinery
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-01-20T21:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/san-francisco-gasoline-climbs-on-work-at-tesoro-hawaii-refinery.html
California-blend gasoline in San
Francisco strengthened for a second day after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  said
the Kapolei refinery in  Hawaii  reduced rates because of a series
of power failures.  Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  climbed 0.5 cent to a premium of
3.5 cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:14 p.m. Eastern time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tesoro’s 95,000-barrel-a-day  Kapolei (TEKACRUD)  refinery shut some
process units for maintenance and reduced rates on others after
experiencing multiple power failures because of bad weather,
Tina Barbee, a Tesoro spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters
in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail yesterday.  Tesoro is also conducting maintenance at the 170,000-
barrel-a-day  Martinez (TEMTCRUD)  refinery in Northern California and is
planning work at the 97,000-barrel-a-day  Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  refinery in
Southern California beginning tomorrow.  The company has the ability to ship refined products from
its California refineries to Hawaii. Barbee said the Hawaii
refinery is “assessing inventories to make any adjustments to
deliveries as needed.”  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  slipped 0.5 cent to a premium of 9.5
cents a gallon versus futures.  California-blend diesel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  rose 1 cent to a
discount of 1 cent a gallon against Nymex heating oil futures.
The same fuel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  fell 0.5 cent to a premium of 2.5
cents against futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a discount of 5.5 cents to futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  