-- Santorum Touts U.S. Jobs While Investing in Outsourcing Firms
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-01-21T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/santorum-investing-in-outsourcing-firms.html
Rick Santorum , seeking the votes of
factory workers and laborers in today’s  South Carolina (BEESSC)  primary,
has promoted what he calls his “Made in America” plan to
eliminate U.S. corporate income taxes on manufacturing companies
and reverse the flow of jobs to lower-cost countries.  When he invests, though, Santorum’s put some of his own
money in companies that ship much of their manufacturing work to
factories in China, Thailand,  Malaysia  and other countries.  Of 18 publicly traded stocks listed in the former
Pennsylvania senator’s most recent financial disclosure, six
companies sell fiber-optic equipment and outsource production to
overseas factories-for-hire or operate their own plants abroad.  The payroll at one of Santorum’s investments,  Fabrinet
Inc. (FN) , last year included 5,300 manufacturing workers in
Thailand, 1,200 in China and 30 in the U.S., according to its
latest annual report.  Fabrinet, which makes products under outsourcing contracts
with other manufacturers, got almost 60 percent of its fiscal
2011 revenue from four Silicon Valley corporations:  JDS Uniphase
Corp. (JDSU) ,  Oclaro Inc. (OCLR) ,  Finisar Corp. (FNSR)  and  Opnext Inc. (OPXT)  Santorum owned
shares in all of them, according to the financial disclosure
form he filed last year.  Santorum Response  Santorum said his manufacturing proposals are designed to
give companies a benefit from hiring U.S. factory workers.  “My policies over my political career have been very clear
-- what we’re trying to do is compete, so those companies can
manufacture here in this country,” Santorum said in an
interview. “The fact that I or anybody else invests in
companies that you think are going to help you in your portfolio
-- that’s why you invest. You make public policy for different
reasons.”  Reviving U.S. factories is a central part of Santorum’s
economic message. The grandson of a coal miner, he often speaks
about growing up with blue-collar families in western
Pennsylvania’s steel country.  Santorum was asked during a Jan. 19  South Carolina  debate
about encouraging the use of U.S. manufacturing workers by
companies such as  Apple Inc., (AAPL)  which said in its latest annual
report that “substantially all of the company’s hardware
products” are made by contractors “primarily” based in  Asia .  ‘A Specific Plan’  “I’m the only person on this stage that will do something
about it,” Santorum said. “I’ve got a specific plan in place”
to cut corporate taxes, reduce energy prices and ease
regulations at “exactly these kinds of companies that have
great technology and then go somewhere else to make them because
America is uncompetitive.”  He didn’t mention that he owned between $15,001 and $50,000
worth of Apple stock, according to his most recent disclosure
filing.  Federal personal finance forms allow candidates to reveal
the value of their investments in broad ranges. Altogether,
Santorum owned publicly traded stocks worth between $154,000 and
$710,000, including shares in fiber-optic companies valued at
$11,000 to $165,000.  Santorum bought all of his individual stocks since filing
his last congressional disclosure form at the end of 2006, after
being defeated for re-election to the Senate. While in Congress,
Santorum footnoted disclosure documents to say he invested only
in “widely diversified” mutual funds.  Fiber-optic Investments  If Santorum held on to the equipment stocks, his shares
have been falling as a weak economy slowed spending on fiber-
optic network construction and flooding last October in Thailand
idled two Fabrinet facilities.  Oclaro shares  have plunged 68
percent in the past 12 months. Opnext has dropped 36 percent,
Finisar is down 33 percent, Fabrinet has slumped 28 percent, and
JDS Uniphase has fallen 17 percent.  Santorum also invested in Quebec City, Canada-based  Exfo
Inc. (EXF) , which makes testing and monitoring equipment for fiber-
optic networks and does most of its manufacturing at plants in
Quebec City and Shenzhen, China, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Exfo is down 31 percent in
the past 12 months.  Rivals for the Republican presidential nomination had
scattered investments in computer or other companies that make
many of their products in other countries. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney owned Apple shares, and former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  invested in  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Single Industry  Santorum’s holdings stand out because one-third of his
publicly traded stocks are concentrated in a single industry
that makes a significant share of its products overseas.  Fabrinet, based in Grand Cayman, owned or leased almost 1.1
million square feet for operations in Thailand and  China ,
according to its 2011 annual report, and has plans to expand in
both countries. In the U.S., Fabrinet had a 20,000-square-foot
plant in Mountain Lakes,  New Jersey .  As it turned to outside contractors, Milpitas, California-
based JDS Uniphase’s in-house manufacturing payroll dropped 87
percent to 1,950 people in 2011 from 14,979 in 2001, according
to SEC filings.  “We remain committed to streamlining our manufacturing
operations and reducing costs by using contract manufacturers
where appropriate and consolidating to reduce our footprint and
total fixed costs,” the company said in its 2011 annual report.  Made in Thailand  Products made by Fabrinet in Thailand account for about
half the revenue in JDS Uniphase’s communications and commercial
optical products business, which contributed more than 40
percent of the parent company’s $1.8 billion in 2011 sales.  Finisar employed 6,778 people in Shanghai and in Ipoh,
Malaysia, compared with 712 U.S.-based workers, and plans to
break ground this year on a factory in Wuxi, China, according to
the Sunnyvale,  California , company’s most recent annual report.  Opnext, of Fremont, California, got 43 percent of its
revenue during the quarter ended Sept. 30 from products it hired
Fabrinet to make in  Thailand , according to a regulatory filing.
On its own workforce, 300 of Opnext’s 500 employees are in
 Japan .  Oclaro outsources about 30 percent of its production to
Fabrinet’s factories in Thailand, according to its  SEC filings .
 San Jose , California-based Oclaro’s biggest company-operated
plants are in China, the U.K., Switzerland and  Italy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  