-- Sarkozy Rival Hollande Searches for Crisis Vision Ahead of Political Rally
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-01-20T11:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/sarkozy-election-rival-hollande-searches-for-crisis-vision-ahead-of-rally.html
France ’s slumping economy and
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s near-record-low popularity should
have made his main rival in the presidential elections a shoo-
in. Instead,  Francois Hollande ’s campaign is floundering.  The Socialist Party candidate, whose dominant lead in the
polls is shrinking, will hold his  first large political rally 
near Paris this weekend, seeking to stem the exodus of support.
Hollande, elected the party’s nominee in the October primaries,
summoned his team this week to ask them to end their public
squabbles and pledged to fix his own wrong-footedness on issues
ranging from taxes and nuclear energy to education.  “Hollande hasn’t managed to forge a strong identity,”
said Nicolas Tenzer, a political analyst who runs a think tank
called CERAP, or Centre d’étude et de réflexion pour l’action
politique, in Paris. “He needs to lay out his top measures, the
pillars of his platform, create an image of a statesman.”  With fewer than 100 days before the two-round ballot, 57-
year-old Hollande is struggling to show he’s more than just
“not Sarkozy.” With  Europe ’s second-largest economy probably
in recession and about 61,000 job losses forecast for the first-
half by the national statistics office Insee, Hollande needs to
show he has a game plan to shield France from Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis that’s in its third year, say electors such as
Eveline Bureau, a 60-year-old Parisian grandmother of five.  “We voters want to be sure the next president is fit to
fight this terrible economic crisis,” she said. “We need a
fireman who can put out the economic fire. Hollande must
quickly, urgently show us he has vision, he has solutions.”  Election Polls  French voters go to the polls on April 22 and then again on
May 6 to cast their ballots in a runoff between the two leading
candidates from the first round. France’s last Socialist
President was the late  Francois Mitterrand , who held office from
1981 to 1995.  A poll released Jan. 18 by  Paris-based Ifop  institute for
weekly magazine Paris Match and Europe 1 radio showed that
Hollande would have a 4-point lead on Sarkozy in the first round
with 28 percent of the votes. That’s less than the 6.5
percentage points he had in December, the pollster showed. Ifop
conducted the survey between Jan. 14 and 18.  Hollande has been reluctant to unveil substantive measures
to counter the crisis, inviting criticism from Sarkozy’s camp.  Sarkozy, who hasn’t officially said he’ll seek a second
term, has said repeatedly that he’s best placed to deal with the
crisis, calling himself a “ captain in the storm .” He has
accused Hollande of failing to have a “credible” solution.  On Jan. 13, Standard & Poor’s cut France’s AAA credit
rating in the country’ first-ever downgrade, denting Sarkozy’s
crisis-management credentials.  Hollande’s Proposals  The  Socialist Party  candidate’s chief of staff, Faouzi
Lamdaoui, said in an interview that Hollande will present an
outline of his platform at the Bourget rally on Jan. 22,
followed by “more details” in a Jan. 26 television program.
The party is preparing for about 10,000 supporters to attend the
Bourget speech scheduled for 13:30 p.m.  Hollande’s proposals may include an overhaul of taxes, a
public bank to support industry, 150,000 state-funded youth
jobs, maintaining the 35-hour workweek, increased funding for
culture, a smaller share for nuclear power in France’s energy-
mix and a withdrawal of French troops from  Afghanistan  by 2013.  “First of all we must rethink ways to generate growth in
our country,”  Pierre Moscovici , Hollande’s campaign chief, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview in Paris. He reiterated
Hollande’s pledge to stick to a 2013 deficit target of 3 percent
of gross domestic product. “We will do that through fiscal
policies and spending cuts, we must do both in a balanced way.
Without a reduction of debt we cannot create jobs.”  Call to Merkel  Sarkozy has promised to cut the public deficit to 3 percent
next year and balance the budget in 2018, a year later than
Hollande’s pledge.  Moscovici, seeking to raise the European profile of his
candidate, called on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to meet
with Hollande.  “I think she would be well advised to meet with the man
who could be the next president of France,” he said in the
interview on Jan. 19. “If he’s elected, which is quite likely,
they would have a huge job to do together.”  On a visit to the western town of Nantes yesterday,
Hollande tried to appeal to his base, saying, “My rival isn’t
the incumbent. My rival is finance and the world of money.”  Hollande has had some communications snafus. In November,
the Socialist and Green parties issued contradictory statements
on their pact to cut France’s dependence on nuclear energy,
which provides more than three-quarters of the country’s
electricity. The spat created confusion, pushing  Electricite de
France SA  shares down 9 percent. In January, Hollande
contradicted aides who said he’d scrap a family tax break.  “I think Hollande is simply not ready, or his party
isn’t,” the Parisian grandmother Bureau said. “No matter what
it is, he shoots himself in the foot. I’m just disillusioned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  