-- Scab Check for Poultry to Be Scrapped Under Food-Safety Rule
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-01-20T15:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/scab-check-for-poultry-to-be-scrapped-under-food-safety-rule.html
The U.S. would boost monitoring of
poultry processors’ sanitary practices and contamination
controls instead of eyeballing each bird for scabs and sores
under a plan that would save companies $250 million a year.  U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack said the
proposal, to be presented today, may prevent 5,200 foodborne
illnesses a year by modernizing the century-old system and
making it more efficient. The effort will emphasize safety,
rather than the visual imperfections of chickens and turkeys
that may harm sales.  “It’s obviously about safer food and fewer foodborne
illnesses,” Vilsack said in an interview. “It’s also about
reducing the cost of production in an effective way without
redundancy or compromising safety.”  The U.S. would save as much as $40 million a year within
two or three years, in part through the elimination of
government inspection jobs, Vilsack said. Last week, the
secretary announced a reorganization of his agency that would
lower spending by about $150 million a year, or 1 percent of the
department’s budget. The public will have 90 days to comment on
the proposal.  The USDA would continue to inspect poultry carcasses at the
end of the  production line  before they are chilled and will be
on site at all times, Vilsack said. Slaughter operators have the
option of requesting the U.S. continue visual inspections for
blemishes, according to the proposed regulation.  ‘Historic’ Change  “This is historic,” said  Michael Osterholm , director of
the  Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy  at the
 University of Minnesota  in  Minneapolis , in an interview. “If
you really want to improve our poultry system, this is what you
would do. It’s all about improving food safety. You can’t see
salmonella.”  The value of production from broilers, eggs and turkeys,
and the sale of chickens was $34.7 billion in 2010, according to
the U.S. Poultry and Eggs Association website.  The USDA’s proposal would bring efficiencies to the
inspection system, said Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) , in an e-mail. Tyson, based in Springdale,  Arkansas ,
and the largest U.S. chicken producer by volume, participated in
the pilot program testing the new inspection rules.  More Flexibility  “This modified system reduces redundancies between company
and USDA inspection efforts and gives USDA’s staff more
flexibility to focus on other things that verify the
effectiveness of our food safety activities,” said Mickelson,
adding that Tyson hasn’t seen the proposed regulation.  U.S. efforts to inspect meat and poultry need to be
improved and driven by public health rather than budgetary
concerns, said  Michael Jacobson , executive director of the
Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington consumer
advocacy group, in an e-mail.  “While the changes USDA proposes would save money, it is
critically important that they reduce the unacceptably high
levels of salmonella and campylobacter in chicken and turkey,”
Jacobson said.  The pilot program with 25 poultry processors conducted over
more than a decade found no increased risk of injuries to
workers from the faster production line and showed the effort to
be successful, said Elisabeth Hagen, undersecretary for  food
safety  at the USDA, in an interview.  Outstanding Performance  “The continued outstanding performance of plants
participating in the pilot program justifies the USDA’s
confidence in announcing this proposed rule,” according to
joint statement to be released today by the  National Chicken
Council  and the  National Turkey Federation , both in Washington.  The change would speed up the inspection timeline to 175
chickens per minute from 140, and to 50 turkeys from 45 a
minute.  The agency expects to save $15 million in the first year of
implementation, mainly through lower labor costs, Vilsack said.
Five hundred to 800 inspector positions along with 140
supervisory jobs will be eliminated in large part through
attrition and retirement, he said.  More Training  About 1,500 U.S. inspectors will receive training, as well
as position and pay upgrades, to handle the other oversight
activities, including monitoring companies’ sanitization plans,
temperature controls and surveying points in the process where
contamination may occur or be detected.  Devoting resources to inspection activities off the
assembly line reflects a growing body of science on how
foodborne illness is best prevented, said J. Glenn Morris Jr.,
director of the  Emerging Pathogens Institute  at the University
of  Florida  in Gainesville.  “You can’t see or feel a bad bacteria on a bad chicken,”
said Morris in an interview. “That’s not the way you detect
major problems. Looking at chickens does not solve your food
safety problems.”  Inspectors began visually inspecting poultry for physical
defects in 1906, before it was possible to detect microbial
contamination that can’t be seen and poses a hazard, he said.  The  U.S. Poultry & Egg Association , which represents
producers and processors and is based in Tucker,  Georgia ,
declined to comment until the proposal is released today, said
Gwen Venable, a spokeswoman, in an interview.  Poultry slaughter operations would also have to develop
written procedures to prevent contamination and a program to
control sanitation, as well as sampling and analysis. Such
guidelines are currently voluntary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  