-- Scene Last Night: Jillian Sackler, Keith Banks, Winter Antiques
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-20T16:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/scene-last-night-jillian-sackler-keith-banks-winter-antiques.html
In  Washington  last night, two tomb
figures from the Tang dynasty watched over guests in a
Georgetown townhouse as the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery kicked off
its 25th-anniversary year.  C. Boyden Gray, a former U.S. ambassador to the European
Union, chatted with Chinese storyteller Linda Fang.  Japan ’s
ambassador to the U.S., Ichiro Fujisaki, showed off a white
rubber bracelet thanking the U.S. for its aid after last year’s
earthquakes.  “I pop into the Sackler in between my meetings on the
hill,” said Singapore’s ambassador to the U.S., Chan Heng Chee,
on her way to a dinner she was hosting.  Also at the party were Kit Luce of the Luce Foundation;
David Solo, a Citigroup managing director; Sameh Alfonse,
congressional and media affairs counselor at the League of Arab
States; Selwa “Lucky” Roosevelt, former U.S. chief of
protocol; and Togo West, a former secretary of veterans affairs.  The guest of honor was New Yorker Jillian Sackler, the
widow of Arthur M. Sackler, whose Asian art collection and
donation founded the gallery on the National Mall in 1987 as a
Smithsonian museum. Earlier this month she announced a $5
million gift to the museum.  “My husband was a scientist, and he collected like a
scientist,” Sackler said. “He liked to have a large body of
work to be studied.”  Iranian Silver  Among the treasures Sackler donated: Chinese jades and
Iranian silver. An exhibition of the latter goes on view Feb. 4.  Midway through the party came remarks, at a microphone next
to the living-room fireplace. Julian Raby, the director of the
Sackler and of the Freer Gallery of Art, previewed the year’s
schedule.  “We will have a Japanese spring, an Indian summer and an
Arabian autumn,” Raby said. Some particulars: Hokusai goes on
view in March, paintings from the workshops of Mughal emperors
in July. In October the museum presents ancient artifacts
excavated in modern-day  Saudi Arabia , based on a show organized
by the Louvre and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and
Antiquities.  The hosts of the party were Susan and Michael Pillsbury.  “She’s a royal ballerina, I’m a longtime Defense
Department official,” Michael Pillsbury said before showing off
a wall of photographs of the couple -- with Huli Wigmen in New
Guinea, on safari in Tanzania, among others.  Before guests could hit the sushi in the kitchen -- or take
off to watch the Republican debates -- there was talk of the
Sackler’s 25th-anniversary gala on Nov. 29. Tables are $25,000.  “We’ll have maharajas and majesties and imperial
highnesses,” said Ann Nitze, one of the chairmen of the gala.
“Madhur Jaffrey, the chef, is coming. There’s a Malaysian chef
who’s dying to come, too. Her husband, happily, is a partner at
Goldman Sachs.”  Winter Antiques  In  New York , at the Park Avenue Armory, the Winter Antiques
Show opened with a gala preview benefiting the East Side House
Settlement.  “I haven’t made the rounds yet, I’m trying to be a good
host,” said Keith T. Banks, the event’s chairman and president
of U.S. Trust, the New York-based private wealth management unit
of  Bank of America Corp.  “I hear there are a lot of good things
and I hope people will buy.”  Three sculptures by Calder -- from 1950, 1954 and 1960 --
were on sale for more than $2 million at the booth of Jonathan
Boos, and sold for an undisclosed amount. The seller inherited
the sculptures from her mother, who received them from the
artist in appreciation of her care of his mother, Boos said.  Other items on view: A Dominican hymnal priced at $500,000,
and an orange-and-black art deco carpet by Ivan da Silva Bruhns,
which belonged to the maharajah of Indores. Eddie Keshishian of
Keshishian Carpets was offering the carpet for $1.6 million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story: Amanda Gordon in New York
at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 