-- Schlumberger Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises as Drilling Booms
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-20T21:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/schlumberger-fourth-quarter-earnings-post-increase-as-oil-drilling-booms.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, said fourth-quarter profit
rose 36 percent as higher crude prices pushed  oil companies  to
boost exploration and production spending around the world.  Net income rose to $1.41 billion, or $1.05 a share, from
$1.04 billion, or 76 cents, a year earlier, Houston- and Paris-
based Schlumberger said today in a statement. Excluding charges
related to a write-off of Libya assets, the company earned $1.11
a share, beating by 2 cents the average of 32 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 21 percent to $11 billion.  Oil prices  advanced 10 percent to average $94.06 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in the quarter, up from
$85.24 a year earlier. The average number of active oil and
natural-gas  rigs  around the world rose 15 percent in the final
three months of the year to 3,676, Baker Hughes Inc. data show.  Revenue in its  North America  region, which excludes  Mexico ,
climbed 6 percent to $3.52 billion while the operating profit
margin was $947 million, or 27 percent.  “North America was really the good upside surprise,” John Keller, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in Houston, who rates the
shares at “overweight” and owns none, said in a telephone
interview. “The return of deepwater rigs in the Gulf certainly
added a tailwind during the quarter.” Keller had estimated
revenue of $3.45 billion and a 25 percent margin.  Schlumberger reported its best North American margin
performance in more than four years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  2012 Outlook  “Uncertainty remains over the outlook for 2012 due to the
continuing sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  which places downward
pressure on GDP and oil demand forecasts,” Chief Executive
Officer Paal Kibsgaard said in the statement. “Against this
backdrop, we are planning for growth in 2012, while building the
required flexibility into our resource plans.”  Kibsgaard’s comments were cautious,  Bill Herbert , an
analyst at Simmons & Co. in Houston, wrote today in a note to
clients.  “Management made a reference to ‘building the required
flexibility into’ its ‘resource plans’ in the event of industry
dislocations,” he wrote. “This is code for throttling back on
spending, at a minimum, if warranted.”  The company is expected to earn net income of $1.10 per
share in the first quarter, according to the average of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Kibsgaard told
investors on a conference call that consensus estimates are on
the “high side.”  ‘Added Uncertainty’  “There is some added uncertainty going into Q1 now in
terms of the impact of the accelerating drop in North American
shale-gas activity,” Kibsgaard said on the call. “Generally, I
would say the current consensus is somewhat on the optimistic
side.”  Explorers and producers around the world are expected to
boost annual spending by 9 percent this year to a record $595
billion,  James Crandell  and  Omar Nokta , managing directors at
investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co., wrote in a Jan. 3 note.  Schlumberger helps companies drill for oil and gas,
including using hydraulic fracturing to free the fuel from shale
formations.  Gulf of Mexico   The average number of rigs active in the Gulf of Mexico
climbed 68 percent to 37 in the fourth quarter, compared with 22
a year earlier, according to Baker Hughes.  In the U.S. onshore market, the largest region in the world
for hydraulic fracturing work, Stephens analysts project an 8
percent growth in the number of drilling rigs working this year
compared with 2011.  Schlumberger rose 1.3 percent to close at $73.80 in  New
York . The shares, which have 31 buy ratings from analysts, five
holds and one sell, rose 14 percent during the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  