-- Schwarzman Said to Avert Financial Disclosure in Stock Reshuffle
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-20T19:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/schwarzman-said-to-avert-financial-disclosure-in-stock-reshuffle.html
Stephen Schwarzman , the chief
executive of  Blackstone (BX)  Group LP who said four months ago he
pays an effective personal income  tax rate  of 53 percent, is
taking steps to avoid releasing his personal financial
information, according to a person familiar with the plans.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, is
reducing its  voting rights  in  BankUnited Inc. (BKU)  by converting some
shares so that Schwarzman doesn’t have to disclose his financial
information to the U.S. Federal Reserve, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.  Compensation of private-equity managers and their taxation
has come under scrutiny by U.S. lawmakers, who are considering
proposals to eliminate tax breaks that benefit some of the
richest Americans.  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential
candidate and former Bain Capital LLC CEO endorsed by
Schwarzman, said this month his effective tax rate is close to
15 percent, less than half the top rate on ordinary income.  The rate for private-equity executives can be lower because
a large part of their income is so-called carried interest, or
the share of profits they receive as compensation from the funds
they run. Private-equity funds buy companies, financing the
purchase by borrowing against the acquired assets with the goal
of selling the company later at a profit.  Forbes Billionaire  Schwarzman, 64, had a net worth of $4.7 billion as of
September 2011, according to an  estimate  by Forbes Magazine. He
told CNBC in September that he was taxed at 36 percent by the
U.S. and 17 percent by state and local governments in 2010, and
he endorsed a flat tax as part of comprehensive reform of the
U.S. tax code. Schwarzman earned $398.3 million in 2006, the
year before his firm went public, raising $4.75 billion.  Blackstone, which owns 14.1 percent of BankUnited,
Florida’s second-biggest bank, will convert part of its stake to
nonvoting preferred stock, said the person.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment.  BankUnited was among U.S. lenders that failed during the
U.S. housing market’s collapse, prompting regulators to seize
its operations and sell most of them in 2009 to a group of
private-equity investors.  ‘ Olive Branch ’  Blackstone, Carlyle Group LP, WL Ross & Co. and
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC still hold  stakes  in the bank
totaling more than 50 percent, according to regulatory filings
compiled by Bloomberg. The investors raised about $900 million
in an initial public offering last January, triple what the bank
had registered to sell.  The bank this week ended a sale process after receiving
takeover offers that fell short of the board’s expectations,
according to people with knowledge of the situation. The Miami
Lakes-based company said it will instead focus on building its
business in  Florida .  The Fed requires personal information from bank owners who
hold substantial stakes in order to evaluate the financial
safety of the institutions. Blackstone’s plan to change the
structure of its investment in BankUnited was reported earlier
today by the Wall Street Journal.  In September, Schwarzman extended what he called an olive
branch to President  Barack Obama , writing in a Financial Times
op-ed that he’s willing to “share the pain” of spending cuts
and  tax reform .  “If we are to reform taxes and cut spending sufficiently
to make a difference, virtually everyone will be affected,”
Schwarzman  wrote . “Broad-based tax reform will put everything
on the table, from the rates we pay at every bracket to serious
thinking about a flat tax regime with few or no deductions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@blooomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  