-- Shell Energy Among Firms Lobbying to Avert Swap-Dealer Label
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-01-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/shell-energy-among-firms-lobbying-to-avert-swap-dealer-label.html
Shell Energy North America LP and
Vitol Inc. trade oil and natural gas derivatives alongside  Wall
Street ’s largest banks. Just don’t call them swap dealers.  They are among more than a dozen energy companies lobbying
U.S. regulators to escape the brunt of the clearing, trading and
reporting requirements that will apply to any firm designated as
a swap dealer under the Dodd-Frank Act.  As the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is preparing to
complete the rule that contains the definition, the companies
are stepping up arguments that they should be kept largely
outside the club -- saying they buy and sell derivatives to
reduce business risks, not to facilitate trading like banks.  Energy firms have had more than 30 meetings with regulators
over the last year, testified before congressional lawmakers,
filed hundreds of pages of comment letters and hired a former
member of the CFTC to write an economic study of the rule that
concludes it will harm the swaps market.  “As proposed, the rule would subject a local electric
utility and Goldman Sachs to the same regulation,” said
Representative Frank D. Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican and
chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. “It doesn’t make
any sense, and unless the rule changes significantly, it will
deter the very hedging activities that energy and agriculture
companies employ to reduce the costs of electricity and food for
consumers.”  The energy companies are lobbying alongside community
banks, agricultural commodity traders, farm credit banks and
Wall Street to limit the impact of a rule at the heart of the
derivatives overhaul.  Reducing Risk  Dodd-Frank aims to reduce risk and boost transparency in
the global swaps market after largely unregulated derivatives
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The CFTC and Securities and
Exchange Commission are in the process of completing rules that
seek to have most of the swaps market guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  Gary Gensler , the agency’s chairman, has said the list of
the primary members of the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. , which includes  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, may face regulation as
dealers.  The CFTC  estimates  that about 40 non-bank companies
offering commodity and other swaps will be required to register
as dealers. The $2.7 trillion market for oil, natural gas and
other non-gold commodity derivatives represents less than one-
percent of the $708 trillion global over-the-counter swaps
market, according to the Basel-based Bank for International
Settlements.  Energy Group  The Working Group of Commercial Energy Firms, run by the
 Hunton & Williams LLP  law firm, argues that the companies use
financial derivatives primarily to hedge risks when they trade
underlying physical commodities, such as oil and natural gas,
and should be exempt from dealer regulations suited for Wall
Street. Energy companies buy and sell swaps in transactions that
are driven by their own or customer demands, rather than to hold
themselves out as dealers in order to make markets, the
coalition argues.  The group has argued that the CFTC’s rule, first proposed
in 2010, would undermine Congress’s desire to exempt commercial
and other end-users of derivatives when they hedge risks. Vitol
Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Geneva-based Vitol Group, said its
traders regularly use arbitrage strategies where they have bids
and offers in the physical and derivatives markets at the same
time.  Physical Commodities  “To the extent that Vitol’s active bidding and offering
are motivated by its own interest in entering into a transaction
in a commodity in which it has an active physical presence, it
should not be considered swap dealing,” Miguel Loya, Vitol Inc.
president, said in a letter to the CFTC last February.  Shell Energy, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, argued
that derivatives it uses related to its physical commodity
business shouldn’t be considered dealing because the company
isn’t functioning as an intermediary in markets. “The ordinary
course of business for Shell and its end-user affiliates is not
transacting in swaps,” Robert Reilley, vice president of
regulatory affairs at Shell Energy North America told the agency
last year.  Vitol, Shell, ConocoPhillips and Constellation Energy Group
have met with the CFTC alongside the working group of energy
firms. Cargill Inc., the largest closely held U.S. company,
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal-mining company, and
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most active U.S. oil and natural
gas driller, have also lobbied the CFTC on the swap-dealer rule.  ‘Little Benefit’  In December, National Economic Research Associates Inc.
published a study commissioned by the working group that said
the “expansive” definition proposed by CFTC risked pushing
non-financial physical commodity companies out of energy swap
markets. The study was co-authored by Sharon Brown-Hruska, a
former commissioner and acting chairman of the CFTC. The report
concluded that for each of 26 non-financial firms, the agency’s
proposed definition of a dealer would cost $388 million in
margin, capital and other expenses.  The report found that there would be “little to no
benefit” to including the energy firms as dealers and that
putting them under the definition wouldn’t reduce leverage or
risk in the financial system.  John Parsons , a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said the study exaggerates the costs of the rule.
Companies often have their credit tied up as a promise that they
can support a trade even when they don’t have to post cash or
other forms of collateral, he said. By failing to consider those
expenses, the study overstates the increase in cost to the
companies because of margin requirements that dealers will face.  ‘Achilles Heel’  “The costs are less explicit when you don’t margin, but
they’re there,” he said in a telephone interview. “That’s the
big Achilles heel in the calculation.”  If the CFTC attempted to write an exemption for non-
financial companies, it may risk allowing Wall Street banks that
also trade commodity derivatives to benefit.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , for
example, has positions in oil as well as financial derivatives
tied to  oil prices , according to the bank’s annual reports.  “The major downside is when you carve out a loophole,
everyone rushes inside the loophole,” Parsons said. “However
you’re going to define a physical, non-financial company, people
running financial companies will dress themselves up as non-
financials -- and so you’ll negate the reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  