-- Singapore’s GIC Said to Offer $700 Million in Buyout-Fund Stakes
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-01-20T18:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/singapore-s-gic-said-to-offer-700-million-in-private-equity-fund-stakes.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp ., which manages more than $100 billion of the city-state’s
reserves, is seeking to sell about $700 million in private-
equity holdings, according to three people familiar with the
matter.  The sovereign fund named Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  to manage the
sale, which involves stakes in mostly older buyout and venture-
capital funds, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Among the stakes GIC is
offering are funds from Atlas Venture, Draper Fisher Jurvetson,
WL Ross & Co. and JC Flowers & Co. LLC, the people said.  Large investors in private-equity funds, known as limited
partners, are increasingly selling assets as they seek to reduce
the number of firms they do business with or to comply with new
regulations.  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  last
year sold $800 million in buyout stakes to Amsterdam-based
AlpInvest Partners NV.  Harvard University , the world’s richest
college, is looking to unload more than $1.5 billion in funds.  “A number of larger limited partners have recently sought
to use the secondary market to sell non-core holdings and in
some cases to free up capital for new commitments,” said Andrew Sealey, a managing partner at London-based Campbell Lutyens &
Co., a private-equity advisory firm.  Jennifer Lewis , a spokeswoman for GIC, declined to comment
on the sale.  Harvard Stakes  Harvard Management Co., which oversees the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based university’s $32 billion endowment, is
offering more than $1.5 billion in stakes in predominantly U.S.
venture and buyout funds through UBS, according to an investor
presentation obtained by Bloomberg News.  Funds from Bruckmann, Rosser, Sherrill & Co., Monitor
Clipper Partners LLC, Claremont Creek Ventures and Weston
Presidio Capital are among those being offered, according to the
investor presentation.  Christine Heenan, a spokesman for Harvard Management,
declined to comment on the sale.  Banks have also been big sellers of private-equity assets
as they look to raise money to comply with new regulations that
raise the amount of core capital they’re required to hold.  Secondary Buyers  Buyers looking to acquire the stakes, known as secondary
investors, last year raised about $10.2 billion, according to
Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm. Secondary investors,
including Coller Capital Ltd. and the private-equity unit of  Axa
SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest insurer, are currently looking to
raise $19.2 billion for similar purchases, Preqin said.  In August, Axa Private Equity and LGT Capital Partners Ltd.
agreed to pay 620 million euros ($803.9 million) for a portfolio
of buyout-fund stakes owned by Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank. Two
months earlier, Citigroup sold $1.7 billion of leveraged-buyout
assets and Barclays sold a 460 million-pound ($714.8 million)
portfolio.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s second-biggest
government-owned lender, is considering selling about 500
million euros of similar assets, three people with knowledge of
the firm’s plans said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  