-- Skanska to Book $77 Million Cost for Finland, Norway Unit
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-01-20T09:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/skanska-to-book-77-million-cost-for-finland-norway-unit-1-.html
Skanska AB (SKAB) , the Nordic region’s
biggest construction company, said it will book a 520 million-
kronor ($76.7 million) charge in the fourth quarter after a
review of operations in  Finland  and Norway led to project
writedowns.  A reassessment of the Stockholm-based company’s operation
in Finland by newly installed management resulted in 350 million
kronor in charges, mostly for writedowns and provisions for
commercial-building premises in the Nordic nation and  Estonia ,
it said in a statement today.  “We’ve known for a while they have problems” in Finland
and Norway, said David Zaudy, an analyst at Pareto Securities,
who recommends investors buy Skanska’s shares. “We hope they
now have taken the necessary writedowns and that they now can
proceed and work on profitable projects.”  The losses in  Norway  are related to building projects such
as schools and shopping malls, Skanska Chief Executive Officer
Johan Karlstroem said in an interview in November. Skanska
agreed to fixed prices for the work during the global recession
and now finds that costs are higher than expected, he said then.  Skanska is focusing increasingly on the U.S., and last
month bought Evansville, Indiana-based Industrial Contractors
Inc. for $135 million.  Skanska shares fell as much as 4.5 percent percent, the
biggest intra-day decline since Nov. 3, and was down 2.3 percent
at 117.5 kronor as of 9:32 a.m. in Stockholm. The share have
risen 2.5 percent this year after falling 14 percent in 2011,
valuing the builder at 49.6 billion kronor.  “To improve the profitability in the Finnish and Norwegian
construction units, a major review is ongoing,” Skanska said in
the statement.  “During the quarter both units have performed
deep analysis of the operations as well as the project
portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm   at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  