-- Snow Falling in Chicago, Set for N.Y.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-20T20:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/snow-hits-chicago-today-as-winter-storm-is-projected-for-new-york-tomorrow.html
New York  may receive 4 inches of
snow tomorrow while  Chicago  may get 8 inches today from a storm
that’s causing hundreds of flight cancellations.  Visibility in Chicago dropped to a quarter of a mile as
snow fell at the rate of about an inch (2.5 centimeters) an hour
at midday, said Jamie Enderlen, a National Weather service
meteorologist in Romeoville,  Illinois . Snow will start falling
in  New York City  overnight.  “We’re seeing moderate to heavy snow and that is going to
stick around until 5 p.m.,” Enderlen said by telephone. “That
stretches from Rockford to Chicago.”  At least 600 flights through O’Hare International Airport
were canceled, said FlightAware, which provides airline tracking
data. At Midway International, Southwest Airlines scratched all
70 flights between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Chicago time. according to
the city aviation department.  Winter weather advisories and storm warnings and watches
stretch from western  Iowa  to central  Massachusetts . A weak storm
passed across the eastern U.S. earlier today, leaving a snow
coating in some areas.  Pacific Northwest Ice  An ice storm that struck the Pacific Northwest yesterday
led to the cancellation of at least 192 outbound flights from
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, FlightAware data showed.  Heavy snow across northern  Oregon , Washington and Montana
caused 24- to 36-hour delays on BNSF Railway Co. freight trains,
according to a railroad service advisory.  Snow will start in New York late tonight, said  Tim Morrin ,
a weather service meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “We’re anticipating enough snow to prompt a winter weather
advisory for New York City,” Morrin said by telephone. “We are
expecting a swath of snow to develop after midnight and continue
through midday.”  Boston is forecast to receive 2 to 4 inches of snow
tomorrow. Philadelphia may receive 1 to 3 inches by tomorrow,
 Washington  and Baltimore may receive an inch of ice and
Cleveland may get 3 to 5 inches of snow.  Morrin said New York’s temperatures will rise above
freezing later this weekend, which may clear much of the snow
from roads. Alternate side of the street parking rules were
suspended in New York City for tomorrow to help snow removal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  