-- Soccer, Class Actions Increase, Google-Motorola: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-01-20T13:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/soccer-class-actions-increase-google-motorola-bp-compliance.html
The  New York  Red Bulls, the soccer
team owned by Austrian billionaire Dietrich Mateschitz, must pay
property taxes to Harrison,  New Jersey , a tax-court judge ruled.  The town where the Major League Soccer franchise plays home
games sought $3.6 million in taxes for 2010 and 2011 from the
team, named for Mateschitz’s energy-drink company. The Red Bulls
refused to pay, saying the land where its stadium is located is
owned by the tax-exempt Harrison Redevelopment Agency.  The ruling from Judge Christine Nugent in Newark rejected
that argument as well as the claim that the team-owned stadium
serves a “public purpose” and so should be exempt from taxes.
The next step will determine how much the Red Bulls will pay,
said Al Cifelli, the town’s tax assessor.  “Harrison has had a difficult time as a municipal
entity,” he said by telephone. “This is a shot in the arm.”  Negotiations may take place privately, Cifelli said. The
1.2 square-mile (3.1 square-kilometer) town across the Passaic
River from Newark has said the tax bill should be paid in full.  Harrison, with 13,620 residents, had bet the soccer stadium
would jump-start redevelopment in a community where  per-capita
income  is 63 percent of the state average, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data. The town borrowed $39 million in 2006 to buy
and clean up the site, while Hudson County chipped in $45
million for a parking garage and the team paid $200 million to
build the Red Bull Arena.  Transformation of the surrounding industrial area into a
neighborhood of shops and condominiums hasn’t come to fruition,
with developers’ payments to the town totaling $1.34 million in
the past year, compared with an estimated $11.5 million for 2011
when the project was conceived.  In December, the town had to borrow almost $3 million to
cover debt service on the 2006 borrowing, according to Gabriela
Simoes, Harrison’s finance officer. The municipality’s lack of a
long-term solution to handle its debt triggered a five-level
rating cut by Moody’s Investors Service in May. The new Ba3
score is three steps below investment grade.  Nugent pronounced her ruling at a Jan. 6 hearing, where a
lawyer for the team, Thomas Denitzio, said the Red Bulls would
appeal, according to a transcript. She hasn’t issued a written
decision.  Jurgen Mainka, a team spokesman, said officials of the
franchise weren’t available for comment on the matter.  The case is Red Bull Arena Inc. v. Town of Harrison,
10999-2010, Tax Court of New Jersey, Essex County (Newark).  Compliance Policy  EPA Won’t Enforce Boiler Rule After Court Ruling, Jackson Says  The Environmental Protection Agency pledged not to enforce
its pollution standards on boilers until a reconsidered rule is
issued this year, even after a court said the regulations should
be put in place.  EPA will issue a “no action” letter soon for the measure
introduced last year, and will give companies three years to
comply after the new regulations are issued, EPA Administrator
 Lisa Jackson  said Jan. 18 in a letter to Senator Ron Wyden, an
Oregon Democrat.  “EPA recognizes that industry needs sufficient time to
comply with these standards,” Jackson wrote in the letter,
which was provided yesterday to Bloomberg News.  The U.S. District Court in  Washington  said this month the
EPA violated an order by issuing standards for boilers, used by
paper plants, refiners, schools and hospitals, then delaying
them to reconsider the regulations. New rules are set to be
completed in May, Jackson’s deputy,  Gina McCarthy , said in
Washington yesterday.  Representatives for companies such as  Boise Inc. (BZ)  say the
court decision shows that legislation is necessary.  The EPA proposal and the court’s ruling cause “enormous
confusion and uncertainty,” Donna Harman, president of the
American Forest & Paper Association in Washington, said in a
statement. “These are multibillion-dollar investment decisions
that cannot be made overnight.”  The House of Representatives passed a measure last year to
block U.S. limits on air pollution from industrial boilers and
to delay the replacement standards. A companion  measure  in the
Senate has 41 co-sponsors, although prospects for a vote are
uncertain, with Democrats in the majority and President Barack
Obama’s administration opposed to the House bill.  In its December proposal, the EPA estimated pollution
controls at paper mills, chemical manufacturers and refineries
will cost $1.49 billion a year for cleaning mercury and soot.
Obama said the rule is among the most expensive regulations his
administration is considering.  Compliance Action  EU Restarts Antitrust Review of Google-Motorola Mobility Bid  European Union regulators restarted their antitrust review
of plans by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest maker of smartphone
software, to buy  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc (MMI) .  The European Commission  set  a new deadline of Feb. 13 to
rule on the deal. It stopped the review on Dec. 6 to seek more
information from the companies.  Regulatory reviews mean the purchase by Google is likely to
be completed in 2012, Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility said in November. Google plans to use Motorola
Mobility’s more than 17,000 patents to protect supporters of its
Android software in licensing and legal disputes with rivals
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  -- and also move into the hardware business.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment on the EU review.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for
Motorola Mobility, didn’t immediately respond to a call and an
e-mail seeking comment.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , and Motorola
Mobility in September received a request for additional
information from the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust
division.  China  is also reviewing the deal, Shang Ming, the head
of the country’s Ministry of Commerce’s antimonopoly bureau,
said last month.  Courts  Chinese Issuer, M&A Claims Boost Securities Lawsuits  Securities class-action lawsuits in the U.S. increased 6.8
percent last year, led by claims against companies involved in
mergers and acquisitions and Chinese companies listed on U.S.
exchanges through reverse mergers, a study found.  The lawsuits include M&A claims involving  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Terremark Worldwide Inc. (TMRK) ,  Smurfit-Stone
Container Corp. (SSCC)  and  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT) , and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , according to Stanford Law
School’s Securities Class Action Clearinghouse, which conducted
the study with Cornerstone Research.  M&A-related cases constituted almost 23 percent of the 188
total federal securities class actions filed in 2011,
Cornerstone Research said. That’s unchanged from 2010, when 176
total class actions were filed, according to the study. Overall,
the number of class actions filed last year was 3 percent below
the annual average of 194 filings from 1997 to 2010, the
report’s authors said.  “It’s only the growth of merger-related litigation, which
has historically been brought in state courts, that inflates the
aggregate statistics so that they even approach historic
norms,” Joseph Grundfest, director of the Stanford
clearinghouse, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lawsuits alleging violations of accounting rules and
financial restatements by Chinese issuers account for more than
17 percent of all federal securities class actions, according to
the report. Twenty-four of the 33 lawsuits against Chinese firms
were filed in the first half of 2011, which Grundfest said may
mean that this type of litigation is subsiding.  Only three class actions related to the financial crisis
were filed last year, and overall filings against financial
companies represent 13 percent of 2011’s total, compared with 24
percent in 2010.  BP (BP/) , Anadarko Should Be Held Liable Before Trial, U.S. Says  BP Plc (BP\) , Transocean Ltd. and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  should
be found liable before trial for violations of federal pollution
laws stemming from the April 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill,
lawyers for the U.S. argued yesterday at a hearing in federal
court in New Orleans.  The Justice Department is asking U.S. District Judge  Carl
Barbier  to find the companies violated the Clean Water Act on
the basis of so-called strict liability because they were
operators of the doomed project. Barbier, who’s overseeing much
of the spill litigation, has scheduled a nonjury trial for Feb.
27 to determine liability and apportion fault for the disaster.  A ruling by Barbier against the companies would mean they
couldn’t fight allegations of Clean Water Act violations at the
trial and would allow the U.S. to seek fines of as much as
$1,100 from each company per barrel of oil spilled. The
government has also asked Barbier to find Anadarko and
 Transocean (RIG)  liable under the Oil Pollution Act, a separate
environmental law, for cleanup costs and damages. BP already
accepted responsibility for those costs.  Even if Barbier does rule for the U.S. on its bid for a
pretrial decision, the question of gross negligence, which will
determine whether the companies are subject to enhanced fines
under the Clean Water Act, will be considered at trial.  If Barbier denies the U.S. motion, he’ll determine at trial
which companies can be held liable and thus subject to fines.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
The accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its
partners, including Transocean, the Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded,
and Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the well.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Entergy Wins as Court Rules  Vermont  Can’t Shut Nuclear Plant  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  won a court challenge to the state of
Vermont’s right to overrule federal regulators and shut down its
only nuclear power station.  U.S. District Judge Garvan Murtha in Brattleboro, Vermont,
ruled yesterday that state legislators lacked the authority to
deny Entergy a license to operate the reactor after March 2012.
He conducted a three-day trial without a jury in September.  Entergy, based in New Orleans, sued Vermont’s governor,
Peter Shumlin, its attorney general, William Sorrell, and
members of its Public Service Board in April 2011, charging that
the state didn’t have the authority to overrule the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, which renewed Entergy’s license this year
to operate the power station until 2032.  “Vermont’s attempt to shut down operations at the Vermont
Yankee Station through regulatory or legislative denial of a
Certificate of Public Good is preempted by the federal Atomic
Entergy Act,” Entergy argued in court papers.  Entergy said that  Vermont Yankee , the state’s only nuclear
power plant, supplies about 33 percent of Vermont’s electricity.
It employs 650 people and pays about $13 million a year in state
fees and taxes. The plant is in Vernon, on the Connecticut River
in the southeastern corner of the state.  In a statement, the governor said he was “very
disappointed” in the ruling.  “Entergy has not been a trustworthy partner with the state
of Vermont,” Shumlin said in the statement, adding that he
believes that “it is in Vermont’s best interest to retire the
plant.”  Shumlin said he will wait for Sorrell, the attorney
general, to review the ruling before deciding whether to appeal.  Sorrell ordered more oversight of the nuclear plant after
the discovery of the radioactive hydrogen isotope tritium in
monitoring wells, the company said in court papers.  The case is Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee LLC v. Shumlin,
1:11-00099, U.S. District Court, District of Vermont
(Brattleboro).  U.S. Defends Use of Wiretap Evidence in Gupta Prosecution  U.S. prosecutors opposed a bid by former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta to block use in his criminal
case of wiretap evidence obtained from the mobile phone of
convicted inside trader  Raj Rajaratnam .  Six different judges authorized the wiretaps because they
are particularly appropriate in investigating insider trading,
which requires communication and is often difficult to detect
and prove beyond a reasonable doubt, the government said
yesterday in a filing opposing Gupta’s request to suppress the
evidence.  Gupta, who also sat on the board of  Procter & Gamble Co .
and led McKinsey & Co., was indicted by a federal grand jury in
October on five counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing inside
information to Rajaratnam. Gupta also faces a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rajaratnam, the former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
manager, was convicted last year of directing the biggest
insider-trading ring in a generation. It was one of the first
insider-trading cases in which the government made extensive use
of wiretaps.  Gupta’s lawyers said Jan. 3 that the court’s rejection of a
similar bid by Rajaratnam to bar the intercepts as evidence
during his trial was incorrect. Federal laws restricting use of
wiretaps don’t permit them in investigations of suspected
insider trading, according to Gupta’s filing.  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office after regular business hours
yesterday seeking comment on the government’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Judge Denies ‘Occupy’ Request to Allow Courthouse Rally  A group calling itself “Occupy the Courts” lost a bid to
force the U.S. to issue a permit for a rally planned for outside
a New York federal courthouse today.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan yesterday denied a last-
minute request by the group and by Jarret Wolfman, an organizer
of the rally, for a court order compelling the U.S. General
Services Administration to allow it to take place today outside
the courthouse, on Pearl Street in lower Manhattan.  The event, intended to coincide with similar protests
outside 120 U.S. courthouses in 46 states, was planned to begin
in the plaza outside the Daniel Patrick Moynihan U.S. Courthouse
between 4 and 6 p.m. today, then move to a march and rally at
nearby Foley Square. Organizers said they want to call attention
to a 2010 Supreme Court decision that made it easier for
corporations to spend money in election campaigns.  “The purpose of the day of action is to mark the second
anniversary of the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) ’s infamous Citizens United
v. Federal Election Commission decision that opened the
floodgates to unlimited corporate money in elections,” Occupy
the Courts said in a complaint filed with the court Jan. 18.  Kaplan ruled that the area outside the courthouse, which he
said is a potential terrorist target, isn’t a public forum. As a
result, the government may impose restrictions on free speech if
they are reasonable and content-neutral, he said. Kaplan said
that no permit has ever been issued for a demonstration outside
the courthouse. He cited the government’s security concerns in
refusing to order a permit.  Kaplan said that Occupy the Courts has adequate alternative
locations for the rally, including the sidewalk in front of a
nearby federal courthouse, which is currently closed for
renovations.  Wolfman, asked after the hearing what he planned to do in
response to Kaplan’s ruling, said “I don’t know yet.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s office, which represented the government in the case,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Wolfman v. French, No. 12-CV-443, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  