-- Solar Stocks Plunge as Germany Vows to Quicken Subsidy Cuts
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-20T16:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/solar-stocks-plunge-worldwide-as-germany-accelerates-rate-cuts.html
Solar stocks plunged around the
world after Germany, the largest market for panels, said it will
make quicker cuts to subsidized rates and phase out support for
the industry by 2017.  Chinese manufacturers listed in  New York  fell for a second
day, with  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and JA Solar Holdings Co. skidding at
least 17 percent over the two-day period.  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800) , which makes the raw material for most panels,
fell the most since November in  Hong Kong . In Europe,  Meyer
Burger Technology AG (MBTN) ,  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) 
dropped at least 5.3 percent each today.  German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said last
night that he planned to reduce feed-in tariffs providing above-
market prices for solar power every month instead of twice a
year as he does now. He said he’s working to curb an
“unacceptable” surge in installations last year.  “It was clear that Roettgen would accelerate feed-in
tariff digressions which would remove the bloom from the rose,”
 Jesse Pichel , an analyst for Jefferies Group Inc., said today.
“This will remove the ability for the German market to
materially upside estimates.”  Yesterday’s decision indicated ministers are speeding up
efforts to restrain the boom in installations after developers
added 7.5 gigawatts of panels last year, surpassing the 3
gigawatts that Roettgen said would be acceptable.  Government Concern  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler has said spiraling costs
linked to solar subsidies are a threat to the economy. Roettgen
on Jan. 18 indicated concern that the funds are benefiting
Chinese companies.  “The increase in installations in the past few years has
gone far beyond what we had targeted in our legislation,”
Roettgen said yesterday. He said the subsidy overhaul would be
handled “quickly.”  Gordon Johnson , the Axiom Capital Management Inc. analyst
who last week removed his “sell” recommendation on  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR)  for the first time since 2008, cut his guidance again,
giving five other solar companies a “sell” rating too.  “That was short,” he said in a note to clients. “We
believe a severe cut in global demand is near.”  The higher frequency in cuts will do away with the year-end
rushes of the past and may help bring installation “closer
toward” the government’s target, Solarworld Chief Executive
Officer Frank Asbeck said by phone yesterday.  Meyer Burger, SMA  In Zurich, Meyer Burger skidded as much as 8.7 percent, the
largest drop since Dec. 1 by Europe’s biggest maker of solar-
panel manufacturing equipment, and closed down 6.6 percent to
17.80 francs.  In Frankfurt trading, SMA,  Germany ’s largest solar company,
fell as much as 7.1 percent, the most in a week. Solarworld, the
country’s leading panel maker, dropped as much as 9.3 percent,
the biggest drop in two months.  Worldwide, photovoltaic panels installations rose more than
50 percent to a record 28 gigawatts last year, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance estimates. Germany added 3 gigawatts in December
alone as developers rushed to take advantage of subsidized rates
before the cuts take affect.  A surge in output from Chinese manufacturers such as
 Suntech Power Holdings Ltd. (STP)  led to a crash in prices, squeezing
margins for German and U.S. producers.  Solar-equipment makers in the U.S. are pursuing a trade
complaint through the U.S. Commerce Department aimed at curbing
what they say is Chinese dumping of goods abroad. Solarworld is
seeking to team with European peers to initiate anti-dumping
proceedings in  Europe .  ‘Solar Junk Rally’  “We continue to believe the recent solar junk rally has
not priced in the risk of potential anti-dumping and
countervailing duties as well as further feed-in tariffs cuts in
Europe,  Italy  is next,” Pichel said in a note to investors.  A slowdown in the German and Italian markets, which
accounted for about half of worldwide installations last year,
is bound to hurt the industry. Germany targets 2.5 to 3.5
gigawatts a year and seeks to phase out subsidies by 2017,
Roettgen said.  The minister will propose aggressive cuts to fend off the
“very real possibility” of a cap on installations, Pichel
said.  The country was expected to cut tariffs by 15 percent in
July, following a 15 percent reduction that took effect Jan. 1.
Under the current law, lower rates are imposed automatically by
above-target installations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  