-- Sony’s Credit Rating Cut to Baa1 by Moody’s; Panasonic Also Downgraded
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-01-20T09:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/sony-s-credit-rating-cut-to-baa1-by-moody-s-panasonic-also-downgraded.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  had
their  credit rating s cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service
on concern they will have difficulty turning around their
unprofitable television businesses.  Sony’s long-term rating was lowered to “Baa1,” the third-
lowest among Moody’s 10 investment grades, the rating company
said in a statement today. Moody’s also downgraded Panasonic’s
rating one level to “A2,” the sixth-highest.  Moody’s assigned a “negative” outlook to Sony and
expressed concern whether the Tokyo-based company will be able
to restore earnings and cash flow. Last month, Chief Executive
Officer  Howard Stringer  sold a panel joint venture to  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  as part of a revamp of the TV business after the
maker of Bravia TVs forecast a fourth consecutive annual  loss , a
first since it began trading in 1958.  “Sony has to rebuild its electronics segment, especially
the television business,”  Yoshiharu Izumi , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in Tokyo today.  Last month,  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Sony to one level
above junk, citing difficulties reviving a money-losing TV
business and deals that won’t improve profit.  “Sony’s earnings will remain weak and volatile due largely
to its loss-making TV business, which is grappling with severe
competition, sharp price declines, and a strong yen,” according
to Moody’s.  Shares Tumble  Sony shares  rose 3.1 percent to 1,367 yen and Panasonic
jumped 4 percent to 653 yen in Tokyo trading today. The
downgrades were announced after the stock market closed. Sony’s
stock fell 53 percent last year, compared with a 26 percent jump
in  Apple Inc. shares , an 11 percent gain for Samsung, and a 43
percent tumble for Panasonic.  In November, Sony predicted a fourth consecutive  annual
loss  of 90 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in the year ending in
March 2012, reversing an earlier  forecast  for a profit of 60
billion yen, citing worsening demand for TVs. Sony is the
world’s No. 3 TV maker behind Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Sony had also lowered its annual sales target for TVs,
personal computers, compact cameras and Blu-ray DVD players.  Standard & Poor’s  put Sony’s “A-” long-term ratings on
review in November for a possible downgrade, saying there are no
signs of a halt to the deterioration in earnings at the TV
operations.  Panasonic’s Finances  Mami Imada, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sony, and Akira
Kadota, a Panasonic spokesman, declined to comment on the
Moody’s downgrades.  Moody’s said the outlook on Panasonic’s rating is also
negative, and the downgrade reflected a weakness in the
company’s financial profile, which “deteriorated” since the
acquisition of stakes in its two major subsidiaries Panasonic
Electric Works Co. and Sanyo Electric Co.  Panasonic’s net debt rose to about 550 billion yen in the
year ended March 2011 from about 100 billion yen in the prior
year, according to the statement.  In October, the maker of Viera TVs forecast an annual net
loss of 420 billion yen, citing the impact of a stronger yen and
competition in its overseas digital products business. The
company disclosed plans in April to eliminate 17,000 jobs to
revive profitability.  “Panasonic is unlikely to restore its financial profile in
a timely manner,” Moody’s said. “Among the most prominent
reasons are continued losses in its TV business and declines in
earnings from its semiconductor business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  