-- South Carolina’s Monocot Stands Above Politics: Constance Casey
-- B y   C o n s t a n c e   C a s e y
-- 2012-01-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/south-carolina-monocot-stands-over-politics-commentary-by-constance-casey.html
Palmetto State is one of those handy
appellations, like Granite State for  New Hampshire , used by
commentators tired of saying South Carolina over and over.  So the name palmetto is being repeated many times before
the primary election on Saturday, often by people who wouldn’t
know a palmetto from a dahlia.  But the palmetto ( Sabal palmetto ), the most common tree in
the coastal plain of the Southeast, is worth knowing. It has
qualities -- flexibility, adaptability, tolerance -- that the
candidates in the Republican primary would do well to cultivate.  Andrew Henderson, a scientist at the New York Botanical
Garden and the author of “Evolution and Ecology of Palms,” calls
palmettos “rugged, sturdy beasts.” He notes that they’re the
first plants to come back in deforested parts of  Haiti .  These palms thrive in sandy, nutrient-poor soil and stand
up to salt spray and wind. That tree you see whipping around in
the background behind the reporter covering a hurricane is
almost always a palmetto.  State Monocot  Of the 2,800 palm species, it is not the most beautiful --
it’s not as elegant as the towering  Mauritia flexuousa , let
alone the lissome  Euterpe precaetoria . But its arching mega
leaves, up to 6 feet long and 3 feet wide, produce much oxygen,
and its roots brace the coastal soil. The palmetto’s soft core
even provides food in the form of hearts of palm.  Although it is the state tree of  South Carolina , the
palmetto is not strictly a tree. Like all palms, it’s a monocot,
with a main structure more like a thick stem than a trunk. Palms
don’t add rings; an oak tree trunk gets wider and wider, while
palms start out thick.  Sometimes plants seem not only unimportant but also
invisible to us. Show people a jungle scene with trees, vines,
bushes, flowering plants and one monkey, then ask them what it‘s
a picture of, and they will say: It’s a picture of a monkey.
Show  Rick Santorum  or  Mitt Romney  beside a palmetto, and people
will say: It’s a picture of Santorum or Romney.  Yet the palmetto played an important part in U.S. history.
It became South Carolina’s state tree, or more precisely its
monocot, to commemorate a battle in the American Revolutionary
War, in which a fort built of Palmetto logs on Sullivan’s Island
proved impervious to assault. Cannonballs fired from British
ships simply sank into the soft wood.  The palmettos Romney and the other Republican candidates
may notice in South Carolina this week and soon in  Florida  are
the product of at least 60 million years of natural selection.
They are, in other words, at least 59 million years older than
Homo sapiens.  For anyone who thinks our presidential selection progress
lasts too long, this provides some perspective. The palmetto in
its current form is a winner in that very long, slow election
process, evolution.  (Constance Casey, a former New York City Parks Department
gardener, is a contributing editor at Landscape Architecture
magazine. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Constance Casey at  constancecasey927@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 