-- South Sudan Plans to Shut Down Crude Output Over Oil Dispute With Sudan
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-20T16:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/south-sudan-plans-to-shut-down-crude-output-over-oil-dispute-with-sudan.html
South Sudan  plans to stop oil
production after  Sudan  started seizing southern crude and
demanded $32 per barrel in transport fees on shipments through
its territory, Oil Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau said.  South Sudan told  oil companies  yesterday to prepare plans
to shut down operations, Dau told reporters today in the
capital, Juba. Sudan “has stolen” more than $350 million worth
of oil in recent days and prevented $400 million in shipments
from leaving the export terminal at Port Sudan.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels a day when it seceded in July. The
crude is pumped mainly by  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) ,
 Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp.   “Our people may best be served by keeping the oil in the
ground,” Dau said. “At least then, it will still be there,
either when Sudan is ready to deal with us fairly or when we
have our own infrastructure that will ensure that the people
reap the true benefits of their oil.”  The halt to output will take at least a week for technical
reasons, and won’t happen until South Sudanese President Salva Kiir has met his Sudanese counterpart, Umar al-Bashir, in
 Ethiopia  on Jan. 27, government spokesman Barnaba Marial
Benjamin said by phone today. The two countries are currently
negotiating oil issues in  Addis Ababa .  No Progress  Talks so far have failed to yield an agreement on the
amount landlocked South Sudan will pay to transport its oil
through a pipeline across Sudan to the Red Sea.  Sudan will continue to seize South Sudanese oil until the
two sides reach agreement on the oil-transit fees, Sudanese
Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid Murawih told reporters in
Khartoum on Jan. 18.  “South Sudan has the right to do whatever it wants with
its crude oil,” Murawih said today by phone. “But we strongly
believe that this is just a threat as a decision like this will
harm South Sudan more than anyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  