-- South Africa Will Meet Debt Obligations of Road Agency Amid Tolls Dispute
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-20T12:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/south-africa-will-meet-debt-obligations-of-road-agency-amid-tolls-dispute.html
South Africa ’s government will meet
all the debt obligations of its roads agency following the
indefinite postponement of its flagship toll project, the
Department of Transport said.  The South African National Roads Agency has sold 20 billion
rand ($2.5 billion) of bonds since 2008, half of which is
government-backed, to build the Gauteng Freeway Improvement
Project. It intended to use tolling revenue to repay debt and
interest. Tolling, due to start next month, was postponed this
week following public opposition, leading Sanral, as its known,
to cancel its March bond auction.  “The debt will be paid,” Logan Maistry, spokesman for
Transport Minister Sbu Ndebele, said in a phone interview. “As
government, we are committed to meeting all obligations to all
stakeholders. The Sanral board is exploring different modalities
and will present its findings to the minister.”  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday placed Sanral on review
for a possible rating cut, saying the decision to delay tolling
will pressure cash flows. Sanral has enough cash to meet
operating and debt servicing costs until June, Moody’s analyst
Kenneth Morare said in a statement.  The state-owned agency’s bonds are rated A3, the fourth-
lowest investment-grade assessment, by Moody’s, equal to South
Africa’s rating. The company has 29.8 billion rand of bonds,
1.86 billion of which matures in 2013 and 1.34 billion rand in
2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield-Gap Widens  The extra yield investors demand to hold the agency’s 4.1
billion rand of 12.25 percent notes due 2028, rather than
government securities of similar maturity, widened to 1.10
percentage point today, from 1.08 yesterday.  The yields on Sanral bonds probably don’t reflect
investors’ perception of the risk of holding them as trading in
the debt is illiquid, said Rashaad Tayob, who oversees about 800
million rand of fixed-income investments at Aeon Asset
Management Ltd. in  Cape Town . Tayob doesn’t hold Sanral bonds.  “We are seeing offers in the market, so people are looking
to sell,” Tayob said in a phone interview. “But you’d have to
be compensated for the increased risk. If they want to get out
of them, they’d have to take that knock.”  Most investors are probably holding onto the bonds,
expecting the government to provide cash to Sanral to service
its debt, Tayob said.  “It is a fully state-owned enterprise so people would
presume that there is an implicit guarantee even for that
portion that is not state-backed,” he said. “Even so, it is
unlikely that the tolling issue will be resolved until after the
next election, so if you buy the debt now, you sit with that
uncertainty for two years.”  Sanral’s communications manager, Priya Pillay, did not
immediately respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  