-- South Carolina Primary Historically Is Must-Win for Nomination
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-20T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/south-carolina-primary-historically-is-must-win-for-nomination.html
Tomorrow’s presidential primary in
 South Carolina  opens the Republican balloting in the South,
extending a tradition that dates to 1980 in the heart of the
nation’s most Republican-friendly region.  Since the party’s primary began there that year, every
candidate who has won it has gone on to be the party’s
presidential nominee.  For former Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney , a South
Carolina win would solidify his position as the leader in
 national polls  of the Republican race. And South Carolina’s
historical influence on the party’s presidential pick has raised
the stakes for former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and
former  Pennsylvania  Senator Rick Santorum, who both have said
they will reassess their candidacies if they don’t win the
contest.  Here’s a closer look at the South Carolina primary and its
mechanics:  Who may participate in the Republican primary?  Any registered voter may participate; South Carolina
doesn’t register voters by party. There were 2,722,344
registered voters as of Jan. 1, according to the South Carolina
State Election Commission. Polling places will be open from 7
a.m. to 7 p.m. local time.  How many voters will show up?  Karen Kedrowski, a political scientist at Winthrop
University in Rock Hill, and David Woodard, a political
scientist at  Clemson University  and a Republican political
consultant, have predicted about 500,000 voters will
participate.  Woodard said that while he had initially anticipated a
higher turnout, some voters have been turned off by a race he
called “the dirtiest I’ve seen in 25 years, by far.”  Turnout was 445,499 in the 2008 Republican primary, which
eventual nominee  John McCain , an Arizona senator, won with 33
percent to 30 percent for former Arkansas governor  Mike Huckabee . Romney scaled back his South Carolina operation in the
final days of the 2008 campaign and placed fourth, with 15
percent, behind former Tennessee Senator Fred Thompson’s 16
percent.  Republican turnout should be higher than in 2008 in part
because Democrats aren’t holding a primary to compete for the
votes of political independents. President  Barack Obama  is
unopposed for the Democratic nomination. In 2008, Obama won a
high-profile Democratic primary that drew 532,151 voters.  Tomorrow’s turnout may fall short of the record 573,101 who
voted in the 2000 Republican primary, in which then-Texas
Governor  George W. Bush  defeated McCain en route to winning the
nomination and the presidency.  How are Republican voters spread throughout the state?  The biggest bloc of Republican votes is in Greenville
County, located in the state’s northwest and the source of
59,038 of 445,499 votes in the 2008 primary. Spartanburg County,
located directly east of Greenville, cast 30,161 votes in 2008,
the fourth-highest total. Voters in this area tend to be
motivated by social issues such as opposition to abortion rights
and gay marriage; both counties voted for Huckabee four years
ago and together will cast about 20 percent of the statewide
vote. Gingrich and  Rick Santorum , a former U.S. Senator from
Pennsylvania, need to do well there.  “That’s where you’re going to see the Santorum-Gingrich
showdown,” Kedrowski said.  Romney is expected to run more strongly in Lexington and
Richland Counties, which take in the Columbia capital area and
together account for about one-seventh of the vote. Charleston
County, a coastal county where Romney finished second to McCain
in 2008, casts about 8 percent of the vote.  Romney is “really trying to duplicate the McCain strategy
of focusing on the coast and the Columbia area and using that to
carry the rest of the state,” Kedrowski said.  Other major sources of votes include Horry County, which
takes in Myrtle Beach in the state’s northeastern corner;
Anderson County, which abuts Greenville to the west; and York
County, which takes in  Rock Hill  and is in the  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , media market. In the 2008 primary, McCain won Horry
and Huckabee won Anderson and York.  In an exits poll four years ago, 60 percent of the voters
in the Republican primary described themselves as born-again or
evangelical Christians. Huckabee won that bloc by 43 percent to
27 percent over McCain, with Romney, a Mormon, placing fourth at
11 percent. Among the 40 percent who said they were not born-
again or evangelical Christians, McCain beat Huckabee by 43
percent to 14 percent, with Romney taking 20 percent.  How many delegates are at stake?  South Carolina Republicans will send 25 delegates to the
national convention, or 1.1 percent of the national total of
2,286. The  Republican National Committee  stripped South Carolina
Republicans of half their delegates because they’re holding a
primary before Feb. 1, in violation of national party rules.  How are the delegates allocated among the candidates?  South Carolina uses a “winner-take-all” system to award
delegates. A candidate is awarded 11 delegates for winning the
primary, plus two delegates for each congressional district won.
South Carolina has seven districts beginning with the 2012
election.  South Carolina allocates its delegates differently than  New
Hampshire , which awarded its 12 delegates in proportion to the
vote share candidates received in the Jan. 10 primary. Iowa’s
Jan. 3 caucuses were non-binding and didn’t award any of the
state’s 28 Republican delegates to candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  