-- Stanford Investors Endure ‘Living Hell’ on Eve of Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-20T15:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/stanford-s-investors-endure-living-hell-waiting-to-receive-their-money.html
R. Allen Stanford’s investors, after
waiting three years to see the  Texas  financier go to trial on
charges of leading a $7 billion fraud, must hold on even longer
before learning when they will get some of their money back.  Stanford’s customers have received nothing since the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission closed his businesses in
February 2009.  Stanford, accused of misleading people who bought
certificates of deposit from his Antigua-based bank, spent their
money on bad investments, sports sponsorships and a lavish
lifestyle that included yachts, a fleet of jets, mansions and a
private Caribbean island, U.S. prosecutors said. Jury selection
in his criminal trial is scheduled to start Jan. 23 in federal
court in Houston. Stanford, who denies any wrongdoing, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  “It’s not fair that we have to be put through this living
hell,” said Blaine Smith of  Louisiana , who claims to have lost
$1 million in life savings invested with Stanford.  A court-appointed receiver for Stanford Group Co. has spent
at least $103 million on litigation, wind-down costs and other
expenses, while collecting less than $212 million in cash and
material assets since the SEC sued Stanford in February 2009.  Fee Summary  The expenditures include professional fees and expenses of
$52.1 million through October, with $1.3 million of this going
to receiver Ralph Janvey’s firm, Dallas-based Krage & Janvey
LLP, according to a Bloomberg review of court records. That sum
covers the $21.3 million Janvey asked court permission to pay
his primary outside  law firm , Houston-based Baker Botts LLP, for
work done from Feb. 17, 2009, to Sept. 30, 2011.  The total also includes $21 million Janvey requested in
fees and expenses for FTI Consulting Inc., which provided
forensic accounting, asset tracing, electronic evidence-
processing and support services during the same period,
according to Bloomberg’s review.  Unlike Stanford, repayment processes have moved forward for
claimants in the Bernard L. Madoff fraud case and the bankruptcy
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the parent of commodities broker MF
Global Inc.  Madoff’s court-appointed liquidator,  Irving Picard , has
recovered $8.7 billion of the estimated $17 billion lost and has
distributed $325.5 million to victims, according to his  website .
Madoff’s fraud ended when he was arrested in December 2008.  MF Global Payments  Customers of New York-based  MF Global (MFGLQ) , which collapsed in
October, have already received $3.8 billion of the $6.5 billion
they claim, according to that firm’s liquidation trustee, James
Giddens.  An attorney for Janvey said last week that it’s too soon to
say when investors may see some of the money.  “I know that’s frustrating,” said Janvey’s lawyer Kevin Sadler, a Baker Botts partner. “Investors want to know when and
how much.”  Sadler and Janvey in November, under pressure by U.S.
District Judge David Godbey in  Dallas  to start compensating
investors, sought court permission to set up an investor
repayment plan and establish a claim filing cut-off date.  Sadler estimated that Stanford investors are owed about $5
billion in principal. Lack of certainty as to the total value of
allowed claims and the amount of money available to pay them
make putting a dollar value or even a ratio on the repayment
rate impossible at this time, Sadler said.  Receiver Report  On Nov. 11, the receiver submitted to Godbey a report
stating it had $114.5 million in cash on hand and $96.6 million
in other assets as of Oct. 31.  The largest known pot of Stanford assets is the financier’s
foreign accounts, which are largely beyond Janvey’s reach.  Control of the $335 million to $350 million in European
accounts was awarded by U.K. and Swiss courts to Stanford
International Bank Ltd. liquidators appointed by an Antiguan
branch of the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court.  Edward Davis, the liquidators’ Miami lawyer, said in a
phone interview this month that Stanford’s almost 22,000 global
depositors could be paid as soon as the second quarter of this
year.  His clients, Marcus Wide and Hugh Dickson, accountants in
the global accounting firm  Grant Thornton , on Jan. 18 announced
the creation of claim-filing forms.  Appointed to Liquidate  Wide and Dickson were appointed to liquidate Stanford’s
bank after the tribunal’s original choice, London-based Vantis
Plc, collapsed. Wide is managing director of Grant Thornton
( British Virgin Islands ) Ltd. on Tortola and Dickson is a
partner in Grant Thornton U.K. LLP, according to the Stanford
bank liquidation  website .  At current recovery levels, investors would receive about
10 percent of their money, more if the liquidators are able to
invest small amounts of recovered funds to make it easier to
sell some Stanford properties, Davis said.  To stop asset recovery and rehabilitation efforts to pay
investors now, Davis said, “would be a horrible failure for the
victims.”  Wide and Dickson, using $20 million from frozen Stanford
accounts advanced by a London court last year to fund their
operations, have spent about $7.2 million to recover $148
million in cash and assets, Davis said.  His clients are fighting with Janvey for control of assets
in the U.K.,  Switzerland  and  Canada .  Sparring in Court  They’re also sparring before Godbey, who last month heard
arguments over whether Houston or Antigua should be declared the
true “center of interest” of Stanford’s operations, which will
determine which receiver gets control of the estate. An attempt
to resolve that dispute through mediation failed.  “I’m sad to hear the mediation didn’t work,” the judge
told the attorneys then. “I’m sadder that the money going to
this to pay lawyers is not going to compensate the victims.”  In separate interviews, Sadler and Davis declined to
specify the reasons for the lack of comity between their
clients.  “We are still exploring ways in which we can reach an
overall cooperative protocol,” and a means for avoiding
duplicative efforts, Sadler said. “We have not reached that
yet.”  “We tried to have a dialogue. We’ve gotten nowhere,” said
Davis, “nowhere near a palatable deal.”  Following Cases  J. Samuel Tenenbaum, a Northwestern University law
professor in  Chicago , has been following the Madoff, Stanford
and MF Global cases. He also directs the school’s Investor
Protection Center, which assists those with limited income or
small claims who are unable to obtain legal counsel.  Madoff’s fraud, he said, was easier to unwind because the
stolen money remained within a defined circle of people where it
could be identified and recovered.  “With Stanford, it’s more complicated,” said the
professor, who is also affiliated with the Chicago firm  Chuhak &
Tecson . “He blew through the money. He either lost it or he
spent it.”  In such cases, a coordinated global response is needed
because otherwise recovery costs increase, Tenenbaum said.  “There should be one overall receiver for  Allen
Stanford ,” he said.  The U.S. Securities Investor Protection Corp., or SIPC, had
previously taken the position that the Stanford investors
weren’t covered by its enabling Securities Investor Protection
Act. SIPC committed to pay Madoff claimants almost $800 million,
according to Picard’s website.  Final Decision  SIPC said in July that it would reconsider and make a final
decision in September. That month passed without a ruling.  On Dec. 13, the SEC sued SIPC, seeking another path to aid
the victims’ recovery. The SEC asked a federal judge in
 Washington  for an order forcing the agency to create a claims
process for Stanford’s alleged victims. A hearing is scheduled
for Jan. 24.  Meanwhile, Stanford investor Blaine Smith, a custom-home
builder, lost the house he built for himself in a foreclosure.
His wife has postponed her retirement.  He searches for odd jobs and writes increasingly desperate
e-mails to regulators and politicians he hopes can talk
Stanford’s receiver into dropping clawback lawsuits against the
investors, or persuade SIPC to cover his losses.  “We can’t take any more abuse,” he said.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The receivership jurisdiction case
is In re Stanford International Bank Ltd., 3:09-cv-00721, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 