-- Switzerland’s SMI Declines From a Six-Month High as UBS, Petroplus Retreat
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-20T17:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/switzerland-s-smi-declines-from-a-six-month-high-as-ubs-retreats.html
Stocks in Switzerland  dropped,
dragging the Swiss Market Index from a six-month high, amid
concern that this year’s rally has pushed share prices beyond
the outlook for economic growth and company earnings.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  slid 4 percent as European regulators started a
review of its Gilenya pill for multiple sclerosis.  Meyer Burger
Technology AG (MBTN)  fell 6.6 percent as Germany said it will cut solar
subsidies more frequently.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  fell 1.4 percent.  The  SMI (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most actively traded
companies, dropped 1.2 percent to 6,122.67 at the close in
Zurich, after yesterday climbing to its highest level since July
7. The gauge still rallied 2.1 percent this week amid signs that
the  U.S. economy  is recovering and on speculation that China
will ease lending curbs to spur economic growth. The broader
Swiss Performance Index slipped 1 percent today.  “There has been some OK data from the U.S. and  China  is
talking about easing their monetary policy,” said Peter Garnry,
an equity strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in Hellerup, Denmark. “We
think this short-term rally doesn’t have much fuel to go.” He
spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Novartis retreated 4 percent to 52.05 Swiss francs, the
biggest drop since August. The European Medicines Agency started
a review of Gilenya after 11 deaths among patients who received
treatment.  Meyer Burger,  Europe ’s largest maker of solar-panel
equipment, dropped 6.6 percent to 17.80 francs as Germany said
it will cut solar subsidies more frequently in an effort to slow
installations that reached a record last year.  ABB, the world’s largest maker of power-transmission gear,
slipped 1.4 percent to 19.72 francs, snapping a four-day rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  