-- Syria to Start Managed Float of Currency Next Week, Central Bank Head Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-20T13:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/syria-to-start-managed-float-of-currency-next-week-central-bank-head-says.html
Syria  will introduce a managed float
of its currency next week,  central bank  Governor Adib Mayaleh
said. The move will allow the pound to devalue after demand for
foreign currency drove a surge in black-market rates.  “We will have a partial managed float, allow the rate to
be determined by the market and intervene when necessary,”
Mayaleh said in a phone interview from Damascus today. “If we
see a rate, like that of 70 pounds now, which I don’t like, then
we will intervene, and next week there will be a positive
intervention by the central bank with the injection of foreign
currency into the market.”  The pound traded officially at about 47 to the dollar
before the start of protests against President Bashar al-Assad
in mid-March. As the uprising spread, the central bank raised
the rate to about 54 pounds in December and 57 pounds early this
month. The currency traded at as much as 70 pounds per dollar on
Syria’s black market this week.  The money for the float will come from the bank’s funds,
Mayaleh said. While he declined to specify the size of the
bank’s foreign-currency reserves today, he told Bloomberg on
Oct. 21 that the reserves were about $18 billion and that Syria
had spent $3 billion from a separate fund defending its currency
and financing trade since protests erupted.  Inflation  “This is a conscious decision by the regime and the bank
to allow some kind of inflation,” said  Chris Phillips , a
lecturer in international relations specializing in the  Middle
East  at Queen Mary College in  London . “Clearly they want to use
their reserves sparingly, and maintaining the low value that the
Syrian pound has had for the last five to 10 years clearly is no
longer a priority for them.”  The managed float “might be one way of saying they do need
to get external funds from somewhere in order to keep the value
down, which suggests their reserves are running low,” Phillips
said. The move “also will offer them an opportunity in the
future to blame someone other than themselves for what is
inevitably is going to be a major devaluation in the currency.”  The pound has lost about 19 percent of its value against
the dollar since the unrest began, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Imaginary’ Devaluation  The central bank will work slowly to boost the pound’s
value “because the devaluation that has taken place in the
market is imaginary and a result of speculation,” Mayaleh said.  He denied that Syria has any liquidity problems and said
any concerns about the strength of the monetary system are
nothing but “fabrications. This is part of a media campaign”
against the country.  Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign provocateurs stoking
a “conspiracy” against Syria. His government has used tanks,
armored vehicles and artillery to crush the most serious threat
to his family’s 40-year rule, rejecting U.S. and European
demands for him to quit. The  United Nations  says more than 5,000
civilians and army defectors have died during the uprising.  “We have a real economy, an agriculture industry,”
Mayaleh said. “A lot of Arab countries envy us because of our
production of wheat, barley, grain, vegetables, fruits. And we
can live without salmon.”  International sanctions, general strikes and the crackdown
have hurt Syrian businesses, with the  Institute of International
Finance  estimating the economy shrank at least 5 percent in
2011. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts a contraction of
2 percent last year while London-based research company  Business
Monitor International  says the economy contracted 9.6 percent in
2011 and will shrink 2.2 percent this year.  Government Estimate  Syria’s economy expanded 5.5 percent in 2010, Finance
Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said in a September interview.
Mayaleh said the economy grew more than 1 percent in 2011.  “Of course, any country that has a crisis like this will
see its economic growth decline,” he said. Syria has lost $2
billion in oil revenue as a result of attacks by “terrorists”
on its pipelines and infrastructure as well as European and U.S.
bans on importing its oil, he said.  “There is a world war against Syria,” Mayaleh said,
adding: “I have no fears. This crisis revealed how strong and
united Syria is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 