-- U.K. Tabloid Publisher Loses Ruling Over Secret Evidence
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-20T14:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-k-tabloid-publisher-loses-ruling-over-secret-evidence.html
The publisher of the  Daily Mail 
tabloid in Britain lost a lawsuit to ban the use of anonymous
evidence by journalists at a judge-led inquiry into media
ethics, set up after News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal.  The ruling today in  London  allows unnamed reporters and
editors to allege illegal practices at newspapers other than
News Corp.’s now-shuttered News of the World tabloid.  Associated
Newspapers Ltd. (DMGT) , a unit of Daily Mail and General Trust Plc,
sued the inquiry over claims that anonymous statements would be
unfair and risk hurting other tabloids’ reputations.  Associated Newspapers also publishes the Mail on Sunday and
Metro in the U.K. The Daily Mail’s editor, Paul Dacre, has been
a critic of the inquiry, saying in October that phone hacking at
the News of the World exposed police failures in past
investigations rather than a need for more industry regulation.  The public interest in the inquiry’s chairman “being able
to pursue his terms of reference as widely and deeply as he
considers necessary is of the utmost importance,” Judge Roger Toulson said in the judgment.  Lawyers for victims of phone hacking say journalists who
wish to expose wrongdoing at their newspapers should be free to
do so without fear of a backlash. The names of the newspapers
will also be left out of the statements.  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, was announced in
July by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  after revelations that
the News of the World hacked into the voice mail of a murdered
school girl in 2002, when she was missing. The probe extends
beyond  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s five-year-old scandal, covering the ethics
of the press and its relationship with politicians and police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  