-- U.K. Retail Sales Increase as Price Cuts Lure Shoppers: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-20T11:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-k-retail-sales-rose-in-december-as-stores-cut-prices-to-lure-shoppers.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose in December
as stores cut prices to lure consumers during the year-end
holiday shopping season.  Sales including fuel rose 0.6 percent from November, when
they fell a revised 0.5 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . The December increase matched
the median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
From a year earlier, sales were up 2.6 percent.  The gain may not be maintained as U.K. unemployment rises,
 inflation  outpaces wage increases and consumer confidence falls.
With global growth cooling and the euro-area crisis damping
export demand, concerns are growing that Britain is heading for
another recession. A report today indicated Chinese
manufacturing shrank for a third month in January.  “Retail-sales growth driven by price cuts can’t continue
indefinitely,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at  Capital
Economics  in London. “The economy will probably head into a
recession without the euro-zone crisis getting worse. The
problems in  Europe  add to the headwinds facing the U.K.”  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.5457 as of 11 a.m. in London, down 0.2
percent from yesterday.  Price cuts helped demand for clothes, products such as
computers, as well as sales at department stores. The annual
price deflator, a measure of price increases, fell to a 16-month
low of 2.4 percent. Excluding fuel,  retail sales  rose 0.6
percent in December from November and increased 1.7 percent from
a year earlier.  China  Growth  A Chinese  purchasing managers’ index  signaled manufacturing
shrank this month. A preliminary reading of 48.8 for the gauge,
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today,
compared with a final 48.7 number for December. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  Asian stocks rose, with a regional benchmark index heading
for its fifth straight weekly advance, as fewer Americans than
forecast filed claims for jobless benefits and Spain and  France 
sold bonds at lower yields.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 1.2 percent today and the
Shanghai Composite Index advanced 1 percent. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index slipped 0.5 percent, while London’s FTSE 100 Index was
little changed.  Export Prices  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, a government gauge of
Australian export prices dropped 1.5 percent last quarter in an
economy driven by shipments of  iron ore  and coal to emerging
markets including China. Import prices rose 2.5 percent from the
prior quarter.  In Europe, German  producer prices  unexpectedly shrank 0.4
percent in December from the previous month. The median estimate
of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was growth of 0.1
percent.  In the U.S.,  sales of existing homes  may have gained 5.2
percent to a 4.65 million annual pace in December after a 4
percent increase in November, according to the median forecast
of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In Britain, rising joblessness and high inflation are
weighing on the outlook for shoppers. The  unemployment rate  rose
to 8.4 percent in the three months through November, the highest
since January 1996. An index of consumer sentiment fell to 38
from 40 in November,  Nationwide Building Society  said yesterday.
That’s close to the record-low of 36 reached in October.  Retailers such as  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Marks & Spencer Group Plc 
have had to reduce prices to lure shoppers in what they say is a
“challenging” environment. Tesco, the U.K.’s largest food
retailer, cut profit expectations this month after lower than
expected sales.  Stimulus Expansion  Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said the central
bank will maintain a forecast for flat growth over the fourth
and first quarters when it publishes new projections in
February, according to a Market News interview published today.  The central bank has forecast a “sharp” easing of
inflation to the 2 percent target, which it says will ease the
squeeze on consumers this year. Consumer prices rose an annual
4.2 percent in December, the weakest pace in six months.  The bank is in the final month of a 75 billion-pound ($116
billion) round of bond purchases to boost growth, and economists
at Citigroup Inc. and Nomura International Plc expect a  further
expansion  of stimulus next month.  “While falling inflation will provide some relief to
households in the coming months, we expect private consumption
growth to remain modest in the first half of the year,” said
Mauro Giorgio Marrano, an economist at Unicredit in Milan. “Low
 consumer confidence , a deteriorating labor market, ongoing
fiscal consolidation and the uncertainty over the economic
outlook will continue to weigh on spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  