-- U.K. Economy Probably Contracted for First Time in a Year, Economists Say
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-k-gdp-probably-fell-for-first-time-in-a-year-economists-say.html
The U.K.  economy  probably shrank in
the fourth quarter for the first time in a year as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbed demand and undermined confidence, economists said.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.1 percent from the third
quarter, when it rose 0.6 percent, according to the median of 33
 forecasts  in a Bloomberg News survey. The Office for National
Statistics will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. on Jan. 25 in
London.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  will make his first
speech of the year the previous evening in Brighton on the south
coast of  England .  The contraction may be the first step in a slide back into
a recession, according to the Ernst & Young ITEM Club, which
said this week that the U.K. is in a “state of paralysis.” The
Bank of England is in the last of a four-month round of bond
purchases aimed at boosting growth, and King has said expansion
may be “broadly flat” until around the middle of 2012.  “We’ll get a recession with another contraction in the
first quarter,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at  Scotia
Capital  in London. “It’ll only be mildly negative though, but
it reinforces the idea that the Bank of England will do more
stimulus in February.”  Clarke, along with economists at Citigroup Inc. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, forecasts that the central bank will
increase its  bond-purchase target  from 275 billion pounds ($426
billion) at its meeting next month. Minutes of the January
decision, which will include how the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee voted, will be published at the same time as the GDP
data.  Out of the  33 economists  in the Bloomberg survey, 25
forecast a contraction in the fourth quarter, with the Centre
for Economic and Business Research and Standard Chartered
projecting a 0.7 percent slump. Three economists forecast
stagnation, while five expect expansion. The data on Jan. 25 are
a first estimate and subject to revision as they are based on
limited information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  