-- Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Houses Finish 2011 on a High Note: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-20T22:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-s-home-sales-rise-5-to-4-61-million-pace-in-december.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
rose in December to the highest level since January 2011, adding
to evidence residential real estate was stabilizing heading into
the new year.  Purchases (ETSLTOTL)  increased for a third month, climbing 5 percent
to a 4.61 million annual rate, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. The gain helped push the
number of houses on the market to a six-year low.  Less-expensive properties, a pickup in employment and the
lowest  mortgage rates  on record may give Americans the
confidence to take on their biggest investment, buying a house.
At the same time, the foreclosure crisis continues to threaten
parts of the country, which will probably inhibit more broad-
based gains in the industry that triggered the recession.  “It’s going to be a slow process, but we are finally
starting to see signs that an adjustment is occurring in
housing,” said Troy Davig, a senior U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in  New York . “You’re going to have some markets
where foreclosures were less of an issue and those markets are
going to do quite well.”  Most stocks rose, erasing a loss for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index in the final minutes of trading, as banks gained and
results from International Business Machines Corp. to  Intel
Corp . boosted technology shares. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.1 percent
to 1.315.38 at the close in New York.  In  Europe  today, U.K. retail sales rose 0.6 percent in
December after falling 0.5 percent the prior month, the Office
for National Statistics said in  London . Price cuts helped demand
for clothes and computers as well as sales at department stores.
The annual price deflator, a measure of price increases, fell to
a 16-month low of 2.4 percent.  China  Manufacturing  Elsewhere, data out of China signaled manufacturing may
contract for a third month. A preliminary January purchasing
managers’ index was 48.8 compared with a final reading of 48.7
for December, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today.
The dividing line between contraction and expansion is 50.  The median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected sales of U.S. existing homes would rise to a 4.65
million annual rate in December.  Estimates (ETSLTOTL)  ranged from 4 million
to 5 million. The real-estate agents’ group revised the November
reading down to a 4.39 million rate from a previously reported
4.42 million pace.  Milder weather may have helped bring out homebuyers. The
average temperature was 35 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees
Celsius) in December, 1.7 degrees above the month’s average from
1901-2000, according to the National Climatic Data Center.  Inventories Drop  The  number  of properties on the market dropped 9.2 percent
to 2.38 million, the fewest since March 2005. At the current
sales pace, it would take 6.2 months to sell those houses, down
from 7.2 months at the end of November. A range of seven months
to eight months supply is consistent with stable  home prices ,
the group has said.  A drop in foreclosures may be helping reduce the glut of
houses up for sale. Foreclosure filings fell 14 percent in
November from the same month in 2010, partly the result of a
holiday-eviction moratorium by mortgage giants  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , according to a report last month by RealtyTrac Inc.  The market must digest more than 14 million distressed
properties -- 1.5 million homes in the foreclosure process, 3.5
million with delinquent mortgages and at least 10 million
“underwater” properties, whose owners owe more than the homes
are worth -- before the foreclosure crisis will subside,
according to Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac.  The threat is more regional than general, said Barclays’
Davig, indicating the market may be able to overcome the
challenge as the employment grows.  Foreclosure States  “We still have four high foreclosures states --  Arizona ,
 Florida ,  Nevada ,  California  -- that have a huge glut of
inventories,” Davig said. “Inventories are doing a better job
of adjusting in other parts of the country,” he said.  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes, rose
1.4 percent from the same month last year, today’s report
showed. A total of 4.26 million previously owned houses were
sold  in 2011 , up from 4.19 million the prior year. Demand peaked
at 7.1 million in 2005 during the housing boom. In 2008, sales
totaled 4.1 million, the least since 1995.  The median price of a previously-owned home declined 2.5
percent to $164,500 from $168,800 in December 2010, today’s
report showed.  “December was a nice finish to a tough year,”  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist, said in a news conference
today as the figures were released. “If that can be sustained,
we are talking about a genuine recovery in 2012.”  Single-Family  Sales of existing single-family homes increased 4.6 percent
to an annual rate of 4.11 million. Purchases of multifamily
properties, including condominiums and townhouses, climbed 8.7
percent to a 500,000 pace.  Purchases rose in all four regions, led by an 11 percent
gain in the Northeast and an 8.3 percent increase in the
Midwest.  Homebuilders are growing more optimistic the housing market
is recovering. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo sentiment index  rose  this month to the highest level since
June 2007 as sales and buyer traffic improved.  The economy added 200,000 jobs in December and the
 unemployment rate  declined to an almost three-year low of 8.5
percent, Labor Department figures showed earlier this month.
Meantime,  mortgage rates  have fallen to a record-low 3.88
percent as of Jan. 19, according to data by Freddie Mac.  ‘Value Proposition’  “Consumers are beginning to realize that housing
represents an undeniable value proposition, and accordingly
demand is growing,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at
Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said on a Jan. 11 conference call.
“As I look ahead to 2012, I’m cautiously optimistic that we’re
seeing a real bottom form and that we will begin to see signs of
recovery.”  Nonetheless, Federal Reserve officials are concerned about
the outlook for housing. “Weak demand to purchase homes and the
restricted supply of mortgages has put considerable downward
pressure on  house prices  in many areas,” they said in a Jan. 5
report delivered to Congress.  Streamlining the refinancing process, easing borrowing
requirements to allow investors to buy single-family properties
in bulk and modifying existing loans were among measures the
central bank’s report proposed to assist the housing market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  