-- U.S. May Close Embassy in Damascus Amid ‘Deteriorating Security’
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-20T22:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-s-is-said-to-weigh-closing-damascus-embassy-amid-deteriorating-security.html
The U.S. is considering closing its
embassy in  Syria  because of deteriorating security, according to
the State Department.  No decision has been taken yet, according to an e-mailed
statement today from the office of department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland.  “We have serious concerns about the deteriorating security
situation in Damascus, including the recent spate of car bombs,
and about the safety and security of embassy personnel,”
according to the statement. “We have requested that the
government of Syria take additional security measures to protect
our embassy, and the Syrian government is considering that
request.”  “We have also advised the Syrian government that, unless
concrete steps are taken in the coming days, we may have no
choice but to close the mission,” according to the statement.  Security conditions in Syria have deteriorated as the death
toll from clashes between protesters and government troops has
climbed. The  United Nations  says more than 5,400 people have
been killed since protests began in March.  Dennis Ross , a former Middle East adviser to President
 Barack Obama , said it was appropriate for the State Department
to consider closing the embassy.  “There are questions about whether you can provide for the
security of our personnel with a regime that is increasingly
unreliable,” Ross, who last month rejoined the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview.
“I think it also becomes a statement that this is a regime no
one can really rely on.”  U.S. Ambassador  Robert Ford  returned to Damascus last month
after being pulled out Oct. 24 due to fears for his safety. At
the time, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the
U.S. would closely monitor risks to its diplomats in the Syrian
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  