-- U.S. Pursues Whirlpool Complaint on Korean, Mexican Washers
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-20T20:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-s-to-pursue-whirlpool-complaint-over-korean-mexican-washers.html
The U.S. will investigate  Whirlpool
Corp. (WHR) ’s trade complaint that producers of large residential
washing machines made in South Korea and  Mexico  are selling the
products below cost to American consumers.  The U.S. Commerce Department agreed to act on a petition by
Benton Harbor, Michigan-based Whirlpool against Seoul-based  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  of Suwon, South
Korea. The U.S. imported $1.1 billion of the washers from the
two nations in 2010, the department said today in a statement.  Whirlpool is seeking “to promote a fair and open global
trading system, to protect American jobs, and ensure its ability
to continue to innovate and invest in the United States,” the
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. uses more than 300 anti-dumping and countervailing
duties to protect American-made goods, such as honey and bedroom
furniture, from global competition deemed by the Commerce
Department to be unfair and damaging to U.S. companies.  Whirlpool is requesting U.S. anti-dumping duties on LG and
Samsung imports from  South Korea  and Mexico, saying the products
are sold below fair value. Commerce also is investigating
possible countervailing duties against the Korean products, to
offset benefits of government subsidies.  “LG strongly rejects any suggestion that it has sold
clothes washers at dumped prices or that it has been unfairly
subsidized,”  John Taylor , a company spokesman, said Dec. 30
when Whirlpool filed its complaint.  Commerce, ITC  The U.S. International Trade Commission, an independent
agency, is scheduled to make a preliminary ruling on whether
American producers are hurt by the washing-machine imports in
mid-February, according to the Commerce Department statement.
The department may make a preliminary decision on the dumping
duties in early June.  Both the commission and department could make final
decisions on the trade actions later this year, if they find
that the imports damage U.S. companies.  Whirlpool has 3,500 employees at a factory in Clyde,  Ohio ,
between Toledo and Cleveland, where washing machines are
produced. The company has invested $175 million to make energy-
and water-efficient appliances, according to a statement when
the complaint was filed on Dec. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  