-- U.S. Appeals WTO Ruling in Mexico Dolphin-Safe Tuna Dispute
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-20T23:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-s-appeals-wto-ruling-in-mexico-dolphin-safe-tuna-dispute-1-.html
The Obama administration is
appealing a  World Trade Organization  ruling that U.S. curbs on
imports of Mexican tuna, which protect dolphins, are more
restrictive than needed, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office
said today.  Sales of Mexican tuna to the U.S. have been limited since
1991 under Commerce Department provisions that determine when
products can be labeled as dolphin-safe. The U.S. adopted the
rules in response to complaints that  Mexico ’s fishing techniques
hurt dolphins. Mexico said that its tuna-catching practices and
regulations meet global standards.  The U.S. and Mexico require inspectors aboard tuna vessels
during fishing trips. Both nations are members of the Inter-
American Tropical Tuna Commission, which helps enforce
international dolphin-protection standards. The WTO judges in
their Sept. 15 ruling also rejected Mexico’s claim that
“dolphin-safe” labeling provisions are discriminatory.  “Our dolphin-safe labeling measures for tuna products
provide information for American consumers as they make food-
purchasing decisions for their families,” Andrea Mead, press
secretary for the trade office, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Our decision to appeal the WTO ruling in this case
demonstrates the commitment of the  United States  to our dolphin-
safe labeling measures.”  Mexico is reviewing the arguments the U.S. filed today with
the WTO and plans to file a counter-appeal within five days, the
nation’s economy ministry said today in a statement. The
government also plans to ask the WTO to reconsider its ruling
against Mexico’s claim that the labeling provisions are
discriminatory, the ministry said.  The dolphin-safe provisions “are more trade-restrictive
than necessary to achieve a legitimate objective, taking into
account the risks that non-fulfillment would create,” the WTO
judges said in a statement announcing their ruling.  Mexico filed its complaint against the U.S. at the WTO in
October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  