-- U.S. Calls for Salary Freeze for Employees at ‘Distorted’ UN
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-20T22:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/u-s-calls-for-salary-freeze-for-employees-at-distorted-un.html
The  United Nations  should freeze
salaries, post compensation audits online and reduce its health-
care and pension costs, according to the U.S. ambassador for UN
management and reform.  Ambassador Joseph M. Torsella said today that while UN
employees deserve proper compensation, UN salaries in  New York 
are on average almost 30 percent higher than U.S. federal
salaries in  Washington .  “Until very recently, the UN budget has been disconnected
from global financial realities,” he said in a speech in
Washington. “The system is becoming seriously distorted.”  Salaries at the UN average $119,000 a year, making
compensation one of the largest costs at the 193-nation body,
Torsella said in August. Today he said the UN is a $36 billion
“retro” enterprise stuck in the 1950s and that a “small group
of  member states ” -- which he declined to name -- opposed a
push to disclose UN salaries, contracts and budgets.  The UN cut its budget for this year and next year by 5
percent to $5.15 billion. This is the first reduction since 1998
to the two-year budgets that have increased by 5 percent on
average for the past five decades, according to Torsella.  The UN and related bodies, including the  World Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund ,  employ  63,450 people from
carpenters to translators. The UN Secretariat has 7,750 staff
members and employs an additional 8,230 through special funding.
In addition, 2,230 diplomats on the payrolls of their own
governments work at the UN.  ‘Remarkably Small’  The world body says on its website that it is “remarkably
small” for an organization with a global reach and that by
comparison the U.S. Department of Education employs almost
71,000 people. With regard to pay, the UN says it has difficulty
attracting and keeping staff and therefore must be a
“competitive employer.”  The UN “gives us mountains of information but very little
useful data,” Torsella said.  The U.S. pays 22 percent of the UN’s regular operating
budget and is assessed 27 percent of the peacekeeping budget.
U.S. payments were $3.35 billion in 2010, of which $2.67 billion
was dedicated to the 16 peacekeeping operations worldwide from
 South Sudan  to  Haiti .  The U.S. has asked for improvements in how 120,000
peacekeepers around the world are deployed and checks on how
they behave. In the aftermath of protests in the  Middle East ,
the deployment of technical staff to advise on elections and new
constitutions needs to happen faster, Torsella said.  Abuses such as those depicted in “The Whistleblower,” a
film based on events in Bosnia, where UN peacekeepers were
implicated in a sex slavery scandal, have led to U.S. demands
for a “zero tolerance” policy and a system-wide database on
misconduct to track crimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  