-- Lufthansa in Talks to Sell Bmibaby Unit to Intro of Germany
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-20T16:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/lufthansa-may-sell-bmibaby-to-intro-of-germany.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is in talks to
sell the discount division of its British BMI subsidiary to
German turnaround specialist  Intro Aviation GmbH , Intro Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Oncken  said in an interview.  “We have expressed our interest and the whole procedure is
now beginning,” Oncken said by telephone. “The books are being
opened and we are looking at the business in detail. We will see
if it can be restructured.”  Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, is seeking a
buyer for the bmibaby discount unit after agreeing last month to
sell BMI to British Airways parent  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG)  for 172.5 million pounds ($267 million). Other
parties are also interested in the low-cost arm, BMI said today.  Oncken said that, from initial figures, bmibaby could
probably be restructured “relatively quickly,” though the
operation is closely integrated with the rest of BMI. Intro
Aviation would draw on its experience in turning around former
British Airways unit Deutsche BA and  Germany ’s LTU, he said.  “There are ongoing talks, but we can’t give any further
details,” Lufthansa spokeswoman Claudia Lange said. The
Cologne-based carrier, which has said it wants to conclude the
main deal with IAG this quarter,  closed  0.1 percent lower at
10.16 euros in  Frankfurt .  ‘Several’ Bidders  BMI aims to conclude a sale of bmibaby “as soon as
possible,” it said in response to an e-mail seeking comment.  “There are several interested parties and we are in the
process of identifying the preferred buyer,” the company said,
adding that a deal has also been concluded with a U.K. buyer for
its BMI Regional arm, subject to “certain preconditions.”  The regional unit operates from cities including Aberdeen,
Edinburgh and Glasgow in Scotland and Manchester in northwest
 England  using a fleet of 19  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  ERJ-135 and ERJ-145 jets,
according to data compiled by aviation consultancy Ascend.  London-based IAG, which wants BMI for the take-off and
landing slots at the U.K. capital’s crowded Heathrow airport
used by its mainline operation, will get a discount on the
purchase price if Lufthansa fails to offload bmibaby.  IAG  (IAG) rose
2.4 percent before closing up 1.3 percent at 167.60 pence.  Boeing Fleet  Bmibaby, based in  Castle Donington  in central England,
operates 12  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-300 aircraft and two 737-500 variants
from bases at nearby East Midlands and Birmingham airports and
from  Belfast  in  Northern Ireland .  The unit had a loss of about 120 million euros ($129
million) last year, according to Credit Suisse Group analyst
Neil Glynn, who has “neutral” ratings on Lufthansa and IAG.  Given that the German airline has agreed to reduce BMI’s
selling price should it fail to dispose of bmibaby, the company
will be “essentially paying restructuring costs to someone to
take it off their hands,” London-based Glynn said.  Intro Aviation was founded by Oncken and German retail
entrepreneur  Hans Rudolf Wohrl , who previously ran Nuremburg-
based carrier NFD before selling the company to Eurowings in
1992, according to Intro’s website.  Wohrl became CEO of Deutsche BA in 2003, having initially
being hired by British Airways to shut the German unit. After
refocusing the company, known as DBA, on the high-frequency
business travel market, it was sold to  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  in 2006.  LTU was acquired by Intro Aviation in the same year that
DBA was sold, with Oncken as CEO and Wohrl as chairman. It was
also bought by Air Berlin, in 2007, the website says.  “I think it is dependent upon the experience we have
gathered over the decades,” Oncken said of Intro’s interest in
bmibaby. “I can’t at this stage say whether it would be like
the Deutsche BA model.”  Intro Aviation also has a number of other parallel airline
projects, including a commuter carrier in the Caribbean, which
it “may be interested in integrating,” the executive said,
without specifying what the nature of any synergies might be.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  