-- Hungary’s Row With EU Must Be Ended Quickly, Fellegi Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-20T13:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/hungary-s-row-with-eu-must-be-ended-quickly-fellegi-says-1-.html
Tamas Fellegi,  Hungary ’s chief
negotiator for a financial bailout, said the government must
resolve a dispute with the European Union over the central
bank’s independence that has halted aid talks because the
country faces a “confidence problem” in the markets.  “It is very clearly in the interest of both the European
Union and Hungary to have these negotiations started as quickly
as possible,” Fellegi told reporters today in Brussels after
meeting EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn .
“The exact form and size of the package should be part of the
negotiations.”  Fellegi expressed optimism about resolving the
disagreement, which also involves the  International Monetary
Fund . “We don’t see problems that cannot be solved quickly,”
he said. “Clearly there is a light at the end of the tunnel.”  A planned Jan. 24 meeting between Hungarian Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  will
be an “excellent opportunity” to settle matters, Fellegi said.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm, earlier
this week threatened a lawsuit against Hungary for encroaching
on the central bank’s independence.  “I see the chance that all those issues can be clarified
and settled politically during the meeting” between Orban and
Barroso, Fellegi said.  He refused to speculate about the size of any international
aid package, which he said should be “precautionary” and would
include conditions.  “It’s a delicate issue,” he said. “It has to satisfy the
needs. It has to satisfy the markets’ expectations. And it
cannot be bigger than necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  