-- US Airways Said to Consider American Airlines Merger to Fill Revenue Gap
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-20T21:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/us-airways-said-to-consider-american-airlines-merger-to-fill-revenue-gap.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  is studying a
potential merger with bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  that would fix a weak
domestic route system at  American Airlines  and boost revenue,
two people familiar with the matter said.  President Scott Kirby is leading US Airways’ analysis of
how to combine the airlines, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the matter is private. Any bid may still
be close to a year away, because AMR now holds the exclusive
right to file a reorganization plan, the people said.  American has pared its flight network to the point that
some corporate travelers have gone elsewhere, leaving the money-
losing carrier unable to support most of its hub airports, one
person said. That deficiency could be solved by blending
American, the third-largest U.S. airline, with No. 5 US Airways,
the people said.  “Unsecured creditors would get a better return out of a
merged airline than American trying to go it alone,” said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst based in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  The combination would hold about a 20 percent domestic
market share, basically putting it on equal footing with United
Continental Holdings Inc.,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , Straebler said in an interview. Those carriers
rank first, second and fourth in the U.S. by traffic.  Evolving Plan  A merger attempt is likely, though Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways is still weighing options, the people said. The shape of
any plan would evolve as Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR settles
issues such as pensions and labor contracts in court, one person
said.  Traffic to American’s hubs would grow by funneling in
travelers from US Airways, the person said. In turn, a stronger
domestic system would feed into American’s routes across the
Atlantic and to Latin America, said the person, who declined to
give financial details because the numbers are preliminary.  A US Airways spokeswoman, Michelle Mohr, declined to
comment, as did  Sean Collins , an American spokesman.  TPG Capital and Delta also are evaluating possible bids for
American, people familiar with the matter have said. TPG and
Delta have said they aren’t commenting about any interest in
AMR, which filed for Chapter 11 protection in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Manhattan  on Nov. 29 after posting annual losses
starting in 2008.  No Contacts  US Airways hasn’t discussed its interest with AMR’s
executives, one person said. Nor has it spoken with TPG about
American, the person said.  TPG founder David Bonderman led a group that invested more
than $200 million in America West Airlines Inc. as it exited
bankruptcy in 1994, taking a 33.5 percent stake and controlling
a majority of its board. That carrier later became America West
Holdings Corp., a  US Airways  predecessor.  US Airways rose 1.9 percent to $6.38 at the close in  New
York . AMR’s 8.625 percent notes due in October 2021 fell 0.25
cent to 106.5 cents on the dollar at 3:26 p.m., according to
Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  US Airways has been the airline most often cited by
analysts as a potential American partner. It has hired Millstein
& Co. and Barclays Plc as advisers, according to people familiar
with the matter. The airline hasn’t confirmed the arrangement.  Three Survivors  A tie-up with American would shrink the U.S. industry to
three major full-service carriers, increasing the survivors’
power to raise fares. It would surpass Delta as the second-
biggest U.S. airline and fulfill US Airways Chief Executive
Officer Doug Parker’s call for industry consolidation.  The current US Airways was created in 2005 when Parker,
then CEO of  America West Holdings (AWA) , orchestrated a merger to
bring the old US Airways out of bankruptcy. He failed in three
additional merger attempts since 2006, including a hostile bid
for Delta when that company was in Chapter 11.  American’s passenger revenue for each seat flown a mile, an
industry benchmark, trailed that of US Airways, United
Continental and Delta through 2011’s first three quarters,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  American’s hubs include Dallas- Fort Worth , Miami, New York
and  Chicago , while US Airways has major operations in cities
such as  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; Philadelphia; and Phoenix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  