-- Van Hollen Calls for End to Hedge-Fund Break to Help Fund Payroll Tax Cut
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-20T18:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/van-hollen-calls-for-end-to-hedge-fund-break-to-help-fund-payroll-tax-cut.html
Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat
on the House Budget Committee, said Congress should eliminate a
tax break for private-equity and hedge-fund executives to pay
for extending a payroll tax cut for workers.  “It’s an inequity in the  tax code , and it needs to be
fixed,” Van Hollen, of  Maryland , said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “If you look at a lot of the hedge fund activities, these
are people who are not putting their own capital at risk,” he
said. “They are getting a special deal that is not available to
other people in the economy.”  Tax fairness has become an issue in the 2012 presidential
campaign.  Mitt Romney , Republican front-runner and co-founder of
Boston private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, probably has
benefited from a break that allows private-equity executives to
receive much of their compensation as carried interest --
treating what would be ordinary income for other service
providers as  capital gains , taxed at 15 percent. Ordinary income
currently is taxed at rates as high as 35 percent.  Romney, reporting a net worth of between $190 million and
$250 million in an August disclosure form filed at the  Federal
Election Commission , has said his effective  tax rate  is probably
about 15 percent because his income comes overwhelmingly from
past investments. In debates this week, he has said he probably
will release some personal income tax returns in April.  Ending the Tax Break  Ending the tax break would affect general partners in
private equity and hedge funds, who may or may not contribute
capital to the firm and get most of their earnings as a share of
the profits from the assets under management. It would also
affect profits-based compensation of real estate investors and
venture capitalists.  Van Hollen  said both leaders in the race for the Republican
presidential nomination have weaknesses.  Romney, who won the  New Hampshire  primary election, has a
“major” vulnerability in the sense voters have “that he’s
just out of touch,” Van Hollen said. “He made a big mistake
trying to argue he was a job creator. What he was, was a guy who
tried to maximize return for his investors, mostly very wealthy
investors. That’s fine; that’s what he’s supposed to do.”  Newt Gingrich   Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, has “taken every
different position on the map” and “has obviously been an
unsteady hand,” Van Hollen said. “You don’t know what he’s
going to say two hours from now.”  For President  Barack Obama  to win a second term in
November, voters need to have a sense the economy and the rate
of joblessness are improving, Van Hollen said. The  unemployment 
rate fell to 8.5 percent in December from 8.7 percent in
November.  “We’ve had some relatively good news recently,” he said.
“However, we all know there’s still a lot of uncertainty in the
economy.”  Van Hollen said he’s not optimistic Congress will
accomplish much this year ahead of November’s elections and
blamed Republicans for turning back most of Obama’s proposals to
create jobs.  “I certainly hope we can complete the job on the  payroll
tax  cut,” Van Hollen said.  After a standoff between Democratic and Republican
lawmakers, Congress agreed in December to extend the 2
percentage point cut in the payroll tax for two months.  Impasse on Funding  It is now set to expire Feb. 29. A bipartisan congressional
committee is looking at how to resolve an impasse over how to
pay for extending it through 2012. Panel members plan to meet
for the first time Jan. 24.  Van Hollen said he doesn’t know if Republicans will agree
to a further extension.  “A lot of them have been on record in the past not wanting
to do a payroll tax cut,” he said. “The question is going to
be whether they try and add all these extraneous provisions.”  The parties remain far apart on where to find about $150
billion to pay for the tax break for workers. Democrats support
a surcharge on millionaires, while Republicans have proposed
raising Medicare premiums for wealthier seniors, reducing aid to
the jobless and extending a pay freeze for federal workers.  Van Hollen said ending the carried-interest breaks should
be part of that debate.  Ordinary Income  Obama has proposed taxing carried interest as ordinary
income, saying it would raise $18 billion over 10 years, as a
way to pay for a $447 billion job-creation plan he released in
September. Republicans have opposed the change, and proposals by
congressional Democrats to raise the tax on carried interest
have failed in the past.  On the issue of health care, Van Hollen said Americans
would suffer if the U.S. Supreme Court throws out Obama’s
health-care overhaul that was signed into law in 2010.  “There are a lot of people who have already begun to
benefit from some of the patient-protection provisions in the
health-care bill that all of a sudden would realize that it
meant more to them than they realized,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  