-- Vodafone’s Tax Victory Clears Way for Planned IPO for Essar Wireless Unit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-01-21T14:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/vodafone-doesn-t-have-to-pay-tax-on-indian-hutchison-purchase-court-says.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s victory in a
four-year-long tax dispute in India clears the way for an
initial public offering that may value its local mobile-phone
unit at as much as 11.3 billion pounds ($17.6 billion).  Yesterday’s decision by India’s top court to dismiss the
government’s demand for $2.2 billion in taxes from Vodafone on
its 2007 purchase of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Indian business
removes a major obstacle for the planned IPO. Vodafone Chief
Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said as recently as July that
the company hadn’t been able to proceed with a listing as the
tax dispute created an “uncertain” regulatory environment.  “It takes the IPO a step closer,”  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London, said in an interview.
“This wasn’t a good moment for the Indian government to do
something hostile.”  The ruling ends years of uncertainty over whether investors
based outside the country can use offshore holding companies to
avoid paying Indian taxes. Vodafone, seeking to expand in the
world’s second-largest wireless market, last year gained control
of the local venture by paying $5.46 billion to buy out its
partner Essar Group’s stake.  Vodafone Essar has 146 million customers and a 17 percent
market share, making it India’s third-biggest wireless operator
behind  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  The
country’s mobile-phone market may grow 28 percent to 872 million
active subscribers by 2015, researcher Gartner Inc. estimated.  ‘Uncertainty’  “The judgment will boost capital investments into India as
some tax uncertainty will go away,” said Harish Salve, counsel
for Newbury, England-based Vodafone. Vodafone spokesman Simon Gordon declined to comment on the details of a potential Indian
IPO.  The 11.3 billion-pound valuation of Vodafone Essar is based
on about 11 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, Bienenstock said. Bharti Airtel is trading at
about 10 times Ebitda, she said, adding that Vodafone’s local
unit has better growth prospects.  Last year’s acquisition of a 33 percent stake in the Indian
venture from Essar Group valued Vodafone Essar at $16.5 billion.
The sale of a 5.5 percent stake in the local unit to  Piramal
Healthcare Ltd. (PIHC)  last year, to reduce Vodafone’s holding to 74
percent and comply with local ownership rules limiting foreign
ownership, valued the unit at $11.6 billion.  Vodafone rose 1.5 percent to 177.05 pence in London trading
yesterday. The stock is down 1 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 88.7 billion pounds.  Keeping Majority Stake  Colao last year said that an Indian IPO could be similar to
the share sale of the company’s South African unit. Vodafone
kept a 65 percent stake in Vodacom Group Ltd. after the business
was listed in 2009.  Vodafone would raise as much as 3.4 billion pounds if it
decided to sell a 30 percent stake of the Indian venture,
according to Bienenstock.  “We are a committed long-term investor in India and we
have made clear all along that we have faith in the Indian
judicial system,” Colao said yesterday. “We welcome the
 Supreme Court ’s decision, which underpins our confidence in
India. We will continue to grow our Indian business.”  Investments  Vodafone spent 116 billion rupees ($2.3 billion) in 2010
buying licenses for third-generation services after the entry of
 Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  Japan ’s  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  pushed voice-
call rates to as low as a penny a minute.  The ruling by a Supreme Court panel headed by Chief Justice
S.H. Kapadia said that the government can’t seek capital gains
tax from Vodafone’s purchase of Hutchison’s wireless assets
because the transaction occurred between foreign companies. The
court also directed the government to return a 25 billion-rupee
deposit Vodafone made on the contested tax bill, plus 4 percent
interest.  “This allows Vodafone to focus more on the Indian
operations, focus more on getting more subscribers, being more
profitable rather than fighting on the tax side of it,” Romal Shetty, executive director of the telecommunications division at
 KPMG ’s Indian unit, told Bloomberg UTV. “It’s a shot in the
arm. But even from an industry perspective, it’s a boost.”  The Supreme Court’s tax decision, with its close political
links, may also help to ease further regulatory limits on
Vodafone’s Indian operations, enabling future acquisitions, said
Will Draper, an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London .  ‘Setting the Tone’  “The Indian government is setting the tone by saying we
might need to play a little fairer with the mobile industry,”
he said.  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone company, had
fought to dismiss the tax claim from its $10.7 billion purchase
of Hutchison Whampoa’s phone assets since 2007. The Indian tax
department sought 112.2 billion rupees in capital gains tax on
Vodafone International Holdings BV’s purchase of Hutchison’s
wireless operations in the country.  The operator still opposes a government decision to
terminate its roaming agreements with other carriers in the
country after the telecommunications ministry stated the
contracts are a “breach of rules.”  The roaming decision shows the contradictory nature of the
regulators in  India , Bienenstock said. “It’s not a linear path
to good and transparent regulation,” she said. “But it’s
certainly a step forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  