-- Wal-Mart Says Brewer to Lead Sam’s Club as Cornell Leaves
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-20T16:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/wal-mart-says-brewer-to-lead-sam-s-club-as-cornell-steps-down.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, said Brian Cornell would step down as
president and chief executive officer of its Sam’s Club
membership warehouse unit and be replaced by Rosalind Brewer.  Brewer, 49, most recently was president of Wal-Mart’s U.S.
East business unit, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said
today in a statement. Cornell, 52, told Wal-Mart he planned to
move to the U.S. Northeast for family reasons.  Cornell has been credited with turning around Sam’s Club,
which was Wal-Mart’s slowest-growing unit when he took over in
2009. Sam’s Club’s same-store sales gained 5.7 percent in the
quarter ended October, compared with a 1.3 percent increase for
Wal-Mart locations.  “Brian Cornell is very well-respected,” Natalie Berg, an
analyst with London-based Planet Retail, said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s a huge loss. He has turned Sam’s
Club around.”  Wal-Mart also said Gisel Ruiz, 41, was promoted to chief
operating officer for Wal-Mart U.S., effective Feb. 1. She most
recently was responsible for Wal-Mart U.S.’s human resources.  Wal-Mart rose 0.6 percent to $61 at 11:04 a.m. in  New York .
The  shares  gained 11 percent last year.  The challenge for Brewer will be continuing the growth that
Cornell started, Berg said. Cornell made merchandising changes,
such as expanding the food department and introducing a private-
label line, both of which helped sales, she said.  First Woman  Brewer is the first woman and the first black person to be
CEO of a business unit at Wal-Mart, said  David Tovar , a company
spokesman.  Wal-Mart sees Sam’s, which had $49.5 billion of revenue in
fiscal 2011, as a growth business, Berg said. While it’s
difficult to measure Brewer’s performance because Wal-Mart
doesn’t detail her division’s results, she has a good
reputation, Berg said.  Cornell previously was CEO of hobby retailer Michaels
Stores Inc. from 2007 to 2009. Before that he had executive
positions at grocery retailer Safeway Inc. and worked at PepsiCo
Inc. until 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  