-- Wells Fargo Protesters Arrested After Blocking Office
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-20T18:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/wells-fargo-hq-protesters-arrested.html
(Corrects spelling of name in headline.)  Occupy protesters, taking aim at
what they dubbed Wall Street West, were arrested after
converging on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s headquarters in San Francisco
today in a bid to shut down the city’s Financial District.  Demonstrators shouting “Give Us Our Money Back” and
saying they wanted the bank to stop foreclosures chained
themselves to entrances of the bank. Seven people were arrested,
according to police Lieutenant Liam Frost. The arrests were made
at the request of a Wells Fargo representative, Frost said.  Other demonstrations were planned at Bechtel Group Inc.,
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 9th Circuit, the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement detention center, and California
Governor Jerry Brown’s office.  Today’s protest by Occupy  San Francisco  was the first major
gathering since police dismantled its tent camp near the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco last month. The protesters
“demand that banks end predatory evictions and foreclosures and
that corporations lose the rights of personhood,” activists
said in a  statement  yesterday.  At Goldman Sachs, protesters planned to dress in squid
costumes in a reference to a Rolling Stone magazine article that
labeled the company “a great vampire squid wrapped around the
face of humanity.”  Occupy protests across the U.S. have highlighted the plight
of Americans who have suffered from home foreclosures and
soaring  unemployment  while the largest U.S. banks have recovered
from the 2008 financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 campbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
dscheer@bloomberg 