-- West Virginia Voting Map Reinstated by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-20T21:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/west-virginia-voting-map-reinstated-by-u-s-supreme-court-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court reinstated
the congressional district boundaries for this year’s elections
in  West Virginia , suggesting justices may re-examine the “one
person, one vote” principle that has guided federal
redistricting for 50 years.  The justices blocked a ruling from a three-judge panel that
said differences in the populations of the districts drawn by
West Virginia lawmakers were unconstitutional.  The move signals that the court may hear an appeal in the
case, which would test past Supreme Court decisions aimed at
ensuring that each vote has equal weight.  Under West Virginia’s plan, the largest district has 4,871
more people than the smallest.  West Virginia (BEESWV)  officials, who
created the districts under a bipartisan agreement after the
decennial census, say the size differences are minuscule, given
that each district has more than 600,000 people.  The state says it legitimately pursued other goals: keeping
counties within the same district, protecting incumbents and
winning bipartisan support.  “Redistricting by its nature involves tradeoffs,” West
Virginia Democrats, led by West Virginia Secretary of State
Natalie Tennant, said in court papers. The lower court ruling
“effectively precludes states from balancing these policy goals
if they have a redistricting plan that has variance greater than
zero.”  Districts Remain Intact  The high court’s action keeps West Virginia’s three
congressional districts largely unchanged, including two that
are held by Republicans.  The  Supreme Court ’s order applies until the justices decide
whether to take up West Virginia’s appeal. A full high court
review probably wouldn’t occur until the next term that starts
in October. West Virginia’s primary is set for May 8.  The Supreme Court first said in the 1960s that state
legislative districts must have about the same number of people
to comply with the Constitution. The court applied a similar
rule to congressional redistricting in 1964, saying districts
within a state must achieve population equality “as nearly as
is practicable.”  The high court invoked that decision in 1983 when it struck
down a New Jersey congressional redistricting plan because the
largest district was 0.70 percent larger than the average
district.  In voiding the West Virginia map on a 2-1 vote, a panel of
federal judges said the map’s variance of 0.79 percent could
have been avoided using computer software.  The two county commissioners challenging the map say that
lawmakers never explained why they needed to create districts
with varied populations.  The state legislature “did not create a contemporaneous
record in any form sufficient to show that the 4,871 person
variance in this case, or any part thereof, was necessary to
achieve some legitimate goal,” Jefferson County Commissioners
Patricia Noland and Dale Manuel argued.  The case is Tennant v. Jefferson County Commission, 11A674.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  