-- Wipro Third-Quarter Net Rises, Beats Estimates as Orders, Rupee Lift Sales
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2012-01-20T10:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/wipro-s-third-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-as-orders-rupee-boost-sales.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , India’s third-largest
software exporter, reported profit that beat analyst estimates
as businesses sought savings through outsourcing and the rupee’s
decline boosted overseas earnings.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 11 percent to 14.6 billion
rupees ($291 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from
13.2 billion rupees a year  earlier , Bangalore-based Wipro said
in a statement today. That beat the 14.5 billion-rupee median of
48 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Wipro joins larger  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and
Accenture Plc in reporting profit that exceeded analyst
estimates, signaling that demand for software maintenance and
advisory services remains buoyant. Wipro said  revenue  from its
information-technology services business may grow 1 percent to 3
percent to between $1.52 billion and $1.55 billion this quarter.  “Based on some of the deal wins Wipro has had in the U.S.
and  Europe , their onsite volumes could be on the rise, which
could lead to a better growth outlook in the next quarter or
so,” Shashi Bhusan, an analyst at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in
Mumbai, said before the earnings announcement. He has an
“accumulate” rating on the shares.  The  company  boosted revenue 28 percent to 99.97 billion
rupees in the past three months and won orders, including a
five-year  contract  from U.K.-based Premier Foods. That lagged
behind the 101.1 billion rupees median of 13 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Uncertain’ Climate  Wipro rose 2.4 percent to 413.75 rupees, the biggest gain
in a week, at the close of trading in Mumbai. The stock fell 19
percent last year compared with the 25 percent drop in the
 Sensex (SENSEX)  and the 0.4 percent decline by Tata Consultancy, India’s
biggest software exporter.  “The overall macroeconomic sentiments continue to be
uncertain and we are monitoring it closely,” Chairman  Azim
Premji  said in a statement. “We continue to execute on our
strategy and propel the business towards a higher growth
trajectory.”  Wipro doesn’t give sales or profit forecasts for all its
businesses combined. The company also makes  light bulbs ,
hydraulic equipment, soap and other consumer products.  Sales at the I.T. unit in the three months ended December
were $1.51 billion, Wipro said.  Rupee Depreciation  Wipro, which provides services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-office
support to companies including  BP Plc (BP) , William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc. and Pitney Bowes Inc., added 39 new clients in
the last quarter and 5,004 employees at its I.T. services unit,
according to the statement.  The company will pay a midyear dividend of 2 rupees a
share. Other investment income in the third quarter jumped to
2.15 billion rupees from 1.75 billion rupees a year earlier.  The  Indian rupee  fell 16 percent in 2011, the worst
performance among Asian currencies, before appreciating this
year. The currency weakened 7.7 percent in the quarter ended
Dec. 31. A weaker rupee boosts the value of overseas earnings
during repatriation.  Wipro draws the majority of its revenue in dollars and
euros from clients based in U.S. and Europe. A stronger rupee
damps the value of overseas earnings during repatriation.  Wipro drew 41 percent of its revenue in the year ended
March 31 from the U.S., 22 percent from Europe and another 22
percent from  India , according to the company’s annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  