-- ZTE, Ericsson to Withdraw Lawsuits Against Each Other
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-20T08:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-20/zte-ericsson-to-withdraw-lawsuits-against-each-other-2-.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s second-largest
maker of phone equipment, said it and  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  agreed to
withdraw patent lawsuits against each other.  The companies are waiting for court approval to end the
suits, ZTE said in a  statement  to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange
yesterday. ZTE also denied that it was ordered to pay 500
million euros ($647 million) to Ericsson and was banned from
entering the European market, according to the statement.  After “extensive discussion and consultation,” the
companies “have agreed to withdraw all patent infringement
litigations against each other,” ZTE said in the statement.
This includes “the patent infringement lawsuits filed by
Ericsson against ZTE in the U.K., Germany and Italy, as well as
the patent infringement lawsuit filed by ZTE against Ericsson”
in  China .  The Shenzhen-based company rose 2.3 percent to close at
HK$22.55 in  Hong Kong . The shares yesterday had posted their
biggest decline in five months, prompting the company to issue a
statement that it was “not aware of any reason” for “recent
decreases in the price and increases in the trading volume.”  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless phone
networks, said in April that it filed lawsuits against ZTE in
the U.K., Germany and Italy, in connection with alleged
infringement of several handset and network technology patents.
Fredrik Hallstan, a spokesman for Stockholm-based Ericsson, had
no immediate comment on yesterday’s ZTE statement.  ZTE smartphone sales may double this year as they gain
market share in  Europe , North America, Brazil and  Japan , the
company said last week.  That expansion in handsets may damp profit as the company
subsidizes purchases of the devices, said Bill Fan, an analyst
at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong Kong, which rates the shares
“buy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  