-- 
MF Global Customer Highridge Says $50 Million Commodity Account ‘Missing’

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-02T21:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/-50-million-mf-global-commodity-account-gone-highridge-futures-fund-says.html
Highridge Futures Fund LP, a customer
of the  MF Global Inc.  brokerage, said its $50 million account
with the defunct company is “missing.”  James Giddens, the trustee liquidating the brokerage, has
“failed and refused” to provide any information about the
whereabouts of the account, Highridge said in a filing today in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . Highridge asked the judge
handling the case to order Giddens to locate and transfer the
account, containing mostly cash and also unsettled commodity
positions.  Highridge described itself in the filing as a registered
commodity pool incorporated in  Delaware , with a general partner
that is an Illinois company.  Giddens has transferred about 38,000 commodity accounts to
other firms, and said he plans to sell 330 securities accounts.
Three transfers of collateral made and pending will give
commodity customers about $4 billion of their assets, according
to court filings.  “Highridge’s account was not among the accounts
transferred,” the fund said. “This account is nowhere to be
found.”  Kent Jarrell , a Giddens spokesman, said, “The trustee’s
office has been in contact with Highridge and will continue to
try to resolve the issue without the need for a judicial
decision.”  Transfer Lists  Highridge said its account showed up twice on lists of
accounts to be transferred to other future firms, first to
Vision Financial Markets LLC, then to R.J. O’Brien.  CME Clearing, part of CME Group Inc., told Highridge on
Nov. 29 that there was no information on the account because its
unsettled positions were on the London Metal Exchange, which
also had no information to give at the time.  “Twice Highridge was told the account was being
transferred and twice the account was not transferred,” it
said.  Separately, Queen’s Quay Avante Ltd., which opened a
Canadian dollar account of $7 million at MF Global on Sept. 21,
said it hadn’t received any money from the all-cash account,
possibly because of the Canadian currency, or a failed wire
transfer from Harris Trust & Savings Bank in  Chicago , which was
maintaining the account, to “a different bank.”  Account Shortfall  The shortfall in the MF Global brokerage’s U.S. segregated
customer accounts may exceed $1.2 billion, more than double what
was previously expected, Giddens has said. That would mean
customer accounts are missing about 22 percent of their total of
$5.4 billion.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. The firm
said it has about $26 million in cash.  Jon Corzine , the former
co-chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , quit as
MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  