-- 
‘Bonnie and Clyde’ Makes Folk Heroes of Killers: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/-bonnie-and-clyde-turns-killers-into-heroes-shakers-dance-jeremy-gerard.html
Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker had
little to recommend them as citizens worthy of a Broadway
musical. They killed anyone who got in their way during a bank-
robbing spree around the Midwest in the heart of the Great
Depression.  We can’t all be Mary Poppins. Frank Wildhorn’s “Bonnie and
Clyde,” which opened Thursday night on Broadway, has catchy
songs, a fleshed out story and plenty of heart thanks to the
snazzy direction by Jeff Calhoun and a design team that invokes
the period in broad but astute strokes.  It also has a pair of stars in Jeremy Jordan (Clyde) and
Laura Osnes (Bonnie). Avoid the temptation to revisit Arthur
Penn’s 1967 movie with Warren Beatty and  Faye Dunaway , and
you’ll have a fine time.  That’s high praise for Wildhorn (last season’s short-lived
“Wonderland,” “Jekyll and Hyde”), whose predilection for
generic-sounding pop tunes with a high dose of treacle hasn’t
won him many fans among critics. While it falls into some of the
same traps, “Bonnie and Clyde” is by far his best score.  Wildhorn and his collaborators -- book writer Ivan Menchell
and lyricist Don Black -- smartly dispense with the film’s
violent finale right off the bat: The lights go down, the air
fills with smoke and the sound of machine-gun fire, and the
curtains part revealing a shot up Ford and the bullet-riddled
bodies of the murderous pair.  Doing Time  With that business out of the way, they can settle in to
some conventional storytelling. How young Clyde was raising hell
(and doing time) from boyhood and young Bonnie dreamed of being
the next Clara Bow, the “It” girl.  People are losing their homes and even the banks are
running out of cash. Clyde comes upon Bonnie in West Dallas and
sweet talks her into running off with him as they begin life on
the lam.  Three days after seeing it, I can’t recall a single tune
from the show (a little lower on the volume might have helped me
listen better). One line of Clyde’s, however, has stayed with
me. When his sister-in-law urges him to turn himself in and
finish his prison sentence, Clyde responds, “I am never going
to be set free. Freedom is something I gotta steal.”  Unlikely Somebodies  Jordan, fresh from starring in the Broadway-bound
“Newsies,” resembles  Leonardo DiCaprio . His singing is strong
and sure, but I liked his slouchy acting even better. He does a
fine job of conveying Clyde’s transformation from goofy nobody
to unlikely somebody. During one bank holdup, a trembling
customer asks for his autograph, and he cheerfully obliges.  Osnes, who spends a good deal of the show in a slip,
effectively belts the 11 o’clock number, “Dyin’ Ain’t So Bad,”
without making it memorable.  As Clyde’s helpful brother and reluctant sister-in-law,
Claybourne Elder and Melissa Van Der Schyff offer powerful vocal
and dramatic support.  There’s no dancing to speak of, which I suppose is
indicative of the show’s seriousness of purpose. That’s also
reflected in Tobin Ost’s settings, rough-hewn barn siding jazzed
with Aaron Rhyne’s projections of sensationalist newspaper
headlines and mug shots, all sympathetically lit by Michael
Gilliam, often through a Dust Bowl haze. A pop romance about the
American nightmare, “Bonnie and Clyde” is solidly
entertaining.  At the Schoenfeld Theatre, 236 W. 45th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **1/2  ‘Angel Reapers’  The stage of the  Joyce Theater  is bare but for a dozen
wooden chairs, soon occupied by a gathering of primly dressed
men and women. When they begin singing “’Tis a Gift to be
Simple,” it’s almost impossible not to think of Martha Graham
and “Appalachian Spring.”  “Angel Reapers” is the work of a different Martha, in
this case the choreographer and director Martha Clarke,
collaborating with playwright Alfred Uhry (“Driving  Miss
Daisy ”). The story, such as it is in this 70-minute dance,
concerns the 18th-century Shaker movement, with its odd mix of
ecstatic mysticism and celibacy.  That familiar song devolves into foot-stomping and,
eventually the dancers whirling like dervishes, stripping off
their clothes and behaving in decidedly non-celibate fashion. As
always with Clarke (“Vienna: Lusthaus”), the images are
striking, even if we’re left pondering the meaning of it all.  Through Dec. 11 at the Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue
near West 18th St. Information: +1-212-242-0800;
 http://www.joyce.org . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 