-- 
Labor Chief Solis Says Jobs Report Shows More Action Needed

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-12-02T15:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/labor-chief-solis-says-jobs-number-show-need-for-more-action.html
U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said
the drop in the  unemployment rate  shows the  U.S. economy  is
recovering, and extending a cut in the payroll tax will help
boost hiring and spending even more.  The jobless rate remains high and “the urgency is to do
something now,” Solis said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The Labor Department today said the  jobless rate  fell to
8.6 percent in November, the lowest since March 2009, after
employers last month added 120,000 jobs.  The government also revised to 100,000 the number of jobs
companies added to their payrolls in October, up from the
initial estimate of 80,000.  Separately, Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers, said the global economy remains
“in a fragile state” and urged lawmakers to move ahead with an
extension of the  payroll tax  cut that President  Barack Obama  is
seeking. The reduction in the Social Security payroll tax for
employees expires Dec. 31.  “Today’s employment report provides further evidence that
the economy is continuing to heal from the worst economic
downturn since the Great Depression, but the pace of improvement
is still not fast enough given the large job losses from the
recession that began in December 2007,” Krueger said in a
statement.  “It would be a setback for the economy” if Congress
didn’t pass a payroll tax cut extension, he said.  Debt Crisis  A brighter picture for U.S. jobs is helping ease concerns
that the world’s largest economy will slip into a recession,
even as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to hamper the recovery.  Solis, in the Bloomberg Television interview, said growth
indicators are “steady, they’re slow, but nevertheless they are
occurring and we need to continue down that path.”  She said the jobless rate in November 2010 was 9.8 percent
and “it’s still above 8 percent, yes it’s high and that’s why
we need to do more” with the payroll tax cut and extending
expanded unemployment insurance benefits.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
yesterday that “there is enough common ground” between
Republicans and Democrats in Congress to pass the payroll tax
cut and unemployment benefit measures.  Boehner told reporters today that “any  job creation  is
welcome news.” He added that “the jobless rate in this country
is still unacceptably high” and many Americans have “stopped
looking for work. I think we should all be concerned about
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Roger Runningen in
Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  