-- 
Madoff Associate Sonja Kohn Has $42 Million is Assets Frozen by U.K. Judge

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-12-02T15:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/madoff-associate-sonja-kohn-has-42-million-of-assets-frozen-by-u-k-judge.html
A London judge froze 27 million
pounds ($42 million) of Sonja Kohn’s assets and ordered the
former associate of  Bernard Madoff  to move funds to the U.K. as
the administrators of Madoff’s European operation seek
recoveries for victims of his fraud.  Judge Julian Flaux said Kohn should repatriate as much of
the 27 million pounds as possible to the U.K. within 56 days,
adding it may be at risk as a result of “the nature of the
wrongful conduct which is alleged against her.”  Liquidators of Madoff’s estate are pursuing Kohn and the
directors of Madoff Securities International Ltd., the company’s
English unit, for the return of assets. Her lawyer, Clemens
Trauttenberg, had no immediate comment. Trauttenberg previously
said Kohn was also a victim of Madoff’s fraud and hasn’t been
accused of being complicit.  The former chairwoman of Bank Medici AG, according to a
prior ruling from Flaux, made at least $56 million introducing
clients to Madoff, who pleaded guilty in 2009 to using money
from new investors to pay off old ones in a  Ponzi scheme ,
sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits. He is serving
150 years in prison in  North Carolina  for the fraud that caused
his New York-based firm to collapse in December 2008.  Kohn, who is suffering from health problems, has a house in
 Switzerland  and fund investments worth at least 15 million
pounds as well as bank accounts as far away as  Israel , lawyers
said today.  Kohn, 63, met Madoff in the 1980s and introduced him to
investors who invested billions of dollars with him. She is
accused of billing Madoff companies for research, analysis and
consulting services while in reality the payments were “secret
kickbacks” for introducing money into the scheme, according to
the Nov. 25 court ruling freezing her assets.  Steve Akers, one of the administrators of Madoff Securities
International, declined to comment.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Stephen Ernest John Raven, 10-1468,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division (London)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  