-- 
Magic Johnson Teams With Guggenheim’s Walter on Los Angeles Dodgers Bid

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-12-02T18:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/magic-johnson-teams-with-guggenheim-s-walter-on-los-angeles-dodgers-bid.html
Basketball hall of famer  Magic Johnson  is teaming with Guggenheim Partners Chief Executive
Officer Mark Walter to bid on baseball’s  Los Angeles  Dodgers.  The group also includes Stan Kasten, former president of
the Atlanta Braves and Washington Nationals. Kasten would
relocate to Los Angeles and become the Dodgers’ chief executive
should the group get the team, which filed for bankruptcy in
June.  “Guggenheim Baseball Management brings together a team of
proven winners with deep ties to the Los Angeles community, an
impressive track record of sports excellence and the financial
wherewithal to provide long-term financial stability for the
Dodgers organization,” Walter said in a statement.  Guggenheim, founded in 2000 with backing from the
Guggenheim family and based in  New York  and  Chicago , oversees
more than $125 billion in customer assets, according to the
statement.  Johnson didn’t immediately return a message left on his
mobile phone. On Twitter, he said, “I’m excited to have the
opportunity to be part of the Dodgers legacy & bring a World
Series championship back to LA.”  Kasten declined to comment.  The 52-year-old Johnson delivered five National Basketball
Association championships to Los Angeles as leader of the
“Showtime” Lakers. He sold his minority share of the team last
year.  Other prospective bidders for the Dodgers include Dallas
Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban , SAC Capital’s Steve Cohen, Los
Angeles developer Rick Caruso, former Buffalo Sabres owner Tom Golisano and baseball executive Dennis Gilbert.  The sale is being conducted by Blackstone Group LP.  Sports bankers have said the team could fetch a record $1
billion.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC,
11-12010 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  