-- 
Taiwan Dollar Halts Four-Week Decline After Central Banks Act

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-12-02T08:41:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/taiwan-dollar-halts-four-week-retreat-after-central-banks-act.html
Taiwan ’s dollar snapped a four-week
decline after policy makers worldwide took coordinated action to
stop  Europe ’s debt crisis from worsening. Bonds gained.  Overseas funds bought $1.1 billion more of the island’s
stocks than they sold this week, according to exchange data. Six
central banks led by the  Federal Reserve  agreed on Nov. 30 to
make it cheaper for lenders to borrow dollars in emergencies in
an effort to boost global growth. Taiwan may ease curbs on
Chinese investment in public works, the Council for Economic
Planning and Development said yesterday.  “The  Taiwan dollar  is benefiting from the general
improvement in risk appetite,” said Thio Chin Loo, a Singapore-
based senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “But the
currency will face a downside risk since the central bank might
cut  interest rates  as economic indicators are pointing to slower
growth.”  The Taiwan dollar strengthened 1 percent this week to
NT$30.160 against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. It was little changed today after reaching NT$30.060
yesterday, the strongest level since Nov. 9.  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due July 2016 fell four
basis points today and six basis points during the five-day
period to 0.992 percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market
show. That’s the lowest level for benchmark five-year rates
since Oct. 4. The central bank is scheduled to review borrowing
costs on Dec. 29.  The  overnight money-market rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed today and this week at
0.398 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  