-- 
Alabama Revenue Chief Orders Officials Not to Judge Residents’ Citizenship

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-12-02T23:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/alabama-counties-ordered-by-state-to-stop-demanding-proof-of-citizenship.html
Alabama  county offices should stop
demanding proof of citizenship from drivers who want to renew
car tags or people registering mobile homes, the state revenue
commissioner has ordered.  “Under no circumstances is a state or county official or
employee to make a determination as to whether an alien is
lawfully present in the  United States ,” Revenue Commissioner
Julie P. Magee said yesterday in a memo sent to local officials.  Until workers have access to a federal database, “you
should not require anyone to demonstrate their U.S. citizenship
or lawful presence,” she said. Absent that check, people should
be allowed to conduct their business with state and local
offices, she said.  Court rulings have blocked enforcement of some elements of
a new state immigration law, including making it a criminal
misdemeanor to be in the state illegally and unregistered. Other
provisions that took effect in September have produced lines of
unprecedented length for such services as renewing car tags,
said Martha Ogle, the DeKalb County revenue commissioner.  “October was one of the worst months I’ve seen, and I’ve
been here for a very long time,” Ogle said.  Portable Toilets  In Jefferson County, home of Birmingham, officials set up
two portable outdoor toilets to accommodate those waiting hours
in lines for vehicle registration plates.  Alabama ’s immigration law has been called the toughest in
the U.S. Signed by Governor Robert J. Bentley on June 9, the
Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act also
requires school officials to check the status of enrolling
children.  On Oct. 14, a U.S. appeals court blocked enforcement of
certain provisions while the rulings of U.S. District Judge
Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham are reviewed.  While Blackburn had temporarily prevented enforcement of
measures prohibiting the hiring, housing or transporting people
living in the U.S. unlawfully, she let police question the legal
status of people stopped for suspicious behavior. She also let
the authorities put anyone arrested for driving without a
license before a magistrate for determination of their status.  Bentley and other state officials have said they want the
Legislature to revisit the statute when lawmakers convene next
year. He and other leaders have described needed changes as
“tweaks” rather than wholesale revisions.  Immigrant Exodus  The law has driven illegal-immigrant laborers from the
state, prompting complaints from farmers and food processors
that produce fish and poultry.  Police arrested an executive of German automaker Daimler AG
last month in  Tuscaloosa County . A Honda Motor Co. employee was
ticketed in Leeds for lacking proper papers. A Mercedes plant
and a Honda factory are both major employers in the area. The
cases against both individuals were dismissed.  In county offices, applicants for car tags and other
services have been required to show proof of citizenship since
the law took effect. Acceptable documentation was established by
the state Revenue Department.  The demands for documentation sowed confusion and delays,
angering Alabamians, Ogle said. DeKalb County had the state’s
second-highest proportion of Hispanic residents last year,
according to U.S. Census Bureau figures.  Frustrating Residents  In addition to the delays, Alabamians who couldn’t produce
birth certificates or other acceptable documents were denied
renewals of their registration plates, she said. That prompted
some furious reactions, she said.  “A lot of people agreed with that law when they passed
it,” Ogle said. “Little did people know that it doesn’t just
apply to the Hispanics, it applies to everybody. Most people
didn’t understand that.”  County officials followed a series of changing enforcement
instructions, Ogle said.  Following a Nov. 23 ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Myron Thompson, counties stopped demanding proof of citizenship
from those seeking manufactured-home registration renewals.  Thompson temporarily halted the citizenship checks,
responding to a challenge brought by the Central Alabama Fair
Housing Coalition and the Southern Poverty Law Center in
Montgomery.  Magee’s directive to stop requiring citizenship
documentation for services such as vehicle registrations
followed an opinion issued yesterday by state Attorney General
Luther Strange. He said county officials can check a person’s
status only through a federal database, which isn’t currently
available in most local offices.  Until local governments obtain access to that system, they
can’t implement the state law banning illegal immigrants from
doing business with the state, Strange said in the document.
County officials “should not require anyone to demonstrate
their U.S. citizenship or lawful presence in the U.S.,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  