-- 
Mall Rats Can’t Bring About the Wealth of Nations: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-12-02T00:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/mall-rats-can-t-bring-about-the-wealth-of-nations-caroline-baum.html
The spectacle of hordes of shoppers
schlepping through the mall at midnight with children in tow,
stuffing their carts after stuffing their bellies, was a sight
to behold. And apparently one to cheer.  U.S. stocks soared on Monday following reports of a bang-up
start to the  holiday shopping season .  Black Friday sales  rose
6.6 percent from last year to a record $11.4 billion while
“retail foot traffic” -- now there’s a metric you can take to
the bank -- rose 5.1 percent, according to ShopperTrak, a
Chicago research firm.  The  National Retail Federation  said U.S.  shoppers spent  a
record $52.4 billion during Thanksgiving weekend in stores and
online, a 16 percent increase over last year. Online sales
soared 33 percent on “Cyber Monday,” according to IBM. The
market-research firm comScore Inc. said it was the single-
 biggest online -shopping day in U.S. history.  Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product. As the consumer goes, so goes the
nation.  Not so fast.  Consumer spending  constitutes growth to the
extent that consumption, or C, is a component used in
calculating GDP. (GDP = C + I + G + X - M, with I representing
investment, G government spending, X exports and M imports.)
Today’s spending boosts GDP growth in the current quarter.  Today’s investment boosts current-quarter GDP as well, but
it doesn’t stop there: Today’s capital investment gives rise to
tomorrow’s potential growth.  Wealth in Savings  Whether last weekend’s sales were as strong as retail
groups made them out to be or whether they augur a trend is
beside the point. The wealth of nations comes not from what we
spend but from what we sow: what we set aside to be invested in
productive capacity.  If spending created wealth,  Greece  would be rich. Neither
consumers nor governments can spend their way to prosperity.  The hoopla over Thanksgiving weekend sales, disseminated
via TV, print and electronic media, surely sets the U.S. apart
from other Western nations. And don’t get me started on that
season-of-giving malarkey. The Christmas-shopping bonanza long
ago became divorced from any religious or spiritual significance
the holiday may have.  It’s not clear that opening stores three, six or 12 hours
earlier than normal on Thanksgiving weekend results in stronger
holiday sales, either for individual stores or for retailers
overall. Households on limited budgets determine how much they
will allocate to gifts for friends and family. Where and when
they do their shopping is secondary.  Besides, there is something fundamentally wrong with a
culture that promotes spending as the key to health and wealth.
A multidecade borrowing-and-spending binge whittled the U.S.
 savings rate  from an average of 9.6 percent in the 1970s, to 8.6
percent in the 1980s, to 5.5 percent in the 1990s, to 3.3
percent in the 2000s. At one point during the housing bubble,
the savings rate approached zero.  My generation learned about the virtues of thrift from our
parents, who were children of the Great Depression. Subsequent
generations haven’t had the benefit of real-world teachers. For
them, the 1930s are a story told through sepia-toned photographs
of ravaged dust-bowl farms and bread lines.  Younger generations of Americans have grown up on
conspicuous consumption. The focus has been on what something
costs today -- the monthly interest payment on the credit card
or mortgage -- not whether the car or home is  affordable . Easy
and cheap credit made it all possible.  Incentive to Spend  The  Federal Reserve  is complicit, too, in discouraging
saving by holding its  benchmark rate  close to zero and  pledging 
to keep it there at least through mid-2013. Consumers aren’t
getting paid to save. The rate they can earn on  bank deposits  is
negative when adjusted for current or expected inflation.
Therefore, they spend. High real rates induce consumers to forgo
current spending and save.  Households have been  deleveraging  for three years in an
attempt to repair their balance sheets. Yet many economists and
policy makers advocate more borrowing and spending as a cure for
what ails the economy, and cheer as mall rats infest stores in
the middle of the night. How can that be?  I suspect it’s the old short-run/long-run dichotomy. By
now, though, it should be obvious that the U.S. suffers from an
extreme case of short-term thinking, and it underpins decisions
on everything from tax-and-spend policy to monetary policy.  Even the stock market applauds more “consumption,” a
synonym for spending I try to avoid. A former editor said the
word made him think of people wasting away from tuberculosis,
which happens to be Merriam-Webster’s  first definition . It was
enough to convince me.  In the context of this column, however, the alternate
definition seems appropriate: “the utilization of economic goods
in the satisfaction of wants ... resulting chiefly in their
destruction, deterioration, or transformation.”  “Destruction” should be a tip-off that whatever it is, it
isn’t wealth.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 