-- 
Ally Financial Halts Mortgage Purchases in Massachusetts After State Sues

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-03T00:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/ally-financial-will-halt-mortgage-purchases-in-massachusetts-after-lawsuit.html
Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage
unit will stop buying home loans in  Massachusetts  after the
state accused the five biggest mortgage lenders of conducting
illegal foreclosures.  The halt, which affects loans originated by correspondent
lenders and wholesale brokers, is “because recent developments
have led mortgage lending in Massachusetts to no longer be
viable,” the Detroit-based company said in a statement. Ally,
owned mostly by the U.S. government after being bailed out
during the 2008 financial crisis, is ranked fifth this year
among the nation’s mortgage providers.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  sued Ally and
four other mortgage lenders yesterday for allegedly trying to
seize homes when they didn’t hold the mortgage on the
properties. Failure to obtain valid mortgage assignments before
foreclosure has affected titles to “hundreds, if not thousands,
of properties” in the state, she said.  “The company is disappointed that it can no longer
participate in offering certain financing options in
Massachusetts,” Ally said in its statement. “However, it has
an obligation to manage risks and  deploy capital  in an
appropriate manner and in a way that protects the investment of
the U.S. taxpayer.”  Ally will continue making direct loans in the state,
according to Gina Proia, a spokeswoman. The lender will honor
any commitments through Dec. 5 and continue servicing existing
customers, the statement said. Mortgage servicers send out and
collect bills, and handle foreclosures if borrowers don’t pay.  Subprime Loans  Ally was once one of the largest subprime lenders through
its ownership of Residential Capital, which gave loans to
borrowers most prone to  default . The firm has since backed away
to cut risk and last month said it’s reducing purchases of
mortgages made by other lenders. Those “correspondent loans”
had comprised 84 percent of originations.  “The costs related to the mortgage business overall have
increased and when additional litigation costs are added to the
equation, the business case in certain channels is no longer
viable,” Proia said today. GMAC Mortgage will fight the state’s
claims and has worked “in good faith” with Coakley’s office
during the past year to discuss mortgage servicing and ways to
assist borrowers, she said yesterday.  Matt Anderson , a spokesman at the U.S. Treasury Department,
which owns 74 percent of Ally, declined to comment.  State Suit  Coakley’s lawsuit also named Bank of America Corp.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co. Her
filing broke with state attorneys general across the country who
have been negotiating a settlement with the five banks that
would resolve a probe into foreclosure practices. With an accord
still out of reach after more than a year, Coakley said, she
decided to file her lawsuit.  “To do business in Massachusetts, GMAC has to follow the
law before foreclosing on homeowners,” Coakley said in an
e-mailed statement. “With today’s action, it appears GMAC has
acknowledged it has a problem following those laws and being
held accountable for doing so.”  Mark Calabria, director of financial-regulation studies at
the libertarian  Cato Institute  in  Washington , said other lenders
may follow Ally if they feel their ability to collect on
collateral is jeopardized by the states.  “A mortgage is supposed to be a collateralized loan,”
Calabria said. “If banks feel like they can’t foreclose or
price for what the risk is going to be, or if these things are
seen as being arbitrary or politically driven, there is the
risk” that lending will slow, he said.  No Mass Exodus  Some banks may follow Ally’s example only if their presence
in Massachusetts or other states is small enough, Calabria said.
And for most lenders, the California mortgage market is simply
too big to ignore, he said. Bank of America has already exited
the wholesale lending business and announced plans earlier this
year to close its correspondent unit, spokesman  Terry Francisco 
said in a phone interview.  “This could happen in places like Massachusetts that are
arguably small enough,” said Calabria, a former aide to Alabama
Senator  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Banking
Committee. “It’d be hard regardless of what the California AG
says for a lender to say we won’t do business in the state.”  Ally said in a separate filing today that a review of its
foreclosure practices ordered by regulators could cost $200
million. The bill could be “significantly higher” if the scope
of the review is expanded, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  