-- 
American Seen Shrinking About 10% With Focus on U.S. Flight Cuts

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-12-02T17:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/american-airlines-seen-shrinking-about-10-with-focus-on-u-s-flight-cuts.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  may
shrink flying capacity about 10 percent to reduce operating
costs and pare unprofitable routes in bankruptcy, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cuts probably will be deepest in domestic operations, and
may be greater should American combine with a rival before
exiting court-supervised reorganization, some of the six
analysts said. Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR hasn’t specified any
reductions since filing for Chapter 11 protection on Nov. 29.  American faces a balancing act between paring flights to
save money and keeping its route system large enough to retain
business travelers. The third-largest U.S. carrier has fallen
behind  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) , which both expanded through mergers since 2008.  “I don’t expect them to come out and say they’re going to
slash their network because that would raise questions on how
viable this entity is,”  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co.
analyst, said in an interview. “Something in the range of 5 to
10 percent is possible.”  AMR Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said after the
filing that job and flight reductions are “likely.” The
company isn’t commenting yet on how its network or workforce may
change, Andy Backover, a spokesman, said yesterday.  Capacity is measured in the number of available seats each
flown a mile, and can be adjusted by parking jets, flying them
less often or switching to smaller aircraft. Such reductions are
typical in airline bankruptcies, because the pullbacks save on
fuel and payroll.  United, Delta  A United predecessor, UAL Corp., trimmed capacity 8 percent
in the months after its December 2002 filing. Delta reduced
domestic capacity by 16 percent in 2006, its first full year in
Chapter 11, before it emerged in April 2007.  American’s pullback may reach as much as 15 percent, said
James M. Higgins, an analyst with New York-based Ticonderoga
Securities LLC.  “They’ve got too much trans-con capacity, too much
capacity in some of the northern Atlantic markets,” said
Higgins, using the industry shorthand for trans-continental
routes. “Some of the building they’ve been trying to do on the
West Coast is not working to their advantage.”  Since September 2009, American has focused domestic flying
in  New York ,  Chicago , Dallas-Fort Worth, Miami and  Los Angeles .
It identified those cities as important to business travelers,
who typically pay the most for tickets.  Annual Losses  The strategy wasn’t enough to stem annual losses that began
in 2008 and are projected by analysts to persist through 2012.
International routes are more profitable than domestic flying,
because of a lack of low-fare competition, making American most
likely to emphasize cuts in the U.S., the analysts said.  Jamie Baker , a New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst,
sees a pullback of “no less than” 10 percent.  Michael Derchin 
of CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut , forecasts at
least 5 percent, while Jeff Straebler, an independent analyst
also in Stamford, expects the cuts won’t exceed 10 percent.  “If they are planning on remaining independent, they can’t
afford to shrink too much in order to maintain corporate
accounts and sufficient international feed,” Straebler said in
an interview.  American would shrink more if it merges with  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC) , Straebler said. That airline, the fifth-largest in
the U.S. by traffic, is seen by analysts as the most likely
partner for a combination. It isn’t commenting on American.  Robert McAdoo, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst in Prairie
Village,  Kansas , expects initial capacity cuts at American to be
only 1 percent to 2 percent, and said it’s too early to say how
large the reduction might be when AMR emerges from bankruptcy.  “Even if you want to cut, just because of the process you
have to go through, to think about rescheduling people, where
and how to do maintenance, all that takes awhile,” McAdoo said
in an interview. “A lot of the flying you have laid out for
summer already has people on it. Big cuts I don’t think happen
soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  