-- 
Angola Opposition Party Unita to Choose Leader for 2012 Vote

-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-12-02T19:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/angola-s-opposition-party-unita-to-choose-leader-for-2012-vote.html
The largest opposition party in
 Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest crude producer, plans to choose
a leader this month to challenge the 32-year rule of President
Jose Eduardo  dos Santos  in elections.  The National Union for Total Independence of  Angola , or
Unita, a former rebel movement, will meet Dec. 13 to Dec. 16 to
choose between current party head Isaias Samakuva and Jose Pedro
Katchiungo, a former intelligence officer, it announced
yesterday on its Facebook page. The winner will take part in
national elections planned for the last quarter of 2012, in what
would be the first vote for president since 1992.  Samakuva has led the party since the 2002 death of Jonas
Savimbi, who fought against government forces in a 27-year civil
war. Abel Chivukuvuku and Paulo Lukamba Gato, two former party
leaders, aren’t running after the party barred them in September
for accusing Samakuva of clinging to power, Radio Ecclesia
reported yesterday. The ban was lifted last month, it said. The
winner faces the  Popular Movement  for the Liberation of Angola,
or MPLA, which has ruled Angola since independence from Portugal
in 1975.  “The MPLA will probably retain an absolute majority in
Parliament, with other smaller opposition parties picking up
some extra seats,” Alex Vines, an analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  London , wrote in a
report.  The MPLA, which holds 181 of Parliament’s 220 seats, will
meet Dec. 8 to Dec. 10 to select its candidates. Dos Santos said
last month he is “available” to run again.  Oil Boom  The government has forecast economic growth of 12.8 percent
next year as oil companies, such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , and  BP Plc , drill ultra-deep offshore wells. The
government has approximately doubled spending on housing and
health in a 4.4 trillion-kwanza ($46.2 billion) budget for 2012.  The National Liberation Front of Angola, or FNLA, the
Social Renewal Party, or PRS, and  New Democracy , a merger of 6
smaller parties after a court ruling dissolved those with less
than 0.5% support in the 2008 municipal elections, will gain
seats at the expense of Unita, Vines said.  “Unita seems increasingly unable to influence the domestic
agenda,” he said.  Plans to hold a national vote in 2009 were scrapped while
the constitution was re-written to remove the presidency from
direct elections. Instead, the leader of the political party
with the strongest result in the parliamentary elections becomes
president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda, Angola at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 