-- 
Apple Questioned by German Data Regulator About Carrier IQ Software Piracy

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-12-02T17:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/apple-questioned-by-german-data-regulator-over-carrier-iq.html
European privacy regulators are
asking mobile-phone carriers and makers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to
answer questions about privacy issues regarding Carrier IQ
Inc.’s mobile phone usage-tracking software.  Germany’s Bavarian State Authority for Data Protection
contacted Apple today as regulators in the U.K.,  France , Ireland
and  Italy  review whether Carrier IQ is in use in their
jurisdictions. Apple said yesterday it will stop supporting the
software.  “We read in the press about the privacy concerns the
software may pose and decided to ask Apple about the details,”
said Thomas Kranig, head of the Bavarian agency. “If Apple
decided to cease the use, all the better.”  Carrier IQ faces allegations that the software logs
sensitive phone-user information. U.S. Senator Al Franken
yesterday urged the  Mountain View , California-based developer to
share more information about what the product does and whether
it transmits data to other parties.  Privacy watchdogs were alerted to the issue after Trevor
Eckhart, a Connecticut-based programmer, posted a 17-minute
video three days ago on his YouTube.com  channel , showing how the
data-collecting software logs what people are doing on their
phones without their knowledge.  Carrier IQ’s “mobile service intelligence” platform
receives data sent from phones for analysis to track “customer
behavior and usage patterns,” according to the company’s
 website . The company’s products allow clients to track both
“broad trend data” and “diagnostic data from individual
devices,” the site says.  Anonymous, Encrypted  “We stopped supporting Carrier IQ with iOS 5 in most of
our products and will remove it completely in a future software
update,”  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Apple, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “With any diagnostic data sent to
Apple, customers must actively opt-in to share this information,
and if they do, the data is sent in an anonymous and encrypted
form and does not include any personal information.”  Georg Albrecht, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple in  Germany , declined to comment on the Bavarian agency’s
letter.  Carrier IQ applications “give wireless carriers and
handset manufacturers unprecedented insight into their
customers’ mobile experience,” according to the company
website. Over 141 million handsets have the software, according
to data on its website.  The Carrier IQ software doesn’t record keystrokes or
provide tracking tools, the company said in a Nov. 16  statement .  ‘Direct from Source’  The software works “by automatically providing accurate,
real-time data direct from the source - your customers’
handsets,” according to the website. The data is gathered with
“no visible impact” on customers.  European privacy regulators said today they are checking
with mobile phone operators in their regions to see if Carrier
IQ software tracks usage on handsets there.  The U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office “will be
contacting mobile phone operators to establish if the Carrier IQ
or similar software is on U.K. customers’ handsets and, if so,
what steps are being taken to ensure there are no privacy
implications,” the data protection watchdog said in an e-mailed
statement.  Italy’s Protection of Personal Data Guarantor opened an
investigation into how Carrier IQ works and is checking Italian
mobile phones to verify where the software is in use, according
to a statement by Francesco Pizzetti, president of the Italian
watchdog.  Defending Use  French privacy regulator CNIL has also begun reviewing
Carrier IQ, Elsa Trochet-Mace, a spokeswoman for the regulator,
said in an e-mail. Initial finding show the software is not in
use in France, she said. Ireland’s data-protection agency will
contact mobile phone operators as well to see if and how Carrier
IQ is used there.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  yesterday defended the
use of Carrier IQ software.  The Carrier IQ software is a so-called rootkit installed at
the carriers’ request on mobile phones. The application runs in
the background and logs user activity. The software data is used
to improve service performance, according to statements from
AT&T and Sprint, the second- and third-largest U.S. wireless
providers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  