-- 
Apple Wins Longer Ban on Galaxy in Australia as Samsung Christmas at Risk

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-12-02T01:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/apple-wins-extension-on-samsung-tablet-ban.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a one-week extension
of a ban on Samsung Electronics Co.’s sales of its latest tablet
computer in Australia, delaying pre-Christmas sales, in a battle
that began in April in the U.S. and spread to four continents.  High Court Justice John Dyson Heydon today extended the ban
on the release of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 to Dec. 9. On that
day, the country’s top court will consider Apple’s request for
permission to appeal a lower court’s order issued earlier this
week, which lifted a ban on the product that has been in place
since mid-October.  “A stay for one week will cost Samsung, in effect, one
week’s trade,” Heydon said, following a 90-minute hearing in
Sydney. The extension will hurt Samsung “but not to extend the
status quo is likely to be injurious to Apple,” he said.  The decision scuttles Samsung’s plan to begin importing the
Galaxy Tab 10.1 into  Australia  this weekend and take advantage
of the pre-Christmas shopping season. The company had said if it
can’t sell the tablet in Australia before Christmas it would
scrap its release in the country.  “This is a critical period of time,” Katrina Howard,
Samsung’s lawyer, told Heydon today. “Even one day can make a
difference.”  Samsung had planned to release the tablet for sale today at
4 p.m. Sydney time, import the product over the weekend and
begin a marketing campaign, Howard said.  “Samsung believes Apple has no basis for its application
for leave to appeal,” the Suwon, South Korea-based company said
in an e-mailed statement distributed in Sydney.  Widening Battle  The “high-velocity” unveiling of the Galaxy Tab into the
Australian market “confirms the need for a stay,” Apple’s
lawyer Stephen Burley told the judge. “Even a short release of
the product can cause irreversible harm to Apple” and Samsung
won’t be able to compensate Apple for those damages, he said.  Samsung fell 0.7 percent to 1.06 million won as of 10:06
a.m. in Seoul trading.  The Australian dispute is part of a battle between the
companies on at least four continents that began in April, when
Apple sued Samsung in the U.S. and accused it of “slavishly”
copying the designs of  iPhones and iPads .  The patent disputes began when Samsung released its
Android-based Galaxy smartphones in 2010.  Steve Jobs , the co-
founder of Apple who died Oct. 5, initiated contact with Samsung
in July 2010 over his concerns that the Galaxy phones copied the
iPhone, according to Richard Lutton, Apple’s patent attorney,
who testified in Sydney on Sept. 29.  Samsung was the world’s biggest maker of smartphones in the
last quarter, with Apple being second. The maker of Mac
computers dominates the tablet market.  The appeal case is  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  v. Apple Inc.
NSD1792/2011. Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  