-- 
Apple, Maharishi, Frontier Scientific: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-02T12:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/apple-maharishi-frontier-scientific-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , embroiled in global
patent litigation to protect sales of its iPhone, was ordered by
a U.K. judge to tell HTC Corp. exactly which features of its
competing mobile phones may infringe Apple’s European patents.  Apple was given until today to describe which aspects of
HTC’s handsets allegedly violate the company’s “swipe-to-
unlock” function and other features covered by Apple’s four
patents in the case, Judge Richard Arnold ruled yesterday in
London.  HTC’s earlier attempts to get clarification from Apple
received vague responses, forcing the company “to go to court
to get the clarity” imposed by the ruling, HTC’s lawyer, James
Abrahams, said at the hearing. HTC will argue that Apple’s
patents are invalid at a trial scheduled for April.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is involved in a
global battle with Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC over both
smartphones and tablet computers. Apple sued HTC for patent
infringement in  Germany  in July, triggering a countersuit by HTC
in  London . Apple also sued in the U.K., naming HTC and Samsung
in a complaint filed in September.  If HTC wins the London case and invalidates Apple’s
patents, it could use the U.K. judgment to help prove during the
German trial that it isn’t infringing Apple’s European patents.
Under German legal precedent, German judges give weight to
British judgments on a patent’s validity when considering
whether the patent has been infringed.  Apple is prepared to hand over the additional information
and didn’t respond fully to HTC’s initial questions because they
weren’t clear enough, the company’s lawyer, Guy Burkill, said at
the hearing.  The case is HTC  Europe  Co. Ltd. v. Apple Inc., High Court
of Justice, London, HC11C02703.  Teva Loses Patent Ruling in Dispute Over AstraZeneca Crestor  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., the world’s biggest
maker of generic drugs, lost an appeals court bid to revive a
patent it claimed  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s cholesterol drug Crestor was
infringing.  Teva’s patent is invalid because AstraZeneca came up with
the formulation of rosuvastatin calcium, the active ingredient
in Crestor, first, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  said in ruling yesterday on its website.  Crestor is London-based AstraZeneca’s top-selling drug,
with $4.85 billion in the first nine months of the year. A
federal judge upheld the validity of AstraZeneca’s patent on the
medicine, which would block generic-drug competition until 2016.
An appeals court ruling on that case is still pending.  Teva’s patent, covering a discovery made in December 1999,
is for a way to stabilize a class of drugs known as statins
using a different compound. AstraZeneca said it came up with a
batch of rosuvastatin calcium months earlier than that. The
batch had the compound that Teva later claimed could be used as
a stabilizer, according to the ruling.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Petach Tikva, Israel-
based Teva, said the company had no comment on yesterday’s
ruling.  The case is  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  v.
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, 2011-1091, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. v. AstraZeneca
Pharmaceuticals LP, 08-4786, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia). For more patent news,
click here.  Mylan Sued by Warner Chilcott Over Generess FE Contraceptive  Mylan Inc. was sued by a unit of  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  for
infringing a U.S. patent with plans to market low-cost copies of
the oral contraceptive Generess FE.  Warner Chilcott Co. of Fajardo, Puerto Rico, alleges that
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan violated its 6,667,050
patent by applying to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
approval of generic Generess Fe in chewable tablet form.  Mylan has claimed that the patent “is purportedly invalid,
unenforceable, and or will not be infringed” by the generic
product, Warner Chilcott said in a complaint filed Nov. 22 in
federal court in Trenton,  New Jersey . Warner Chilcott denies the
claim.  Warner Chilcott seeks a judgment of infringement and a
permanent injunction against Mylan’s sale of the drug in the
U.S. until the patent expires in 2019.  Generess Fe logged $4.5 million in sales from its
introduction in April to Sept. 30, Mylan said in a statement,
citing IMS Health data.  The case is Warner Chilcott Co. v. Mylan Inc., 11-cv-6844,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Trademark  Maharishi Foundation Sues Over ‘Transcendental Meditation’ Mark  Maharishi Foundation USA Inc. , the U.S. unit of the New Age
meditation organization founded by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, sued a
competitor for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed Nov. 28 in federal court in Des Moines,
 Iowa , is related to  Meditation House LLC ’s use of the phrase
“Transcendental Meditation.” The term is a registered mark
belonging to the Maharishi Foundation, according to court
papers. Among the well-known devotees of transcendental
meditation were the Beatles, actress Mia Farrow and musician
Ravi Shankar.  The foundation objects to promotional material from Ankeny,
Iowa-based Meditation House that claims the “Vedic Meditation’
technique it teaches may be referred to as a form of
‘‘Transcendental Meditation.’’ The foundation says this claim is
false and the public is likely to be misled by Meditation
House’s use of the term.  It asked the court to bar Meditation House’s use of
‘‘Transcendental Meditation” and to order corrective
advertising to dispel what it calls “false, misleading and
deceptive representations.”  It also seeks money damages, together with awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs, and an order for the
destruction of all infringing materials.  On its website, Meditation House says it expressly
disclaims “any association with the Maharishi Foundation Ltd.,
its methods, its trademark” and its licensees.  The foundation is represented by  Mark L. Zaiger  and  Jason
R. Systma  of  Shuttlesworth & Ingersoll Plc  of Cedar Rapids,
Iowa.  Nokia, Philips May Get Some Benefit From EU Ruling on Fakes  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  and other companies
seeking to protect their brands against counterfeit products
entering the 27-nation European Union may benefit from the
region’s top court setting limits on when EU customs officials
can detain fakes in transit.  While setting stricter limits on seizures, the EU court
brought long-sought clarity to help companies assess how best to
protect their brands. Counterfeit phones, as in the case
concerning Nokia, can be intercepted when in transit through the
region only if there’s proof they’ll be delivered within one of
the bloc’s member nations, the EU court said.  That proof should show the fake products have been sold to
a customer in the EU, have been offered for sale or advertised
in the EU or that they are intended to be diverted to the EU
“where it is apparent from documents or correspondence,” the
Luxembourg-based EU Court of Justice said in a ruling yesterday.  Nokia challenged the U.K.’s position that customs officials
can’t seize fake products in transit through the EU without
proof they will actually end up in one of the region’s
countries. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia argued that that risks
making the EU a “safe harbor” for counterfeiters.  U.K. customs officials stopped a shipment of about 400 fake
Nokia handsets and accessories in transit from  Hong Kong  to
 Colombia . While Nokia said the products were fakes, the U.K.
officials said they couldn’t seize them without evidence they
would be diverted back into the EU.  “Counterfeiters put consumers at risk by trading unsafe,
unregulated products, and a lot of their earnings fund organized
crime,” said Dafydd Bevan, a lawyer at Marks & Clerk
Solicitors.  The ruling is “a blow” to brand owners because it doesn’t
go far enough in fighting counterfeiting and if things are to
improve, EU lawmakers need to change the law itself, Bevan said
in an e-mailed statement.  In a related case yesterday involving Amsterdam-based
Philips, the court said officials had more leeway to seize
counterfeits if documents don’t name a final destination for
products.  “The fact that the destination of the goods is not
declared” or that there is a “lack of precise or reliable
information as to the identity or address of the manufacturer or
consignor of the goods” can be used as indications that the
goods may ultimately be delivered to EU customers, the
Luxembourg-based court said.  Philips said it was happy that the EU court “confirmed
that customs must intercept infringing goods in transit when
there are indications that these will be put on the EU market,”
according to an e-mailed statement. “Philips is confident about
a positive outcome of the case” which had been referred by a
Belgian court “and sees this ECJ ruling as a positive
development for consumers and IP owners in Europe.”  The cases are: C-495/09, Nokia Corporation v. Her Majesty’s
Commissioners of Revenue and Customs, C-446/09, Koninklijke
Philips Electronics NV v. Lucheng Meijing Industrial Company
Ltd. and Others.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Public Citizen Sues Dentist Over Comment Copyright Rule  Public Citizen Litigation Group , a Washington-based public-
interest legal group, sued a  New York  dentist who required her
patients to assign her the copyright to any written comments
they made about her in public.  The suit, filed Nov. 29 in  Manhattan  federal court, asked
the court to declare that posting a comment about the dentist to
a website containing reviews of local businesses is “fair use”
under U.S. copyright law.  The complaint, filed initially on behalf of Robert Allen
Lee of Huntingtown, Maryland, also seeks a declaration that the
forced copyright assignment agreement is unconscionable and
void.  Allen said that after he published a negative comment about
the dentist, Stacy Makhnevich, her billing service invoiced him
$100 a day for alleged copyright infringement and revealed
confidential information about him -- including his weight,
photo and home address -- in a takedown notice sent to the
website where he posted his review.  Providing this confidential information to the website
operator violated privacy mandates of the 1996 Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act, Allen said in his complaint.  Makhnevich’s dental practice  didn’t respond immediately to
an e-mail seeking comment on the allegations.  Public Citizen asked the court to certify this case as a
class action, or group suit, and to appoint Lee as a
representative of all of Makhnevich’s patients who are in a
similar situation.  Lee is represented by  Paul Alan Levy  and Gregory Beck of
the Public Citizen Litigation Group, as well as  Bruce P. Keller 
and  Jeffrey P. Cunard  of New York’s Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  The case is Lee v. Makhnevich, 1:11-cv-08665-PAC, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Indian Scientist Accused of Stealing  Utah  Company’s Secrets  A scientist at a Utah chemical company has been charged
with e-mailing trade secrets from his employer to an official
with an Indian chemical company.  In October, Prabu Mohapatra was observed e-mailing a secret
chemical “recipe” for a compound known as 2,2’-dipyrromethane
to an address in  India , according to the court filing. After the
employee who observed this action reported it, software was
installed on Mohapatra’s company computer to record his
keystrokes.  According to court papers, the software revealed that the
scientist e-mailed additional proprietary information from his
employer --  Frontier Scientific Inc.  of Logan, Utah -- to an
official of an Indian pharmaceutical company.  Frontier Scientific told government investigators that the
information Mohapatra sent was proprietary and clearly marked as
such, according to court papers. After the scientist was
confronted, the government said he produced a hand-written note
in which he admitted his mistake and said, “I am truly sorry.”  The official to whom Mohapatra sent the proprietary
information is both his brother-in-law and a co-founder of a
company that would compete with Frontier Scientific, according
to court papers.  The complaint against Mohapatra was filed under seal Nov.
10. On Nov. 28, U.S. Magistrate Judge Brooke C. Wells ordered it
unsealed.  Mohapatra, an Indian national who holds legal permanent
residency in the U.S., surrendered his passport and was released
from government custody. He’s represented by Viviana Ramirez of
the Utah Federal Defender’s Office, who didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Mohapatra, 2:11-mj-00286, U.S. District
Court, District of Utah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 