-- 
Harper, Obama to Meet Dec. 7 to Announce Border Security, Trade Measures

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-12-02T19:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/harper-obama-to-meet-dec-7-to-announce-border-security-trade-measures.html
President  Barack Obama  and Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will meet in  Washington  Dec. 7 to
announce new measures to enhance security and trade between the
two countries.  Obama and Harper pledged in February to work toward a
shared security “perimeter,” aimed at protecting against
threats such as terrorism and accelerating the cross-border flow
of people, goods and services. The two leaders will announce
details of the plan next week, an official familiar with the
matter said.  “The deal is going to provide some good details around how
they plan to move forward on a lot of key areas,” Matt Wilson,
vice-president of policy at the Canadian Manufacturers and
Exporters, an Ottawa-based lobby group, said in a telephone
interview.  The agreement will generate “a huge return for the
Canadian economy,” Wilson said. Border regulations cost
Canadian businesses as much C$15 billion ($14.7 billion)
annually, he said.  The measures may include harmonizing regulations in food
and automobile manufacturing, aligning inspections and security
clearance procedures, reducing data requirements for goods
crossing the border, investing in new technology to reduce
documentation requirements and steps to facilitate movement of
workers, Wilson said.  “There’s a very high likelihood you’ll see all those
things in there,” Wilson said.  The two countries plan to align regulations governing the
most-heavily traded products, U.S. Ambassador to Canada David
Jacobson said in an Aug. 30 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 