-- 
Harrisburg Court Approves Receiver for Pennsylvania Capital

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-02T16:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/harrisburg-judge-approves-naming-receiver-to-run-pennsylvania-capital-city.html
A judge approved a state takeover of
Harrisburg, the capital of  Pennsylvania , giving a receiver from
the governor’s office the power to end a stalemate between the
mayor and the city council over the city’s financial crisis.  David Unkovic, chief lawyer for the state economic
development department, was confirmed today by Pennsylvania
appellate court judge James R. Kelley in Harrisburg, who found
that the city is insolvent and unable to agree on a plan to end
its financial turmoil. Unkovic was nominated for the job by
Governor Tom Corbett  “The Receiver is ordered to develop a recovery plan within
30 days,” Kelley said in a court order issued today.  Unkovic was granted the power to override Harrisburg’s
mayor and city council, who have been feuding over how to solve
a  budget crisis . The council tried to put the city beyond the
reach of a state receiver, and creditors owed more than $242
million, by filing bankruptcy in October. The ploy failed when
the petition was thrown out by a federal judge six weeks later
after being opposed by Corbett and Mayor Linda D. Thompson.  In court testimony on Dec. 1, Unkovic told Kelley that he
will review the documents used to justify the bond debt that is
responsible for the city’s insolvency. The city guaranteed
repayment of about $242 million in bonds related to a waste-to-
energy incinerator that doesn’t make enough money selling
electricity to cover the debt.  Uncommon Structure  The structure of those bonds “is uncommon,” Unkovic told
Kelley during a hearing. “It is disturbing to me.”  The bonds themselves couldn’t be challenged, no matter what
a review uncovers, Unkovic said in an interview after the
hearing. The law does allow legal action against entities that
provided false information to support a  bond issue , Unkovic
said. He declined to answer questions about what aspects of the
incinerator bonds’ structure he considered disturbing.  Unkovic, along with law firm McKenna Long & Aldridge, is
going to review the deals as part of the process to develop a
recovery plan for the city, said Steven Kratz, a spokesman for
the economic development department said.  The receiver case is Walker v. City of Harrisburg, 569MD
2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 