-- 
Australian State Extends Temporary Ban on Fracking to April

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/australian-state-extends-temporary-ban-on-fracking-to-april.html
New South  Wales , Australia’s most
populous state, will keep a temporary ban on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, for three more months to strengthen
standards for the process used to extract natural gas from coal.  The state will extend the moratorium until April from the
end of this year to complete an independent review of the health,
safety and environmental risks, Chris Hartcher, New South
Wales’s resources minister, said in a statement today.  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and AGL Energy Ltd. are among companies with
coal-seam gas operations in the state. Fracking, which injects
water and chemicals into rock formations to free trapped gas,
has drawn criticism from environmental groups and politicians
who say it may contaminate water supplies.  “We’re proceeding with caution and making sure the proper
frameworks are in place,” Hartcher said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Nov. 21 that the
government will allocate A$150 million ($153 million) to
establish an independent committee to provide scientific advice
on the impact of coal-seam gas projects on water supplies.  “The framework is not designed to add extra work or
increase the regulatory burden for upcoming projects,” Gillard
said in a statement. “It does mean, however, that their
applications will be subject to rigorous and independent
scientific assessment before states grant an approval.”  The New South Wales review will focus on standards in
Queensland state, the U.S. and  Canada , Hartcher said.  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , building a $20 billion project in
Queensland with ConocoPhillips to convert coal-seam gas to
liquid, said fracking has been used in  Australia  since the 1970s.
Origin’s fracking fluids use 99 percent water and sand, with
small amounts of 10 chemicals commonly found in household
products such as soap and toothpaste, Grant King, its managing
director, said in a copy of a speech delivered in Sydney
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 