-- 
Lawmakers Offer Alternative to Google-Opposed Online Piracy Bill

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T00:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/lawmakers-offer-alternative-to-google-opposed-online-piracy-bill.html
U.S. lawmakers are circulating an
alternative approach to anti-piracy legislation opposed by
Internet companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  Under the draft proposal from a bipartisan group of Senate
and House members, U.S. rightsholders could petition the U.S.
International Trade Commission to investigate foreign websites
accused of trafficking in pirated content and counterfeit goods.
The commission is an independent agency set up to protect U.S.
markets from unfair trade practices.  “We’re going to be able to handcuff the bad actors that
are selling fake movies and Viagra,” Senator  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat who helped draft the proposal, said in an
interview. “This is a model that gets us a chance to go after
them without doing so much damage to the architecture of the
Internet.”  Anti-piracy bills in the House and Senate have pitted the
nation’s biggest Internet companies against the U.S. film and
music industries, which want the government to do more to halt
the online sale of goods such as knockoff watches and illegally
copied music. Web companies say the proposed legislation would
require them to police the Internet, undermining the growth of
the U.S. technology industry.  The House bill would let the U.S. attorney general seek
court orders requiring U.S. Internet-service providers,  search
engines , payment processors and ad networks to block or cease
business with websites linked to online piracy. The measure,
introduced in October by House Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, also would give rightsholders
ways to compel payment and ad services to sever ties with such
websites.  Trade Agency Role  The Senate Judiciary Committee approved in May a similar
bill, S. 968, known as the Protect IP Act. Both the House and
Senate measures have multiple co-sponsors from both parties.
Wyden has threatened to block the Protect IP Act from reaching a
vote in the full Senate.  Under the alternative proposal, the  International Trade
Commission  would be authorized to issue cease-and-desist orders
against foreign websites that could be used to force payment
processors, such as Visa Inc. or PayPal Inc., and online
advertising networks to cease providing services to such
websites.  The trade agency has the power to block imports of products
found to infringe intellectual property rights, can propose
tariffs on products to counter subsidized imports and
investigates trade-related issues for Congress and the
president.  Wyden said the group intends to circulate the draft and
request feedback, and introduce legislation in the coming weeks.  The alternative proposal was signed by 10 lawmakers from
both parties, including Democratic Senators  Maria Cantwell  of
Washington and  Mark Warner  of  Virginia ; Republican
Representatives  Darrell Issa  of  California  and Jason Chaffetz of
 Utah ; and Democratic Representatives Anna Eshoo and Zoe Lofgren
of California.  The House bill is H.R. 3261.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  