-- 
Lazard’s Jacobs Says Banking Industry Regulatory Changes Were ‘Necessary’

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-12-02T20:54:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/lazard-s-jacobs-says-banking-industry-regulatory-changes-were-necessary-.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  Chief Executive Officer
 Kenneth Jacobs  said regulatory changes to the U.S. banking
industry were “necessary” and “appropriate” in the wake of
the financial crisis.  “There needs to be some separation of the activities that
people do for their own account versus the ones that they do on
behalf of clients,” Jacobs, 53, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations With  Judy Woodruff ,”
airing this weekend. Regulatory changes “were necessary. And I
think from that standpoint, they’re appropriate.”  The biggest U.S. banks are grappling with an overhaul of
the financial system through the Dodd-Frank Act and the so-
called Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker . The rule, which takes effect in 2012, will limit
banks from trading on their own behalf and from investing in
private-equity and hedge funds. Officials also are discouraging
risk taking and requiring banks to hold more capital and undergo
stress tests.  “ Wall Street  is just not going to be as profitable as it
used to be,” he said. “It’s not going to come back to the way
it was before 2008. It’s a secular change.”  The market’s expectation for recovery from the financial
crisis has been “wildly optimistic,” and there will be a
“sustained period of time of sub-par” growth in gross domestic
product in the U.S., Jacobs said. With slow economic recovery,
merger-and-acquisition activity will improve as companies are
challenged to grow organically, he said.  CEO Confidence  Global announced volume in transactions fell in the third
quarter to $543.3 billion from $645 billion in the second
quarter and $582.1 billion in the same period last year,
according to Bloomberg data. Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard, the
world’s largest independent merger adviser, ranks ninth on the
M&A league tables.  “The factor that’s very troubling right now is CEO
confidence,” Jacobs said. “We won’t see that improve until we
see volatility start to come out of the markets.”  CEO confidence has been “rocked” by the debt crisis in
 Europe , Jacobs said.  “If people are looking for magic bullets, they’re going to
be disappointed,” he said. “The problems in Europe built up
over many years. They’re not going to be resolved in a matter of
weeks or days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  