-- 
Banks See Emerging-Market Rally as ‘Cheap’ Stocks Lure Ashmore

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T12:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/banks-predict-emerging-market-rally-as-ashmore-to-pimco-see-cheap-stocks.html
Strategists and money managers at
some of the biggest banks and investment firms are forecasting
gains for emerging-market  stocks (MXASJ)  next year, driven by low
valuations and signs that governments will act to boost growth.  Morgan Stanley’s  Jonathan Garner  lifted his recommendation
to “maximum overweight” for the first time since October 2008,
according to a report today. Citigroup Inc.’s Markus Rosgen said
Asian stocks may surge 30 percent, while Credit Suisse Group
AG’s Sakthi Siva predicted 10 percent gains. Antoine van Agtmael, who coined the term “emerging markets” in 1981 and
now oversees $7.4 billion at Ashmore EMM LLC, said the stocks
are “cheap.” Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Masha Gordon
has been buying equities most reliant on economic growth.  “Emerging markets as a group are now as attractive as I
have seen them on both a historic and comparative basis at any
time in the last 25 years,” van Agtmael, a former World Bank
official and author of “The  Emerging Markets  Century,” said in
a Nov. 29 phone interview. “I see 2012 in emerging markets as a
year of positive investment returns, positive economic growth
and positive earnings growth.”  Investor confidence in developing-country equities is
increasing as central banks from China to  Brazil  loosen monetary
policy to shield their economies from Europe’s debt crisis and
high U.S. unemployment. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is
valued at 9.5 times profit forecasts for the next 12 months, a
17 percent discount to the five-year average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 21-country gauge has climbed 9.4
percent this week, paring this year’s retreat to 17 percent.  China Cuts  The People’s Bank of  China  cut  reserve requirements  for
lenders by half a percentage point to 21 percent on Nov. 30, the
first reduction since 2008. Brazil’s central bank lowered its
benchmark  interest rate  for the third time since August at a
meeting the same day, while  Thailand  reduced borrowing costs,
the first cut in more than two years.  The MSCI index may climb to 1,210 by the end of next year,
according to Garner, the chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong . That’s 26 percent
higher than its level of 961.93 at 11:50 a.m. London time.  Investors should hold 10 percent more emerging-market
equities than are represented in benchmark weightings and cut
cash allocations to zero, Garner wrote in a note. He recommended
the biggest emerging-market companies by market value, stocks
with high and growing dividends and gold producers. MSCI index
profits may grow 9 percent in dollar terms next year, he said.  Emerging-market stocks “remain in an earnings-driven
secular  bull market ,” Garner said.  Recession Valuations  Central banks in  Asia  will keep easing monetary policy as
inflation subsides, boosting shares of banks and real-estate
companies, Rosgen, a Hong Kong-based equity strategist at
Citigroup, wrote in a report dated yesterday. When stock
valuations fell this low during the past 36 years, shares were
higher after 12 months 92 percent of the time, according to
Rosgen.  “The risk-reward has seldom been better,” he said.  Equity valuations in Asia are “pricing in” a recession in
developed economies, though not a financial crisis, according to
Siva, Credit Suisse’s global emerging-market and Asia strategist
in  Singapore . She said the MSCI All-Country Asia ex-Japan Index
will end next year at 527, compared with the current level of
478.73, according to a research report today.  ‘Defensive Bias’  China may cut banks’ reserve ratio by as much as three
percentage points in the next 12 months, Masha Gordon, the head
of emerging markets equity portfolio management at Pimco, which
oversees about $1.35 trillion worldwide, said in an interview
yesterday.  Inflation  in the country may slow to between 3
percent and 4 percent from 5.5 percent in October, she said.  Gordon has been buying raw-materials producers and Chinese
industrial companies after they posted some of the world’s
biggest declines this year. Her  PIMCO EqS Emerging Markets Fund 
still has a “defensive bias” and is using options to hedge
against potential “extreme” market declines.  While there’s a chance that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
may drag the world economy into recession, it’s not the most
likely scenario because policy makers will act to restore
confidence, according to Ashmore’s van Agtmael.  Global equities rose today, poised for the biggest weekly
advance in three years, after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
renewed her push for European fiscal union. U.S. payrolls
probably climbed by 125,000 in November after rising 80,000 in
October, economists said before today’s Labor Department report.  Developing economies may expand 6.1 percent as a group next
year, compared with 1.9 percent growth in advanced countries,
according to September forecasts by the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund .  “I place my bets on the view that global growth will be
anemic but that we’re not going to have a 2008-like crisis,”
van Agtmael said. “Things look cheap relative to fair long-term
value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  