-- 
Banks Vie With Nations to Sate $2 Trillion Need: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-12-02T11:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/banks-vie-with-nations-to-sate-2t-need.html
Europe ’s banks will compete with
their governments to borrow $2 trillion next year as the two
groups refinance maturing bonds and bills.  Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1 trillion
euros ($1.5 trillion) of long- and short-term debt in 2012, with
about 519 billion euros of Italian, French and German debt
maturing in the first half alone, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. European banks have about $665 billion of debt coming due
in the first six months, with a further $370 billion by the end
of the year, according to Citigroup Inc., based on Dealogic
data.  “Serious investors are fleeing from both European
sovereign and European bank debt in droves,” said  Mark Grant , a
managing director at Southwest Securities Inc. in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . “The financials of both classes are in
question, and nothing of substance has been achieved to correct
the problems and quell the European crisis.”  The 440 basis-point yield premium investors demand to hold
bank bonds rather than benchmark government soared to 448 Nov.
30, the most since January 2009, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EUR Corporates, Banking Index. The average
spread between January 2005 and January 2007 -- before the
crisis struck -- was 38 basis points, the data show.  Funding Pace  Banks and governments are facing funding deadlines as
investors push up yield premiums on all but the safest
securities to records amid mounting concern the euro may not
survive the sovereign-debt crisis that began in  Greece  two years
ago. A breakup of the single currency bloc would spark a wave of
defaults among the region’s lenders because of their cross-
border connections, and bondholders can no longer rely on
governments making good banks’ losses.  Banks need to refinance bonds at an average rate of $230
billion every three months in 2012, assuming they weren’t able
to pre-fund those liabilities in the first half of this year,
according to Lisa Hintz at Moody’s Corp. in  New York . That
compares with a $132 billion average for the 11 quarters ended
in Sept. 30, she said.  “In unsecured funding, banks are effectively competing
with the sovereigns,” said Hintz. “Just looking at a bank’s
business model, what kind of profitable loan can an Italian or
Spanish bank make when their marginal funding is at a spread to
the sovereign and the sovereign is at 7 percent or more?”  Italian Bonds  Italian 10-year government bond yields  closed  at more than
7 percent in the five days to Nov. 30. The country was forced to
pay 7.89 percent to sell three-year debt at an auction on Nov.
29, compared with 7.56 percent for 10-year notes, a so-called
inversion of the yield curve that typically signals investor
concern that a default is on the way. A yield of 7 percent was
the level that presaged requests for bailouts in Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal .  Italy has to refinance 320 billion euros of bonds and bills
next year, with 113 billion euros coming due in the first
quarter alone, Bloomberg data show. The Nov. 29 auction was for
a total of 7.5 billion euros.  The market for senior unsecured bonds dried up in July, a
victim of Greece’s flirtation with default and planned rules
that would force creditors to take losses before taxpayers.
Since July, when  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  raised 1 billion euros in
floating-rate notes due November 2012, only national champions
such as Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc have been able to
tap the public professional market.  ‘Funding Squeeze’  “It looks as if we’re going to see a bank-funding
squeeze,” said Roger Doig, who helps manage the equivalent of
about $58 billion in fixed-income assets at Schroders Plc in
 London . “If anything, bondholders are taking every opportunity
to exit positions. Interest in buying new paper is limited.”  Efforts by banks and sovereigns to persuade investors to
buy their notes are pushing up costs for other issuers,
according to Nicholas Bamber, head of investment-grade corporate
bond origination and private placements at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   “We see all the banks suddenly trying to fund again and
the sovereigns trying to fund again,” he said. “There’s going
to be a huge amount of supply in the first quarter, and how do
people make their bonds attractive?”  Credit Crunch  There are “early signs” of a credit crunch emerging in
the euro area given the difficulties banks have in accessing
funding,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  told lawmakers at
a Parliamentary committee in London this week.  Banks are also being forced to compete for deposits, which
were outstripped by loans to the tune of 22 billion euros in
2007, a gap that “blew out” to 289 billion euros in 2008,
according to  Oliver Wyman , a consulting unit of New York-based
Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Customers are pulling money out of stressed countries’
banks. Greek lenders lost as much as 14 billion euros in the two
months to the end of October,  George Provopoulos , head of the
Greek central bank, told lawmakers in  Athens  on Nov. 29. At
UniCredit,  Italy ’s biggest lender, customer deposits at the end
of September fell 3.5 percent to 392.5 billion euros from the
end of June, the Milan-based bank said in its third-quarter
statement, citing “the volatility of corporate customer
deposits.”  Issuers Struggle  Securitizations, which between 1999 and 2007 grew from
“almost nothing” to as much as 30 percent of long-term debt
issued by 2006, according to the Oliver Wyman report, aren’t
helping as issuers struggle to make the economics work.  Post-crisis, securitizations -- pools of assets that are
repackaged into securities of varying levels of risk and used to
finance everything from home loans to offices, and water
companies to pubs -- “are yet to return in any significant
volume,” according to the report. The funding gap will have to
be filled either through alternative wholesale markets,
increased deposits, or reduced lending.  When markets are volatile, banks find it easier to borrow
in their home currencies and swap the proceeds for dollars to
fund their U.S. businesses, rather than to borrow directly in
dollars. The U.S. Federal Reserve, acting together with five
central banks including the ECB, on Nov. 30 was forced to cut
the cost and extend the length of emergency dollar funding for
European banks after costs rose to three-year highs.  ‘Serious’ Situation  “The fact that central banks saw the need for such
measures confirms how serious the bank funding situation is,”
said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. “It does not alter the underlying problem with
European sovereign debt on banks’ balance sheets.”  A measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another for
three months, the Euribor-OIS spread, has reached a 2 1/2-year
high. The difference between the three-month borrowing benchmark
and overnight indexed swaps increased to 99.6 basis points
yesterday, the widest since March 2009.  Banks, concerned about each others’ credit, also prefer to
put their spare cash with the  European Central Bank  than lend
it,  depositing  314 billion euros with the Frankfurt-based ECB as
of yesterday, the most since June 2010.  “Central banks are supplying liquidity that the banks
need,” said James Ferguson, a strategist at Arbuthnot
Securities Ltd. in London. “At the same time, the banks are
shedding risk assets and buying short-term government debt. So
the government is providing liquidity to the banks and the banks
are funding the government and so the circle continues.”  That’s at odds with rules instituted by the Basel Committee
of supervisors, which require banks to fund long-term assets
from long-term funding. If the European banks that fall short
all tried to meet that requirement only by issuing long-term
debt, banks’ need for additional long-term funding may be as
much as 2.7 trillion euros, Oliver Wyman estimates.  “The sovereign-debt crisis is a banking crisis,” said
Bill O’Neill, chief investment officer for Europe,  Middle East 
and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. “You cannot
unweave the two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  