-- 
Bank of Ireland Junior Debtors Escape as Capital Target Met

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-12-02T11:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/bank-of-ireland-meets-recapitalization-target-with-buyback-1-.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
dropped plans to wipe out  Bank of Ireland Plc’s (BKIR)  remaining
subordinated bondholders as the lender said it is set to
complete its recapitalization by raising 350 million euros ($471
million) from the buyback of mortgage-backed securities.  The bank is buying back 1.1 billion euros of securities for
between 33 percent and 92 percent of face value, the Dublin-
based lender said today in a statement. The Irish central bank
ordered Bank of Ireland to raise 5.2 billion euros in capital in
March as part of stress tests aimed at plugging the hole in the
country’s banking system and reassuring investors.  Noonan said on Nov. 23 the government may use emergency
laws to wipe out some junior debt in the bank and complete the
recapitalization of the country’s biggest lender. His ministry
said in a statement today that Noonan is “no longer
considering” the use of these powers as Bank of Ireland has now
met its year-end capital target.  “As a result of the bank’s announcement this morning that
it has now raised approximately 350 million euros of core Tier 1
capital, through its tender offer and purchase of capital
securities, the minister is no longer considering the use of the
powers available” to inflict losses on subordinated bondholders
“at this time,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement.  Shares Rise  Bank of Ireland rose 5.5 percent to 8.7 euro cents at 10:19
a.m. in Dublin trading after the announcement. On Nov. 21, the
bank offered to buy back as much as 1 billion euros in mortgage-
backed securities issued by Kildare Securities Ltd. and Brunel
Residential Mortgage Securitisation No. 1 Plc.  “Bank of Ireland has been proactive in attempting to
retain advantageous funding lines while cognizant of the need to
minimize reputational damage to smooth future access to these
markets,” Karl Goggin, an analyst with Dublin-based NCB
Stockbrokers, said in a note. “The fact that they have been
able to manufacture a solution that has also allowed them to
address the potential capital shortfall is a delicate solution
to a complex situation,” said Goggin, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  The state has injected about 62 billion euros into the
nation’s banks, including a net 3.9 billion euros into Bank of
Ireland. The Irish government has raised about 15 billion euros
by imposing losses on subordinated bank bondholders.  The government in October sold a 34.9 percent stake in the
bank to five investors, including Toronto-based  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  and WL Ross & Co., the New York-based
investment firm, and now controls 15 percent of the lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  