-- 
Biden Sees Historic Example for Mideast in Turkey’s New Charter

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-12-02T22:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/biden-sees-historic-example-for-mideast-in-turkey-s-new-charter.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  told
the speaker of the Turkish Parliament that Turkey has a historic
opportunity to strengthen its democracy with a new constitution
and provide an example to other nations in the region, according
to an administration official.  Biden delivered the message of U.S. support for the effort
to rewrite the national charter in a meeting yesterday in Ankara
with Speaker of Parliament Cemil Cicek, who is coordinating the
process.  The parliament’s push to include broad representation in
the country of 74 million people, including Kurds and civil
society organizations, will have influence beyond Turkey’s
border, Biden told Cicek, according to the official who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity. A transcript of the
briefing was released by the White House.  Biden is on a two-day trip to  Turkey , a majority-Muslim
member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that shares
borders with  Iran ,  Iraq  and  Syria , three key players affecting
U.S. policy.  The vice president also held talks with Turkey’s President
Abdullah Gul before leaving for Istanbul, where he’ll take part
in a Global Entrepreneurship Summit today. He’s also scheduled
to meet with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who is
recuperating from surgery at his home in Istanbul.  With Gul, Biden discussed the future U.S. role in Iraq, the
unrest in Syria and Iran’s influence in the region, the official
said. Biden also reiterated U.S. support for Turkey’s battle
against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, which the U.S. and
Turkey classifies as a terrorist organization.  One of Erdogan’s promises before Turkey’s June 12 elections
was to replace the national charter. A 12-member consensus
committee in parliament comprising three members each from all
four parties, including the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy
Party, started work on Oct. 19 and aims to deliver a draft to
the general assembly early next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  