-- 
Boehner Seeks to Curb Obama’s Rules Power

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-12-02T18:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/boehner-leads-drive-to-take-away-obama-s-power-to-issue-major-regulations.html
The U.S. House today approved the
second in a series of bills to limit the president’s authority
to regulate business, a move Republicans called necessary for
 job creation  and Democrats labeled a political power grab.  House Speaker  John Boehner , who said the package is a top
priority, will face difficulty winning final passage of the
legislation, which the White House has threatened to veto.
Still, Republicans said the votes would highlight the issue of
government’s role in regulating business, which they have made a
major campaign issue.  Today’s 253-167 vote would force agencies to adopt the
least-expensive version of a regulation. Next week, the House
will consider a measure taking away President  Barack Obama ’s
authority -- and that of future presidents -- to issue major
rules. Congress would have to approve them first.  “The ‘get government off our backs’ message is red meat
for the Republican base,” Larry Sabato, director of the center
for politics at the  University of Virginia  in Charlottesville,
 Virginia , said in an interview. To moderate voters, he said,
“it’s not a full meal. Most people favor at least some
regulations. ‘Do you want arsenic in your fruit juice?’ is a
great Democratic retort.”  Fewer Regulations  The House voted yesterday, 263-159, to require regulatory
agencies to calculate the small-business impact of new rules.  The series of regulatory bills fits with Republicans’ 2010
“Pledge to America” campaign document. Similar reforms
appeared in presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich ’s 1994
“Contract with America,” which helped him become the first
Republican House speaker in 40 years.  The package’s centerpiece legislation, scheduled to be
voted on next week, is called the Regulations in Need of
Scrutiny, or REINS Act. It would require Congress to sign off on
every agency rule with an annual cost of $100 million or more on
business. Now, Congress must vote to block the president from
issuing regulations.  The bill “provides a long-term solution to stopping job-
crushing regulations by creating a process to responsibly
evaluate whether or not regulations that have a significant
economic impact are necessary,” Boehner said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  The White House Office of Management and Budget said in a
statement Nov. 29 it would recommend a presidential veto if it
passes both houses of Congress.  Obama’s Regulation Record  The administration works “very aggressively to ensure that
we take the necessary action to protect our air and water and
that we also issue regulations and reform regulations in a way
that makes them as efficient as possible,”  Jay Carney , the
White House press secretary, said at a briefing yesterday.  Recent reports have questioned the extent to which the
administration is regulating business.  Obama has weakened proposed rules at a greater rate than
his Republican predecessor, President  George W. Bush , according
to a study released Nov. 29 by the Center for Progressive
Reform.  Obama had imposed fewer regulations on business than Bush
through the first 33 months of their tenures, while the cost of
those rules had been higher under Obama, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Regulations ‘Save Lives’  Democrats warned of the consequences of loosening the
regulatory environment too much.  “The trio of public safety-killing legislation would make
it harder to control and make safe our products that we count
on,” Representative  John Conyers , a Michigan Democrat, said on
the floor yesterday. “Regulations don’t kill jobs, they save
lives.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  isn’t focused on bringing
the package to the floor for a vote, Adam Jentleson, a spokesman
for the Nevada Democrat, said in an e-mail.  Even if eventually defeated, the House bills on regulation
will emerge in the 2012 presidential race because they capture
the conservative theme of getting government out of business,
Noah Sachs, an associate law professor at the  University of
Richmond , said in an interview.  “Each presidential candidate will be put on the spot and
forced to take a stand,” Sachs said.  Should Republicans capture the White House and Senate while
keeping the House, “I would expect regulatory reform to be one
of the first things to pass,” he said.  ‘Regulators Gone Wild’  Presidential candidates Representative Michelle Bachmann
and Representative  Ron Paul  have signed on as co-sponsors to the
REINS Act. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney endorsed it
in his Plan for Jobs and  Economic Growth , released Sept. 6.  Regardless of the political party controlling the executive
branch, REINS is necessary to stop “regulators gone wild,”
Representative Geoff Davis, a Kentucky Republican and lead
sponsor of the bill, said yesterday in an interview.  Business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
the National Association of Manufacturers back regulatory
reform.  “Manufacturers of all sizes are impacted by harmful and
unnecessary regulations, but small businesses are
disproportionately affected,” President and CEO  Jay Timmons 
said in a statement yesterday.  The measure “truly would kick-start our economy,”
Representative Rick Berg, a North Dakota Republican who co-
sponsored the bill, said in an interview yesterday.  Uncertainty for Business  “Regulatory uncertainty -- there’s not a business that
exists that doesn’t think about that,” Berg said. “The goal is
to have businesses make decisions based on supply and demand,
not out of concern about regulatory and tax burdens.”  REINS and the other two bills “are aimed at bringing the
regulatory system to a halt by tying agencies up in knots,”
Rick Melberth, regulatory policy director of OMB Watch, a
liberal advocacy organization in  Washington , said in an
interview. He said the bills “usurp” presidential power.  The legislation passed today is H.R. 3010. The bill passed
yesterday is H.R. 527. The measure being considered next week is
H.R. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  