-- 
Bovespa Nears First Weekly Gain in Five on Moves to Stem Crisis

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-12-02T17:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/bovespa-nears-first-weekly-gain-in-five-on-moves-to-stem-crisis.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index headed to its
first weekly gain in five as higher commodity prices improved
the outlook for producers amid speculation Brazil may take
further action to shore up growth.  Miner  Vale SA  followed metals prices higher.  Banco
Santander Brasil SA  was poised for the longest winning streak
since its 2009 initial public offering. Card-payment processor
 Redecard SA  declined after Banco J. Safra cut its recommendation
to “underperform” from “neutral.”  The Bovespa slid 0.2 percent to 58,049.20 at 3:07 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. Thirty stocks rose on the index while 37 fell. The
real was little changed at 1.7995 per dollar. The benchmark
equity gauge has rallied 5.7 percent this week after  Brazil 
scrapped a tax on foreigners’ stock purchases and cut interest
rates as part of measures to shore up the domestic economy,
while central banks worldwide moved to boost liquidity.  “Countercyclical policies are back in fashion,” Mauricio Rosal, an economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Sao
Paulo, said in a note to clients. “Despite the recent
announcements, we believe there is more to come, besides the
additional  Selic  rate cuts that we expect.”  Commodities and global stocks advanced after the U.S.
jobless rate unexpectedly dropped and investors speculated the
 International Monetary Fund  will play a larger role in fighting
Europe’s debt crisis. Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials increased 0.3 percent.  Tax Cut  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday he
was scrapping the so-called IOF tax on foreigners’ equity
purchases two years after he implemented it. As part of the 2.8
billion reais ($1.6 billion) of tax cuts to help meet a target
of 5 percent growth next year, Brazil also reduced levies on
home appliances, staple foods,  consumer credit  and corporate
bonds tied to infrastructure projects.  The stimulus package came a day after the central bank cut
the benchmark  interest rate  by a half-point for the third time
since August, lowering the  Selic  to 11 percent, to shield  Latin
America ’s largest economy from the deepening European debt
crisis.  Brazil’s industrial production fell 0.6 percent in October
from the previous month, the national statistics agency said
today in  Rio de Janeiro . The median estimate of 47 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for output to drop 0.2 percent.  Vale, LLX  Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, gained 1.2
percent to 39.79 reais. Santander climbed for a sixth day,
increasing 0.8 percent to 14.61 reais after earlier surging as
much as 4 percent.  LLX Logistica SA , the port developer controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , jumped 3.7 percent to 3.35 reais after
Chief Financial Officer Leonardo Gadelha said the port company
expects to sign a 500,000-barrel-a-day oil contract.  Redecard sank 4.5 percent to 29.30 reais.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  in October after gaining
22 percent from a two-year low on Aug. 8 as Brazil’s interest-
rate cuts and speculation  Europe  was working toward solving its
debt crisis buoyed demand for equities. The index is still down
16 percent this year on concern flagging global commodity demand
and quickening inflation will hurt corporate earnings growth.  The Bovespa trades at 9.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Traders moved 7.17 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average this year of 6.52 billion reais through Nov. 24,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  