-- 
Brookfield Stuyvesant Town Conversion Plan Challenged by Competing Bidder

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-12-02T20:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/brookfield-stuyvesant-town-conversion-plan-challenged-by-competing-bidder.html
A partnership rejected by the
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village Tenants Association sent a
letter to residents criticizing the group’s plan to work with
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc (BAM/A) . and turn  Manhattan ’s biggest
apartment complex into a condominium.  Guterman-Westwood Partners LLC said tenants would be better
off financially if the development is converted into a co-
operative rather than condos, in which occupants would own their
units individually, according to the letter mailed today, a copy
of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The complex, on
Manhattan’s east side, has more than 11,000 apartments.  Guterman-Westwood is pitching its own plan directly to
residents after the tenants association announced on Nov. 30 it
had chosen Toronto-based Brookfield as its partner in a bid to
buy the 80-acre (32-hectare) enclave from its debt holders,
without giving a specific proposal. Bondholders are owed about
$3 billion on a senior mortgage left over after Tishman Speyer
Properties LP and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  defaulted last year.  “Guterman-Westwood has told you, the association and its
representatives exactly what we will do,” the partnership said
in the letter. “Brookfield has not.”  Tenant Meetings  Guterman-Westwood is a partnership between Gerald Guterman,
founder of a company that led the conversion of more than 12,000
New York-area rental units in the 1970s and 1980s; investment
firm Westwood Capital Holdings LLC; and  Jonathan Miller , a New
York appraiser. Gerald Guterman said in the letter that his
group had “a number” of meetings starting more than a year ago
with the tenants association, its lawyers, financial advisers
and New York City Councilman Daniel Garodnick before the tenants
decided to go with  Brookfield (BAM) , which manages about $150 billion.  Guterman-Westwood was told that the tenants wouldn’t make a
choice for an alliance until CWCapital Asset Management LLC,
which is representing bondholders, said it was ready to begin a
sales process, according to the letter. The group was
“disingenuous,” Guterman said.  “Over the past year the tenants association has met with
dozens of potential partners as part of a thorough process to
find the best fit,” Al Doyle, president of the tenants
association, said in an e-mailed statement. “Brookfield Asset
Management stood out as the partner with the experience and
expertise, credibility, financial capability and the long-term
commitment to our key principles that tenants need.”  Vetting Candidates  The association began vetting potential investment partners
shortly after the January 2010 default, Garodnick, a resident of
Peter Cooper Village and longtime tenant advocate, said
yesterday in a phone interview. There were about 60 expressions
of interest, he said. The group retained the law firm  Paul Weiss
Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP  and financial advisory firm
Moelis & Co. to help manage the process, and began narrowing
down the finalists about six months ago.  The tenants sought a partner who would support a “non-
eviction conversion, which would give people a chance to become
homeowners of an affordable apartment, or remain rent-stabilized
without fear of harassment,” Garodnick said.  They also wanted to protect the complex’s open spaces from
development, preserve its historical configuration, and
structure the deal so that those who chose to remain renters
could obtain government assistance to stay renters.  Brookfield ‘Heft’  The association chose Brookfield “not only because they
shared those goals, but also because they had the heft to get
them all they way to a positive result,” Garodnick said.  Brookfield and the tenants association haven’t worked out
the specific details of their planned bid to CWCapital. They
will have a  “robust community process” to develop a proposal
in the coming months, according to a statement this week. The
plan will include an option for some of the more than 25,000
residents to continue to rent, they said.  The Guterman proposal would offer tenants shares in the
cooperative for $315 a square foot, with 85 percent financing.
Tenants would pay equal or less than the complex’s average
current rent as members of the cooperative, Guterman said in the
letter. That would work out to about $3.1 billion, covering
Guterman-Westwood’s purchase price plus closing costs, he said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The average price of condos and co-ops in the area
surrounding Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village is more
than $700 a square foot, according to Miller’s firm, Miller
Samuel Inc., Guterman said in the letter.  Unsold, occupied apartments would be sold to ’‘a nationally
known not-for-profit’’ organization, which has agreed to use
tax-exempt bonds for the purchase and keep them as affordable
rentals into perpetuity, according to the letter.  Condo Plan  The tenants group plans to propose a condo conversion
“because there are better options for end loan financing of
each unit purchase; there are more flexible governance rules;
and property tax abatements which may accrue for rental or
‘affordable’ apartments can be implemented on a unit by unit
basis,” Dan Levitan, a spokesman for the association’s
partnership, said in an e-mailed statement.  The absence of a master mortgage and a common tax lot,
found in co-op conversions, also reduces the chances of
financial distress, Levitan said.  There’s enough flexibility in the process that if tenants
ultimately become more comfortable with a co-op structure or
even other partners they will be able to change course,
Garodnick said.  A cooperative corporation would become the borrower of
about 45 percent of the total sales price of the apartments,
according to the Guterman-Westwood letter. That would make the
interest for that portion of the price about 2 percent lower per
year than it would be if each tenant had to qualify for a larger
condo mortgage, the partnership said. Monthly interest costs
would total about 16 percent less than an equivalent individual
condo loan, according to Guterman-Westwood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  