-- 
Brown Prescribes ‘Castor Oil’ to Remedy California Pension Costs

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/brown-prescribes-castor-oil-to-remedy-california-pension-costs.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ,
likening his  plan  to curb public-employee pension costs to
swallowing castor oil, said his proposal is the one most likely
to win approval from lawmakers.  Brown’s plan calls for raising the  retirement age  to 67
from 55 for most state employees, forbidding abuses known as
pension spiking and double dipping, and adding two outsiders to
the board of the $225 billion  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest public pension.  “This is more castor oil, I’m afraid,” the 73-year-old
Democrat said in a rare appearance for a governor at a
legislative hearing in Sacramento yesterday. “This is not going
to be easy because we’re cutting back, but that’s the name of
the game right now.”  Rising retiree obligations are straining the budgets of
states such as  California  and cities across the U.S. still
grappling with income- and sales-tax revenue slammed by the
longest recession since the Great Depression. A weak recovery
has churned up a backlash against the pay and benefits of public
workers nationwide as taxpayers see their own job prospects and
401(k) retirement funds shrink.  “Speaking for the old geezers, we should be given our due,
but not our over-due,” Brown said.  The cost of pension benefits for California’s state workers
is forecast to rise to $1.8 billion in the year beginning July
1. Brown has said his proposal may cut that in half.  New Employees  Under Brown’s plan, most new employees would get a third of
their retirement income from Social Security and a third from a
so-called defined-contribution plan, such as a 401(k), which
doesn’t provide a set return. The balance would come from the
traditional component. For those who don’t get Social Security,
the conventional pension would make up two-thirds.  Current workers would remain in the so-called defined-
benefit system in which the government carries the  investment
risk . In February, the  Little Hoover Commission , an independent
state oversight panel, recommended moving most employees into a
hybrid plan, even if it meant lawsuits.  Brown would limit double dipping, when a retiree collecting
benefits takes another government job. He also would bar pension
spiking, which inflates future retirement payments by
manipulating overtime, unused vacation and special compensation.  Calpers Change  At Calpers, Brown would add two independent board members,
increasing the panel to 15. Neither of the two could be a public
employee or family member, or represent anyone eligible for a
Calpers pension. They would also have to be free of any
financial interest affected by Calpers contracts. Brown also
would replace the Personnel Board representative with his
Finance Director.  The governor also wants to prohibit the state and local
governments from granting benefit increases retroactively and to
stop letting workers buy additional years of credit to add to
their pensions. New public-safety workers, such as police and
firefighters, would have to wait longer to retire with full
benefits.  California’s state pensions in 2010 had 80.7 percent of
what they needed to pay promised benefits, down from 86.6
percent in the preceding year, according to an annual study by
Bloomberg Rankings. The median for all states was 74.6 percent,
the data show.  “I’m writing a plan that has a real possibility to get
enacted and I’ve laid out a pathway that makes the most sense,”
Brown said. “I don’t think we should lurch all the way forward
in our first step.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  