-- 
Cain Plans Announcement Today

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/cain-to-make-campaign-announcement-tomorrow.html
Herman Cain  plans to say today
whether he’ll continue his campaign for the Republican
presidential nomination, after a week spent denying he had a
13-year extramarital affair with an Atlanta woman.  Cain, who returned home to Atlanta yesterday for his first
face-to-face talk with his wife since the charge surfaced on
Nov. 28, said he would decide on a potential exit from the race
based on the toll on his family, as well as his campaign
fundraising.  The former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive’s reputation
and standing in the polls had already been damaged over the last
month by allegations from four other women that he sexually
harassed them in the 1990s -- charges he also denied.  “I will be making an announcement, but nobody’s going to
get me to make that prematurely,” Cain, 65, told voters
yesterday in  Rock Hill ,  South Carolina , before heading home.  He said he would “clarify exactly what the next steps
are” for his candidacy. His campaign said he would appear
during an event in an Atlanta suburb between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.
local time.  “My wife and family comes first -- I’ve got to take that
into consideration,” Cain said in South Carolina, even as he
dismissed the allegations as “garbage” and said he was
confident that voters still backed him.  “We’ve got to look at what happens to contributions,”
Cain added.  Donation Drop  Cain previously said that financial backing for his
campaign plummeted the day after Ginger White went public on an
Atlanta television station Nov. 28 with her claim of the affair
with Cain. White said that during their relationship, he treated
her to lavish meals and hotel stays as Cain flew her around the
country to meet him.  White told  MSNBC  Dec. 1 that the relationship was a casual
one that “wasn’t a love affair. It was a sexual affair.”  Cain told the Union Leader newspaper in Manchester, New
Hampshire Dec. 1 that his wife of 43 years, Gloria, didn’t know
that he repeatedly gave money to White for “month-to-month
bills and expenses.” He said his wife was also unaware until
White came forward to the media that he and White “were
friends.”  Iowa Poll  He said campaign contributions had started to rebound, yet
it was unclear whether Cain could recover enough to remain a
contender for his party’s nomination. The Des Moines Register
released poll data yesterday showing Cain’s backing had dropped
to 8 percent of Republican caucus-goers in  Iowa , from 23 percent
last month.  The Iowa caucuses begin the nominating process on Jan. 3.
The Register is releasing the poll numbers for other candidates
today.  Even as Cain has publicly weighed an exit from the race, he
and his campaign have given the impression they were
intensifying their efforts. A “Women for Cain” website was
launched yesterday, billed as the hub for a coalition of female
supporters headed by his wife.  Cain also is scheduled to attend the “grand opening” of
his Georgia headquarters today, and the campaign circulated an
e-mail to supporters asking them to make holiday videos for Cain
with 30-second testimonials “in support of Herman Cain as
America’s next President.”  Romney Alternative  With little in the way of formal organization, Cain built
an unconventional campaign around his signature “9-9-9” tax
plan, attracting the interest of some fiscally and socially
conservative voters looking for an alternative to former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in the Republican race.  While his rivals have lavished attention on voters and
activists in the early voting states of Iowa,  New Hampshire  and
South Carolina, Cain spent much of the year traveling elsewhere
promoting his book “This Is Herman Cain!” and visiting states
that have little initial sway in the Republican contest. These
have included  Ohio ,  Texas ,  Wisconsin  and his native  Tennessee .  He has also faced questions about his readiness for the
Oval Office, particularly after  video  of him struggling to
answer a question on  Libya  last month during an editorial board
interview circulated on the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  