-- 
California’s Brown Said to Seek Income, Sales Taxes Increases

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/california-s-brown-said-to-seek-income-sales-taxes-increases.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  and
his allies are readying a ballot measure asking voters to boost
income and sales taxes to offset a  budget deficit , said a
legislative aide with knowledge of the plan.  The November 2012 initiative would seek higher income taxes
on individuals making $250,000 a year, or couples making
$500,000, and raise the statewide  sales tax  by 0.5 percentage
point to 7.75 percent, said the aide, who wasn’t authorized to
discuss it on the record because it hasn’t been officially
released. Both levies would expire in 2016, the person said.  Brown may be aiming for the electoral sweet spot of tilting
the tax increases toward the wealthiest individuals, said  Mark Baldassare , president of the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute
of California. Still, Brown probably would need support from
Republicans or business interests, not just his labor backers,
to sell the proposal to voters, he added.  “Certainly taxing the wealthy is the most popular of the
general taxes,” Baldassare said yesterday by telephone from the
institute’s offices in  San Francisco . “We have seen, generally,
polling in the 60 percent range for taxing the wealthy. A lot
depends on how you define ‘the wealthy.’”  Brown, 73, has been saying he would push a ballot measure
after he failed to win legislative approval in June to extend
$11 billion of higher taxes and fees that have since expired.  The Legislative Analyst’s Office has said California may
face a $13 billion shortfall in the year that begins July 1 and
that the sluggish economic recovery isn’t likely to produce $3.7
billion in revenue Brown built into the current budget. That’s
likely to trigger a round of mid-year spending cuts in addition
to the more than $12 billion slashed in June.  Tax Rates  The proposal, which Brown vetted with top Democratic
lawmakers and union leaders, would increase income taxes for
those making $250,000 by 1 percentage point, the person said.
Those making between $300,000 to $500,000 would see their taxes
rise by 1.5 percentage points while those making more than that
would have their rate boosted by 2 percentage points, the person
said.  California  currently taxes income of $47,056 and above at a
rate of 9.3 percent,  according  to the Franchise Tax Board.
Income above $1 million is taxed at 10.3 percent, with the
additional 1 percentage point earmarked for mental-health
services under a ballot measure that passed in 2004.  Combined, the increases in both levies would raise an
estimated $7 billion annually.  Brown declined to comment on his proposal when questioned
by reporters yesterday after he testified before a legislative
hearing on his proposal to curb public-employee pension costs. A
Brown spokesman,  Gil Duran , declined to confirm details of the
governor’s plan or comment about it.  Broken  “The sales tax is going to hit a lot of people, not just
higher-income,” said Assemblyman Jim Nielsen, a Gerber
Republican and budget committee chairman. “Frankly, it’s just
another of the continuing attempts to fund a budget that is
broken. There have been no fundamental reforms in the past three
budget cycles.”  The November ballot, when voters also will chose the next
U.S. president, is shaping up to be one of the most crowded in
the state’s history. More than  30 individual measures  are
pending at the state Attorney General’s office, which must write
a summary and title before supporters can begin gathering
signatures. At least  30 other measures  have already been cleared
and are now circulating.  The California Federation of Teachers is pushing a ballot
measure that would increase income taxes to fund education.  Molly Munger, a Los Angeles civil rights attorney and
daughter of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s vice chairman, Charles Munger, is pushing a broader income-tax increase to raise as
much as $10 billion for education.  Corporate Taxes  A group started and financed by billionaire investor
 Nicolas Berggruen , which includes Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt , former U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  and
former Governor  Gray Davis , said it will seek ballot initiatives
to overhaul the state’s tax structure, adopt a tax on services
and to ease corporate and personal income levies.  Brown’s tax plan stands a better chance if he can get
others to withdraw their proposals, said John J. Pitney Jr., a
politics professor at  Claremont McKenna College .  “He needs to make a pitch to the sponsors of the other
measures that this is the best shot to generate revenue for the
state and that the more tax measures that are on the ballot, the
more likely it is that voters will get confused,” Pitney said
in a telephone interview from the college in Claremont,
California. “Confusion isn’t a formula for success.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  