-- 
Cameron Gets Backing From U.K. Lords Over Planned EU Finance Tax

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-12-02T12:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/cameron-gets-backing-from-u-k-lords-over-planned-eu-finance-tax.html
Britain’s upper house of Parliament
backed Prime Minister  David Cameron  over a proposed European tax
on financial transactions, saying the levy risks damaging
 London ’s financial district.  John Roper , chairman of the House of Lords European Union
Committee, wrote to Treasury minister Mark Hoban urging him to
explain the steps the government is taking to prepare for the
possibility that the euro region presses ahead with the tax on
its own. Such a move “could still have a detrimental impact on
the U.K,” he said.  “We remain to be convinced that such a tax would either
reduce instability in the market or prevent another financial
crisis,” Roper said in  the letter , dated Nov. 29 and released
by the committee in London today. “We note with concern, not
least in the context of the ongoing economic difficulties across
the EU, that the Commission’s impact assessment concludes that
the tax is likely to induce a loss in GDP between five and 20
times larger than the revenues raised from the tax.”  Cameron has said he will oppose adopting a tax, arguing
banks would move business to jurisdictions outside the EU that
don’t impose such a levy. The premier argues that 80 percent of
the money raised would come from the U.K. “I am sometimes
tempted to ask the French whether they would like a cheese
tax,” he told lawmakers on Nov. 7.  Other areas of tension include disputes over the
implementation of Basel III banking rules and a legal challenge
to the  European Central Bank  over its location policy for
clearing houses. Cameron said Oct. 28 that London’s position as
 Europe ’s leading financial center is under “constant attack”
from Brussels.  The Lords panel, which is carrying out an inquiry into the
proposed levy, is also concerned that it might prompt business
to leave the U.K., reduce the competitiveness of its financial-
services industry and lead to revenue being transferred to EU
countries that execute transactions in London, Roper said.  --Andrew Atkinson, Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  