-- 
Canada May Miss $6.7 Billion Carbon Offset Bill by Exiting Kyoto Protocol

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/canada-may-escape-6-7-billion-bill-by-exiting-kyoto-protocol.html
Canada , the country furthest from
meeting its commitment to cut  carbon emissions  under the  Kyoto
Protocol , may save as much as $6.7 billion by exiting the global
climate change agreement and not paying for offset credits.  The country’s greenhouse-gas emissions are almost a third
higher than 1990 levels, and it has a 6 percent CO2 reduction
target for the end of 2012. If it couldn’t meet its goal, Canada
would have to buy carbon credits, under the rules of the legally
binding treaty.  Canada, which has the world’s third-largest proven oil
reserves, would be the first of 191 signatories to the Kyoto
Protocol to annul its emission-reduction obligations. While
Environment Minister Peter Kent declined to confirm Nov. 28 that
Canada is preparing to pull out of Kyoto, which may ease the
burden for oil-sands producers and coal-burning utilities, he
said the government wouldn’t make further commitments to it.  “Canada is the only country in the world saying it won’t
honor Kyoto,” said Keith Stewart, an energy and climate policy
analyst for Greenpeace in Toronto. Under a previous Liberal
government, Canada was one of the first countries to sign Kyoto
in 1998. The current Conservative government made a non-binding
commitment at 2009 United Nations talks in Copenhagen to reduce
emissions by 17 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels, in line with a
pledge by the U.S., its biggest trading partner.  The biggest polluters in the nation of 34 million say
they’ll cut emissions without a treaty. “Kyoto no longer
works,” said Rick George, chief executive officer of  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil producer. “Whatever happens
with Kyoto won’t change our direction” of reducing the
environmental impact of oil production, he said.  Impact From Technology  For Suncor and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.,  technology
improvements will have a bigger impact on Canada’s greenhouse
gas output than an international climate-change treaty, said
Jack Mintz, director of the school of public policy at the
University of Calgary.  “Technology is the only way we’re going to make
significant progress,” Mintz said in an interview. “A lot of
companies are already anticipating that the federal government
will look at new regulations. Kyoto hasn’t been a strong
treaty.”  Canada would likely avoid penalties if it exits the treaty
before the end of the year, said Matt Horne, climate change
policy director at the Pembina Institute, a Canadian think-tank
focused on sustainable energy. Kyoto’s first commitment period
from 2008 until 2012 requires reductions only from so-called
Annex I countries, the world’s wealthiest and most developed. It
doesn’t include developing nations including India and  China ,
the world’s biggest CO2 emitter.  Reputation Tarnished  “Penalties apply in the second commitment period,” said
Horne. “More importantly though, Canada’s international
reputation will be tarnished.”  The $6.7 billion cost of complying with Kyoto compares with
an estimated C$75.9 billion ($74.8 billion) in combined budget
deficits projected through the fiscal year ending March 2015. By
rejecting the accord, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is putting
the country’s economy at risk, Elizabeth May, leader of Canada’s
 Green Party , said in an interview.  “We’re condemning ourselves to rising costs from extreme
weather events as well as opportunity costs like the failure to
have a renewable-energy industry,” she said. “The world would
be grateful for Canada to be constructive instead of the
government consistently repudiating Kyoto.”  Durban Talks  Canadian delegates, including Kent, are in Durban,  South
Africa  for United Nations climate talks. Negotiators are
struggling to agree to a successor to Kyoto, which expires at
the end of 2012 and is also opposed by Japan and  Russia .  Negotiators from host South Africa urged Canada on Dec. 1
to reconsider its position about not entering another commitment
period, highlighting the risks to the developing world with
rising temperatures and sea levels.  “Our government believes that the previous Liberal
government signing on to Kyoto was one of the biggest blunders
they made,” Kent said Nov. 28. “Kyoto is the past, Copenhagen
and Cancun are the future,” he said, referring to the 2009
Copenhagen Accord.  Canada will have likely emitted about 890 million tons of
CO2 above its Kyoto target by the end of the first commitment
period next year, based on annual emissions data compiled by
Bloomberg. Carbon Emission Reduction credits, or CER, cost 5.62
euros ($7.55) a ton on Nov. 30, according to Bloomberg data.  No Policy  Unlike countries such as  Germany , Canada has implemented no
policy to reach its targets and will find it difficult to reach
even the Copenhagen Accord goals, said Greenpeace’s Stewart.  Already 60 percent of the country’s electricity is
generated by hydroelectric  power plants , which emit fewer gases
than coal or natural gas, while the government’s plan to become
an energy superpower by exporting crude oil from  Alberta ’s oil
sands means the country faces “steep” increases in emissions
in the coming years, Stewart said.  Emissions of carbon from oil sands production has risen to
about 6.5 percent of Canada’s total from about 1 percent in
1990, according to the Pembina Institute. That figure will
likely double by 2020 as companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Suncor and Royal Dutch Shell Plc expand operations to refine
bitumen with annual investments of C$20 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  