-- 
Chavez Aims to Revive Influence at First Regional Summit After Cancer Cure

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-12-02T13:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/chavez-aims-to-revive-influence-at-first-regional-summit-after-cancer-cure.html
Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez 
will try to revive his influence in Latin America today when he
hosts more than 30 regional heads of state, six weeks after
announcing he was cured of cancer.  Chavez postponed the same summit in July, after he had a
malignant tumor removed from his pelvic area. While undergoing
chemotherapy, he reduced his near-daily television appearances,
canceled trips to several regional gatherings and called off
meetings with leaders including  Iran ’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff .  The self-declared socialist is hoping the summit will
convince voters he’s fit to compete in elections next year and
that his dream of uniting the region under his anti-American
aegis is still alive, said Maria Teresa Romero, an analyst in
international relations at the Universidad Central de  Venezuela 
in Caracas. Declining oil production and mounting shortages at
home may leave some foreign leaders less impressed, she said.  “Chavez needs this summit in order to feel once more that
his Latin American leadership is as strong as it was in previous
years,” Romero said in a phone interview from Caracas. “But he
doesn’t have the same financial capacity he had before.”  During the summit, presidents including  Chile ’s Sebastian Pinera and Argentina’s  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will sign
the constitution for the Community of Latin American and
Caribbean States, or CELAC, a regional block that excludes the
U.S. and  Canada . Chavez has said the organization is the
fulfillment of independence hero  Simon Bolivar ’s dream to unite
 Latin America .  ‘200 Years of Battle’  “The CELAC is a point of arrival after 200 years of battle
-- I’m not exaggerating one bit,” Chavez said in comments
broadcast on state television yesterday. “As the years go by
the CELAC will leave the old and spent OAS behind,” he said,
referring to the Organization of American States, the regional
bloc that includes the U.S. and Canada.  Today’s meeting will include Cuba’s  Raul Castro  in his
first visit outside the Caribbean country this year, according
to the Cuban state newspaper Granma.  Spillover from  Europe ’s debt crisis may overshadow the
summit as leaders discuss ways to strengthen an emergency fund
to help countries in the region with balance of payment
problems. While  Brazil  and most other South American nations
favor strengthening an existing mechanism, the $4 billion Fondo
Latinoamericano de Reservas, or Flar, Venezuela and Ecuador want
a new fund that will also develop the regional  bond market ,
Brazilian Finance Ministry’s international affairs secretary
Carlos Cozendey said Nov. 28.  Miracle  Chavez, who has declined to reveal exactly what kind of
cancer he has except to say a baseball-sized tumor was removed
from his pelvic area, has said it’s a miracle that just five
months after going under the knife he has been able to resume a
normal working routine.  The economy needs a similar miracle.  Oil production  will be
about 2.3 million barrels a day this year, down from a high of
3.45 million barrels in 1998, according to Bloomberg data.  While economic growth will reach 3.8 percent in the first
nine months, after six consecutive quarters of contraction in
2009 and 2010, the government and state oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA have had to sell a record $17.5 billion in bonds
this year to fund increased spending. That money will go to the
domestic economy ahead of the elections, and not to the pledges
Chavez has made to regional partners in the past.  Skepticism  In the previous decade, countries such as Ecuador and
Brazil looked to Venezuela for low-interest oil loans and
funding for projects. Since then a string of broken promises has
meant most of his peers view the former tank commander with a
degree of skepticism, said Riordan Roett, Director of the Latin
American Studies Program at the  Johns Hopkins University  in
 Washington .  A $20 billion pipeline that was meant to connect
Venezuela’s Caribbean offshore gas fields with Brazil, Uruguay
and  Argentina  has been on hold since 2007. Another pipeline
beneath the Caribbean that was supposed to supply Cuba and even
 Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula never went beyond the planning phase.  Plans to build a 230,000 barrel-a-day refinery in
Pernambuco, Brazil, first proposed in 2005, were stalled for a
further 60 days this week to give PDVSA more time to come up
with its share of the financing.  Railway Dream  In a bilateral meeting with Brazil’s Rousseff yesterday,
Chavez said he “dreamt” of constructing a railway to transport
fertilizer between the Orinoco Belt in Venezuela and the
Brazilian city of Manaus. Chavez and Rousseff also signed a
memorandum of understanding in which they pledged to continue
negotiations for state-run airline Consorcio Venezolano de
Industrias Aeronauticas y Servicios Aereos SA, known as
Conviasa, to buy 20 planes from San Jose Dos Campos, Brazil-
based Embraer SA.  Chavez also met with Argentina’s President Fernandez de
Kirchner. The countries signed an accord in which Venezuela will
import 13,500 cars worth $215 million from Argentina.  The conference takes place as Chavez’s domestic policies
come in for more criticism. The expansion of price controls last
week sparked panic buying, leading to shortages of everything
from coffee to toilet paper.  Under regulations that took effect Nov. 22, the government
can fix the price of 500,000 goods in an attempt to slow
inflation that reached 26.9 percent in October, the highest in
the Western Hemisphere. Central bank Director  Armando Leon 
called the controls a “straitjacket” in a Nov. 25 interview.  Borrowing Costs  Venezuela has the highest borrowing costs of major
emerging-market economies. Investors demand a yield of 1,287
basis points, or 12.87 percentage points, more than U.S.
Treasury bills to hold the government’s debt, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Rising prices and a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar
in January have eroded the buying power of Chavez’s working-
class base. The country has also been plagued by a surge in
murders and power outages that have persisted more than a year
after Chavez declared a national emergency to fix the aging
electricity grid.  Chavez’s approval rating of 46.3 percent is lower than all
three of the opposition’s favorite candidates to win a primary
to run against him in a vote scheduled for next October,
according to a poll by Caracas-based pollster Consultores 21 in
October.  The regional summit may help Chavez distract attention from
his domestic troubles.  “In Chavez’s own mind he thinks that this kind of summit
reinforces the Bolivarian dream for the people he hopes will
turn out to vote for him,” said Roett.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 