-- 
Chesapeake Doesn’t Expect More Utica-Sized U.S. Discoveries

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/chesapeake-doesn-t-expect-more-utica-sized-u-s-discoveries.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  said the oil
and natural-gas industry isn’t likely to find another U.S.
bonanza like the Eagle Ford and Utica shale formations.  Next year likely will bring a close to a period of big
acreage purchases by Chesapeake and other companies, Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  told reporters Nov. 30. He
said more formations may be found under existing acreage.  McClendon’s comments at a Jefferies & Co. energy conference
in Houston this week contrasted with views expressed by other
executives at the gathering.  Chuck Meloy, a senior vice president for worldwide
operations at  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , told a Jefferies
audience yesterday he expects surprises in the amount of oil and
gas resources in coming years. He cited recent onshore
discoveries and finds off the coast of  Africa .  “There’s some very clever minds trying to unlock the keys
and the bounty of this Earth to deliver those hydrocarbons,” he
said. “I think we’ll still see positive surprises, particularly
in the shales and particularly in deep water.”  “I would take a little bit different view than in perhaps
what Aubrey articulated,”  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  CEO Mark Papa said
on a Jefferies panel. “I don’t believe all the plays, even in
onshore  North America  -- the horizontal resource plays -- have
been found.”  Still Exploring  The U.S. has many previously uneconomic, non-shale plays to
which producers can apply technologies that have helped make
shale finds productive, James Wicklund, portfolio manager at
Carlson Capital, in  Dallas , said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “Might those all be Haynesville or Barnett or Marcellus
shales? Maybe not,” Wicklund said. “Would these be
discoveries? Sure, I’d call them discoveries. We’re still doing
exploration.”  U.S. oil and gas producers use horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing to tap so-called unconventional projects.
Horizontal wells help producers reach more of a resource than a
traditional vertical well.  Oil  production  in the Eagle Ford during the first eight
months of this year has more than doubled to 8 million barrels
of oil from 3.76 million barrels produced in all of 2010,
according to the Railroad Commission of Texas. The Eagle Ford
shale is about 50 miles (80 kilometers) wide and 400 miles long
in south  Texas , the commission said.  EOG, an early participant in the Eagle Ford, said it has
potential reserves of 900 million barrels of oil equivalent from
the project, with hopes of increasing that.  Chesapeake’s Focus  The Utica formation in  Ohio  is similar to the Eagle Ford
and likely has superior economics, Chesapeake said in a November
investor slide presentation. The company estimated it has 1.36
million net acres in the Utica.  The days of discovering million-acre plays are drawing to a
close, McClendon said. That leaves Chesapeake to develop what it
has and to seek the best returns for shareholders, he said.  “I just think the industry has already evaluated all the
sedimentary basins in the U.S. and have pretty much been able to
eliminate any possibility that another Utica is lurking out
there,” McClendon said.  David Ginther, a senior vice president at  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based asset manager Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., said
there are many oil discoveries to uncover in the U.S.  “I don’t know if plenty is the right word,” Ginther said
in an interview at the Jefferies conference yesterday. “There’s
a lot of good opportunities out there. I don’t think the
window’s closing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  