-- 
China Money-Market Rate Drops to Two-Week Low on PBOC’s Monetary Easing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-02T10:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/china-money-market-rate-drops-to-two-week-low-on-central-bank-easing.html
China ’s one-year swap rate dropped to
the lowest level in more than one year on speculation the
central bank will add more cash to the financial system to help
sustain economic growth.  A government-backed report yesterday showed China’s
manufacturing contracted in November for the first time since
February 2009. The central bank this week cut the amount of cash
that banks must set aside as reserves for the first time since
2008 as  Europe ’s debt crisis dims the outlook for exports and
growth. The 50 basis-point decrease in reserve-requirement
ratios will be effective from Dec. 5.  “The central bank has returned to easing in its
quantitative policy,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in
Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Ltd., the nation’s six-biggest
lender. “The seven-day repo may drop to around 2.5 percent or
even lower between Dec. 5 and Dec. 10 after the new reserve
ratio takes effect.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined nine
basis points to 2.74 percent as of 6 p.m. in  Shanghai , the
lowest since November 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s dropped 26 basis points this week.  The central bank’s open-market operations drained 24
billion yuan ($3.8 billion) of capital in the past five days,
after injecting 22 billion yuan last week, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The monetary authority injected 60
billion yuan via an auction of six-month treasury deposits on
Nov. 29, leading to a net addition of funds for this week, China
Merchants’ Liu said.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 28 basis points to 3.70 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It earlier touched 3.00 percent, the
lowest since Nov. 15.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021
dropped four basis points to 3.49 percent, the lowest level
since the note started trading in June, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. It dropped 16 basis points this week.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 