-- 
China Central Bank Says Property Prices About to Reach a ‘Turning Point’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-02T11:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/china-central-bank-says-property-prices-about-to-reach-a-turning-point-.html
China ’s property prices are about to
reach a “ turning point ”, with developers facing tighter
liquidity, the central bank said, citing a research report by
its statistics department.  Officials from the People’s Bank of China discussed
property-market trends and financial-risk management at a
meeting on Nov. 24 with the country’s banking regulator,
representatives from 10 commercial lenders and university
academics, according to a statement posted to the central bank’s
 website  today.  “The turning point of property prices is emerging,” the
statement said, citing the report. It noted that property
investment growth has eased from a “high level” and that
developers are facing tighter credit conditions. The statement
didn’t suggest any policy changes.  China this week cut the reserve requirement ratio for its
lenders for the first time since 2008, which Standard Chartered
Plc economist  Stephen Green  said showed that concern has shifted
to growth from  inflation  and that the government is in
“loosening mode.” Prior to the cut, loan limits to curb
inflation and home-purchase restrictions to prevent a property
bubble had spurred price drops in cities including Beijing and
 Shanghai .  Some of the commercial-bank representatives at the Nov. 24
meeting said lenders and property developers could cope with a
20 percent to 30 percent decline in  home prices , according to
the statement.  ‘Panic’ Selling  “The bigger concern that banks and companies have is
whether a 20 percent fall in home prices might induce panic
selling, and whether relevant departments will be able to take
effective measures to control any chain reactions,” according
to the  central bank ’s statement.  The average price of second-hand apartments in Beijing fell
to a 15-month low of 22,018 yuan ($3,471) per square meter in
November, the official Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing
statistics from the Beijing Municipal Commission of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development. Second-hand sales totaled 7,428 units
for the month, a 55.8 percent decline compared with December
2010, Xinhua reported.  Home prices last month slid in 57 of 100 cities tracked by
SouFun Holdings Ltd., including Beijing and Shanghai, according
to the operator of the nation’s biggest real-estate website.
Average home prices dropped 0.28 percent last month from
October, when they retreated 0.23 percent, it said.  Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said last month that China’s property market had
reached a “tipping point” and that the slowdown in the housing
industry will have a spillover effect on demand for steel and
other construction materials. The risk of China’s economic
growth slowing to less than 8 percent in the first quarter also
increased because of the housing market, Zhang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  