-- 
China Can’t Use Reserves to ‘Rescue’ European Countries, Minister Fu Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-02T21:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/china-can-t-use-its-reserves-to-rescue-countries-vice-minister-fu-says.html
China  can’t use its $3.2 trillion in
foreign exchange  reserves  to “rescue” European nations and the
country “has done its part” to help the region deal with its
financial crisis, Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying said.  “Foreign reserves are not revenues,” Fu, whose portfolio
is European affairs, said in a question and answer session
following a speech in Beijing yesterday. “It’s not money that
can be used by the premier or the finance minister.”  Fu said China can’t use its reserves to fund poverty
alleviation at home or to bail out foreign countries. The
country learned from the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis that it
needs to keep large reserves to maintain liquidity in order to
honor obligations, she said.  Europe  is struggling to contain a sovereign debt crisis
that has forced  Portugal , Ireland and  Greece  to seek bailouts.
After leaders in October agreed to increase the region’s rescue
fund, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he planned to call
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  to discuss how the Asian country can
contribute.  China’s foreign exchange reserves, the world’s largest,
stood at $3.2 trillion at the end of September. The country
invests in U.S. Treasuries, sovereign debt sold by European
Union countries and other international bonds. A portion is also
invested in equities and other financial instruments by China
Investment Corp., the country’s sovereign wealth fund.  U.S. Investment  China wants to convert some of those reserves into
investments in the U.S., Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming 
said separately in a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce
in Beijing yesterday evening.  China is “willing to convert some of the holdings of debt
into investment in the U.S.,” Chen said, without giving
details. He also said that the government is also very concerned
that a further “festering” of the debt crisis in Europe will
affect the nation’s economy.  The nation’s sovereign wealth fund, China Investment Corp.,
may give “indirect” support to Europe through investments
without being the nation’s main route to any aid, fund Executive
Vice President  Jesse Wang  said Nov. 24.  The fund “wouldn’t be the main channel” if China helps
tackle the sovereign-debt crisis, Wang said in an interview at a
forum in Beijing yesterday. “However, if during such a process
there are good investment opportunities in Europe and if CIC’s
investment helped the destination company or country to recover
and developed the economy, that would be indirect support.”  Central Bank’s Call  The Foreign Ministry does not control the country’s foreign
exchange reserves, and the ministry’s Fu said yesterday it would
have been more appropriate for People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan to make the remarks, which were in response to a
question. Fu is one of six vice foreign ministers, according the
the ministry’s  website .  Fu also said “now is not the time” for China to have a
contingency plan in the event a euro zone country defaults on
its debts or exits from the 17-nation single currency. The
government has already done its part to help Europe, which has
the “wisdom” and strong economic fundamentals to solve its
sovereign debt crisis, she said.  “The argument that China should rescue Europe does not
stand,” Fu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  