-- 
Chinese Imports Hurt U.S. Solar Companies, Trade Panel Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-02T22:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/chinese-imports-hurt-u-s-solar-power-companies-trade-panel-finds.html
The U.S. International Trade
Commission took the first step toward imposing added tariffs on
Chinese solar imports, saying subsidies for the products harm
equipment makers such as  SolarWorld AG .  The trade panel voted unanimously in  Washington  yesterday
in a preliminary ruling on the petition by Bonn-based SolarWorld
calling for antidumping and countervailing duties. The
commission will now proceed with a full investigation.  “It’s an incremental step, but it is a major step
forward,” Gordon Brinser, the president of SolarWorld’s U.S.
unit, said in a Dec. 1 interview anticipating the vote. “The
ITC is saying there’s harm or a threat of injury.”  The Chinese government uses cash grants, raw-materials
discounts, preferential loans, tax incentives and currency
manipulation to boost exports of solar cells, according to
SolarWorld’s Oct. 19 complaint to the trade commission and the
U.S. Commerce Department. SolarWorld, a maker of solar modules,
is seeking duties to offset the practices.  The ITC is examining possible economic harm to SolarWorld
from Chinese imports, while the department determines the
penalty for Chinese companies that illegally dump products. The
department may decide on preliminary remedies as early as
January 12.  Tariffs may raise the cost of  modules  by 10 percent, Aaron Chew, a senior analyst at New York-based Maxim Group LLC, said
in a research note yesterday.  Module Costs  SolarWorld and six other companies that haven’t been
publicly identified, have requested tariffs of 100 percent,
saying Chinese solar manufacturers benefit from unfair
government support.  The U.S. group asked the federal government to slap duties
on more than $1 billion of Chinese imports.  Democratic lawmakers wrote a letter yesterday to President
 Barack Obama  urging an investigation into the Chinese imports,
which they say don’t fairly compete with domestic products.  Imports of Chinese solar products have more than quadrupled
from 2008 to 2010, lawmakers said in the letter. Chinese imports
control half the market, benefiting from government-provided
loans, cheap land, tax breaks and an undervalued currency, the
lawmakers, including Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said.  Renewable Energy   Representatives of Chinese companies told the commission
Nov. 8 that tariffs sought by U.S. competitors would make it
more difficult to expand the use of renewable energy. China and
the U.S. are among nations encouraging use of alternative energy
sources, driving costs down across the board, so it would be
unfair to penalize  China , they told the panel.  China responded to the initial probe by saying it would
begin its own investigation into American state support for
renewable energy. China’s Ministry of Commerce will consider the
stimulus programs of the states of Washington, Massachusetts,
Ohio and  California , and two others in  New Jersey , it said Nov.
25.  SolarWorld said Sept. 2 that it was cutting almost 200 jobs
at its facility in Camarillo, California. Solyndra LLC, a
California maker of solar panels that received $535 million in
U.S. loan guarantees, blamed cheap Chinese imports for its
collapse. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6.  “There’s a serious concern going forward with the current
situation,” Brinser said. “SolarWorld is a strong company, but
others in the industry are struggling.”  Rapid Growth  Attorneys for Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL) , two of the biggest China-based makers of crystalline
silicon panels, told the trade commission Nov. 8 that added
tariffs would increase the cost of solar panels, which would
then be passed on to the consumer.  Chinese solar manufacturers have said they may shift
manufacturing to other countries to avoid tariffs if they’re
imposed.  Executives at four of China’s biggest solar-panel makers
have said they don’t receive special treatment from the Chinese
government and that they pay higher  interest rates  for loans
than U.S. or European competitors.  SolarWorld has said that China’s rapid growth in solar
products is possible only with government support as it seeks to
push out U.S. competitors by selling products for less than
cost.  “If they continue at the rate they are going, it’s not a
sustainable situation,” Brinser said.  Chinese Credit  China provided $30 billion in credit to its biggest solar
manufacturers last year, about 20 times the amount provided by
the U.S.,  Jonathan Silver , executive director of the Energy
Department’s loan program, told a congressional panel Sept. 14.
Silver resigned on Oct. 6.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe,  Arizona , and SunPower
Corp., based in  San Jose , California, may benefit from higher
sales prices stemming from the tariffs, Ahmar Zaman, an analyst
at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Companies Inc., wrote in a
Dec. 1 research note.  First Solar isn’t involved in the ITC case, spokeswoman
Melanie Friedman wrote in an e-mail yesterday. SunPower is
neutral, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Werner said in a Nov. 30
presentation at the Baird Clean Technology Conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  