-- 
Churchill Granddaughter Edwina Sandys Created Female ‘Christa’

-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/churchill-granddaughter-edwina-sandys-created-female-christa-.html
Her grandfather  Winston Churchill 
turned to painting after saving the world.  Edwina Sandys’s own path in life took her directly to art.  In 1975, Sandys caused near apoplexy in some circles with
her sculpture of a female Christ. Installed in the Cathedral
Church of Saint John the Divine during Holy Week in 1984,
“Christa” made her famous.  Sandys has gone on to create a variety of influential
public artworks across the world. “Breakthrough,” made out of
sections of the  Berlin Wall , was dedicated by  Ronald Reagan  and
visited by  Mikhail Gorbachev  and  Margaret Thatcher .  A lively dresser, attired in striped leggings and a blue
dress, Sandys led me through her retrospective at  Alexandre
Gertsman Contemporary Art  in Soho.  Tarmy: Tell me more about the effects of “Christa.”  Sandys: I’m sure I could have joined the women’s movement
and really been part of it, and they would probably have
espoused me.  But although I support women being as good -- if not better
than -- the opposite sex, I didn’t really go for flag-waving and
labels. And I didn’t want to be tied down.  Tarmy: That’s not the only work you’ve done that involves
sexual politics. Your piece “The Marriage Bed,” for instance,
is quite charged.  Paul Soros  Sandys: Well I like juxtapositions. Marriage can be a cage,
but of course it can also be very positive. You know, Daisy
Soros commissioned me to make one for her husband, Paul’s,
anniversary. I think he was a bit startled when he got it.  Tarmy: Was your grandfather alive to see your art?  Sandys: No, not really, but it would be nice for him to
have a look at it now, wouldn’t it? Still, my grandmother liked
my art and that pleased me.  Tarmy: What made you move to  New York ?  Sandys: I didn’t really move, I decided to add another
string to my bow. I had found a few clients in New York, had a
great time and a few friends. So I decided to be here some of
the time, then one thing led to another and I married my
American husband.  Tarmy: You’ve certainly made a name for yourself as a noted
hostess here.  Sandys: We do entertain a lot. My husband and I are both
gregarious, we have a beautiful loft and love to make our
friends happy.  Tarmy: What are some of your plans for the future?  Sandys: Some of my works have had a long gestation period.
That or they’ve been ready to pop -- but I just haven’t always
had the opportunity to place a piece.  I’m still hoping to find the right place for a work called
the “Millennium Circle.” I designed it before the Millennium,
but it doesn’t matter, we’ve still got almost 1,000 years before
the name is invalid. It’s meant to be the size of Stonehenge --a
bit of an engineering feat, but it could be done.  Big Is Better  Tarmy: I really appreciate your affinity for monumental
sculptures.  Sandys: Well, everything looks good when it’s big. But
certainly not everything looks good when it’s smaller.  “Art of Edwina Sandys: A Retrospective” is at Alexandre
Gertsman Contemporary Art, 652 Broadway, through Dec. 10, 2011.
Information: +1-646-344-1325;  http://agcontemporaryart.com/ .  A monograph titled “Edwina Sandys Art” was recently
published by Glitterati, with a foreword by Anthony Haden-Guest.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 