-- 
Citigroup Said to Consider Replacing Japan Banking CEO as Regulators Probe

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 
2011-12-02T04:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/citigroup-said-to-consider-replacing-japan-banking-ceo-on-regulatory-probe.html
The head of  Citibank Japan Ltd. ,
Darren Buckley, may step down from the post as soon as this
month as regulators prepare to punish the bank for the third
time since 2004, said two people with knowledge of the situation.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is searching for a Japanese national to
become the chief executive officer at its local banking unit for
the first time to ensure the person is familiar with local rules
and the nation’s retail market, the people said on condition of
anonymity because no decision has been made.  Buckley, 45, is likely to step aside after the  Financial
Services Agency  penalizes the bank for failing to fully explain
product risk to retail customers, the people said. He will stay
at Citigroup after stepping down, according to one of the people.
An interim replacement would then guide the firm while Citigroup
talks with FSA officials to form a shortlist of candidates for
the permanent role as soon as January, the people said.  Japanese officials have criticized foreigners in management
posts at banks in the past. Last year,  Shinsei Bank Ltd. , the
lender part-owned by U.S. investor J.  Christopher Flowers ,
replaced four foreign executives after two years of losses, a
failed merger and criticism by former Financial Services
Minister  Shizuka Kamei  that their pay was “exorbitant.”  Buckley wasn’t available to comment. Mika Nemoto, a
spokeswoman for Citigroup in Tokyo, declined to comment on
whether Buckley will resign or the nationality of any future
appointments.  Global Experience  Buckley, who has more than 20 years experience in  London ,
 New York ,  Singapore  and Tokyo, has been chief executive of the
Japanese banking unit since October 2008. He became the country
head of Citigroup in January 2010.  The FSA ended an onsite inspection of the New York-based
bank’s Tokyo offices in July to investigate whether the lender
was inadequate in explaining investment risks to retail
customers. Citigroup possibly had insufficient information, such
as the age and occupation of customers, needed to measure the
degree of risk they should take, the regulator pointed out, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in October.  The penalties may include suspension of operations at some
outlets, according to the people who spoke at that time.  Citigroup stopped soliciting clients for some retail
banking products in  Japan , the people said. The FSA told
employees in late June not to market products such as  investment
trusts  and foreign currencies. The bank is reviewing its
compliance processes and offering training to staff to improve
internal controls, according to the people.  Lower Profit  It posted profit of 2.2 billion yen ($28 million) for the
six months ended Sept. 30, down from 9.8 billion yen a year
earlier, the bank said in a  statement  on Nov. 14.  Citigroup, which has 32 branches and offices in Japan with
1,790 employees, hasn’t had a Japanese CEO since the position
was created in 2004. The bank has been punished by Japanese
regulators twice in the past seven years.  In 2009, the FSA ordered Citigroup to suspend marketing of
banking services to individuals for a month after failing to
install adequate internal controls to detect and monitor
suspicious transactions. In 2004, the regulator told the company
to close its private banking operations in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net 
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  