-- 
Climate Talks: VIPs Need ESP for UN ABCs

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-02T16:31:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/climate-talks-vips-need-esp-for-un-abcs.html
The 190 nations assembled in Durban for the UN climate talks are not expected
to reach a binding global agreement. Yet they do speak a common tongue. If you
can read this, you might be chagrined (or relieved) to learn that it's not
English. Nor do they speak French. Nor Zulu, Xhosa, Afrikaans or any other of
 South Africa 's 11 official languages. They speak climate jargon, the offspring created by mating the UN bureaucracy
with the  energy industry , scientific community and nongovernmental
organizations. It's an impediment to wide public debate of well-established
facts and as such, deserves some scrutiny. It's the sixth time I've attended the year-end conference, and the array of
acronyms remains bewildering. The alphabet soup may help shorten some pretty
cumbersome names, but they also make the talks impenetrable to the everyman on
the street, or the first-time attendee. “Acronyms are the way that climate negotiators make it so nobody else can
understand what’s going on,” Jake Schmidt, international climate policy director
at the New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council, or NRDC, said in an
interview in Durban. “It justifies that they’re the ones who need to go.” Begin with the event's name, COP17/CMP7. That's short for the 17th Conference
of Parties-slash – well, it's not immediately clear what the letters  CMP stands
for . The parties are nations. They are party to the UNFCCC, or the United
Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change . That's the 1992 agreement to
prevent "dangerous anthropogenic interference" in the climate system. Talks are split into two main tracks --the AWG-KP and the AWG-LCA. KP nations
are divided into TWO categories: Annex I and Annex II, which are often
intuitively called non-Annex I nations. There are also two forums that cover technical, scientific and administrative
matters: The SBI and SBSTA. The  greenhouse gases  they’re trying to regulate are CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs
and SF6. Topics for discussion include the MRV, ICA and the GCF. And that's not
including, REDD, REDD+ or LULUCF (usually pronounced Lulu Cee Eff). The countries that send envoys to the talks are divided into various blocs,
including the EU, the G77 and  China , AOSIS, which is composed mainly of SIDS,
the LDCs, OPEC and the EIG. The Umbrella Group thankfully isn’t reduced to UG.
There’s also an array of UN bodies in attendance, including the WMO, the IPCC,
the FAO and UNEP. A glance at the daily program unearths even more combinations of letters,
detailing meetings for YOUNGOs, BINGOs, RINGOs, TUNGOs and IPOs. The latter may
excite the interest of a few Bloomberg readers, but they’re not Initial Public
Offerings. The Nov. 29 agenda can be found in the document called FCCC/2011/IV/OD/2. But
don't read that version. It's missing the corrigendum, or -- wait, paging
Merriam-Webster -- "an error in a printed work discovered after printing and
shown with its correction on a separate sheet." The corrected version can be
found in document FCCC/2011/IV/OD/2/Corr.1. There are plenty more acronyms I haven’t detailed – but for the record, the
new one I’ve learned this year is LGMA, local governments and municipal
authorities. I’ve also seen offices for ENGOs and INGOs, which I assume are groupings of
non-governmental organizations (perhaps extroverted and introverted?) but I
haven’t yet ascertained that. It's just too hard to get comfortable with the
LINGO. Glossary: 
 UNFCCC --  United Nations  Framework Convention on Climate Change 
 COP17/CMP7 -- the 17th Conference of the Parties (to the UNFCCC) and the 7th
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the Kyoto
Protocol. 
 COP/MOP -- (See CMP above) 
 AWG-KP -- Ad Hoc Working Group on Further Commitments for Annex I Parties under
the Kyoto Protocol 
 AWG-LCA -- Ad Hoc Working Group on Long-term Cooperative Action under the
Convention 
 SBI -- Subsidiary Body for Implementation 
 SBSTA -- Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
 CO2 -- Carbon Dioxide 
 CH4 -- Methane 
 N2O -- Nitrous Oxide 
 HFCs -- Hydrofluorocarbons 
 PFCs -- Perfluorocarbons 
 SF6 -- Sulfur hexafluoride 
 KP --  Kyoto Protocol 
 MRV -- Monitoring, Reporting and Verification 
 ICA -- International Consultation and Analysis 
 GCF -- Green Climate Fund 
 REDD -- Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation 
 REDD+ -- as above, but with conservation an sustainability thrown in. 
 LULUCF -- Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry 
 EU -- European Union 
 G77 -- Stands for the Group of 77 (developing nations), but membership has
expanded to 131 since its formation in 1964. 
 AOSIS -- Alliance of Small Island states 
 SIDS -- Small Island Developing States 
 LDCs -- Least Developed Countries 
 OPEC -- Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
 EIG -- Environmental Integrity Group 
 UN -- United Nations 
 WMO --  World Meteorological Organization 
 IPCC -- Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
 FAO --  Food and Agriculture Organization 
 UNEP -- United Nations Environment Program 
 FCCC/2011/IV/OD/2 -- I’m not even going to try to unpick this one. 
 YOUNGOs -- Youth Non-Governmental Organizations 
 BINGOs -- Business Non-Governmental Organizations 
 RINGOs -- Research and Independent Non-Governmental 
 Organizations 
 TUNGOs -- Trade Union Non-Governmental Organizations 
 IPOs -- Indigenous Peoples Organizations 
 LGMA -- Local Government and Municipal Authorities And for the record: 
 CMP -- Conference and Meeting of the Parties. 
 ENGO -- Environmental Non-Governmental Organization 
 INGO -- International Non-Governmental Organization