-- 
CME Meets With Indianapolis Mayor on Possible Move From Chicago

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-02T23:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/cme-meets-with-indianapolis-mayor-on-possible-move-from-chicago.html
Officials at  CME Group Inc. , owner of
the world’s largest futures exchange, met with Indianapolis
Mayor Greg Ballard to discuss the possibility of a move from
 Chicago  because of high taxes in  Illinois .  The meeting in Chicago today addressed “the opportunity
that Indianapolis and the state of Indiana offer the CME Group,
should they choose to relocate,” Marc Lotter, the mayor’s
communications director, said in a telephone interview. He
declined to provide details of the discussion. Michael Huber, a
deputy mayor of economic development in Indianapolis, also
attended the meeting, which lasted about an hour, Lotter said.  “The city, the state and CME have been in discussions for
months now,” Lotter said. “This was an opportunity to continue
these talks. We appreciate the opportunity to have the mayor
visit them in Chicago today.”  The fight over tax relief for Chicago-based CME stems from
a January vote in which Democrats pushed through record
increases in tax rates to close part of a $13 billion  budget
deficit . Illinois legislators adjourned on Nov. 29 without
reaching an agreement to ease tax levies on the CME, Sears
Holdings Corp. and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)   CME Group, which owns  futures markets  including the Chicago
Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, is the
world’s largest exchange operator by market capitalization,
valued at $19 billion. CBOE Holding’s two exchanges have the
largest total share of the U.S. options market.  Chris Grams, a spokesman for the CME, confirmed in a
telephone interview that a meeting between company and
Indianapolis officials took place. He declined to disclose
details.  “The city and the state offer an outstanding business
climate for any company, and we always take advantage of any
opportunity to speak to a company that might be interested in
setting up shop here in  Indiana ,” Lotter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  