-- 
Cold Weather May Come to Central U.S. Next Week, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-02T13:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/cold-weather-may-come-to-central-u-s-next-week-forecasters-say.html
Cooler weather may descend on the
central U.S. from the Canadian border to  Texas  next week as
temperatures in the East become more seasonal, forecasters said.  Across the upper Great Plains to the Great Lakes,
temperatures may drop to 3 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit (1.6 to 5.5
Celsius) below normal, according to 6- to 10-day outlooks
published separately by Weather Derivatives and Commodity
Weather Group LLC. MDA EarthSat Weather calls for the greatest
cooling to occur in Texas.  MDA and Commodity Weather’s forecasts cover Dec. 7 through
Dec. 11 and Weather Derivatives’ outlook is for Dec. 8 through
Dec. 12.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants  use about
30 percent of the nation’s natural gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  David Salmon meteorologist at Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri , also calls for temperatures to fall about 6
degrees below normal from southern Texas to  Alabama  and central
Tennessee late next week. The East Coast will probably be more
seasonal.  Commodity Weather’s President Matt Rogers, based in
Bethesda,  Maryland , issued a similar forecast calling for
seasonal temperatures across the eastern U.S.  MDA also calls temperatures to remain normal across the
eastern U.S. with the exception of northern  New England , which
it predicts will be warmer than normal.  “The big question this morning is where does the pattern
go next,” Rogers said in a note to clients today.  Longer-Term Forecast  In his 11- to 15-day outlook for Dec. 12 through Dec. 16,
Rogers said the cooling across the northern Plains reverses and
temperatures will rise 3 to 5 degrees warmer than normal.
Weather Derivatives didn’t issue a corresponding forecast.  MDA calls for the northern Plains to become more seasonal
and instead looks for the U.S. Southeast to become warmer than
normal, while it predicts the Southwest will actually become
cooler.  Rogers said there is some disagreement between computer
forecast models.  For Dec. 11, the normal average temperature in  New York  is
about 40 degrees, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In
Boston it’s 37, in Chicago 29, in Houston 55, in Seattle 41, in
Atlanta 46 and in Burbank,  California  it’ss 54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  