-- 
Colony Capital Said in Talks for Stake in Summit Entertainment

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/colony-capital-is-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-stake-in-summit-entertainment.html
Colony Capital LLC, owner of the
Miramax film library, is in talks to acquire a stake in Summit
Entertainment LLC, maker of the “Twilight” vampire movies, two
people with knowledge of the situation said.  Colony, the private-equity firm led by Tom Barrack,
initially sought the stake in Summit held by hedge fund Rizvi
Traverse Management LLC and others, said one of the people, who
declined to speak publicly because the talks are preliminary.
The parties are also discussing combining Summit and Miramax,
leaving Summit management in charge, the people said.  The Colony interest creates competition for  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , which is in talks to acquire Summit. Lions
Gate, the studio behind “Saw” and the Tyler Perry comedies,
resumed discussions with Summit that broke down in the past over
price and control issues, three people with knowledge of the
situation said this week.  The talks with Colony were reported yesterday by Deadline
Hollywood.  Miramax, the maker of “Shakespeare in Love” and “The
English Patient,” was acquired by Colony one year ago for $660
million from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  The studio, which stopped making
new movies, has been licensing its library of films to
distributors including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Kristin Celauro, an outside spokeswoman for Colony, said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation or rumor. Melissa Zukerman, an outside spokeswoman for Summit, declined to
comment.  Miramax sold $500 million of debt on Dec. 1, including $142
million to pay a dividend to its owners.  Summit refinanced its debt in March, raising $750 million
in term and revolving loans and paying a dividend to its
investors.  Colony and Summit are both are based in  Santa Monica ,
 California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  