-- 
Commodities to Rally on ‘Cheap Money,’ Renaissance Asset’s Monovski Says

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-12-02T07:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/commodities-to-rally-on-cheap-money-renaissance-asset-s-monovski-says.html
Commodities may rally as central
banks boost  money supply  further and cut interest rates to
combat slowing economic growth, according to Renaissance Asset
Managers, a unit of Moscow-based Renaissance Group.  “Money will continue to be plentiful and free, and that
will continue to underwrite a commodity cycle,” said Chief
Investment Officer Plamen Monovski, who oversees about $2.2
billion and formerly co-managed as much as $9 billion at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager.  Central banks are undertaking the broadest reduction in
borrowing costs since 2009 to avert a global slump stemming from
Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil. The U.S., the U.K. and nine
other nations, along with the  European Central Bank , have
bolstered monetary stimulus in the past three months. While
commodities have rallied this year, global equities have dropped.  Governments are “yet again going to flood the world with
cheap money and make commodities more valuable,” said London-
based Monovski in an interview in Singapore yesterday. “We’re
going to see the same effect of cheap money spilling into
commodities and emerging markets.”  The  Federal Reserve , the ECB and central banks of Canada,
Switzerland, Japan and the U.K. on Nov. 30 made it cheaper for
banks to borrow  dollars (DXY)  in emergencies. In  China , the central
bank said the same day that banks’ reserve requirements will
fall 50 basis points in the first reduction since 2008.  Goldman’s Outlook  China, the world’s largest user of base metals and energy,
may reduce interest rates next year as inflation eases,
according to Song Yu, a Beijing-based economist for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Goldman also expects commodities to rally in
2012 as the global economy avoids recession, analysts led by
London-based  Jeffrey Currie  said in a report yesterday.  Renaissance invests in “places with commodities woven into
the economy,” said Bulgarian-born Monovski, who’s invested in
emerging markets for 15 years. He gave Africa and Russia as
examples and said investments include equities and debt holdings.  Commodities had their worst quarter since 2008 in the three
months to Sept. 30 on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis was
spreading. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index  of 24 raw
materials has risen 11 percent since then as central banks took
steps to ease pressures on financial markets.  Commodity Rally  In 2009, commodities surged 50 percent for their best
annual run since at least 1971 as governments around the world
ramped up stimulus spending to lift their economies out of the
worst recession since World War II. This year, the S&P GSCI Spot
Index has rallied 4.1 percent, while  global stocks  as tracked by
the MSCI All-Country World Index have declined 8.7 percent.  Europe’s debt crisis has stoked concern that the region may
slip into recession, endangering the global expansion. There is
a 50 percent chance of recessions in the U.S., the U.K. and euro
zone economies in the next 12 months, Nouriel Roubini, co-
founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in October.  The turmoil in Europe won’t push the global economy into
recession because liquidity provided by central banks is fueling
underlying demand, Franklin Templeton Investments’  Mark Mobius 
said last month. Governments “continue to pump money into the
system and  interest rates  are low,” said Mobius, who oversees
more than $40 billion in assets as executive chairman of
Templeton Emerging Markets Group.  Renaissance is targeting investments in Africa, the world’s
poorest continent, said Monovski. “It’s huge, it’s undiscovered,
it’s cyclically depressed, it has commodity endowments, it’s
undergoing governance change.”  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates sub-Saharan
Africa may grow 5.75 percent in 2012. Still, the region will not
be shielded from another global slowdown if the outlook in
developed economies worsens, the IMF said on Oct. 19.  Parent Renaissance Group plans to invest “several more
billions” in Africa, Chief Executive Officer Stephen Jennings
said in May. The group includes Renaissance Capital, a brokerage
partly owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at   gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Poole at
   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  