-- 
Let Companies Manage Their Own Risk: Donohue, Engler and Timmons

-- B y   T h o m a s   J .   D o n o h u e ,   J o h n   E n g l e r   a n d   J a y   T i m m o n s
-- 
2011-12-02T00:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/companies-can-manage-own-derivatives-risk-donohue-engler-and-timmons.html
In the coming months, regulators will
address many critical and complex issues in the new financial
reform legislation, but perhaps none as misunderstood as the
regulation of derivatives.  These complex instruments are widely seen as a high-wire
act used by Wall Street to make risky bets in search of big
payoffs. But the use of derivatives to manage risk by corporate
“end-users” plays an important role in providing the certainty
businesses need to succeed, grow and create jobs.  Derivatives end-users include companies like  Eaton Corp. (ETN) ,
the Cleveland-based maker of industrial components, and
MillerCoors LLC, the multinational brewer. They bring finished
products to market or produce the raw materials for these
products. Farmers -- some of the largest end-users -- employ
derivatives to lock in a price for their harvest and guard
against bad weather or wild fluctuations in the demand for their
crops.  Similarly, manufacturers use derivatives to lock in the
price of commodities such as fuel so they can keep prices stable
for their customers. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
estimates that there are 30,000 end-users in the U.S., a number
we believe is low.  In recent years, the risks surrounding the speculative use
of derivatives have become all too clear, and Congress wisely
directed regulators to tighten the rules. At the same time,
Congress attempted to write a clear exemption for derivatives
end-users because their transactions did not meaningfully
contribute to the financial crisis. The hedging they engage in
reduces rather than increases systemic risk.  Penalizing End-Users  We say “attempted” because regulators are proposing  rules 
that would wrongly include end-users. Such rules would penalize
derivatives end-users that did not cause the financial crisis
and, in the process, hurt American workers and threaten U.S.
jobs.  We are thrilled that the  House Financial Services Committee 
recognized the potential consequences and voted unanimously this
week in favor of a bill that would exempt end-users from
government-mandated margin requirements. With strong bipartisan
support, we hope Congress will move quickly on the legislation
to provide much needed certainty for end-users.  Among the more than 70 derivatives regulations that have
yet to be completed are rules requiring bank dealers to ask
their end-user counterparties for margin -- cash or cash-like
collateral -- under yet-to-be-defined circumstances. In general,
margin is a cash payment to the dealer to cover any decline in
the value of the instrument. End-users may have to continually
meet margin calls as market prices fluctuate.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, one of the
agencies charged with regulating this market, estimated the
rules could force entities it regulates to sideline $2.05
trillion -- an amount 41 times greater than all U.S. financial-
institution derivatives losses since the crisis began. This
could translate to an enormous blow to economic growth without
adding to financial stability.  The banking regulators have sent mixed messages about the
purpose of this new requirement. End-users have been told that
the rule simply codifies current market practice and therefore
the impact should be minimal. Although it is true that many of
these two-party transactions are backed by collateral today, the
terms are set by the bank dealer based on an end-user’s risk
profile.  Without any evidence that the two sides have been
historically unable to price in this risk, or that these
transactions could go bad in a way that could contaminate our
economy, banking regulators are proposing to step into the
middle of those transactions. They now want to mandate
collateral requirements for all parties, review the amount of
risk each party in the transaction has assumed, and, possibly,
dictate when and how margin is collected.  Oversimplified Analysis  Some regulators have asserted that margin rules are for
end-users’ own good. They observe that margin tightens spreads,
or the difference between the price at which dealers enter into
swaps and the price at which they exit them. Lower spreads mean
lower costs for end-users, because the spread is how the dealer
makes money.  Although attractive on its face, this analysis
oversimplifies the trade-offs that end-users actually face. End-
users have long had the choice to margin their hedging
transactions. They can, for example, use exchange-traded
derivatives with their strict margin rules, or they can
voluntarily post collateral in private, bilateral trades. Many
end-users choose not to do this because they prefer to keep
their cash rather than tie it up in a margin account, payments
to which may rise and fall day by day as market prices
fluctuate.  Congress agreed that end-users should be able to weigh the
trade-offs between margin costs and liquidity, especially
because end-users did not and cannot contribute to financial
instability. According to the  Bank for International
Settlements , nonfinancial end-user derivative trades are less
than 8 percent of the global market, and that risk is dispersed
among tens of thousands of firms.  In addition, of about $2.1 trillion in worldwide credit
losses and writedowns reported by financial institutions since
the crisis began, only about 3.2 percent resulted from
derivatives. The majority of those losses came from American
International Group Inc., which would not be eligible for an
end-user exemption.  These are among the reasons that Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  wrote on Nov. 29, 2010, to Senator  Mike Crapo ,
the Idaho Republican, “The Board does not believe that end-
users other than major swap participants pose the systemic risk
that the legislation is intended to address.”  Another criticism of the end-user exemption is that large
 Wall Street  firms might try to claim they are exempt from margin
requirements. But if a bank is a major market-maker in
derivatives, it would be subject to substantial new requirements
under the Dodd-Frank law’s Title VII as a “swap dealer.”  Banks Not Exempt  Even if a bank weren’t a dealer, and had a derivatives book
large enough to pose a systemic risk, it would be regulated as a
“major swap participant.” And all speculative trades, whether
executed by large financial institutions or by end-users, will
be ineligible for an exemption. In short, there is no way that a
Wall Street bank could avail itself of an end-user exemption.  If margin requirements are imposed on end-users, companies
will be forced to divert cash to use as collateral during
periods of market stress, sidelining billions of dollars from
more productive uses.  Bringing more transparency and accountability to the
 derivatives market  should be a victory for the American people,
but if regulators overreach and fail to distinguish between end-
users and speculators, we will simply be taking one step forward
and two costly steps back.  (Thomas J. Donohue is president and chief executive officer
of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce;  John Engler  is president of the
 Business Roundtable  and a former Michigan governor; and Jay Timmons is president and CEO of the  National Association of
Manufacturers . The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 