-- 
Congress Will Agree on Payroll Tax Cut Extension, Republican Upton Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/congress-will-agree-on-u-s-payroll-tax-cut-extension-house-s-upton-says.html
Representative  Fred Upton , a  Michigan 
Republican, predicted the  U.S. Congress  will agree on
legislation to extend a payroll tax cut and  unemployment
benefits  before the end of the year.  “I think we will” resolve the issue, Upton said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “The keys, particularly from the
Republican side, are that these have to be paid for.”  Republicans won’t agree to anything that will increase the
size of the national  deficit , he said.  President  Barack Obama  is urging Congress to extend the
payroll tax cut, saying that letting it expire would be a
“significant blow” to the economy.  Unless Congress acts, the  tax cut  -- which lowered the
employee share of the Social Security  payroll tax  from 6.2
percent to 4.2 percent for 2011 -- will expire Dec. 31.  The Senate rejected Democratic and Republican proposals to
extend the payroll tax cut for a year. The Democrats’ plan would
have expanded the cut to employers, imposed a 3.25 percent
surtax on annual  income  exceeding $1 million as an offset, and
continued unemployment benefits now set to expire Dec. 31.  Republican Plan  The Republican proposal would have paid for the payroll tax
cut by reducing the  federal workforce  by 10 percent, freezing
federal pay through 2015 and raising  Medicare  premiums for high
earners.  Upton, a member of the congressional debt-reduction panel
that failed to reach agreement last month, said automatic cuts
of $1.2 trillion that resulted from the deadlock will occur.  “Those will stick,” he said. The cuts are supposed to
come equally from  defense  and non-defense programs, and
lawmakers will debate changes over the next year.  “No one really wants these automatic cuts to come into
place,” he said. “But there will be an opportunity for us to
change those with elements of a variety of different things.”  Republicans and Democrats blamed each other for the
impasse. Democrats said Republicans wouldn’t budge on their
opposition to tax increases and Republicans accused Democrats of
refusing to consider changes to entitlement programs such as
Medicare.  Work the ‘Key’  “I wasn’t opposed to raising more revenue by having more
people work,” Upton said. “That was the key, getting people
 back to work , paying the taxes and helping to lower the
deficit.”  He said most on the special committee agree on the need for
 corporate tax  overhaul, including lowering rates and eliminating
deductions.  Upton praised the auto rescue plan carried out by the Obama
administration. “It was the right thing to do,” he said.  This puts him at odds with his party’s leading presidential
candidates, who have stressed their opposition to the government
bailout of the industry.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney called the
bailouts “the wrong way to go.”  Newt Gingrich , former speaker of the House, has said, “We
should not have had the auto bailout,” and called it a
government-funded “tip to the cronies, tip to the unions.”  Michigan’s economy  is now recovering from the recession at
the second-fastest pace in the U.S., lifted by reviving
carmakers and local manufacturers, according to a Bloomberg
index that tracks the pace of states’ growth.  Asked whether Romney’s and Gingrich’s stances would make it
hard for them in Michigan, Upton said: “We’ll see.”  “Because of our overall economic climate, any Republican
candidate is looking actually pretty good in Michigan,” he
said. “And Michigan hasn’t gone for a Republican since 1988.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  