-- 
Congress’s Trades Fail Sniff Test, Deserve Ban: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-02T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/congress-s-stock-trading-fails-sniff-test-deserves-a-ban-view.html
(Corrects spelling of  Spencer Bachus ’s name in ninth
paragraph and  Robert Khuzami ’s title in the 13th paragraph of
story published Dec. 2.)  Congress’s public-approval  ratings 
have been in the dumps for months -- and that was before the
supercommittee’s failure last month to find a deficit-reduction
compromise.  Here is one way Congress might put a little shine on its
sullied image: a self-imposed bar on what some have called
insider trading that would go beyond restrictions contained in
pending legislation.  Members of Congress almost by definition can influence or
gain knowledge of legislation that can benefit or hurt a
company. And they can get this information before much of the
investing public. Last month a book, “ Throw Them All Out ,” by
conservative scholar Peter Schweizer of the Hoover Institution,
which served as the basis for a “60 Minutes” report, described
how congressional leaders, including  John Boehner ,  Nancy Pelosi 
and Spencer Bachus, seemed to profit from insight gleaned from
their work on  Capitol Hill .  According to Schweizer’s research, Boehner, House minority
leader in 2009, invested in health-insurance stocks before the
so-called public option in President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul bill was killed. Shares in those companies eventually
soared.  Pelosi and her husband, Paul, with a net worth estimated at
$40 million, bought shares in the initial public offering of
credit-card company Visa Inc. in 2008, when Pelosi was speaker
of the House. As in many IPOs, the price they received was
available mainly to company insiders and select investors. They
bought the shares just before legislation died that would have
limited the fees credit-card issuers could charge retailers. The
shares more than doubled in the next two months.  Options Bet  Bachus, who was the ranking member of the House Financial
Services Committee on Sept. 19, 2008, used options to place a
bet that the stock market would fall after a private meeting on
the state of the financial industry with Treasury Secretary
 Henry Paulson  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . He
closed out the position four days later, almost doubling his
money.  There is no evidence that these episodes bear any
resemblance to true insider trading. In Boehner’s case, the
public option, which would have created a government entity to
compete with private insurers and drive down their profits, was
a long shot. This could be readily discerned from reading daily
news reports at the time.  The same is true for the bill that would have hurt credit-
card issuers; similar bills that followed also died before last
year’s passage of the  Dodd-Frank Act , which regulates credit-and
debit-card fees. That the Pelosis, based on their wealth, might
be seen by their broker as preferred clients worthy of getting
in on an attractive deal is hardly shocking.  As for Bachus betting that financial markets would fall?
Let’s see: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed four days
before Bachus made his wager. American International Group Inc.
was bailed out by the federal government three days before.
Someone would have to be sublimely oblivious not to know that
the financial system was on the brink of a cataclysm. Lots of
people without Bachus’s pipeline to Paulson and Bernanke made
money with similar investment strategies.  As for Congress getting information first, there is an
entire industry devoted to scraping insight, data and news from
the bowels of the government to use in any number of ways --
including investing. No one would call that  insider trading .  The truth is, the laws governing insider trading were never
designed to police the financial decisions of Boehner, Pelosi,
Bachus and other members of Congress. Although what constitutes
improper use of private information to trade is murky, it
usually comes down to fiduciary duty. Corporate executives,
privy to secret information, have an obligation to place the
interests of shareholders ahead of their desire to use that
knowledge to trade. It’s hard to see how this duty figures in
the investments made by members of Congress.  Congress’s Duties  Congress does have other duties, though -- to the American
people. One step would be to pass a law barring members of
Congress, as well as their legislative staffs, from trading on
nonpublic information. The  House of Representatives  has had such
an opportunity for half a dozen years in the Stop Trading on
Congressional Knowledge Act. The bill hasn’t been able to garner
enough sponsors to go anywhere.  Perhaps for good reason. The version introduced in the
House in March might not ban the kind of trading Boehner, Pelosi
and Bachus engaged in. And in a hearing yesterday on a similar
bill introduced last month in the Senate, Robert Khuzami,
director of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange
Commission,  said  he believed members of Congress might be
subject to existing insider trading laws and could be
prosecuted.  A better alternative would be to require members to put
their stock holdings in blind trusts in much the same way as the
 president  and some other executive branch employees. A blind
trust would hold the assets and be managed by a trustee who
neither consults with its owner nor reveals investment decisions
during the owner’s time in office.  Much of Congress’s trading may be legal, but it fails the
sniff test. Asking members to forgo investment opportunities
while serving the public is a modest sacrifice to make in the
name of boosting Congress’s credibility.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 