-- 
Constellation Power Plant Meets EPA Goals AEP Calls Unattainable

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/constellation-power-plant-meets-epa-goals-aep-calls-unattainable.html
Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  spent
$885 million cleaning up pollution from its coal-fired power
plant in Baltimore. Now it’s urging the White House to reject
pleas from competitors that they can’t do the same before a 2015
deadline.  Constellation’s Brandon Shores spewed the most hazardous
materials from its smokestacks of any U.S. power plant in 2008.
Forced to act by a state law, the company reduced the emissions
by more than 90 percent by 2010.  It designed and built a combination of chemical scrubbers
and fabric filters in less than three years. That’s the deadline
in a proposal by the Environmental Protection Agency that’s now
awaiting approval by the White House. While rivals such as
 American Electric (AEP)  Power Co. are lobbying for a delay,
Constellation is urging President  Barack Obama  to stick to the
EPA’s plans.  “Long timelines are the enemy of good results,”  Paul
Allen , chief environmental officer of the Baltimore-based
company, told reporters Nov. 21. “It’s better to turn all of
your energy to it, galvanize the workforce and get it over
with.”  The divide in the electric industry contrasts with almost-
unanimous opposition to other proposed regulations, such as
standards for smog-producing ozone that Obama ended up scrapping
in September. The split should make it easier politically for
the White House to stand by the EPA’s proposal, according to
Eric Schaeffer, executive director of the Environmental
Integrity Project, an advocacy group in  Washington .  Southern Seeks Delay  Allen said he cited Brandon Shores as an example in a
meeting with officials from the White House Office of Management
and Budget on Nov. 17. “We are unapologetic that we would like
to see a level playing field,” he said.  The so-called air toxics rule, which would mandate that
coal-fired plants cut emissions of mercury, arsenic and acid
gases, would cost $11 billion in 2015, according to the EPA,
making it one of the most expensive regulations weighed by the
Obama administration. It’s scheduled to be issued in two weeks.  The EPA says that cutting those pollutants would save lives
and create 9,000 more jobs than would be lost, as power
producers install pollution-scrubbing systems or build new
plants.  American Electric and  Southern Co. (SO) , the two biggest U.S.
producers of electricity from coal, are pushing the
administration to put off the new regulations or delay their
deadline for implementation. Those companies say the EPA’s
proposed deadline can’t be met.  ‘Just Not Achievable’  “Three years is absolutely inadequate -- at least six
years are needed to comply,” Anthony Topazi, chief operating
officer of Atlanta-based Southern, said in testimony to the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  on Nov. 30. “We cannot err
on the side of putting the reliability of the system at risk.”  American Electric, based in Columbus,  Ohio , said in June
that if a series of proposed EPA rules go forward it would close
parts or all of 11  power plants , eliminating as many as 600
jobs.  “The timetable does not make sense,” Nick Akins, the
company’s chief executive officer, said in an interview Nov. 2.
“It’s just not achievable.”  Applying for Time  American Electric estimates that installing a required
pollution scrubber and waste-water equipment can cost $520
million to $640 million for an 800-megawatt plant. That’s in
line with the $885 million Constellation spent on Brandon
Shores, a plant that can generate 1,300 megawatts, enough to
power more than 1 million typical homes, based on data from the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Constellation, which sells power in competitive markets,
can move faster than largely regulated utilities such as
American Electric, which must get approval from state regulators
before taking on costly new capital projects, according to
 Melissa McHenry , an American Electric spokeswoman.  The  Office of Management and Budget  is reviewing the EPA’s
proposal and may change it. The EPA would let power producers
apply for more time if they try and fail to meet the 2015
deadline, according to people familiar with its proposal. That
stops short of the across-the-board delay sought by some power
companies.  Constellation’s support for the EPA’s regulation and
deadlines is backed by  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S. producer
of nuclear power, which has bid to purchase Constellation for
about $7.9 billion in stock. Public Service Enterprise Group
Inc., which spent $1.3 billion since 2007 to clean up two coal-
fired New Jersey power plants, also opposes putting off the
deadline.  Community Utilities  Among those lobbying for a delay are the nation’s community
and state-owned utilities, which together have 200 coal-fired
plants. They say they will need 77 months, or more than six
years, to plan for upgrades, convene public meetings, obtain
financing and build the control technologies.  “The sheer scale of the efforts will be enormous,” Mark
Crisson, president of the American Public Power Association in
Washington, representing such utilities, wrote in a letter to
the budget office on Nov. 16.  A tight deadline for plants nationwide to install equipment
such as scrubbers may create a shortage of the pollution-control
devices and skilled workers, Southern’s Topazi said.  In Baltimore, Heather Lentz, Brandon Shores’ general
supervisor, stood on the roof above the rumbling steam
generators and pointed to a collection of buildings, on what had
been an open field, where the plant’s emissions are cleaned.  Clouds of Steam  Exhaust from the 3,000-degree boilers had shot straight up
a smokestack when the plant was built in 1984. It now goes
through a structure called a baghouse to pull out the largest
particles, and then a catalytic reducer to capture nitrogen
oxide. After that it’s blown into the scrubber, where much of
the remaining sulfur dioxide is removed by limestone-spiked
water.  Billowing clouds of steam rise from the new smokestack. Fly
ash, most of which is recycled into concrete, is pulled from the
bottom.  In 2008, when the plant’s renovation was under way, it
generated 18.6 million pounds of hazardous air pollution, making
it the most polluting plant in the country, according to EPA
data. By last year that had fallen to 1.6 million pounds, and
the complex dropped to 41st of more than 500 plants nationwide.  Constellation says it met the state of  Maryland ’s
pollution-control deadline of Jan. 1, 2010, without a hiccup in
delivering electricity.  “It’s entirely possible to comply with these rules and
remain a profitable company,” Allen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  