-- 
Copper Traders Turn Bullish For the First Time Since October: Commodities

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-12-02T17:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/copper-traders-turn-bullish-for-the-first-time-since-october-commodities.html
Copper traders are bullish for the
first time in six weeks on signs that demand is still expanding
as global inventories decline to an 11-month low and central
banks cut funding costs to shore up growth.  Twelve of 24 surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to
advance next week and two were neutral. The last time they were
bullish overall, in the week ended Oct. 21, prices surged more
than 14 percent in the following five days. Global stockpiles
monitored by exchanges in  London , New York and  Shanghai  fell 24
percent since March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Copper rallied the most in a month on Nov. 30 as China, the
biggest consumer of the metal, cut the reserve requirement ratio
for banks for the first time since 2008. More than $1.2 trillion
was added to value of global  equities  that day as the central
banks of the U.S., the euro region,  Canada , the U.K.,  Japan  and
 Switzerland  agreed to cut the cost of providing dollar funding,
to ease strains from Europe’s debt crisis.  “Consumption growth will be positive,” said Angus Staines, an analyst at UBS AG in London. “Credit in  China  will
become easier to acquire and that will allow businesses to build
their inventories. It will tighten the global traded copper
market significantly, and that should support the price.”  Copper dropped 18 percent to $7,892.75 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange this year, heading for the first annual
decline since 2008. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index (MXWD)  of 24
commodities advanced 3.8 percent as the MSCI All-Country World
 Index  of equities retreated 8.4 percent. Treasuries returned 8.5
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Asian Warehouses  The traders surveyed by Bloomberg anticipate gains next
week in gold, sugar, corn and soybeans. It’s the first time
respondents were positive on all the commodities since Oct. 14.  Asian buying is driving the decline in copper stockpiles.
Inventories in Asian warehouses monitored by the LME plunged 68
percent since June. Metal tracked by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange is now at the lowest level since July 2009. China
accounts for 38 percent of global consumption, according to
 Barclays Capital .  The bank is forecasting a 5 percent gain in the nation’s
demand next year, more than compensating for an anticipated 1.6
percent contraction in Europe. Global  consumption  growing at 2.5
percent will mean a 234,000-ton shortage next year, Barclays
predicts. That’s equal to about 45 percent of all the metal held
in bourse-monitored stockpiles.  Hedge Funds  While traders are turning bullish, hedge funds and other
money managers remain  bearish . They are holding a net-short
position, or bets on lower prices, of 7,731 U.S. futures and
options, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Speculators have held a net-short position since mid-September,
the longest stretch since July 2009, a month after the last U.S.
recession ended.  European lawmakers have failed to contain the region’s debt
crisis and the cost of insuring European sovereign debt against
default rose to a record on Nov. 25, according to the Markit
iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-default swaps.
 Germany  failed to get bids for 35 percent of the 10-year bonds
offered for sale on Nov. 23.  Europe accounts for 19 percent of global copper demand and
manufacturing in the euro region of 17 nations contracted to the
lowest since July 2009, London-based Markit Economics said
yesterday. European industrial orders declined the most in
almost three years in September, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg reported Nov. 23.  ‘Provide Liquidity’  “Central banks intervening to provide liquidity to banks
is not the same thing as fixing the underlying problems with
sovereign debt in Europe,” said Mark Lewon, the president of
Utah Metal Works Inc., a Salt Lake City-based company recycling
industrial scrap. The rally in copper on Nov. 30 means, “I am
even more bearish for next week,” he said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reiterated yesterday that it
expected commodities to return 15 percent in the next 12 months
because global economic growth of 3.2 percent in 2012 would be
enough to sustain demand. The bank’s team of commodity analysts,
led by  Jeffrey Currie , expects copper to trade at $9,500 in 12
months, or 20 percent more than now.  Twenty of 28 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect gold to climb next week. Futures on the Comex in  New York 
rose 23 percent to $1,748.60 an ounce this year.  Holdings  in
exchange-traded products backed by the metal reached a record
2,356 tons on Nov. 30 and advanced 84.8 tons last month, the
most since July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold Council  Gold investment jumped 33 percent to 468.1 tons in the
third quarter from a year earlier as bar and coin demand in
Europe more than doubled to the most since the fourth quarter of
2008, according to the London-based World Gold Council.  Six of 11 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to gain
next week. The commodity retreated 27 percent this year to 23.54
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Nineteen of 28 anticipate higher corn prices, while 20 of
29 said soybeans will advance. Corn slipped 4.8 percent to
$5.9875 a bushel in  Chicago  this year, and soybeans slid 19
percent to $11.38 a bushel.  “Next year, it’s pretty much dependant on how the global
economy will develop,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “If we see a recovery, which we
expect in the second half, then commodity prices can go up even
more pronounced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 