-- 
Corzine to Be Subpoenaed by House Agriculture Committee in MF Global Probe

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-12-02T23:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/corzine-subpoenaed-by-house-panel-for-mf-global-hearing.html
The U.S. House Agriculture Committee
voted to subpoena Jon S. Corzine, former chairman and chief
executive officer of MF Global Holdings Ltd., for a Dec. 8
hearing on the collapse of the New York-based brokerage.  House lawmakers on the panel voted by voice without
opposition today in Washington to issue the subpoena. The Senate
Agriculture Committee and the House Financial Services Oversight
and Investigations subcommittee separately announced plans to
consider Corzine subpoenas next week.  Congress has joined federal regulators in seeking answers
about the steps that led to MF Global seeking  bankruptcy
protection  on Oct. 31 after wrong-way bets on European sovereign
debt. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities and
Exchange Commission and  Justice Department  are investigating as
much as $1.2 billion in missing customer funds.  “The events that have unfolded since Oct. 31 are
unprecedented and have resulted in the loss of property of many
of our constituents and a loss of confidence in the  futures
markets  for many more,” Representative Frank D. Lucas, the
Oklahoma Republican who leads the House Agriculture Committee,
said at the meeting. Corzine’s testimony “is essential to
fulfill our objectives on behalf of our constituents and to
complete the hearing record,” Lucas said.  Steven Goldberg, a New York-based spokesman for Corzine,
declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Model  Corzine, a Democrat who served in the Senate and as  New
Jersey ’s governor, joined MF Global in March 2010 with a plan to
remake the company into an investment bank in the image of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where he had been co-chairman before
entering politics. He repeatedly ratcheted up a wager on the
debt of countries including Italy and  Spain .  He bet $11.5 billion on European debt in his bid to rebuild
profits, almost twice the net amount disclosed to investors, and
relied on short-term hedges that left the firm exposed to larger
losses if they couldn’t be rolled over.  Corzine overcame resistance from directors, senior traders
and risk managers to accumulate the bonds, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation. He used the hedges, or
offsetting trades, to cut the net risk reported to shareholders
to $6.4 billion, according to an Aug. 3 regulatory filing.  ‘Clearly His Right’  The House Agriculture Committee wants Corzine to answer
questions about MF Global’s failure and management of client
funds even though he may invoke his constitutional right to not
answer in light of ongoing investigations, Representative Mike
Conaway said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “I fully expect him to be here Thursday,” said Conaway, a
Texas Republican who serves on the panel. “If he answers
questions, fine. If he takes the Fifth Amendment, that’s clearly
his right as well.”  The subpoena hasn’t been issued yet, and lawmakers will
talk with Corzine’s lawyers over the weekend to determine
whether it’s needed, Conaway said.  “The committee certainly wants answers to what happened,
but given the pending criminal inquiries and the potential
catastrophic ramifications of speaking now, I’d advise him to
take the Fifth,” said Mark Paoletta, a partner at  Dickstein
Shapiro LLP  in Washington who formerly was chief investigations
counsel for the House Energy and Commerce committee.  House Agriculture is the first of three congressional
committees seeking Corzine’s testimony at hearings on MF Global.
Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan Democrat who leads that
chamber’s Agriculture Committee, released a statement today
saying the panel will meet Dec. 6 to determine whether to compel
Corzine to appear at a Dec. 13 hearing.  ‘Decisions and Events’  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , the chairman of the
Financial Services subcommittee, said today that his panel also
will hold a vote on whether to subpoena Corzine because it has
“become clear” that he wouldn’t testify willingly at the
panel’s Dec. 15 hearing.  “Mr. Corzine is the only person who can provide a thorough
account of the investment decisions that led to MF Global’s
collapse and the activities at MF Global in the days and weeks
leading to its collapse,” Neugebauer said today in a statement.
“For the past week, we led a good-faith effort to obtain his
testimony voluntarily.”  The subcommittee will meet on Dec. 7 to decide whether to
subpoena Corzine.  Regulators’ Relationships  Neugebauer, a Texas Republican, is investigating the
relationships between regulators and the failure of the firm.  In a Nov. 28 letter to CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler ,
Neugebauer requested all communications and documents “related
to the coordination of the CFTC’s oversight of MF Global” with
the SEC, New York Fed, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
 CME Group Inc. (CME) ,  National Futures Association  and  Chicago Board
Options Exchange .  Neugebauer also asked for “all communications or records
of communications between officials at the CFTC and
representatives and employees of MF Global” from March 1, 2010,
through Oct. 31, 2011, a period corresponding with Corzine’s
tenure at the firm. He gave the CFTC until Dec. 7 to respond.  The lawmaker requested similar documentation from the SEC
in a letter sent today to  Mary Schapiro , the agency’s chairman.
He gave the SEC until Dec. 9 to respond.  “We began to delve into every aspect of MF Global’s
collapse weeks ago, and the subcommittee is sifting through
documents, working to obtain documents, and ensuring our
investigation is done in a thorough -- and not a hurried --
fashion,” Neugebauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  