-- 
Democrats Urge Obama to Investigate Chinese Solar Imports

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-12-02T15:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/democrats-urge-obama-to-investigate-chinese-solar-imports-1-.html
Democratic lawmakers wrote a letter
to President  Barack Obama  urging an investigation into Chinese
solar imports, which they say don’t fairly compete with domestic
products.  Imports of Chinese solar products have increased 350
percent from 2008 to 2010, according to the letter today
provided by Bonn-based  SolarWorld AG (SWV) , which filed a trade
complaint Oct. 19.  Chinese imports control half the market, benefiting from
government-provided loans, cheap land, tax breaks, and an
undervalued currency, the lawmakers, including Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said.  “It is critical for American businesses and workers to be
able to compete in this rapidly growing sector,” according to
the letter signed by six senators and 53 House members.  A U.S. International Trade Commission panel is set to vote
today on whether to continue with an investigation that may lead
to imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties. The U.S.
unit of SolarWorld, a maker of solar modules, is seeking duties
to offset the practices.  Driving Costs Down  Representatives of Chinese companies told the commission
Nov. 8 that tariffs sought by U.S. competitors would make it
harder to expand the use of renewable energy.  China  and the U.S.
are among countries encouraging use of alternative energy
sources, driving costs down across the board, so it would be
unfair to penalize China, they told the panel.  Suntech Power Holdings Co.  and Trina Solar Ltd., two of the
biggest China-based makers of crystalline silicon panels, said
added tariffs would only increase the cost of solar panels,
which would then be passed on to the consumer.  China responded to the initial probe by saying it would
begin its own investigation into U.S. government support for
renewable energy. China’s Ministry of Commerce will consider the
state stimulus programs of Washington, Massachusetts, Ohio and
California, and two in  New Jersey , it said Nov. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  