-- 
Detroit’s Broken-Down Buses Strand Riders

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/detroit-s-broken-down-buses-keep-residents-immobile-as-city-faces-takeover.html
Detroit  lost a quarter of its
population in the past decade, it may go broke by April and fall
under state control, and Frances Lockett has a hard time getting
to her job 10 miles from home.  She rises at 4:45 a.m. to get to work by 7:30 cleaning
homes in suburban Grosse Pointe Park. It’s a 20-minute car ride
that takes her 90 minutes on two buses, with a half-hour wait
between. A few years ago buses ran more often, she said.  “It wears on you,” said Lockett, 62. “Some times it’s
worse than others.”  The reliable unreliability of public transit -- on average
one-third of the 305 scheduled buses are off the road for
repairs each day -- exemplifies the crisis that threatens the
18th-largest U.S. city with bankruptcy or state takeover. Lost
revenue from plunging property values and a dwindling, poorer
population have nearly broken its ability to deliver basic
services in a city receding amid swaths of vacant land.  Detroit  faces a $155 million deficit that by June may grow
by an additional $44 million without spending cuts, according to
an analysis by Ernst & Young LLP. Mayor Dave Bing, the City
Council and municipal employee unions are at odds over how to
attack it. Yesterday, Bing dismissed the idea of a financial
review that may be the first step toward state supervision.  ``Detroit needs to be run by Detroiters,'' he said at a
news briefing.    Late and Angry  However, one barometer of residents’ frustration with 
dysfunction is gripes about buses that are late, full or
nonexistent. In a city where almost one in five households
doesn’t own a vehicle, buses on weekdays take an average of
122,450 riders to work, school, shopping and doctors.  “It’s one of the biggest complaints we have,” said City
Council member Gary Brown.  Other shortcomings are more serious.  “If you call 911 to have an ambulance take you to the
hospital, there’s a likelihood that ambulance won’t come,” said
state Senator Tupac Hunter, 38, a Detroit Democrat. “Is that
the workers’ fault? No, the resources aren’t there.”  The strife demonstrates Detroit’s eroded underpinnings.  Its population fell 25 percent to 714,000 since 2000,
according to  2010 U.S. Census  data that suggest tens of
thousands moved to suburbs. Nearly half of Detroit’s adults,
roughly 200,000, are functionally illiterate, according to the
National Institute for Literacy.  Children in Poverty  September unemployment was 20.6 percent, twice the state
average, according to the Michigan Department of Technology,
Management and Budget. About 38 percent of residents lived in
poverty in 2010, including 54 percent of children under 18,
according to Census figures. Median  household income  was $29,500
compared with $48,700 statewide, the data show.  Twenty-three percent of housing units were vacant, compared
with 10.3 percent in 2000, according to the data. The median
value of housing was $53,900, compared with $123,000 statewide.  The city’s credit is rated below investment grade by  Fitch
Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  Last month, Governor  Rick Snyder , 53, said Detroit’s
straits merit a state review, the first step to the appointment
of an emergency manager. In March, Snyder and the Legislature
broadened the powers of such officials to let them fire city and
school board employees and suspend union contracts.  Under New Management  Michigan was the only state to lose population in the past
decade, according to census data, and its  economy  was hit harder
than any other state’s, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States index. As the state declined, so did its
municipalities: Flint,  Benton Harbor , Pontiac and Ecorse all
have emergency managers, as do Detroit’s schools.  Both Bing and the City Council oppose a state takeover.
Snyder said he doesn’t want a manager, either, and said there
are less-drastic steps available.  Brown, the councilman, said he favors an agreement with the
state that would grant the mayor broader power to cut costs,
though not as sweeping as an emergency manager’s.  The council this week proposed saving $68 million by
eliminating 2,300 jobs, including 500 police and firefighters.
Bing would dismiss 1,000 workers.  “We don’t have revenue from property taxes to support a
workforce of 11,000 anymore,” said Brown, 58, who retired from
the Detroit Police Department after 26 years.  Brown said if employee unions give up $100 million in
concessions, 1,000 job losses might be avoided. Both the council
and Bing have called for 10 percent wage cuts, and bigger
payments from employees toward health care and pensions.  The mayor also wants to almost double the city’s corporate-
income tax to 1.9 percent, which would raise about $6 million
more each year.  It’s Coming  W. Howard Morris, 50, a Detroit financial planner, said an
emergency manager is inevitable. Morris himself was appointed by
the state to run the finances of schools in Inkster, a suburb
west of Detroit.  He said Bing should have pushed drastic spending cuts
within six months of taking office in May 2009.  “What he’s proposed is a day late and a dollar short,”
Morris said.  For the buses, the dollar shortage is acute.  Bing ordered mechanics to work longer hours and said he’ll
seek to a private company to run the system.  The agency, with 600 drivers, costs the general fund
between $80 million and $100 million a year, Bing said. The city
plans to buy 46 buses with $6 million in federal aid, while it
scraps 41 old buses -- a net gain of five, according to Dan
Lijana, spokesman for Bing.  Dangerous Duty  On Nov. 4, thousands were stranded after about 100 drivers
refused to get behind the wheel in protest of an altercation
with a passenger at a terminal the day before. They resumed work
in the afternoon after Bing promised more police protection.  The wildcat strike disrupted lunch at the Grand Trunk Pub
downtown, where four cooks couldn’t get to work to prepare for a
crowd that waited as much as hour for food, said Amy Hubbarth, a
waitress.  “We had seven corned beef sandwiches ready, and on a
Friday, that’s not going to get anybody anywhere,” she said.  Hubbarth, 30, lives in Detroit with no car and uses buses
regularly. She’s ridden public transit in  New York ,  San
Francisco  and  Los Angeles .  “Those are thriving cities because people can get where
they want to go,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  