-- 
Dim Sum Investors Lack Protection on 60% of Bonds: China Credit

-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 
2011-12-02T03:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/dim-sum-investors-lack-protection-on-60-of-bonds.html
Asia ’s fastest-growing bond market
lacks restrictions that stop companies from borrowing to the
brink of default.  Dim Sum bond sales quadrupled to 146 billion yuan ($22.9
billion) this year, even as 60 percent of non-financial
corporate securities listed on HSBC Holding Plc’s Offshore
Renminbi Bond Index contain no leverage limits, according to
marketing materials.  BYD Co. (1211) , the automaker partly owned by
 Warren Buffett , and a unit of  New World Development Co.  sold
yuan-denominated bonds this year in Hong Kong without debt-to-
equity limits typically required for  junk bonds . European and
U.S. high-yield dollar issuers are increasing constraints,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “We want comparable protection to what we get in other
markets, regardless of the currency, and to date we’re not
always seeing that,” said Bryan Collins, a fixed income
portfolio manager at FIL Ltd., known as Fidelity Worldwide
Investment. “We’re making it very clear that’s what we expect
on new issues,” Collins said during an interview at his offices
in Hong Kong. Fidelity manages $207.9 billion of assets globally.  Speculation the yuan will strengthen has fueled demand for
the Chinese-currency assets in  Hong Kong , where international
bondholders can buy and sell debt. China’s slowest  economic
growth  in two years last quarter and a 0.4 percent depreciation
of the yuan versus the dollar in November may deter investors
from buying the securities without protection.  ‘Getting Away With Murder’  “A lot of these Dim Sum bonds issuers have been getting
away with murder for a while,” Edmund Harriss, a London-based
investment director at Guinness Atkinson Asset Management, said
in a phone interview. “I’ve been quite entertained reading some
of the offerings that have been put in front of us. The
structures, the cash flows, and the relationships between the
 cash flow  generating entity and guarantor have been laughably
opaque.” Guinness Atkinson manages $542 million of assets.  The yield on Shenzhen, southern China-based BYD’s 1 billion
yuan of three-year bonds sold in Hong Kong has surged 12.16
percentage points to 16.7 percent since April, according to
SinoPac Securities Corp. prices. BYD said in October that full-
year profit may drop as much as 65 percent because of sliding
sales of automobiles and solar-energy products.  Paul Lin , a spokesman for BYD, declined to comment on the
company’s bond covenants. The notes don’t restrict BYD from
taking on more debt, according to an offering circular
distributed to investors before the sale.  Negative Pledge  NWS Holdings Ltd., a unit of property company New World
Development, sold 1 billion yuan of 2.75 percent bonds in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The three-year notes
yielded 4.08 percent today, according to SinoPac prices. The
debt was issued by Silvery Castle Ltd., an indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of NWS, which guaranteed the sale. Like BYD, the
notes don’t curtail future borrowing, according to its offering
circular.  “The terms of the bonds were determined based on HSBC’s
professional advice in light of market conditions which
prevailed at the time of issue,” Clement Chow, a Hong Kong-
based senior manager of  investor relations  at NWS, said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday. “Similar practice
should apply in future.”  Dim Sum bonds resemble investment-grade debt sold in  Europe ,
Alexander Dill, the New York-based head of covenant research at
Moody’s, said in a phone interview last month. More than 85
percent of notes have a negative pledge that stops companies
from using their assets as security for new deals and a cross
default clause that makes the bond immediately due for payment
should the company fail to meet other debt obligations,
according to the offering circulars seen by Bloomberg.  Fewer Covenants  More than 70 percent also have a change-of-control term
that gives investors a  put option  allowing them to sell the
bonds back to the issuer should ownership be adjusted. None of
these covenants stops a company from incurring more debt, the
documents show.  Yuan debt sold from medium-term note programs has the least
covenants, according to the bond prospectuses.  BP Plc (BP/)  sold 700
million yuan of bonds due September 2014 from its medium-term
program in September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BP’s notes, which were priced to yield 1.7 percent, have no
negative pledge, no cross-default clause and no change-of-
control put, the marketing material shows.  ‘Professionals Only’  “These bonds were issued with our standard terms and
conditions,”  Robert Wine , a London-based spokesman at BP, wrote
in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  “It’s a professionals only market so it’s very much self-
regulated,” William Liu, a Hong-Kong based partner at law firm
Linklaters LLP, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The basic
assumption is that institutional investors will be able to look
after themselves and the underwriters that bring the deal to
market will make sure that the documents contain all the
material information that professional bond investors expect to
receive.”  Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the Securities & Futures
Commission, Hong Kong’s watchdog, declined to comment on the
regulation of Dim Sum notes sold to institutional investors.
Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman at Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. said companies selling bonds to professional investors
don’t need to publicly disclose offering circulars on the
exchange.  Unrated Debt  While BP’s notes are rated A by  Standard & Poor’s , the
sixth-highest investment-grade ranking, more than 71 percent of
non-financial corporate Dim Sum bonds in HSBC’s index are
unrated or categorized as high-yield by either Moody’s, S&P or
Fitch Ratings.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- by S&P, their lowest investment grades.  Junk dollar-denominated bonds typically include leverage
restrictions such as a fixed-charge coverage ratio or debt-to-
equity ratio that stop a company from borrowing unless it can
service the new debt and existing obligations, a report
published by Moody’s said last month.  Road King Infrastructure Ltd. ,  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. ,
 Zhongsheng Group Holdings Ltd.  and  China Shanshui Cement Group
Ltd.  are the only non-financial companies in the HSBC index
offering notes with this level of protection.  High-yield companies in Europe and the U.S. are putting
more covenants in their bonds, according to a June report by
Moody’s.  Dim Sum Losses  The ratings firm’s so-called Covenant-Lite Bond Index,
which comprises 832 speculative-grade bonds sold between January
2008 and the end of April this year, measures how many notes
contain less stringent creditor protections. The index fell to
7.1 percent for the first four months of 2011 from a high of
14.7 percent in 2009, indicating that more companies were adding
restrictions, the report said.  Dim Sum bonds lost an average 2.03 percent this year,
according to HSBC’s indexes. Including currency appreciation,
the notes have returned 1.23 percent, the indexes show. The 0.34
percent weakening of the yuan versus the dollar last month meant
investors lost 0.74 percent on their Dim Sum bond investments,
the indexes show.  “The pipeline is much bigger and investors have many
choices of issues, so it’s now a buyers’ market,” Linklaters’
Liu said. “The issuers need to actually demonstrate to the
investors why they’re better than the others.”  Companies are starting to promise greater borrowing
restrictions to attract more investors, according to Ivan Chung,
a Hong Kong-based senior analyst at Moody’s.  Improve Chances  “There are lots of deals in the pipeline that are
repackaging themselves,” he said in a phone interview.
“Originally they didn’t have many covenants but since  market
sentiment  is not good, they are trying to improve their covenant
package in order to improve their chance of selling in the
market. Most have not come to the market yet but sooner or later
this trend will become more obvious.”  China ’s currency advanced 0.19 percent this week to 6.3627
per dollar in  Shanghai  as of 10:22 a.m., according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Yields on China’s 10-year bonds fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.617 percent yesterday, according to
Chinabond.  The cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against non-
payment has more than doubled this year with  five-year credit-
default swaps  at 138.6 basis points yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  