-- 
Health Insurer Rebates Under Obama’s Overhaul Won’t Be Taxed

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-12-02T16:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/health-insurer-rebates-under-obama-s-2010-overhaul-won-t-be-taxed.html
Consumers won’t have to pay taxes on
rebates they get from health insurance plans that violate
spending rules in President Barack Obama’s 2010 overhaul, the
U.S. said.  When rebates are required, the insurers would have to send
customers an explanation of why they’re getting money back and
how the sum is calculated, according to rules issued today by
the  Department of Health  and Human Services. The industry is led
by Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
largest U.S. health insurer by revenue, and Indianapolis-based
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the biggest by enrollment.  Under the law, health insurers can’t take more than 20
percent of their premium revenue as profit or for salaries and
other administrative expenses. At least 80 percent of premiums
must be spent on patient care, and plans spending less have to
rebate the difference.  Most plans probably won’t have to pay rebates. About 77
percent of insurers that provide coverage for 39 million workers
at large companies -- the most-common kind of private health
insurance -- would have hit the government’s spending targets
last year, Congress’ investigative arm, the Government
Accountability Office,  said  this week.  About 64 percent of insurers in all markets -- individual,
small business and large group -- spent enough on care to
satisfy the law’s requirements. Seven out of 10 insurance
companies that cater to small businesses met the 80 percent
minimum spending goal in 2010, while only 43 percent of insurers
who sell individual coverage directly to consumers complied.  The government reiterated that it won’t let the insurers
deduct the cost of fees they pay to brokers and agents when
calculating how much to spend on patient care. Insurance brokers
and the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners  had
lobbied to exclude broker fees from the formula, concerned that
brokers’ business would suffer otherwise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  