-- 
East African Economy to Slow This Year on Weaker U.S., Europe

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-12-02T06:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/east-african-economy-to-slow-this-year-on-weaker-u-s-europe.html
Economic growth in  East Africa  may
slow to 5.1 percent this year as the European debt crisis and a
weakness in the U.S. economy curbs exports to the region’s
traditional markets, the head of the economic bloc said.  Growth in the  East African Community , which groups  Kenya ,
Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi, expanded 5.9 percent last
year from 4.4 percent in 2009, according to official data from
the Arusha-based body. Output is also being hit by an
acceleration in inflation amid a drought that curtailed new
investment by businesses and eroded consumer spending power,
Secretary General Richard Sezibera said in an interview in
Bujumbura, the Burundian capital, yesterday.  The expectation of easing growth “is partly because of
rising food and fuel prices” in the region, Sezibera, 47, said.
“It’s also because of a slowdown in the economies that are the
destination of our exports: Western Europe, the U.S.,  Japan .”  The East African Community, a market of 133.1 million
people with an annual gross domestic product of $79.2 billion,
was founded by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania in 1999. Rwanda and
Burundi joined four years ago.  Demand for raw materials from India and  China , the world’s
most populous nations, is providing East African exporters with
new markets, partly offsetting the slump in Western sales, said
Sezibera, a physician and former Rwandan health minister. The
Asian nations are purchasing commodities including coffee, tea
and minerals, and are the source of rising tourism, he said.  The EAC formed a common market last year, broadening the
scope of the bloc’s five-year-old customs union to enable the
free movement of people, capital and services by 2015. Deepening
integration has been slowed by a lack of adequate roads, regular
electricity shortages and aging railways. Efforts to boost trade
and attract foreign investment are also undermined by corruption
in East Africa, according to  Transparency International , a
Berlin-based anti-graft watchdog.  Policy makers in the region are laying the groundwork for a
future monetary union. A draft protocol recommending how the
arrangement may function is expected by October, Sezibera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 