-- 
Tebow Fans Take a Knee Honoring Quarterback Who Transformed NFL’s Broncos

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/tebow-fans-take-a-knee-honoring-quarterback-who-transformed-nfl-s-broncos.html
Tebow mania is spreading with every
 Denver Broncos  win, one knee at a time.  Tim Tebow , a quarterback in his second season who combines
football and faith on the field, has a 5-1 record as the
Broncos’ starter, including three fourth-quarter comebacks.
Replicas of his jersey are among the  National Football League ’s
best-selling, and he has spawned a fad known as “ Tebowing ”
through his kneel-and-pray pose after victories.  The Broncos’ offense is geared to Tebow’s strength as a
runner while masking his weakness as a passer. The style has
been criticized, with even Broncos coach John Fox saying, “If
we were trying to run a regular offense, he’d be screwed.”  “We’re seeing something very unconventional,” Joe Theismann, a Super Bowl-winning quarterback for the  Washington
Redskins  who’s now an analyst for the  NFL Network , said in a
telephone interview. “For the traditionalists, you can sit
there in denial all you want, but it’s happening right in front
of you. And it’s fun.”  The Broncos are 6-5 after a 1-4 start to the season and
trail the Oakland Raiders by one game in the American Football
Conference West. They are on the road against the  Minnesota
Vikings  this weekend.  Tebow’s No. 15 jersey is the second-best seller over the
past two weeks at  NFLShop.com , behind  Aaron Rodgers  of the Super
Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers. Tebow, 24, also has the sixth-
best selling jersey this year, even though he started the season
on the bench. The jersey prices range from about  $85  to  $115 .  Sales Share  Marty Garafalo, the chief operating officer of Game Day
Merchandising, estimated that half of sales at his three Broncos
team stores are Tebow-related. The proportion is higher for
children’s and women’s apparel, he said.  “There hasn’t been this much excitement for a player from
a merchandise standpoint since  John Elway  retired,” Garafalo
said in a telephone interview, referring to the Hall of Fame
quarterback who led the Broncos to two Super Bowl titles. “He’s
pretty much taken this town now and he’s made believers out of a
lot of people. Winning is a magic word.”  Tebow, who will be on the cover of the first edition 
of NFL Magazine on Dec. 13, was born in the  Philippines  while 
his parents were Baptist missionaries, and he readily shares his 
religious beliefs during interviews. After wins, he gets down on 
one knee with his head bowed in prayer.  The practice has given rise to imitators and a  website  that
defines “Tebowing” as a verb meaning, “to get down on a knee
and start praying, even if everyone else around you is doing
something completely different.” It includes photos of people
on one knee similar to Tebow in unlikely places: during the
 bridal dance  at a wedding, in front of the  Sydney Opera House  in
 Australia , and on the kitchen floor in front of the  Thanksgiving
turkey  in the oven. T-shirts with “Tebowing” and a silhouette
of the quarterback are for sale on the site in Broncos’ blue and
orange.  ‘Tebowing’ on Ice  At  New York ’s Madison Square Garden, Boston University
hockey player Ross Gaudet knelt on the ice in a Tebow-style pose
after his overtime goal gave the Terriers a 2-1 victory against
 Cornell University  on Nov. 26.  “What I thought about is that Tim Tebow is a winner, but
it might not always be pretty the way he gets it done,” Gaudet
said by telephone. “That’s kind of similar to myself. This year
he definitely has turned me into a pretty big fan.”  Denver’s success isn’t a surprise to Tebow, who won two
national championships and a Heisman Trophy as college
football’s top player at the University of  Florida .  “We’re just believing, and it’s such a positive
atmosphere,” Tebow told reporters this week. “It’s a special
team when you got a bunch of guys that aren’t going good. We get
closer instead of pulling apart.”  Celebrity Status  Tebow ranks 399th among more than 2,900 people in terms of
endorsement appeal, on par with movie director  George Lucas ,
golfer  Phil Mickelson  and television personality  Stephen Colbert , according to the Dallas-based Marketing Arm, which
compiles the Davie Brown Index that measures celebrity status in
the U.S.  In terms of appeal, 80 percent of consumers like Tebow to
some degree, said Chris Anderson of the Marketing Arm. The
figure would be higher, Anderson, except that Tebow is “such a
polarizing figure.”  Kurt Warner, who stressed his Christian faith during an NFL
quarterback career that included a Super Bowl title, told the
Arizona Republic last week that he’d advise Tebow to tone down
the religious rhetoric so people don’t become calloused toward
him.  Theismann said he questions how long Tebow’s on-field
success can continue, pointing to previous unorthodox offensive
and defensive systems that had initial success before opposing
teams figured out a way to stop them.  Read-Option Offense  The Broncos incorporate a so-called read-option offense
with Tebow, a run-based system usually seen at the high school
or college levels. In the Broncos’ most recent win, on Nov. 27
at  San Diego , Tebow rushed for 67 yards on 22 carries, the most
runs by an NFL quarterback since at least 1950, when the league
started tracking the statistic.  Tebow’s passing accuracy is  45.5 percent  this season, the
worst in the NFL, while Rodgers of the Packers and  Drew Brees  of
the  New Orleans Saints  have completed more than 70 percent of
their passes. Yet Tebow has thrown only one interception in 143
passes -- the lowest rate in the NFL -- and has lost one fumble.  Fewer Points Scored  The Broncos are one of three teams with a winning record to
have scored fewer points than they’ve allowed this season, along
with the  Oakland Raiders  and the  New York Giants . When scoring
fewer than 20 points, the Broncos have a 4-2 record, while the
NFL’s other 31 teams are a combined 20-111.  Theismann, who will be part of the NFL Network’s
“Playbook” special on Tebow mania this weekend, said he
appreciates the excitement and novelty appeal generated by the
Broncos’ quarterback.  “We need to be a lot more open-minded,” Theismann said.
“The circus is coming to town. Buy a ticket and go and enjoy
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  