-- 
EDF Will Sell 14% of Nuclear Output to Rivals in 2012, CRE Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-02T17:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/edf-will-sell-14-of-nuclear-output-to-rivals-in-2012-cre-says.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest power producer, will sell about 14 percent of its
nuclear output to rivals next year under a law designed to open
up the French market.  The former power monopoly will sell 60.7 terawatt-hours of
power to competitors, according to the country’s energy
regulator. That compares to the 420 terawatt-hours of atomic
electricity EDF aims to produce this year.  The wholesale power sold to rivals has so far allowed
competitors to gain market share among big industrial power
users, the regulator said.  The legislation, which took effect July 1, requires EDF to
sell power from its 58 nuclear reactors to rivals including GDF
Suez SA at a price set by the government. The rate will rise to
42 euros a megawatt hour next year from 40 euros a megawatt-hour
in 2011. The overhaul follows probes by European Union
regulators into EDF’s dominance in the French power market
almost four years after the Paris-based utility lost its
monopoly.  Among the country’s biggest industrial power users,
alternative suppliers to EDF had a market share of almost 30
percent at the end of September, up from 25.5 percent at the end
of May, before the wholesale nuclear power sales started, the
regulator said today.  The impact on the household and small business market
“hasn’t been significant,” the regulator said.  Second Half  EDF’s competitors on the French market had captured 5.7
percent of the more than 30 million households in  France  at the
end of September, according to data published by the regulator
earlier this week.  The utility sold 61.3 terrawatt-hours in the second half of
this year as part of the law, which sets a maximum volume of 100
terawatt hours. EDF’s competitors have to sell the power to
customers in France.  Purchasers of EDF’s nuclear output may include Direct
Energie,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and  Poweo (ALPWO)  as well as EON AG, Iberdrola, Total
SA and Vattenfall, according to information published on the  web
site  of the French regulator.  These companies are included in a list of 32 published by
the regulator as having signed a framework agreement with EDF
for wholesale power purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  