-- 
Lehman to Pay Customers $18.3 Billion

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-02T14:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/lehman-brokerage-trustee-seeks-to-allocate-18-3-billion-to-customer-fund.html
The trustee liquidating  Lehman
Brothers Inc. (LEHMQ)  said he aims to start paying the bankrupt
brokerage’s remaining customers early next year from available
assets of $18.3 billion.  Trustee James Giddens, who also is liquidating the  MF
Global (MF)  Inc. broker-dealer, asked a judge to approve the
distribution yesterday, more than three years after the Lehman
parent filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history. He didn’t
say how much money customers can expect, only that his goal was
to make “a significant” payment. Large payouts must await
resolution of remaining disputes over claims, he said.  “The trustee would like to be in a position to proceed
with interim distributions to customers in early 2012, with
reserves as appropriate for disputed claims,” Giddens said in a
court filing yesterday. “Disputes involving the largest dollar
values will have to be resolved before large distributions of
customer property can proceed.”  By law, Giddens must share the assets equally among
customers. He has gathered $23.7 billion to pay customers from
settlements, litigation and negotiations with banks and other
business partners, according to records in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan. He is holding $3 billion of the total in reserve
for a continuing court fight with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which in 2008
bought North American businesses of the brokerage’s parent,
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Legal Disputes  Billions of dollars also are at stake in Giddens’s disputes
with Lehman Brothers Holdings, its London affiliate, and
counterparties to mortgage contracts and repurchase
transactions, according to the filing.  The brokerage has spent $642 million on its liquidation,
with most of the money going for professional and consulting
fees, Giddens disclosed in October. The trustee and his law
firm, Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, have earned about $169 million
in fees since September 2008.  Lehman Brothers Inc .’s remaining customers include  hedge
funds  and other institutions. Soon after the bankruptcy, 110,000
customer accounts with assets of $92.3 billion were mostly
absorbed by London-based Barclays and New York-based Neuberger
Berman Holdings LLC.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  