-- 
Heineken Buys U.K. Pub Estate From Royal Bank of Scotland for $646 Million

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-12-02T12:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/heineken-creates-u-k-pubs-leader-with-646-million-acquisition-from-rbs.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer by volume, acquired 918 U.K. pubs it manages for
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in a 412 million-pound ($646
million) deal that creates one of Britain’s biggest pub owners.  The purchase of the Galaxy Pub Estate will give Heineken
ownership of 1,380 pubs when added to the 462 outlets already
controlled by the Dutch brewer, the Amsterdam-based company said
today in a  statement . Heineken’s Scottish & Newcastle unit has
managed the Galaxy pubs on behalf of RBS since 1999.  The acquisition is a “significant vote of confidence” in
the U.K. pub industry, Stefan Orlowski, Heineken’s U.K. managing
director, said in the statement. U.K. pub profits have been hit
by a slump in  consumer spending , a smoking ban and discounted
beer in supermarkets. Outlets are closing at the rate of 25 per
week, the British Beer & Pub Association said in March.  Heineken, which is struggling with declining beer sales in
western Europe, said it will take over the largely freehold pub
business on a “cash-and-debt-free basis.” In addition to the
purchase price, 10 million pounds has been paid to settle
accrued amounts owed under a management agreement between RBS
and Heineken, the brewer said, adding that the acquisition will
result in a one-time pretax expense of 28 million pounds.  Acquisition Funding  The transaction values Galaxy at about 7.9 times its 12-
month earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of 52.3 million pounds. U.K. pub companies Punch
Taverns Plc and Enterprise Inns Plc trade at multiples of 7
times and 8.7 times, respectively, according to Bloomberg data.  “The valuation is difficult to assess as a result of too
many loose ends, but the immediate one-off costs suggest that
this has not been a bargain,”  Richard Withagen , an analyst at
SNS Securities in Amsterdam, said in an e-mailed note.
“Strategically, the acquisition absolutely makes sense.”  Heineken will fund the purchase with existing cash and
credit facilities, according to John-Paul Schuirink, a spokesman
for the brewer. The company said May 5 it obtained a 2 billion-
euro five-year credit line to refinance and back acquisitions.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender has been
selling assets including bank branches and its credit-card
payment processing unit. The Edinburgh-based bank also has to
sell its insurance operations, which includes Direct Line and
Churchill, by 2013 to comply with a European Union ruling
following its receipt of state aid.  ‘Leading Position’  The sale of the Galaxy estate is “in line with the asset
reduction element of RBS’ non-core strategic plan,” the bank
said in a statement today. “The proceeds received will reduce
further the overall funded assets in non-core.” RBS had reduced
its non-core businesses to 105 billion pounds as of Sept. 30,
since it created the non-core division in 2009.  Heineken said it expects the purchase to be “earnings
accretive” from December.  “Our ownership of this estate strengthens our leading
position in the U.K. beer and cider market, particularly in the
valuable on-trade channel,” Didier Debrosse, Heineken’s
regional president for western  Europe , said in the statement.  Heineken rose 1 percent to 35.11 euros as of 12:46 p.m. in
Amsterdam trading. RBS gained 4.1 percent to 21.4 pence.  RBS Corporate Finance and Sapient Corporate Finance advised
the bank on the transaction. Nomura acted for Heineken.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 shannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  