-- 
Eksportfinans Rescue Plan Foiled by Norway

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-12-02T16:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/eksportfinans-rescue-plan-foiled-by-norway-stealth-wind-down.html
Eksportfinans ASA ’s biggest owners
had been working on a rescue plan before the Norwegian
government stunned them with its decision to wind down the unit
in an uncoordinated move that rattled markets as far as  Japan .  DNB ASA,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , which together
own about 70 percent of Eksportfinans, were working on a plan to
recapitalize the lender to allow it to meet stricter regulatory
standards. Those plans came to nothing when the government,
which owns 15 percent, on Nov. 18 announced its decision to
create a direct lending facility for exporters and deny
Eksportfinans permanent exemption from the capital rules.  “My understanding was that until the very last hour, more
or less, that these discussions were constructive,” Geir Bergvoll, chairman of Eksportfinans, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “I was on my way to work on Friday morning when I
received a text on my mobile phone saying that the government
had invited for a press conference one hour later to present the
solution we now all know about.”  Since then, bond owners holding $35 billion have seen their
investments slump. Eksportfinans, created to help Norwegian
companies expand abroad, had its  credit rating  cut seven steps
to junk on Nov. 22 by Moody’s Investors Service. The
government’s decision, which also triggered a five-step
downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  to BBB+ on Nov. 25, sent tremors
across credit markets as far as Japan as investors tried to
assess the risk of losses. DNB, Norway’s largest bank, and AAA
state-owned lender Kommunalbanken AS also saw their bonds fall.  S&P today issued a correction of its Nov. 25 statement,
downgrading the company’s junior subordinated debt to BB+ from
the BBB- it cut to last week.  Bond Losses  The yield on Eksportfinans’ benchmark 4.75 percent 1
billion-euro note due in June 2013 surged to a record high of
9.58 percent on Nov. 30, up from 1.66 percent on Nov. 21. The
yield fell for a second consecutive session today, sliding 0.44
percentage point to 8.13 percent as of 12:45 p.m. in Oslo.  Eksportfinans is 40 percent owned by DNB, 23.21 percent by
Nordea, the largest Nordic lender, and 8.09 percent by Danske
Bank in Copenhagen. Other owners include a number of smaller
Norwegian banks as well as BNP Paribas SA, which holds 0.03
percent.  Bergvoll, who is also an executive at DNB, said the
 Finance Ministry  in October indicated it would prefer
Eksportfinans’ owners to provide more capital. Sigurd Carlsen,
head of planning and development group risk management at
Nordea, said he was only made aware of the government’s plans to
wind down the unit the day of the announcement even as his bank
“and some of the other owners were working on a plan to inject
capital.”  DNB’s spokesman Thomas Midteide and Danske Bank’s Treasurer
Steen Blaafalk also said they weren’t informed.  In Talks  Blaafalk said the owners, including the government, were in
talks. “The actual measure that the government decided to take
its full support out came as a surprise in the middle of the
process,” he said.  The government’s announcement came at an 8:30 a.m. press
conference, hosted by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and Trade
and Industry Minister Trond Giske. They announced the government
would support  Norway ’s export industry with as much as 30
billion kroner ($5.2 billion) in direct loans, administered by
Eksportfinans until July. After that, a new state unit will be
created to run the facility.  The government today increased that support to 40 billion
kroner. The bill presenting the raised amount said that
“insider” issues prevented it from consulting Eksportfinans
before the decision on Nov. 18.  Norway, which has a $530 billion fund built from oil wealth
backstopping its economy, has so far been shielded from the
contagion spreading from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The nation boasts
the world’s biggest budget surplus of any AAA state and Europe’s
lowest jobless rate.  Junk Grade  Giske said in an interview on Nov. 30 that he “disagrees”
with the Moody’s downgrade, and that the lender “has never been
more supported by the state.”  He told newspaper Dagens Naeringsliv in an article
published yesterday that the government decided not to
coordinate its plans with other shareholders because the move
was market sensitive. Giske wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the decision, Anne Cecilie Lund, a ministry
spokeswoman said.  Yields on bonds from DNB, which is 34 percent owned by the
government, have surged since the government’s announcement and
the subsequent downgrades. The yield on DNB’s benchmark 4.5
percent 2014 note jumped about 0.66 percentage point last week
to 3.16 percent, and has since eased to about 3 percent. The
yield on Kommunalbanken’s $1 billion bond due in October 2014
has risen 0.25 percentage point to about 1.34 percent since last
week, a record high.  Ratings Comparison  Giske on Nov. 30 said that the government’s facility will
probably be able to provide loans to exporters at similar terms.
“There’s no possibility of subsidizing a new institution but,
of course, the Norwegian government has a very good rating and
so a state-owned bank would probably get the best rating of all
banks.”  Eksportfinans, which had 205 billion kroner ($35 billion)
in debt as of Sept. 30, will reduce that to 41 billion kroner by
2017, the company said in a presentation on Nov. 27. Its 120
billion-krone book of loans will dwindle to 21 billion kroner by
the end of 2017, it predicted.  “This company is absolutely 100 percent rock solid,” said
Bergvoll. “Also in a situation where we wind down the company,
which will be a situation that will be handled over a number of
years -- five to 10 years at least. According to our best
assessment the company will be increasingly solid and very well
liquid over such a period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  