-- 
Issa-Supported Aptera Closes Without Receiving U.S. Vehicle Loan

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/electric-car-maker-shuts-down-after-failing-to-get-u-s-loan-urged-by-issa.html
Aptera Motors Inc., an electric-car
company that had Republican Representative  Darrell Issa ’s
support for a U.S. loan, said it’s shutting down because it
couldn’t get private financing.  Aptera, based in Carlsbad, California, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that it had received a “conditional
commitment letter” for $150 million from the federal Advanced
Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan program based on raising
matching funds, which it was unable to do.  Issa of California wrote a letter to Energy Secretary
Steven Chu, received Jan. 14, 2010, supporting an Energy
Department loan for Aptera. The loan “will greatly assist a
leading developer of electric vehicles in my district,” he
said.  Issa is among Republicans who have criticized the Obama
administration for issuing a $535 million loan guarantee to
Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel maker that filed for bankruptcy
protection in September.  “With officials playing the role of venture capitalist and
picking favorites like Solyndra, success for companies like
Aptera that have to compete against others with government
sponsorship can be especially difficult,” Issa said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “Aptera never received the taxpayer
backing they sought, and perhaps the only good news” is that
it failed “before federal funds were put at risk.”  Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman, said in an
e-mail yesterday that “Aptera did not receive a conditional
commitment for a loan from the department.” He declined to
comment further on Aptera’s loan application.  Ford, Nissan  The advanced-vehicle fund, one of three such programs the
Energy Department administered for alternative-energy projects,
has $4 billion remaining after giving loan guarantees to
companies including Ford Motor Co., Nissan Motor Co. and Tesla
Motors Inc. Chrysler Group LLC has asked for $3.5 billion.  Aptera, which never produced a car, had planned to make a
five-passenger sedan priced at less than $30,000 that would run
on electric power. Electric cars made by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Nissan sell for about $41,000 and $33,000 before a $7,500 U.S.
tax credit.  “We were so optimistic that the company would move forward
that we were in discussions to reactivate a mothballed
automotive plant in Moraine,  Ohio ,” Paul Wilbur, Aptera’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.   The company had talked with the labor union that operated
the plant to discuss hiring 1,400 workers who had lost their
jobs, Wilbur said. GM produced Chevrolet, GMC and Saab sport-
utility vehicles at the Moraine plant until closing it in 2008.  Issa also signed a June 22, 2009, letter to Chu promoting
battery maker  Quallion LLC , based in Sylmar,  California . An
Energy Department clean-energy grant might create more than
2,300 jobs nationwide, according to the letter, which was signed
by Issa and 16 members of California’s congressional delegation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  