-- 
Embattled City Opera Company Renews Manager’s Contract, Snubs Artist Union

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-12-02T04:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/embattled-city-opera-company-renews-manager-s-contract-snubs-artist-union.html
The  New York City Opera  renewed the
contract of its general manager and artistic director,  George
Steel , as the company continued on its uncertain path into a
diminished future.  Steel, who oversaw the company’s departure from its  Lincoln
Center  theater, earned $407,560 in pay and benefits in 2009,
according to the opera’s tax return. His contract runs for three
years, though it remains unclear what he will manage.  Steel's pay, excluding benefits, is $324,000, said Risa
Heller, a spokeswoman. Steel was not available for comment, she
said.   The company has no permanent home and only a vestigial
staff.  Early yesterday, contract talks with unions representing
singers and musicians ended in an impasse.  Singers urged patrons to snub the company that has snubbed
them.  “You need to be aware that every dollar that you
contribute to City Opera is being wasted,”  Alan Gordon ,
national executive director of the  American Guild of Musical
Artists , wrote to patrons in a letter he shared with the press.  Big Deficits  City Opera proposed reducing annual pay for singers and
musicians 90 percent to about $4,000, according to AGMA and
 Local 802  of the American Federation of Musicians.  For the season beginning in February, the opera plans to
present four operas at three venues around the city, beginning
with “La Traviata” at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.  In the 2006-07 season, the company presented 12 operas at
its former home at Lincoln Center.  Without an agreement, performers will strike and City Opera
will become “an itinerant, small-scale opera company,
performing in bizarre venues with volunteer and student
singers,” Gordon wrote in the letter.  City Opera said in a statement that the unions ignored
“the opera’s financial situation and demanded huge guarantees
for work that won’t be realized, wage increases and full-year
health coverage for mere weeks of work.”  The company has had to dip into its endowment in recent
years and has experienced chaos at the top. City Opera said it
accumulated $44 million of deficits during the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 