-- 
Obama Enlists Clinton, 3M, Alcoa in $4 Billion Energy Initiative

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-12-02T16:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/enlists-clinton-3m-alcoa-in-4-billion-energy-initiative.html
President  Barack Obama  is enlisting
former President  Bill Clinton  and companies including  3M (MMM)  Co. and
Alcoa Inc. in a $4 billion initiative to cut energy costs in
buildings and encourage hiring for  construction jobs .  The program combines $2 billion in  energy-efficiency 
upgrades for federal buildings and commitments from companies,
cities and universities to put $2 billion into similar efforts.
The improvements to government buildings will be made under an
existing federal program that uses private financing, according
to the administration.  “This is good business” that will help create jobs and
promote energy independence, Clinton said after he and Obama
toured a building in Washington that is being refitted. “It’s
the nearest thing we’ve got to a free lunch in a tough
economy.”  Obama is expanding the “Better Building Initiative” he
announced in February and joining it with a White House effort
to spark hiring that was begun after the president’s $447
billion jobs plan stalled in Congress.  His announcement was made on the same day the Labor
Department said that the U.S.  jobless rate  declined to 8.6
percent, the lowest since March 2009. Payrolls climbed 120,000,
with more than half the hiring coming from retailers and
temporary help agencies, following a revised 100,000 rise in
October. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a gain of 125,000.  Company Commitments  Obama and Clinton toured the building a few blocks from the
White House with U.S. Chamber of Commerce President  Tom Donohue 
to promote the initiative.  “This is an idea whose time has come,” Obama said.  In addition to  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M and  Alcoa (AA) , the
New York-based aluminum producer, companies taking part in the
initiative include Briggs & Stratton Corp., Schneider Electric
SA, ProLogis Inc., Nissan  North America  and Walgreen Co., are
committing to making the energy efficiency improvements, the
White House said.  The city of Denver, the Houston Independent School
District, Delaware State University and the state of  Iowa ’s
Department of Administrative Services are among the
participating government entities.  The goal is to improve energy efficiency by a minimum of 20
percent by 2020 in 1.6 billion square feet of commercial
building space, according to an administration release.  “This is a sure fire way to create jobs and make our
nation’s federal buildings more energy efficient, all without
using a penny of taxpayer money,” Donohue said in a statement.  Upgrading Properties  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National
Economic Council, said the plan is expected to generate “tens
of thousands of jobs” as properties are upgraded.  Clinton has been working on the Better Building Initiative
through his foundation and the Clinton Global Initiative.  Money to improve federal buildings will come from private-
sector financing, which will be paid off from the savings from
budgeted costs by agencies, Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of
the Office of Management and Budget, said in a briefing.  “One of these energy service companies takes the risk
here,” Zients said. “Once they are paid back, the federal
government enjoys the savings on an ongoing basis.”  Similar contracts already have been successfully used to
improve energy efficiency at government facilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  