-- 
Lenny Henry Tangles With Twin; Tosca’s Dress: London Theater

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/lenny-henry-tangles-with-twin-tosca-s-dress-london-theater.html
A hurried execution is about to take
place in a dark and decaying city. The fearful victim pleads on
his knees for death to end his suffering. It’s an unusual way to
start a comedy.  Thankfully, Dominic Cooke is a sure-handed director who can
flip tone on a tuppence.  Because “The Comedy of Errors” at the  National Theatre  in
 London  starts in an atmosphere of terror the subsequent comic
mishaps are all the sharper and funnier. It doesn’t hurt that
Lenny Henry, a former comedian, is in top form playing the lead
role of a man continually mistaken for his lost twin brother.  Cooke sets Shakespeare’s farce in a dark, teeming version
of contemporary London. Luxury flats loom over dank alleys. Low-
lifes hang about in snooker halls. Bunny Christie’s huge set
revolves and twirls to reveal lively side streets, a brothel and
a smart private health clinic.  This is Ephesus, an insular city in which it is punishable
by death to be a Syracusan like Antipholus (Lenny Henry).  Amid this danger, he has come to seek his long-lost
identical twin, also called Antipholus (Chris Jarman). To help
matters, they have identical twin servants who are both called
Dromio (Lucian Msamati and Daniel Poyser).  Well they would, wouldn’t they?  Shipwreck, Helicopters  Cooke stages a luxuriously spectacular piece of
introductory exposition involving a sea storm, a shipwreck, and
rescue helicopters, to make the background crystal clear.  After this visual feast, the puns, sight gags and mistaken
identities come thick and fast.  Henry plays his Antipholus as a Nigerian innocent, lost in
the big city. He milks West African speech patterns and
superstitious gestures to superb comic effect.  His brother is a wealthy merchant who uses the melodious
British accent known as Received Pronunciation. It’s a neat way
of taking a side look at the situation of immigrants, who face
choices of identity and assimilation every day.  There isn’t a weak link in the cast. Claudie Blakley is
amusingly seductive as Adriana, wife of Antipholus of Ephesus,
who dresses in the loud-colored and high-heeled style called
“hooker chic.” Michelle Terry, as her sister Luciana, does a
terrific line in double takes and confused gestures.  All this and real heart too. When the twins are eventually
reunited with their parents, and Henry’s Antipholus declares his
love for Luciana, the force of their emotions is touching and
fully earned.  The National Theatre already has transferred its hit comedy
“One Man, Two Guvnors” to the  West End . Maybe they’ll be able
to twin it with this even funnier and deeper “Comedy of
Errors.” Rating: ****.  ‘Tosca’  One of a director’s jobs is to make sure all the actors
inhabit the same theatrical universe, whether it be realistic,
or stylized, or whatever. Cooke has proved his chops in this
department. Soprano Catherine Malfitano has some way to go.  On the plus side, her period-costume production of
Puccini’s “Tosca” at  English National Opera  tells the story
with straightforward clarity. On the minus, it’s full of details
that work against the plausibility.  Scarpia’s fake blood leaves Tosca’s dress miraculously
clean, even though he has supposedly been bleeding all over her
for 15 bars of music. Then, after two broadly naturalistic sets,
the third act takes place on what looks like a concrete
skateboard ramp. A risibly bad fight sequence has as much energy
as milk curdling.  Claire Rutter overcomes it all with a performance of
memorable vocal splendor and subtle acting, and her top Cs soar
out with thrilling ease. Tenor Gwyn Hughes Jones (Cavaradossi)
sings up a storm too, and Stephen Lord’s conducting is meaty and
bold.  They make it still worth catching, even if Anthony
Michaels-Moore’s Scarpia is underpowered and unconvincing in his
lower notes. Rating: **.  “The Comedy of Errors” is in repertory at the National
Theatre, sponsored by KPMG LLP. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000. “Tosca”
is in repertory at ENO,  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  T*
What the Stars Mean:
****          Excellent
***           Good
**            Average
*             Poor
(No stars)    Worthless
T*  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 