-- 
EPA Relaxes Some Emissions Limits for Industrial Boilers

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-02T20:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/epa-proposes-revised-emissions-limits-for-industrial-boilers.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency revised its proposed emissions standards for industrial
boilers, saying the changes provided more flexibility.  The agency today issued the latest version of a plan to
reduce emissions of air pollutants such as mercury and soot
after announcing the rule Feb. 21.  While the agency is easing previous requirements to limit
dioxin emissions from industrial boilers, it is adopting
standards for mercury and hydrogen chloride that are “a little
tighter than what we had proposed before,”  Gina McCarthy , the
EPA’s assistant administrator, said today on a conference call
with reporters.  The rule, which may require upgrades of pollution controls
at paper mills, chemical manufacturers and refineries, will cost
$1.49 billion a year, about $90 million more than a previous
estimate, because about 300 more boilers would be affected, the
agency said in a fact sheet. President  Barack Obama  has said the
rule is among the three most expensive regulations under
consideration.  “At first glance, it looks like EPA made some adjustments
to the rules that will improve the ability of sources to
comply,” Robert Bessette, president of the Council of
Industrial Boiler Owners, a industry group, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The EPA proposed the boiler regulations in February on
orders of a federal court. The agency said May 16 that it would
delay implementation, giving the public more time to comment.  Affecting 1%  With the latest changes, the standards will affect about
14,000 boilers, fewer than 1 percent of those in the U.S., the
agency said in an e-mailed statement. The changes today will add
flexibility by creating more categories of boilers with varying
emissions limits, according to the EPA.  The proposal creates more than one standard for emissions
of particulate matter, and the standard for carbon monoxide is
“looser for many of the boiler types,” agency spokesman
 Brendan Gilfillan  said in an e-mail.  The EPA wants to “apply the right standards to the right
boilers,” McCarthy said.  Operators of boilers will have three years to comply with
changes and may seek an additional year if more time is needed
to install pollution-control technology, the EPA said.  International Paper, Dow  The Council of Industrial Boiler Owners, based in
Warrenton,  Virginia , had said the EPA’s previously announced
standards may have cost $14.3 billion and put 230,000 jobs at
risk.  Companies affected by the rule may include  International
Paper Co. (IP)  of Memphis, Tennessee and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  of Midland,
 Michigan , the EPA indicated in February report.  The EPA’s initiatives to restrict air pollution may create
a market valued at $24 billion for  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  of
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , Chief Executive Officer Brandon C.
Bethards said during a May 10 conference call.  Other companies that provide pollution controls, including
the  Shaw Group (SHAW)  of Baton Rouge,  Louisiana , and  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  of
Irving,  Texas , may also benefit, John Rogers, head of
institutional equity research at D.A. Davidson and Co. in Lake
Oswego, Oregon, said in a Nov. 21 phone interview.  The EPA also revised today its proposed rules for boilers
that produce less pollution and for solid-waste incinerators at
commercial and industrial plants.  About 98 percent of the 187,000 small U.S. boilers will
require routine tune-ups to comply with the agency’s standards,
and the EPA is clarifying which fuel types may be burned in
incinerators, according to the agency’s statement.  Averting 8,100 Deaths  The rules, which are meant to protect Americans from cancer
and asthma, may prevent as many as 8,100 deaths a year, the EPA
said today. The agency said it plans to make today’s proposed
changes final in the spring of 2012, following a 60-day comment
period to begin after the rule is published in the Federal
Register.  Senators Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, and Ron Wyden,
an  Oregon  Democrat, have sponsored legislation to give the EPA
15 months to write new rules and at least five years to
implement them. The House passed similar legislation Oct. 13.  “We appreciate EPA’s thoughtful consideration of these
rules and willingness to make sensible changes,” Cal Dooley,
president and chief executive officer of the American Chemistry
Council, a Washington-based industry group, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It appears that improvements have been made,” to
the boiler rule, he said.  The chemistry group and the American Forest & Paper
Association still support legislation to allow EPA to create
different boiler pollution rules.  ‘Significant Step’  “EPA’s reconsideration is an important step toward writing
a more reasonable set of regulations,” Donna Harman, president
and chief executive officer of the Washington-based paper-
industry group, said in an e-mailed statement. The rules may
still be challenged in the courts, she said.  The revised boiler rules “will do significant harm to job
growth and investment at a critical time in our recovery,”  Jay Timmons , president and chief executive officer of the
Washington-based National Association of Manufacturers, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “In response to industry pressure” EPA is delaying
“long-awaited protections against air toxics from industrial
boilers and waste incinerators,”  Michael Brune , executive
director of the Sierra Club, said in an e-mailed statement.  The San Francisco-based environmental group in July sued
the agency in U.S. District Court in Washington to prevent the
EPA from postponing rules that a federal judge had ordered.
EPA’s announcement today leaves “Americans exposed to life-
threatening pollutants such as toxic mercury, arsenic and
dioxins,” Brune said.  The House bill is H.R. 2250. The Senate bill is S. 1392  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  