-- 
Tepco Says Critical Units of Fukushima Reactors Withstood Earthquake Jolt

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-12-02T09:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/tepco-says-earthquake-didn-t-damage-critical-units-at-fukushima-reactor.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  said
critical units of its Fukushima nuclear plant withstood shaking
from the March 11 earthquake,  Japan ’s strongest on record,
before being swamped by the tsunami that followed.  The surge knocked out cooling systems that led to meltdowns
in three reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and the worst
radiation release since Chernobyl in 1986, Tepco concluded in a
report on the disaster. About 160,000 people were forced to flee
the contamination and many areas near the plant may be
uninhabitable for decades, government officials have said.  “This isn’t the end of the story. Tepco’s analysis needs
to be reviewed by independent experts,” Tadashi Narabayashi, a
former reactor safety researcher at Toshiba Corp. and now a
nuclear engineering professor at  Hokkaido University , said by
phone before the release of the report. “The utility has often
made mistakes in simulations that analyzed what happened.”  The company’s findings will be followed at the end of the
month by the release of a government report on its probe into
the catastrophe, which is being led by engineering professor
Yotaro Hatamura.  Tepco set up an internal committee headed by Vice President
Masao Yamazaki in June to investigate the nuclear accident. The
130-page interim report is accompanied by a 314-page attached
book on plant data, a 69-page chronology of events and other
documents. It was released today in Tokyo.  Radiation Release  “We don’t know what the government committee will conclude
in its investigation,” Yamazaki told reporters in  Tokyo . “Even
if it reaches a different conclusion, we will insist on the
validity of our report.”  Tepco’s investigation concluded critical units of the
station north of Tokyo weren’t significantly damaged by the
quake because no unusual changes in the plant gauges were
detected before the tsunami hit.  “The direct cause of the nuclear accident was the
unprecedented tsunami,” an advisory body that reviewed the
interim report said in a statement. Tepco’s lack of preparation
made the crisis worse, the body led by Genki Yagawa, an honorary
professor of Tokyo University, said.  A report in October from the Norwegian Institute for Air
Research suggested there was “some structural damage to the
reactor” during the earthquake that caused radiation to start
leaking before the tsunami. The study was led by Andreas Stohl,
an atmospheric scientist at the institute.  The Tepco committee probing the failures also found there
was no explosion in the building of the No. 2 reactor. Three
other reactor buildings were severely damaged by hydrogen
explosions resulting from the melting of nuclear fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  