-- 
Merkel Says Serbia Hasn’t Met Conditions to Become EU Candidate

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-12-02T10:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/merkel-says-serbia-hasn-t-met-conditions-to-become-eu-candidate.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
Serbia won’t be granted candidate status for  European Union 
membership next week because of its failure to resolve disputes
with  Kosovo .  Serbia must first “normalize” relations with its former
province that unilaterally declared independence in 2008 before
it can move toward closer integration with the 27-nation bloc,
Merkel said today in a speech to the lower house of parliament
in Berlin.  “Serbia’s road into the EU can only lead through the
normalization of its relations with Kosovo,” Merkel said in the
speech ahead of an EU summit scheduled for Dec. 9 where the
Balkan nation’s status will be discussed.  “I very much regret
that Serbia has not met these expectations sufficiently so far
and that therefore the preconditions for giving it candidate
status are not in place up until now.”  Once a pariah in the West under former President  Slobodan
Milosevic , Serbia has made progress in overhauling its  economy 
and political landscape, the European Commission said on Oct 12
as it recommended candidate status. EU entry talks would start
once “further progress” on improving ties with Kosovo is made,
it said.  Refusing Secession  Serbia contests Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian authorities’
control of the mutual border and fears that a large Serb
community living in northern Kosovo may become isolated without
support from Belgrade.  EU-mediated talks on the border and related issues have
produced only modest results, while tensions in northern Kosovo
occasionally spill into violence between local Serbs and NATO
peacekeepers, including German troops. Twenty-two of 27 EU
states have recognized Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians account
for about 90 percent of the population.  “ Serbia  must also face accusations to have contributed to
an atmosphere in the past days in which German KFOR soldiers
were attacked with firearms and hurt in northern Kosovo. I say
this is not acceptable,” Merkel said.  About 60,000 Serbs live in the north of Kosovo and at least
20,000 of them applied for Russian citizenship this month
fearing ethnic clashes in the breakaway province may escalate
into violence that could endanger their lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  