-- 
Merkel Invokes Crisis ‘Marathon’ to Achieve Fiscal Union, Shuns Euro Bonds

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-02T10:56:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/merkel-says-joint-euro-bonds-unthinkable-as-eu-faces-debt-crisis-marathon.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
likened solving  Europe ’s debt crisis to a marathon, shunning
investor calls for quick action while pushing for stricter
budget enforcement and overhauling the region’s governance.  Addressing lawmakers in Berlin today before a Dec. 9 summit
of European leaders, Merkel rejected joint euro-area bonds or
trying to make the European Central Bank the lender of last
resort as quick fixes. The ECB’s role is different from that of
the  Federal Reserve  or the  Bank of England , she said.  “Marathon runners often say that a marathon gets
especially tough and strenuous after about 35 kilometers (22
miles),” Merkel told the lower house of parliament in a speech
previewing the European Union summit. “But they also say you
can last the whole course if you’re aware of the magnitude of
the task from the start.”  Germany  and France are leading the push for closer economic
ties among euro nations and locking in tougher enforcement of
budget rules to counter the debt crisis now in its third year.
Merkel welcomed French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s “important”
speech yesterday in which he warned that the euro region’s
fissures threaten to blow the 17-nation shared currency apart.
She is due to hold talks with the French leader in Paris on Dec.
5 to coordinate their approach to next week’s summit.  Cameron and Sarkozy  With financial markets and world leaders including
President  Barack Obama  pressing Europe to end the crisis, Merkel
said that while she favored involving all EU countries, fiscal
union could be limited to the euro area. That would avoid the
task of getting all 27 EU members to agree. U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  was due in Paris about 1 p.m. today for talks with
Sarkozy.  Europe needs fiscal oversight that’s “binding” and
includes “real automaticity” to punish states that
persistently breach debt and deficit rules, Merkel said.
European Union President Herman van Rompuy will make proposals
on closer economic union on Dec. 9, when Germany will push for
EU treaty change, she said.  Euro-area limits of keeping debt within 60 percent of gross
domestic product and deficits within 3 percent of GDP must be
enforced, she said. Merkel has said that countries that breach
the limits could be sued in the  European Court  of Justice.  “The lessons are very simple: Rules must be adhered to,
adherence must be monitored, non-adherence must have
consequences,” she said today. Leaders have to “overcome
fundamental flaws in the construction of the euro area.”  ‘Exploding’ Euro Area  Merkel’s prescription echoed Sarkozy, who said late
yesterday in a speech in Toulon,  France , that the euro area
risks “exploding” if members fail to converge on fiscal
policies. Countries sharing the currency must prepare their
budgets in common, narrow gaps in competitiveness and face
tougher automatic penalties for rule-breaking, Sarkozy said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi , who has criticized European
leaders’ response to the debt crisis, signaled yesterday that
the central bank could do more to help if governments push the
euro area toward fiscal union.  “A new fiscal compact” is needed to start restoring
credibility,” Draghi said in Brussels. “Other elements might
follow, but the sequencing matters.” He didn’t specify what
more the ECB could do and said its purchases of euro-area
sovereign bonds to stem the crisis “can only be limited.”  Merkel said the ECB has to be free to move in any direction
and that she won’t comment on what it does or doesn’t do. The
ECB’s independence to take decisions “in any direction” must
be guarded, Merkel told lawmakers.  No Praise, Criticism  The ECB is independent and must choose its own method of
ensuring the euro’s stability “without being praised or
criticized” and states must protect that independence by
improving their finances, the Westdeutsche Zeitung quoted Merkel
as saying in an interview released yesterday.  Sarkozy agreed at a meeting with Merkel and Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  on Nov. 24 to stop pressuring the ECB to
step up its response to the debt crisis. Sarkozy retreated after
Draghi criticized French calls for the ECB to use its unlimited
power to backstop euro-area bond markets, something that Merkel
has also repeatedly rejected.  Joint euro-area bonds are also “unthinkable” as long as
governments retain national control over budgets, Merkel said
today.  “You have to differentiate between credible enforcement
powers and joint European control over revenue and spending,”
she said. “And as long as this is so, joint liability for the
debt of others is unthinkable. That also takes care of the
debate over so-called euro bonds for now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  