-- 
Erroneous Gun Letter Based on U.S. Attorney, Documents Show

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-12-02T22:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/erroneous-gun-letter-based-on-u-s-attorney-documents-show.html
The U.S. Justice Department sent an
inaccurate letter about a gun operation to a Republican Senator
after relying on the assertions of the former U.S. attorney for
 Arizona , according to documents released today.  The department released about 1,400 pages of e-mails and
draft letters to demonstrate that officials did not deliberately
mislead Congress about the law enforcement program, known as
Fast and Furious, which allowed illegal gun purchases in the
U.S. in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels.  Senator  Charles Grassley , the top Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in January concerning
allegations that the bureau “sanctioned” the sale of assault
weapons to straw purchasers and two of the weapons were used in
a firefight that killed a U.S. border patrol agent.  The U.S. attorney at the time, Dennis Burke, said in an e-
mail to  Justice Department  officials that Grassley’s allegations
were “based on categorical falsehoods.” In a Feb. 4 response
to Grassley, the Justice Department asserted that “ATF makes
every effort to interdict weapons that have been purchased
illegally and prevent their transportation to Mexico.” The
department has since backed away from that statement.  In a written response last month to questions from Senate
Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, Assistant
Attorney General Lanny Breuer said that both the ATF and the
U.S. attorney’s office in Arizona “repeatedly and assured
individuals throughout the Justice Department that those
allegations were false.”  ’Categorically False’  Burke, in early February, insisted in an e-mail to top
Justice officials that any allegations that the bureau allowed
weapons bought in Arizona to reach  Mexico  were “categorically
false.” He requested that such a statement be part of the
written response to Grassley and it remained in the letter
through numerous drafts, documents show.  In fact, the agency lost track of guns in the program. Two
of about 2,000 guns that the ATF allowed to be carried away were
found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border
Patrol agent Brian Terry in Arizona, according to a
congressional report released in June.  Burke  resigned Aug. 30 , the same day it was announced that
Kenneth Melson, acting ATF director, was also leaving his post.
Melson also was involved in e-mail traffic over the response to
Grassley, as were several other top Justice officials.  “Dennis Burke is a stand-up guy,” said his lawyer, Chuck
Rosenberg, a partner in the  Washington  office of  Hogan Lovells .
“He provided what he believed to be accurate information to the
 Department of Justice , as he always does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 