-- 
EU Says It’s Terminated Launch-Aid Deals in WTO Airbus Case

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T15:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/eu-says-it-s-terminated-launch-aid-agreements-in-wto-airbus-case.html
The European Union said it secured
repayment of so-called launch aid loans to  Airbus SAS  and
terminated all related accords to comply with a World Trade
Organization ruling that such payments break global rules.  WTO judges said in June 2010 that loans from EU governments
including  Spain , the U.K.,  France  and  Germany  were unfair
subsidies that had an adverse effect on Airbus’s U.S. rival,
 Boeing Co. (BA)  While the Geneva-based WTO can’t force nations to
scrap illegal aid, it can authorize sanctions against
governments that fail to comply with its rulings.  The EU said in its  compliance report  today that it had
raised fees and lease payments on infrastructure support to meet
market principles and ensured that capital contributions and
regional-aid subsidies have “come to an end.” The EU said its
measures affect Airbus’s A300, A310, A320, A330, A340 and A380
aircraft “as well as derivatives thereof.”  “As a result of these steps and other intervening market
events, the European Union has addressed the forms of adverse
effects covered” by the WTO ruling, according to the report.  Boeing declined to comment on the report and referred to
its statement yesterday that said the EU would be in compliance
with WTO rules only if it scrapped launch aid. The U.S. Trade
Representative also declined to comment.  The document was submitted to the U.S. and the WTO
yesterday in the seven-year legal battle over aid to Airbus and
Boeing, the world’s two biggest commercial planemakers. Boeing
has said Toulouse, France-based Airbus received $18 billion in
illegal subsidies, including $15 billion in launch aid, while
the EU has called that a “fantasy figure.”  Boeing Subsidies  A WTO panel concluded in March that Chicago-based Boeing
received at least $5.3 billion in illegal U.S. support, unfairly
tilting the $70 billion civil-aviation industry. Both the EU and
U.S. appealed that judgment.  The two WTO panel reports finding that both aircraft makers
got illegal subsidies may establish industry-defining guidelines
for government support that become even more important as
competitors from  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and elsewhere emerge.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of President George W. Bush
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. Boeing lost its industry lead to Airbus, a unit of European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  