-- 
EU Wimps Out on Oil Sanctions to Halt Iran’s Nuclear Drive: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-02T00:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/eu-wimps-out-on-placing-oil-sanctions-to-halt-iran-s-nuclear-drive-view.html
Who would have thought a week in
which protesters rampaged through the U.K. Embassy in Tehran
would end with  Europe  going soft on the Iranian regime? Yet
that’s exactly what happened.  At a meeting Dec. 1 in Brussels, European Union foreign
ministers signed off on measures against some 180  individuals
and companies  in reaction to Iran’s continued support for
terrorism and an International Atomic Energy Agency report
finding that Iran had conducted secret activities  “specific to
nuclear weapons.”  This was expected and deserves a positive
response (as do new penalties the ministers announced against
Syria).  The real news, however, was what the EU didn’t do: Announce
an agreement, proposed by France and backed by the U.K.,  Germany 
and the Netherlands, to proceed with a full embargo on imports
of Iranian oil. Instead,  Catherine Ashton , the EU foreign policy
chief, said that any consideration of steps against Iran’s
energy sector would go “to the technical experts.”  There are two main arguments against a European embargo: It
would disproportionately harm the EU’s weakest economies, such
as Spain and Greece, and Iran would simply ferret out other
markets if Europe is shut off. Both are valid points but
unpersuasive.  An embargo on Iranian crude would doubtless put pressure on
 oil prices  in Europe. Greece has recently stepped up its
purchases of Iranian oil because other suppliers are leery of
the country’s credit risk; shaky Spain and Italy use much more
of it than say, France. Still, Iran accounts for only 5.7
percent of Europe’s oil imports.  And oil is a global commodity, with European prices
affected by any number of variables. For example, the Nov. 30
move by the Fed and other central banks to ease borrowing costs
for financial firms drove Brent crude prices to a two-week high.
Should the banks’ move have been rejected over  Greece ’s oil
concerns?  An embargo on Iran can be coordinated with increases from
other producers, and Europe already stands to see increased
imports as Libya ramps up production after the ouster of Muammar Qaddafi. The costs of an embargo can be borne.  As for Iran finding other buyers, more than half its
exports already go to  China ,  India  and  Japan , and no country
likes to be too dependent on any single producer. If Europe were
to sign on to an embargo, it is not unreasonable to think Japan
would feel that much more pressure to join its Western political
and military allies.  An embargo need not be global to put pressure on the
target. We have seen this already with  Iran . Industry insiders
suspect that it is now or will soon offer its remaining
customers oil-price discounts to stay loyal -- in part because
of measures the U.S., U.K. and others have taken against Iranian
financial institutions that make processing purchases more
difficult.  Iran has also sweetened the pot for India, giving refiners
there far more generous payment options than those available
from countries such as  Saudi Arabia . Mark Dubowitz, an Iran
expert with the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies told
Bloomberg Businessweek that Iran might have to offer China
discounts as large as 40 percent should Europe, Japan and  South
Korea  forgo its crude.  As we have argued before, the  point of sanctions  against
Iran is to make doing business with it so difficult that even
countries unwilling to join the embargo will look for other
suppliers. An unambiguous statement by the EU on an embargo at
the ministers’ next meeting in January would be a major step
forward. If, however, the holdouts in southern Europe block that
option,  France  and the U.K., which are considering unilateral
embargoes against Iran, should take the plunge and urge Germany
to join them.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 