-- 
Europe Demand Falls Fifth Year With Lancia Lost in Sicily: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-12-02T13:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/europe-demand-falls-fifth-year-with-lancia-lost-in-sicily-cars.html
For the first time since before the
2008 financial crisis, a European automaker will close down a
production plant in its own country.  Fiat SpA (F)  will shutter its Termini Imerese factory in Sicily
at the end of the year. The plant’s last Lancia Ypsilon
subcompact rolled off the assembly line on Nov. 24.  The decision comes amid a growing car glut across the
continent as most automakers continue to churn out vehicles in
the face of slumping sales and growing concerns over the
sovereign debt crisis and an economic slowdown in Europe.
Overcapacity in the region may surge 41 percent to 2.92 million
vehicles next year, according to forecasts from IHS Automotive.  “The global auto sector has been suffering for years from
chronic overcapacity,” Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said last week in  London . “In Europe, the situation
has now reached suffocation point.”  The Fiat boss joined other auto executives, including
 Daimler AG (DAI)  CEO Dieter Zetsche and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s European
chief Stephen Odell, in a meeting in Brussels today to discuss
the outlook for the  auto industry  with the European Commission.  The region’s auto lobby ACEA, which elected Marchionne as
its president today, called on political leaders to act quickly
to restore confidence in the region.  “One of my hopes is to find a will to achieve the economic
stability in Europe, which will lessen the burden on the
industry,” Marchionne said today in Brussels. “We need a
healthy market” to be able to address the industry‘s
“structural overcapacity.”  Five-Year Slump  Car demand in Europe may decline for the fifth straight
year in 2012 to 12.9 million vehicles, down 1 percent from this
year and 17 percent from the 2007 peak. Production in the region
may slip 2.9 percent to 16.4 million vehicles, compared with a
1.8 percent increase in capacity to 19.3 million, IHS estimates.  Until the Fiat closure, European automakers had been unable
to take bold steps to scale back production. Political
interference has thwarted industry restructuring as governments
propped up demand in 2009 with sales incentives and hindered
efforts to trim capacity to protect local jobs. With strapped
public budgets restraining the scope for aid, European mass-
market automakers may face years of losses as idle workers and
equipment cost money without generating revenue.  Marchionne’s decision to pull the plug on the 41-year-old
factory in Sicily will cut capacity by as many as 140,000
vehicles a year.  ‘Failure to Act’  Europe’s volume carmakers are the region’s worst
performers.  Fiat shares  have posted the second-biggest decline
on the Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts Index this year, dropping
41 percent. PSA Peugeot Citroen has posted the steepest decline,
falling 49 percent, while French rival  Renault SA (RNO)  is down 34
percent.  “I doubt there is a single European player today that can
make money on the strength of the European market alone,”
Marchionne said last week during a speech in London. “The lack
of a common intervention strategy in Europe, and a failure to
act, has forced Fiat to find its own solution.” A new round of
aid is unlikely.  “The probability of governments providing incentives is
about zero,” said Christoph Stuermer, an analyst with IHS in
 Frankfurt . “There’ll be no backing” for a repeat of 2009 sales
incentives, when  Germany  committed 5 billion euros ($6.7
billion) to boost demand by offering money to scrap old cars.  Interference  Efforts to prevent job losses continue. French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , faced with an election in six months and the
highest unemployment claims in more than a decade, summoned
Peugeot CEO Philippe Varin on Nov. 17, asking him to reconsider
plans to cut as many as 6,800 jobs, including temporary staff
employed by partners.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker after  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , earlier this year distanced itself from a leaked proposal to
close a French plant after the government described it as
“unacceptable.” Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn  pledged in May to
make building upscale cars in  France  a priority in return for
support from the government, which owns 15 percent of the
manufacturer, to appoint a new chief operating officer.  “It becomes increasingly difficult to see any meaningful
restructuring actions at PSA or Renault ahead of French
elections in 2012,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst with Credit
Suisse in London. Sarkozy’s meeting with Varin “illustrates
once again just how hard it is to restructure industrial assets
in France.”  GM’s German Woes  France isn’t alone in actively shaping its auto industry.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  brokered the sale of  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit, which is based near Frankfurt, tying
state aid for the money-losing unit to a change in ownership.
The deal fell apart when GM backed out in November 2009 after
exiting bankruptcy.  GM, which hasn’t turned an annual profit in Europe in more
than a decade, continues to struggle to turn around Opel. The
company had $900 million in restructuring and early-retirement
costs in Europe and cut 5,800 jobs in the region through Sept.
30.  Last month, Detroit-based GM abandoned its goal of breaking
even in Europe this year.  “When you’re running your plants at a utilization of
anything less than 100 percent -- and in most of  Europe  they run
at 85 percent -- you’re trying to bend the demand curve to meet
the supply curve,” GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said
at a Nov. 17 event hosted by the Detroit Economic Club.  No Profit Before 2014  Morgan Stanley estimates that European carmakers are
utilizing about 70 percent of their capacity, with Renault, Opel
and Fiat the least productive. The region’s mass-market
carmakers may not return to a profitable rate of more than 80
percent until 2014, according to a Nov. 30 research note.  Before Fiat’s move to halt production in Sicily, GM was the
only other carmaker to shut a factory since 2008, closing its
facility in Antwerp,  Belgium , at the end of last year. It was
the first plant shut in Europe since 2006.  Fiat’s plans in  Italy  are aimed at ending losses estimated
at 800 million euros a year, leading Marchionne to risk
opposition. Fiom Cgil, Fiat’s biggest union, has called for a
general strike on Dec. 16, its second in less than two months.  Workers at the Termini Imerese plant blocked the last car
from leaving the factory until Fiat agreed with unions and the
government on Nov. 26 to pay about 21 million euros to support
early retirements for about 640 workers. Other staff will be
hired by Dr Motor Co SpA, which will pay 1 euro for the plant
and will continue to assemble vehicles there.  ‘Great Attention’  Fiat, which has threatened to stop production in Italy,
canceled labor contracts after withdrawing from Italian
employers’ group Confindustria earlier this year in order to
have a free hand in negotiating wage agreements. Talks on new
Italian contracts started this week.  “The government is following with great attention” Fiat’s
plan for Italy “and it’s ready to offer its constructive
contribution,” Labor Minister Elsa Fornero said last week. “As
a Turin citizen, I can’t stay quiet about Fiat. Big companies
shouldn’t leave the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  