-- 
Euro-Region Producer-Price Inflation Slows More Than Estimated

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-02T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/euro-region-producer-price-inflation-slows-more-than-estimated.html
European  producer-price inflation 
slowed more than economists forecast in October, led by weaker
cost gains in countries from  Spain  to France and Germany.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 5.5
percent from a year earlier after increasing 5.8 percent in
September, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. That’s the slowest since December 2010. Economists
forecast a gain of 5.6 percent, the median of 12 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey  showed.  European companies are under pressure to lower costs as the
region’s deepening economic slump and faltering export demand
hurt earnings. The area’s manufacturing industry contracted in
November and economic confidence slumped. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that “downside risks” to
the economic outlook have increased.  “Companies have zero room to raise prices,” said
 Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Euro-region unemployment will massively increase
over the coming year and some countries are cutting wages.
Inflation won’t be an issue any time soon.”  Prices  rose 0.1 percent from September, when they advanced
0.3 percent, today’s report showed. In the 27-member EU, prices
increased 0.2 percent in the month and 6.4 percent in the year.  Germany, Ireland  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, producer-price
inflation slowed to 5.3 percent in October from 5.5 percent in
the previous month, today’s report showed. French prices
increased 5.8 percent and Spain reported an increase of 6.5
percent. In Greece, the Netherlands and Finland, price gains
also weakened. Irish producer-price inflation accelerated.  The European Commission said last month that euro-region
inflation may average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in
2012. Growth may weaken to 0.5 percent next year from an
estimated 1.5 percent in 2011, the Brussels-based body said.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea skin creams, said on Nov.
30 that it plans to eliminate as many as 1,000 jobs over the
next three years to lower costs. Italian  carmaker Fiat SpA (F)  is
also cutting costs to return to profit.  Energy prices at the producer level jumped 12.4 percent
from a year earlier after a 12.2 percent gain in September,
today’s report showed. The cost of intermediate goods such as
 car engines  and steel advanced 4.2 percent, while capital goods
including equipment and machinery were 1.5 percent more
expensive. Prices of durable  consumer goods  rose 2.5 percent.  The ECB unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 1.25 percent last month and forecast a “mild
recession.” The central bank will hold its next rate assessment
and publish the latest economic projections on Dec. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  