-- 
European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Rally Since 2008 as Banks Lead Gains

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-12-03T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-rally-since-2008-banks-gain.html
European  stocks posted their biggest
weekly rally in three years as central banks moved to ease the
region’s debt crisis and  China  increased cash supply for its
banks to speed up growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  gained 11 percent, pacing a
rally among carmakers, as China’s new policy signaled an
increase in lending and demand. Natixis and ING Groep NV soared
more than 25 percent as banks rallied on coordinated central-
bank action to lower the cost of dollar funding.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index jumped 8.7 percent to 240.73,
its largest weekly advance since November 2008, as central banks
cut the interest rate on dollar funding, China reduced its bank
reserve ratio and euro-area policy makers planned to channel as
much as 200 billion euros ($270 billion) through the
 International Monetary Fund  to fight the debt crisis. The
benchmark gauge has rallied 12 percent from this year’s low on
Sept. 22 and trimmed its 2011 losses to 13 percent.  European (SXXP)  Union President Herman van Rompuy will make
proposals toward closer fiscal union among euro-area nations at
summit on Dec. 9, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  “On the 9th December, all those domino pieces will be in
place to kick in the bull rage,” said Wolfgang Matejka, who
manages 250 million euros ($337 million) at Matejka & Partner
Asset Management in Vienna. “You will see some efforts that can
give the solution to the European crisis for the long term.”  Budget Discipline  Germany  and France are leading the push for tougher
enforcement of budget rules to counter the debt crisis now in
its third year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who has
criticized the region’s leaders on their response to the crisis,
signaled that the central bank could do more to help if
governments pushed the euro area toward fiscal union.  “A new fiscal compact” is needed to start restoring
credibility,’’ Draghi said in Brussels. “Other elements might
follow, but the sequencing matters.” He didn’t specify what
more the ECB could do and said its purchases of euro-area
sovereign bonds to stem the crisis “can only be limited.”  “The ECB looks increasingly likely to take an enhanced
role in dealing with the euro-zone debt crisis,” said Ronald Doeswijk, a Rotterdam-based investment strategist at Robeco
Group, which oversees about 152 billion euros ($205 billion).
“As that should prompt a relief rally, the outlook for equities
has improved.”  His team upgraded equities to a “neutral” stance,
reversing a move made in August when it became less optimistic
on the prospects for equities, according to Robeco’s website.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every western-
European market during the week, except Iceland.  France ’s CAC 40
Index and Germany’s DAX Index increased 11 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index rose 7.5 percent.  The IMF Channel  A European proposal to channel central bank loans through
the IMF may deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($270 billion)
to fight the debt crisis, two people familiar with the
negotiations said. The need for a new crisis-containment tool
emerged as the effort to boost the 440 billion-euro rescue fund
to 1 trillion euros fell short.  Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle
funds through the IMF, potentially to underwrite precautionary
lending programs for Italy or  Spain , the two countries judged to
be the most vulnerable now, the people said.  On Nov. 30, the  Federal Reserve , ECB,  Bank of England ,  Bank
of Canada , Bank of  Japan  and Swiss National Bank agreed to
reduce the  interest rate  on dollar liquidity swap lines by 50
basis points and extend their authorization through Feb. 1,
2013.  Chinese Bank Reserves  China reduced the amount of cash that banks must set aside
as reserves for the first time since 2008 as Europe’s debt
crisis threatens exports and growth. The reserve ratios will
decline by 50 basis points effective Dec. 5, the People’s Bank
of China said.  In the U.S., unemployment unexpectedly dropped in November
to a two-year low, while employers added fewer workers than
projected and earnings eased, indicating the labor market is
making limited progress.  The jobless rate dropped to 8.6 percent, the lowest since
March 2009, from 9 percent, Labor Department figures showed Dec.
2 in  Washington . Payrolls climbed 120,000, with more than half
the hiring coming from retailers and temporary help agencies,
after a revised 100,000 rise in October. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 125,000 last month.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , rallied
11 percent. Daimler AG climbed 14 percent. Renault SA surged 19
percent. A gauge of carmakers on the Stoxx 600 rallied 14
percent, its biggest weekly performance since July 2009.  Mining Companies  Commodity shares were also among the biggest gainers among
the 19 industry groups on the  Stoxx 600 . BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, rose 14 percent.  Rio Tinto  Group
advanced 10 percent.  The metals and mining industry will “outperform” as
global central banks act to increase liquidity and focus on
growth, Macquarie analysts wrote in a report Dec. 1. They named
Rio Tinto and Xstrata Plc among the top picks in Europe.  Natixis, the investment banking unit of France’s second-
largest bank by branches, rallied 25 percent and  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
the biggest Dutch financial services company, gained 26 percent,
leading a rally among bank shares.  Home Retail  Group Plc soared 29 percent after the Daily
Mail reported that private-equity firms  CVC Capital Partners  and
Bridgepoint Capital Holdings may be considering a cash bid.
Spokesmen for Home Retail, Bridgepoint and CVC declined to
comment.  Wendel, France’s largest publicly listed investment firm,
surged 26 percent in Paris trading after receiving a $2.1
billion offer for Deutsch Group SAS from TE Connectivity Ltd.
The Paris-based private-equity firm said it would make a gain of
575 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  