-- 
Euro Region’s Central Banks Seen Providing Up to $270 Billion Through IMF

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-12-02T22:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/euro-region-s-central-banks-seen-providing-up-to-270-billion-through-imf.html
A European proposal to channel
central bank loans through the  International Monetary Fund  may
deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the
debt crisis, two people familiar with the negotiations said.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , euro-area finance ministers gave the go-
ahead for work on the plan, said the people, who declined to be
named because the talks are at an early stage. The need for a
new crisis-containment tool emerged as the effort to boost the
440 billion-euro rescue fund to 1 trillion euros fell short.  Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle
funds through the IMF, potentially to underwrite precautionary
lending programs for  Italy  or Spain, the two countries judged to
be the most vulnerable now, the people said.  “We’re looking for a maximum reinforcement with the IMF
and the central bank,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders 
told reporters Nov. 30.  No fewer than four “comprehensive” rescue packages over
19 months have failed to arrest the crisis, fueling speculation
that a currency designed to last forever might break up unless
European leaders forge a more united economy. Central bank loans
may be linked to an adoption of tougher budget policing by
governments and tighter economic ties.  Draghi’s Hint  The euro area’s 17 national central banks operate under the
ECB’s umbrella. Draghi yesterday hinted at a stepped-up crisis-
fighting role as long as governments move toward a “fiscal
compact” that ensures healthy public finances.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  laid out elements of that
strategy today, calling for European treaty amendments to create
automatic, court-enforced sanctions on countries that overstep
limits of 3 percent of gross domestic product on deficits and 60
percent of GDP on debt.  For governments in rich countries such as  Germany  that are
unwilling to lend more to high-debt states, the IMF idea would
unlock funds without violating European rules that bar central
banks from offering direct budget financing, the people said.  Spokesman for the ECB and Bundesbank declined to comment.  “The IMF will need more resources should the crisis deepen
further,” Gerry Rice, a spokesman for the IMF, said in a
statement today. “Such loans could indeed come from member
country central banks, and indeed these central banks are
already lending to the fund under the New Arrangements to Borrow
and bilateral agreements signed since 2009.”  ‘Easy Solution’  “It is an easy solution because bilateral loans coming
from the central banks, they haven’t to ask for money from the
taxpayer,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in
Brussels yesterday. “But we are exploring these avenues. It
depends also on the amount of money we can raise.”  News of the possible IMF lending channel boosted the shared
currency. The euro rose as much as 0.7 percent before erasing
the gain on a disappointing U.S. jobs report. It slid 0.2
percent to $1.3431 at 11:00 a.m. in  New York , paring its advance
for the week to 1.4 percent.  “For the first time during the protracted euro crisis, a
number of factors have emerged that provide hope that  Europe  may
still come out of it, if not unscathed, at least alive,” said
 Alessandro Leipold , a former acting director of the IMF’s
European department who is now chief economist of the Brussels-
based  Lisbon Council . “The moment is fleeting and it will have
to be seized decisively.”  Italy,  Spain   Bonds of Italy and Spain rose today amid optimism that
European leaders will piece together a tighter fiscal framework
at a Dec. 8-9 summit that would prompt the greater central bank
commitment.  One option is the lending via the IMF, which specializes in
aid programs and has about $390 billion available to lend. The
sums being discussed by finance officials range from 100 billion
to 200 billion euros, the people said. Bilateral loans through
the Washington-based lender would also spare the euro-area
central banks from conflicts of interest that could arise from
enforcing conditions on countries where they also set  interest
rates , the people said.  The U.S. has no plans to make bilateral loans to the IMF
to help stem the European debt crisis, a Treasury Department
official said.  The IMF has ample resources, said the official, who
declined to be identified as a condition for holding the
briefing with reporters in  Washington  today.  IMF, ECB  “If we could see the proposed combination of IMF and ECB
action, obviously that would be very, very credible to the
market,” Finance Minister Anders Borg of  Sweden , a non-euro
member, said Nov. 30.  Two broad channels are under consideration, the people
said. Under the first option, the European money would go into
an IMF trust fund earmarked for troubled euro states. Under the
second, the loans would be plowed into the IMF’s general
resources.  Such a program wouldn’t be a substitute for the increase in
ECB  bond purchasing  that countries such as Spain have clamored
for. The central bank has bought 203.5 billion euros of bonds of
three countries receiving financial aid -- Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  -- plus Italy and Spain since May 2010.  “Now is the time to act decisively,”  George Papaconstantinou , Greek finance minister during the first year
of the crisis and now energy minister, told Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua in an interview to air next week.
“At the same time we’re moving in the right direction, we’re
not moving fast enough. We’ve been behind the curve, we’re
always taking half-measures, one step behind the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  