-- 
Euro Falls on Bets Summit Won’t Stem Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-02T22:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/euro-drops-on-speculation-european-leaders-won-t-agree-on-handling-crisis.html
The euro dropped against the dollar
for the first time in three days on mounting speculation that
next week’s summit of European leaders won’t be able to stem the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The shared currency still rose for the first week in a
month versus the greenback on optimism European central banks
may funnel loans through the  International Monetary Fund  to
fight the crisis. The euro dropped today after a rally that saw
it rise 1.5 percent from a seven-week low on Nov. 25. The dollar
advanced against most of its major peers as stocks pared gains.  “We’ve priced in quite a bit of optimism in the last three
or four days,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. “I’m
inclined to be very cautious in terms of risk positions going
into next week’s events. The measures were dealing with symptoms
of the sovereign-debt crisis, but we still have to deal with the
actual underlying problem.”  The euro depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.3391 at 5 p.m. in
New York, paring its weekly gain to 1.2 percent. Earlier, the
17-nation currency gained as much as 0.7 percent. It fell 0.2
percent to 104.43 yen. The dollar rose 0.4 percent to 77.99 yen.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little changed after
climbing earlier as much as 1.3 percent.  South Africa ’s rand and  Brazil ’s real were the top
performers among the greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts.
The real gained 0.5 percent to 1.7908 to the dollar, and the
rand strengthened 0.5 percent to 8.0437 per dollar.  Franc Drops  The Swiss franc declined against the euro after  Switzerland 
said yesterday it may consider additional steps to support the
central bank in its fight to curb the currency’s gains. The
franc slipped 0.1 percent to 1.2342 per euro.  Canada ’s dollar fell for the first time in seven days,
losing 0.6 percent to C$1.0195 per  U.S. dollar , after employment
in the nation unexpectedly fell last month.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency advanced earlier after two
people familiar with the negotiations said the region’s finance
ministers gave the go-ahead for work on the IMF plan at a Nov.
29 meeting attended by European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi . The proposal could deliver up to 200 billion euros to
fight the debt crisis, said the people, who declined to be named
because talks are at an early stage.  The need for a new crisis-containment tool emerged as the
effort to boost the region’s 440 billion-euro ($589 billion)
rescue fund to 1 trillion euros fell short.  Calls Shunned  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  likened solving Europe’s
debt crisis to a marathon, shunning investor calls for quick
action while pushing for stricter budget enforcement.  Speaking to lawmakers in Berlin today before the European
summit on Dec. 9, Merkel rejected joint euro-area bonds or
trying to make the European Central Bank the lender of last
resort as quick fixes.  The euro erased gains versus the greenback as the Hill
newspaper reported conservative U.S. lawmakers in  Washington  may
try to block the plan to channel central-bank loans through the
IMF to protect U.S. taxpayers. Senator  Tom Coburn  said he plans
legislation that would direct the government to veto an expanded
role for the fund, the Washington-based publication said today.  “It’s a big dose of IMF worries on a Friday evening, and
some euro decoupling from stocks,” said Kit Juckes, head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“The euro didn’t get high enough to trigger meaningful short-
covering.”  Lost Momentum  A short position is a bet the price of an asset will fall.
The euro rose as high as $1.3548 earlier, and its failure to
break above $1.3560 led it to lose momentum, Juckes said.  Futures traders  increased bets the euro will fall versus
the dollar. The so-called net short positions rose to 104,302 in
the five days ended Nov. 29, the most since June 2010, according
to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data released today.  The  Federal Reserve  said Nov. 30 it had agreed with the
central banks of Europe, Canada, Switzerland, the U.K. and  Japan 
to reduce the premium to borrow dollars overnight by half a
percentage point to 50 basis points.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, rose 0.5 percent to
78.682 after falling earlier as much as 0.4 percent.  The greenback gained 6.6 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes as investors sought haven.
The yen advanced 3.1 percent, and the euro rose 0.3 percent.  Jobless Rate  The U.S. unemployment rate declined to 8.6 percent in
November, the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent in
October, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.  Payrolls climbed by 120,000 jobs, compared with a forecast
of a 125,000 gain in a Bloomberg News survey. More than half the
hiring came from retailers and temporary-help agencies. There
was a revised 100,000-job increase in October that was more than
initially estimated.  The U.S. economic recovery may be gaining momentum, data
earlier this week signaled. American manufacturing expanded in
November at the fastest pace in five months, an Institute for
Supply Management index showed yesterday. The Conference Board’s
index of  consumer confidence  increased to a reading of 56 last
month from 40.9 in October, the biggest jump since April 2003, a
report from the private research group showed on Nov. 29.  “With the strong consumer confidence and the decent ISM
yesterday, the expectations for today’s payrolls were
amplified,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. based in  New York . “It’s
broadly in line with expectations, but it’s not as good as
widely hoped for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  