-- 
Teva May Profit From Ranbaxy’s Lipitor Copy

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-12-02T12:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/teva-may-get-free-money-sharing-profit-on-ranbaxy-sales-of-lipitor-copy.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, may profit on sales
of versions of Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor without being involved in
the medicine’s production or marketing.  Teva will share profit from the first six months of sales
under an agreement with  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)   India ’s
biggest drugmaker didn’t disclose terms of the agreement when
announcing U.S. clearance to sell generic Lipitor yesterday.  The approval means Ranbaxy convinced the  Food and Drug
Administration  that its copies were equivalent to Pfizer’s
original and shouldn’t be stopped by a dispute about plant
violations in India. Teva isn’t supplying ingredients for the
copies, which will be made by Ranbaxy, said Denise Bradley, a
spokeswoman for Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva. That’s prompted
some analysts to speculate on the reason for the deal.  “It appears that the Teva deal was like an insurance
policy for Ranbaxy in case the approval didn’t come,” said
Priti Arora, a health-care analyst at Kotak Institutional
Securities, in an interview. “Now that Ranbaxy got the
clearance, it’s possibly free money for Teva.”  Lipitor copies may add as much as $650 million to Ranbaxy’s
revenue over the next six months, according to the median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The FDA gave the Indian drugmaker, 64 percent-owned by
 Daiichi Sankyo Co. , exclusive rights to sell its copies for 180
days, competing with the brand-named product and a Pfizer-
authorized version marketed by  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)   “The agreement could include many services or many areas
of operation and I don’t understand how you can call it free
money,” said Yossi Koren, a spokesman for Teva. He declined to
specify details of the agreement between the two companies.  Stock Decline  Ranbaxy fell 0.2 percent to 442.3 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, while the BSE India Sensitive Index rose 2.2
percent. The shares have fallen more than 26 percent this year,
making Ranbaxy the year’s  third-worst (BSETHC)  performer in the BSE India
Healthcare Index.  The active ingredient in Ranbaxy’s Lipitor copies is
approved to be produced at two sites, one of which is a Ranbaxy
plant in Toansa in northern India,  Sandy Walsh , a spokeswoman
for the FDA, said in an e-mail late yesterday. The other is
undisclosed, she said. Ranbaxy will complete manufacturing of
the drug, known as atorvastatin, at a unit in  New Brunswick ,  New
Jersey , the agency said.  Teva could earn as much as 10 cents per share if it manages
to introduce an “important undisclosed product” in the fourth
quarter, the company said on Nov. 2. That would enable it to
meet its earnings target of $5.02 a share.  ‘Mystery Product’  Teva hasn’t said that the undisclosed product is generic
Lipitor. The Ranbaxy agreement “reasonably accounts” for
Teva’s mystery project, Sanford C. Bernstein said in a note
yesterday.  “Generic Lipitor is the ‘mystery product,’” Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a report yesterday. The bank had estimated the
product could generate about $100 million in pretax profit in a
best-case scenario where Teva manufactures the product.  With Ranbaxy getting the approval and manufacturing it in-
house, Teva’s share of profit in the fourth quarter will
possibly be “some amount less than the top end of the range,”
Michael Faerm and Judah C. Frommer, health-care analysts with
Credit Suisse in  New York , said in the report. “We expect the
stock to trade up on this news.”  Teva shares rose 1.1 percent to 150.60 shekels yesterday,
paring the drop so far this year to 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  