-- 
Texas Kicks 5% of Dependents Off State Health Plan

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/texas-kicks-5-of-dependents-off-state-health-plan-found-to-be-ineligible.html
The Employees Retirement System of
 Texas  removed about 5 percent of those receiving state health
benefits as dependents after they couldn’t prove their rights to
get the aid, the  pension plan  said in a report, citing an audit.  Health care cost the $23.6 billion fund $2.29 billion in
fiscal 2011, according to a report distributed yesterday at the
system’s board meeting in Austin. By November, about 11,500
recipients listed as spouses or children lost benefits. The plan
had more than 545,000 members as of August, the report said.  “That is a lot of people,” Andy Homer, director of
government relations for the Texas Public Employees Association,
said by telephone. “But ERS does more than many other funds to
make sure that every dollar they spend is spent correctly.”  The  retirement plan  will save about $12 million over the
next year from removing ineligible dependents from health
coverage, after paying $2.6 million for the audit, said Mary
Jane Wardlow, a spokeswoman. She didn’t know when the most-
recent previous audit was done.  Administrators sent six letters to each person facing
removal before acting, Ann Fuelberg, the fund’s executive
director, told board members. She hasn’t heard any complaints
from those taken out, she said.  “The agency bent over backwards to try to help,” Cydney Donnell, a trustee, said at the meeting.  Texas’s state health plan had an unfunded liability of
$21.5 billion as of Aug. 31, based on actuarial projections of
the cost of members’ health care over the next few decades,
Philip Dial, a senior principal at Rudd & Wisdom Inc. in Austin,
the system’s actuarial consultant, said at the meeting. The
liability declined from $22.3 billion a year earlier because of
favorable health-care cost trends and reduced enrollment
stemming from jobs lost amid budget cuts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  