-- 
Mexico May Join Mila in ‘Game Changer’ for Latin America Stock Combination

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-12-02T21:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/mexican-exchange-to-consider-joining-mila-stock-combination.html
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB (BOLSAA) , the
operator of  Mexico ’s securities exchange, will consider joining
the Chilean, Colombian and Peruvian bourses in  Latin America ’s
first stock market combination.  Bolsa Mexicana will sign on Dec. 4 a letter of intent to
study its entry into the market known as Mila that began cross-
border transactions on May 30, according to an e-mailed response
to questions from the Santiago exchange’s external public
relations representative. The statement confirms an article
published today in Santiago-based newspaper El Mercurio.  “The addition of Mexico would be a game changer,”
Fernando Romero, chairman of Lima-based investment fund NF&C
Inversiones SA, said in an interview in Cuzco,  Peru . “Not only
will it provide  market depth  for trading volume, it will also
spur initial public offerings.”  Colombia , Peru and  Chile  are developing the region’s first
market combination, while financial firms integrate and expand,
as economic growth spurs demand for securities. Banco de Credito
del Peru, the country’s biggest bank, will buy 51 percent of
Colombia’s Correval SA in an agreement announced yesterday.  Bolsa Mexicana plans to sign the agreement as the
presidents of Mexico, Chile and Colombia meet in Merida, Mexico,
for the second summit of the so-called  Arco Pacifico
Latinoamericano.   Investor Confidence  The exchange, based in Mexico City, said in an Oct. 13
statement that it was considering linking operations with Mila.
Juan Pablo Cordoba, head of Colombia’s main bourse, declined to
comment on Mexico’s interest in joining the integrated market.  Mila had eight transactions in November, of which seven
were in Chilean stocks, according to data posted on the website
of the Santiago exchange. Total volume reached $68,058, down
from $702,171 in October.  “The incorporation of the Mexican exchange and higher
investor confidence may boost the number of transactions next
year as concern for developed markets dissipates and interest in
emerging markets increases,” the brokerage unit of Banco de
Credito & Inversiones wrote in an e-mailed note.  Chilean, Colombian and Peruvian stocks have a combined
value of $549 billion, surpassing Mexico’s $420 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s BM&F Bovespa
has a market value of $1.24 trillion.  Bolsa Mexicana closed today unchanged at 23.28 pesos. The
shares have declined 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  