-- 
MF Global Accounting, Bank State Aid, U.K. Loans: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-12-02T13:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/mf-global-accounting-eu-bank-state-aid-u-k-loans-compliance.html
An accounting technique used by MF
Global Inc., the failed broker-dealer, is being reviewed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, agency Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  said.  The SEC is in talks with the Financial Accounting Standards
Board about “repurchase-to-maturity” agreements that MF Global
used in off-balance-sheet accounting, Schapiro said yesterday
during a hearing before the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee in
Washington.  Schapiro said the agency was talking with FASB about
whether more disclosure is needed. The agreements used by MF
Global are the only type of repurchase agreements that can be
used off balance sheet, she said, speaking alongside Commodity
Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  Both the SEC and FASB also are looking into whether the
methods MF Global used to account for its investments in
European debt were legal.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , the parent company of the broker
once run by former New Jersey Governor and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  co-chairman  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion bet on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most indebted nations.  For more, click here.  Separately, Corzine may be subpoenaed to testify before the
 Senate Agriculture Committee  if he doesn’t respond to an
invitation to appear, according to the lawmaker who leads the
panel.  Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, said she
isn’t ruling out a subpoena for Corzine, who hasn’t answered a
request to testify at a Dec. 13 hearing in Washington. She said
she expects a response from Corzine, a fellow Democrat who
served in the Senate. The Agriculture Committee set a meeting
today to consider issuing a subpoena for Corzine to testify at a
Dec. 8 hearing, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, declined to
comment on Stabenow’s remarks and on whether he would testify.  MF Global Inc. will have a shortfall in customer funds even
if all the money in customer accounts at U.S. depository
institutions is recovered, James W. Giddens, the trustee
overseeing the firm’s liquidation said.  Giddens has said there may be as much as $1.2 billion in
missing funds.  “The trustee has determined that even if he could recover
everything that is at U.S. depositories, there will be a
shortfall in what MF Global management should have segregated at
U.S. depositories,” according to a document, dated yesterday,
from Giddens’s office that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Kent
Jarrell , a spokesman for the trustee, confirmed the authenticity
of the document and said it was part of a briefing Giddens gave
yesterday in  Washington  with congressional aides and a lawmaker.  The CFTC, SEC,  Justice Department  and trustee’s office are
investigating the missing client funds.  CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a Democrat, said he will
monitor the agency’s staff to ensure it’s doing everything
possible to collect and properly distribute customer funds.  Compliance Policy  EU Banks May Escape Some Costs of State Aid in Rule Overhaul  Banks will be shielded from extra costs for guarantees from
governments roiled by Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis under an
overhaul of the region’s state-aid rules  published  yesterday.  The  European Commission  said its system for setting the
fees that banks pay to governments for guarantees will “reflect
their intrinsic risk, rather than the risk related to the member
state concerned or the market as a whole,” according to an e-
mailed statement. The aid rules “will apply as long as required
by market conditions.”  EU governments spent 757 billion euros ($1 trillion) in
state guarantees for banks from October 2008 to December 2010.
The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has
fallen more than 33 percent in the past year on concerns lenders
have been weakened by the European debt crisis. European leaders
agreed last month to bolster bank capital in an effort to
restore confidence in the banking system.  The new pricing system will reduce the guarantee fees by
about 20 basis points, with banks paying an average of 1 percent
of the value of the guarantee to the government that granted it,
according to an EU official. It won’t compensate entirely for
the wide spreads on bonds for euro-area governments.  For more, click here, and click here.  Separately, the European Union may exempt bank debt issued
before 2013 from proposals forcing investors to take losses at
failing lenders, said a person familiar with the plan.  Excluding the debt is designed to prevent lenders’ funding
costs from rising, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. The exemption
could be extended if banks struggle to raise funds, the person
said. The law would need approval from national governments and
the  European Parliament  before taking effect.  Under draft proposals obtained by Bloomberg News, holders
of long-term unsecured senior debt in a collapsing bank would be
first in line to take losses once a lender’s capital and other
subordinated debt is exhausted. Long-term bonds would be those
with a maturity of more than one year.  A spokeswoman for the European Commission declined to
comment on the draft law.  For more, click here, and click here.  FSA Finds $78.5 Billion U.K. Commercial Loans at Risk, BoE Says  The U.K.’s financial regulator found about a third of
commercial real-estate loans, or 50 billion pounds’ ($78.5
billion) worth, are in forbearance, where a loan’s rules are
relaxed in anticipation of them being breached.  A review by the Financial Services Authority found as much
as 8 percent of U.K. residential mortgages are in forbearance,
which includes methods such as payment holidays and loan
maturity extensions and the relaxation of loan-to-value ratios,
according to the  Bank of England ’s  financial stability report 
published yesterday.  The financial policy committee of the Bank of England  asked
the FSA  to review U.K. mortgage forbearance in June. The FSA’s
review included about three-quarters of U.K. mortgages and for
commercial loans surveyed the six largest banks, which issue
about two-thirds of commercial loans.  The amount of outstanding mortgages in the U.K. was 1.088
trillion pounds as of the end of June, according to the  Council
of Mortgage Lenders , a trade group.  House Passes Bill to Curb U.S. Rules Costly for Businesses  The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that
would force more government analysis of how a regulation affects
businesses before a rule takes effect.  The House voted 263-159 yesterday for the measure, which
President Barack Obama’s administration has threatened to veto.
Lawmakers will consider two additional measures this month that
would limit what Republicans call the regulatory overreach of
the administration, which they said impedes the economic
recovery.  The legislation would amend a 1980 law, which required the
government to consider the economic impact of regulations
limiting pollution or protecting health. The measure passed
yesterday would force agencies to describe alternatives to a
proposed rule that might minimize any adverse economic impact on
small businesses. It would require a cumulative accounting of
the costs of all rules on companies.  Two additional measures to curb agency powers on new
regulations will be considered in the House this month. One
would require a Congressional vote on every new rule, and the
other would require Congress to choose the least costly option
when establishing a new rule.  The legislation passed today is H.R. 527. The other
measures are H.R. 3010 and H.R. 10.  Compliance Action  Neuberger, Diamondback Workers Said to Face Possible Charges  Neuberger Berman Group LLC, Level Global Investors LP and
Diamondback Capital Management LLC employees may face criminal
charges as part of an insider-trading probe by U.S. authorities
in  New York , a person familiar with the matter said.  The charges may be filed as early as this month, said
another person familiar with the probe who also wasn’t
authorized to speak because the matter isn’t public. The new
allegations stem from a four-year federal probe by the office of
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York, the first person said.  James Margolin, a spokesman for the FBI in New York,
declined to comment Nov. 29 on possible new charges in the
probe.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, also
declined to comment.  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Diamondback, declined to comment on the probe. A representative
for New York-based Level Global Investors also declined to
immediately comment.  The possible charges were reported earlier by the Wall
Street Journal. Rich Chimberg, an outside spokesman for New
York-based Neuberger Berman, said, “We have not heard of any
such allegation or investigation” against an employee named by
the paper.  For more, click here.  FDIC to Weigh Alternatives to Ratings for Debt, Securitizations  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s board will consider
proposing alternatives to credit ratings for debt and
securitization positions at a meeting in Washington next week.  The FDIC announced the Dec. 7 meeting in an e-mailed
statement Nov. 29.  Almunia to Communicate DB-NYSE Market Test Results Next Week  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s antitrust chief, said
he will inform companies “next week” of the results of so-
called market tests of proposed remedies by  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s
and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   The exchanges offered remedies to try to allay antitrust
concerns over their proposed merger. Almunia made the comments
at a conference in Brussels today.  Courts  Ex-Millennium Global Manager Sued by SEC Over Alleged Fraud  Michael Balboa, a former portfolio manager at  Millennium
Global Investments Ltd. , was sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over claims he engaged in a fraud scheme
involving Nigerian sovereign debt.  The civil complaint was filed yesterday in federal court in
New York against Balboa and Gilles De Charsonville, described by
regulators as an independent broker based in Madrid. Balboa’s
portfolio suffered almost $1 billion in losses and was forced to
close in October 2008 in the wake of the credit crisis, the  SEC 
said in court papers.  Federal prosecutors in New York filed a related criminal
complaint against Balboa yesterday, charging him with conspiracy
to commit securities and wire fraud and separate counts of wire
and securities fraud. De Charsonville was not named in the
criminal complaint.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Balboa, 11-mag-3038, and the
civil case is SEC v. Balboa, 11-cv-8731, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Two Ex-Ferrostaal Managers Must Stand Trial on Bribery Charges  Two former  Ferrostaal AG  managers must stand trial on
charges of paying bribes of more than 62 million euros to obtain
submarine orders from Greece and  Portugal , a Munich court ruled.  Ferrostaal has been ordered to join the criminal
proceedings as an accessory party, the Munich Regional Court
said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Judge Orders Asset Freeze in SEC Case Against Mattera  A federal judge ordered a freeze on the assets of funds in
the case of a South Florida man accused of running an $11
million scam.  U.S. District Judge P. Kevin Castel ordered the preliminary
injunction against Praetorian Global Fund Ltd. and its agents,
according to a filing in federal court in Manhattan yesterday.  John Mattera, the operator of the funds, was charged by
federal prosecutors and sued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission for allegedly luring investors into paying for non-
existent shares in closely held companies including Facebook
Inc. and  Groupon Inc.   The U.S. said that Mattera used most of the money to buy
cars and other items for himself, according to court records.  The cases are SEC v. Mattera, 11-cv-8323, and U.S. v.
Mattera, 11-cr-2947, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Reid Planning Senate Vote on Cordray to Lead Consumer Bureau  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid plans to set a vote next
week on  Richard Cordray ’s nomination to head the  Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau , according to a spokesman for the
lawmaker.  Reid told reporters in Washington yesterday that he would
schedule votes next week to limit debate on “four or five
nominations.” Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for the Nevada
Democrat, confirmed that Cordray is part of that group.  Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general who is serving as
the consumer bureau’s enforcement director, has drawn wide
Republican opposition, which could be enough to block Cordray’s
nomination. It would take 60 votes in the 100-member Senate to
cut off debate and advance the nomination.  Interviews/Speeches  Jordan Thomas On Dodd-Frank Whistle-blower Program Report  Jordan Thomas, partner and chair of the Whistleblower
Representation Department at  Labaton Sucharow LLP , talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the whistle-blower provisions
found in Dodd-Frank and the early results of the program.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 