-- 
Facebook to Open New York Engineering Office as Web Site Prepares for IPO

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/facebook-to-open-new-york-engineering-office-as-web-site-prepares-for-ipo.html
Facebook Inc., preparing for a
potential initial public offering, plans to hire thousands of
employees in the next year and add an engineering office in  New
York  to lure technical talent.  The world’s largest social-networking company, with about
3,000 workers and more than 800 million users, will open the
Facebook NYC engineering office in early 2012, Chief Operating
Officer Sheryl Sandberg said at an event yesterday in the city.
She gave no firm target for the engineering team in New York,
the first outside the West Coast.  The “user base and revenue are growing very rapidly,”
Sandberg said. “And that’s what we’re betting on.”  Facebook is looking to woo talent as bigger companies such
as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  compete for the brightest minds.
Earlier this month, Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg
visited Harvard University and the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  to recruit potential engineers.  Facebook is considering raising about $10 billion in an
initial public offering that would value the company at more
than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this week. The Palo Alto, California-based company may file for
the IPO before the end of the year, said the person.  Web startups including Foursquare Labs Inc. and Tumblr Inc.
are based in New York.  Facebook currently has about 100 employees in the city,
including in marketing and recruiting, Mike Schroepfer, vice
president of engineering at Facebook, said at the event.
Facebook will begin accepting applications for jobs in New York
immediately, according to a statement.  “New York has a strong history of innovation and is home
to thousands of talented technical people, and we want them to
help us solve the challenges of designing and building the next
generation of Facebook,” Schroepfer said in the statement.  Serkan Piantino, an engineering manager for teams that
handle Facebook chat and messages, will lead the new office, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 