-- 
Facebook Will Open NYC Engineering Office

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-12-02T20:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/facebook-will-open-nyc-engineering-office.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking site, plans to open an engineering office in
 New York  to recruit technical talent as it competes for workers
ahead of a potential initial public offering.  The Facebook New York engineering office, the company’s
first outside the West Coast, will open in early 2012, according
to a statement today. Serkan Piantino, an engineering manager
for teams that handle Facebook chat and messages, will lead the
new office, the Palo Alto, California-based company said.  Facebook, which has more than 800 million users, is looking
to woo engineering talent as bigger companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  compete for the brightest minds. Earlier
this month, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  visited
Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
to recruit potential engineers.  “Operating at such a large scale, and innovating as
quickly as we do, we need to recruit the most talented engineers
in the world,” Mike Schroepfer, vice president of engineering
at Facebook, said in the statement.  Facebook is considering raising about $10 billion in an
initial public offering that would value the company at more
than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week. The social-networking site may file for the
IPO before the end of the year, said the person.  Closely held Facebook currently has about 100 employees in
New York, including marketing and recruiting, Schroepfer said
today at a press conference. Web start-ups such as Foursquare
Labs Inc. and Tumblr Inc. are also based in New York. Facebook
will begin accepting applications for jobs in the city
immediately, according to the statement.  “New York has a strong history of innovation and is home
to thousands of talented technical people, and we want them to
help us solve the challenges of designing and building the next
generation of Facebook,” Schroepfer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 