-- 
Fed Conducting Fiscal Policy Could Undermine Monetary Policy, Plosser Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-12-02T18:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/fed-conducting-fiscal-policy-could-undermine-monetary-policy-plosser-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank has undertaken
actions that should be conducted by the U.S. Treasury and risk
fueling public expectations that inflation will accelerate.  “Unfortunately, from my perspective, the Fed and other
central banks have already embarked on a path that has blurred
the distinction between monetary policy and fiscal policy,”
Plosser said today in a speech in Philadelphia.  Plosser’s remarks come two days after the Fed and five
other central banks cut in half the premium on currency swap
agreements. The action sparked a global rally in stocks on
optimism it will help Europe overcome its debt crisis. U.S.
stocks continued their rally today after a report that the
unemployment rate dropped to 8.6 percent, the lowest level since
March 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,250.97 at 1:49 p.m. in  New York .  “Once a central bank ventures into conducting fiscal
policy it may find itself under increasing pressure from the
private sector, financial markets, or the government to use its
balance sheet to substitute for other fiscal decisions,”
Plosser said. “This pressure can threaten the central bank’s
independence in conducting monetary policy and thereby undermine
monetary policy’s effectiveness in achieving price stability.”  The Fed on Nov. 30 joined with the  European Central Bank 
and the central banks of  Canada ,  Switzerland ,  Japan  and the U.K.
to cut the pricing on dollar liquidity swaps. Plosser did not
mention the program specifically in his remarks.  Voted in Favor  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted 9-1 in favor of the
action at a meeting before the announcement. Plosser was
unavailable for the meeting and Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  voted instead.  Plosser told reporters after his speech that he was “not
privy” to the discussion the Fed held before voting and would
not “make judgments without hearing all the sides.” Plosser
noted that the swaps themselves were a program he supported in
the past and that there is “not much monetary policy can do
about  Europe .”  The European crisis could play out in unpredictable ways,
Plosser said in a separate interview today on Bloomberg Radio’s
“The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  “Some people say credit markets will freeze-up, it will be
like 2008 all over again,” Plosser said. “That may not be the
way it plays out. Another scenario might be the fact that
there’s a huge flight to safety” that would flood U.S. banks
with liquidity, he said.  ‘Wait and See’  “How this plays out, nobody really knows, and we’ll just
have to wait and see,” he said.  Plosser said he did back efforts by the Fed to communicate
more clearly with markets and the public. He said he supported
including FOMC members’ projections for the path of  interest
rates  along with their forecasts for the economy that are
released four times a year.  This would be “a better way for the committee to
communicate more clearly to the public about how the committee
thinks,” Plosser said. A communications change shouldn’t be a
method to ease monetary policy, but a way to “be transparent
about how policy is being conducted,” he said.  Today’s report that the economy added 120,000 jobs and the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.6 percent is a sign that the “labor
market is in fact healing,” Plosser said.  The economy will grow “3 percent or a little better” in
2012, Plosser told Bloomberg Radio.  Two Dissents  Plosser, 63, has dissented twice this year from monetary
policy decisions, joining Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher
and Narayana Kocherlakota of Minneapolis in opposing a September
plan to sell $400 billion of short-term  Treasury securities  and
buy $400 billion of longer-term securities.  The policy, so-called Operation Twist, is “an action that
could just as well have been conducted by the U.S. Treasury,”
Plosser said. The three bank presidents also opposed the Fed’s
August pledge to hold interest rates near zero through at least
mid-2013.  “Central banks and  monetary policy  are not and cannot be
real solutions to the unsustainable fiscal paths many countries
currently face,” Plosser said. “Proponents who believe
otherwise are skating on thin ice.”  -- With assistance from Kathleen Hays. Editors: James L Tyson,
Vince Golle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Philadelphia at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  