-- 
Fed Surveys Dealers on Chances of Communication Changes

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-12-02T21:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/fed-asks-primay-dealers-probability-of-communication-change-within-year.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
is surveying primary dealers on the probability that central
bank policy makers will make changes to their public
communications within the next year.  The Fed asked firms that trade  government securities  with
the central bank about the chance that the Fed will provide more
information on policy objectives, such as a longer-run inflation
goal, or information about officials’ assessments of
“appropriate monetary policy,” the New York Fed said today in
the 14-question survey posted on its website.  The survey, and its predecessors for the seven other Fed
policy meetings in 2011, were published today as part of
“ongoing efforts to increase transparency,” the bank said in
an e-mailed statement. The answers are due Dec. 5, eight days
before the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 13 meeting in
Washington.  “Making it public is probably a response to the idea that
you’re giving it to the primary dealers and not everybody
else,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There is information
to be gleaned from answering questions. You can infer from what
they’re asking about, what they’re thinking about.”  Stanley, whose firm isn’t a primary dealer, said he
immediately printed out the survey and looked it over after it
was released today.  Economic Outlook  “The survey, in conjunction with analysis of market
prices, helps the FOMC to evaluate what the market is
anticipating in terms of the outlook for the economy, monetary
policy and financial markets,” the  New York  Fed said.  The 21 dealers were asked about the probability the Fed
will use each of 11 easing or tightening tools at the next FOMC
meeting, within one year or within two years. The credit-
loosening options include lowering the  interest rate  on excess
reserves and expanding the securities portfolio through asset
purchases.  Sixteen of the 21 primary dealers said in a Bloomberg News
survey last week that the Fed will start another bond-buying
program next quarter. The central bank may buy about $545
billion in home-loan debt, based on the median of the firms that
provided estimates.  The question on the communications changes was one of two
major differences in the December survey from the prior survey
ahead of the Fed’s Nov. 1-2 policy meeting.  ‘Timely Manner’  Another new question asks about the degree to which the
European debt crisis has affected firms’ forecasts for U.S.
gross domestic product growth. “If a fully convincing
resolution to the European situation was announced in a timely
manner, what would be the change to your 2012 U.S. GDP
forecast?” the survey says.  The publication of the survey may help demystify the Fed’s
communications before policy meetings, Stanley said.  “Once or twice a year you get questions coming from
clients saying ‘Well, we hear the Fed is asking about such and
such,’” Stanley said. “It’s helpful for them to go ahead and
put it out to the public in the sense that maybe it will damp
down the occasional hot rumor around what they’re asking
about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  