-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says U.S. Risks ‘Social Unrest’ Amid Rising Federal Deficits

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-12-02T16:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/fed-s-fisher-says-u-s-risks-social-unrest-amid-rising-federal-deficits.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said today that the U.S. risks “social
unrest” if it doesn’t bring the federal debt under control.  “Our  debt burden  is larger than that of  Europe . We are
headed in the wrong direction,” Fisher told the Dallas/Fort
Worth Minority Supplier Development Council. “If we don’t bring
it under control, we will have social unrest.”  Fisher said the Federal Reserve would not allow inflation
to rise as a way to cushion the impact of rising deficits. The
U.S. lost its last stable outlook from the three-biggest credit-
ranking companies when  Fitch Ratings  lowered the nation’s
outlook to negative on Nov. 28 following the so-called
congressional supercommittee’s failure to agree on deficit cuts.  “Deficits matter for what we do at the Fed,” Fisher said.
“Economists have found structural deficits raise long-term
 interest rates ” and “create political pressure” on central
banks.  “Running the printing presses to pay today’s bills leads
to much greater problems,” including a surge in inflation. “We
will never let that happen at the Federal Reserve, never,” he
said. “Stable prices go hand in hand with achieving sustainable
growth.”  In a brief discussion of monetary policy, Fisher repeated
that there is little more the U.S. central bank can do to
accelerate growth, which he said has been restrained by
uncertainty over fiscal policy, tax rates and regulations.  Too Many Unemployed  “There are too many people out of work, too much
 unemployment , too much underemployment,” Fisher said. At the
Fed, “We have filled the gas tank. Someone has to press on the
accelerator” with fiscal and regulatory policies.  The Dallas Fed president has been among the most vocal
critics of the central bank’s policy, dissenting this year
against moves to push down long-term rates and to keep the
benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until at least mid-2013.
He voted five times in 2008 in favor of tighter policy.  Fed officials have differed on whether to increase stimulus
to reduce persistent unemployment, which Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said Nov. 2 “remains on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  