-- 
Boston Fed’s Rosengren Says Lower Jobless Rate Is ‘Good News,’ Not Enough

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-12-02T20:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/fed-s-rosengren-says-jobless-rate-good-news-not-enough-1-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the drop in the U.S. jobless rate,
while “good news,” isn’t as favorable as he would like because
it represents workers leaving the labor force.  “While the rate is certainly a very favorable rate, I
would highlight that a lot of it is because people pulled out of
the workforce,” Rosengren said today in a speech in Boston.
“It was good news. It’s just not as good news as I would
actually like to see.”  Fed policy makers are discussing the need for further
easing to stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment more
quickly. The debate may be complicated by today’s report of an
unexpected decline in the jobless rate last month.  “We’re trying to do what we can to get the economy growing
more rapidly,” Rosengren, 54, said at the Massachusetts
Investor Conference.  A change in the  unemployment rate  of 0.5 percentage point
is equivalent to about 750,000 jobs, and “if we’re able to do
something without a large cost, that’s an awful lot of Americans
that would have jobs that would not have had jobs, had we not
taken that action,” Rosengren said.  Unemployment Rate  The  unemployment rate  fell by 0.4 percentage point to 8.6
percent in November, the Labor Department said today. The rate
was forecast to hold at 9 percent, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Nine of 84
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a decline in the
jobless rate; all nine said it would fall to 8.9 percent.  The decrease reflected a 278,000 gain in employment at the
same time 315,000 Americans left the  labor force .  Options for further Fed stimulus include a third round of
securities purchases and changes to guidance on how long
interest rates will remain near zero.  “The sooner the economy returns to full employment, the
sooner we’re going to be able to normalize interest rates,”
Rosengren said. “Our goal is to have a normalized economy, and
the reason we’re keeping rates so low at this time is to try to
get that normalized economy.”  Responding to an audience question about the European debt
crisis, he said countries have made progress toward “having
more fiscal discipline.” He added: “They have a long way to
go.”  Authorities must also “aggressively address the fact that
many of their large banks are undercapitalized,” Rosengren
said. Large banks having “financial difficulties” shouldn’t be
paying dividends, he said.  ‘Common Misconception’  Rosengren said in a Nov. 16 speech that the central bank
still has power to boost the economy through lower  interest
rates  and that a “common misconception” is that further
monetary stimulus won’t help growth.  Measures to add stimulus to the economy drew dissent from
Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser ,  Narayana Kocherlakota  of
Minneapolis and Richard Fisher of Dallas at the Fed’s August and
September meetings. A November decision to refrain from a third
consecutive move drew dissent from Chicago’s  Charles Evans .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  