-- 
Fed Should Stand Ready to Do a Third Round of Stimulus: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-02T14:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/federal-reserve-should-stand-ready-to-do-a-third-round-of-stimulus-view.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to help
dollar-starved European banks have pleased global investors, but
the central bank’s moves can only temporarily distract attention
from a dilemma back home: what to do about the exceedingly weak
U.S. recovery.  Lately, the patient has shown tentative signs of
improvement. Today, the Labor Department announced that the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.6 percent in November, the lowest
since March 2009. Nonfarm employers added 120,000 jobs.  Pending
home sales  are up.  Retail sales  are rebounding. Consumers are a
bit more confident.  The improvements, though, come from a dismally low base.
The U.S. labor market is still weak, with new unemployment
claims rising and more than  13 million people  actively looking
for work. The jobs figures in November were not all good: The
fall in the  unemployment rate  was bigger than expected because
315,000 Americans dropped out of the  labor force .  External trends are discouraging. Though  Europe ’s leaders
may be making progress toward resolving their sovereign-debt
crisis, the region’s economy -- which accounts for about a fifth
of U.S. exports -- is already headed toward recession. The
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development expects growth to decelerate in Canada and  Mexico ,
too.  The Fed also has to deal with an abrupt, and partly
unintended, tightening of U.S. fiscal policy. Stimulus  spending 
was fading to begin with. Now, the failure of the congressional
supercommittee to reduce the  budget deficit  means extended
 unemployment benefits  and cuts in payroll taxes may not be
renewed for 2012 -- let alone expanded, as President Barack Obama’s jobs bill proposed. Even if agreement can be reached to
maintain fiscal supports, it’s likely that the cost will be met
by tax increases and spending cuts elsewhere, neutralizing the
needed short-term macroeconomic lift.  New Stimulus  All this means new monetary stimulus must not be ruled out.
With U.S. short-term  interest rates  as low as they can go, the
stimulus would have to be done through a fresh round of the bond
buying known as quantitative easing. The policy has risks, to be
sure, but in current circumstances there are no safe remedies.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  recently argued that a third
round of easing might become necessary. The recovery has been
slow and is not yet secure, she emphasized. Risks are loaded on
the downside. The central bank has to remain attentive to the
dangers, and be ready to act. We agree.  Many argue that quantitative easing is a spent force.
Admittedly, with  interest rates  so low, it is a diminished one.
But rates aren’t the only channel through which the strategy
operates.  Asset purchases  can support demand by dispelling fears
of deflation -- the most contractionary force known to
economics. If successive rounds of bond buying have to be bigger
to achieve the same effect, so be it.  Others argue that easing was ineffective in the first
place, or that it is bound to spur inflation. While it is early
days for a definitive account of the plan’s success to date,
economists tend to agree that where it has been tried, it has
helped.  In any event, the view that further expansion of the Fed’s
balance sheet would necessarily fuel inflation is wrong. Should
the danger arise, the Fed can pull money out of the economy by
raising the interest rate it pays on reserves. Ultimately, the
central bank can shrink its asset holdings.  The fierce political argument surrounding the Fed makes the
issue of whether to stimulate all the more difficult. It is one
thing for members of its board to have good-faith disagreements
over policy -- though that already compromises the Fed’s ability
to explain itself to the public. It is quite another for
Republican members of Congress and presidential candidates to
repudiate the very principle of central-bank independence and
make barely veiled threats of reprisals should the Fed adopt a
policy they oppose.  If you want unsound central banking, that is how you go
about it. Get the Fed under the thumb of Congress. The rest
follows.  With a lot of luck, the economy will get back on its feet
without further help from the Fed. But if the recent improvement
peters out, the central bank will need to step in again, and
with force. It must be ready to do so, and Congress should
resolve, if need be, to let it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 