-- 
First-Time Suppliers to U.S. Drop Most Since '05: BGOV Barometer

-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/first-time-suppliers-to-u-s-drop-most-since-05-bgov-barometer.html
The number of new suppliers to
civilian U.S. government agencies declined this year by the most
in at least five years, even as federal contracting officials
pledged to expand the pool of vendors.  The BGOV Barometer shows that contract orders in fiscal
2011 went to 19,650 companies that hadn’t done any business with
the U.S. government in the previous five years. That number was
down 23 percent from 2010, the biggest annual decline since
2005, the most recent year for which comparable data are
available.  Contributing to the decline are federal budget cuts and the
expanding use of multiple-award contracts that direct orders to
a pre-selected pool of companies, a trend that has hurt smaller
vendors in particular, said Terry Williams, chief executive
officer of the  American Small Business Chamber of Commerce ,
based in Washington.  “By suppressing small business access to contracts, the
federal government continues to miss their goals, and they have
set these goals with these firms far too low,” Williams said.  Most active federal vendors win at least one sale in a
five-year period, said Gunnar Schalin, president-elect of the
 Association of Procurement Technical Assistance Centers .
Consequently, the decline in contract recipients that haven’t
done business with the government in the previous five years
most likely reflects fewer first-time sellers, he said.  Government officials have said their policy is to expand
the pool of companies that participate in the $500 billion-a-
year market.  Government Loses  “The government loses when we limit ourselves to the
companies we already work with,” Daniel Gordon, the Office of
Management and Budget’s administrator for procurement policy
wrote in a February  memo  to federal purchasing officers.
“Instead, we need to look for opportunities to increase
competition and ensure that all vendors, including small
businesses, get fair consideration.”  Gordon’s spokesman didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. The U.S. Small Business Administration declined to
comment.  Contracting officers’ workload also can lead them to direct
more business to known contractors, said Bill Stuby, director of
a center at the  University of Missouri  in Columbia that helps
companies win federal contracts.  “Price is not always a single determining factor in a
selection,” said Stuby, a former contracting officer for the
 U.S. Department of Justice . “They put emphasis on previous
experience, so new contracts have little or no chance of getting
awarded to a new business.”  Just 15,117 small businesses won prime contract awards in
the budget year that ended Sept. 30, a 25 percent drop from the
year before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  The number of large companies with first-time contracts
declined 17 percent to 4,533 in 2011 from 5,477 the year before.  The statistics don’t include defense contracts, for which
complete data aren’t yet available for fiscal 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nishad Majmudar in  Washington  at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan in Washington at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  