-- 
Formula One Teams Split Ahead of Bargaining With Race Series Owner CVC

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-12-02T18:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/formula-one-teams-split-ahead-of-bargaining-with-race-series-owner-cvc.html
Ferrari SpA and  Red Bull  GmbH’s teams
are quitting the Formula One Teams Association, weakening the
hand of the 11-team group as it prepares to negotiate terms with
series owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  Ferrari, the sport’s most successful team, said in a
statement it’s leaving because of a “stalemate” over technical
rules including a cost-cutting accord, adding the three-year-old
organization had run its course. Defending champion Red Bull
said in an e-mail it is also leaving.  The split comes after the teams group led by McLaren
manager Martin Whitmarsh hired DC Advisory Partners in September
to explore its options ahead of negotiating a new commercial
agreement. The existing accord with CVC expires after next year.
Ferrari and Red Bull’s decision weakens the position of the
association as it seeks more from the London-based buyout firm,
Xander Heijnen, a partner of Munich-based CNC Communications,
which has advised teams on strategy, said.  “This does the Formula One establishment a favor and
weakens the teams significantly: it’s the star team and double
champion withdrawing,” Heijnen said in an interview. “It’s
unfortunate: it’s history repeating itself.”  In 2005, Ferrari broke ranks with competitors threatening
to form a breakaway series to sign up to new terms, earning an
annual $50 million sweetener, author Tom Bower wrote in his
biography of Formula One CEO  Bernie Ecclestone .  Audit Questions  Ferrari and Red Bull among teams to have argued over so-
called Resource Restriction Agreement after an audit of Red
Bull’s spending in Formula One raised doubts about whether it
was complying. Ferrari is also at odds with other teams because
it wants to increase in-season testing to keep Formula One at
the forefront of car technology.  Ferrari said it will continue to work to develop the sport
during “delicate” economic times.  Red Bull, which didn’t give a reason for its withdrawal in
an e-mail, is unhappy how competitors treat the team as it
invests heavily in marketing the sport, according to Tom Cannon,
a professor at Liverpool University, who has researched the
finances of Formula One.  “It’s a high-stress moment for both teams,” although
there is still time for them to re-group, Cannon said. “It
makes no sense to do the job of Bernie Ecclestone, who’s the
master of divide and rule.”  Italian carmaker Ferrari has had a team in the series since
the inaugural 1950 edition. Energy-drink maker Red Bull bought
Ford Motor Co.’s Jaguar Racing in 2004 and its driver Sebastian Vettel won the last two championships.  The latest season ended with a Nov. 27 race in  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  