-- 
German Bank Capital Needs Said to Be Below 10 Billion Euros

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-12-02T13:13:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/german-bank-capital-needs-said-to-be-below-10-billion-euros.html
Regulators may ask German lenders to
boost their capital levels by less than 10 billion euros ($13.5
billion) as they review the banks’ ability to withstand losses
from the sovereign-debt crisis, said two people familiar with
the estimates.  An amount of about 9.6 billion euros in additional capital
for German banks will be discussed with the European Banking
Authority next week, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  European leaders are demanding the region’s banks bolster
their capital to withstand losses after financial firms agreed
to accept losses on Greek bonds. The EBA estimated in October
that the region’s financial institutions need 106 billion euros
to reach a 9 percent core Tier 1 capital ratio by mid-2012,
after marking their sovereign bonds to market. That includes an
original estimate of 5.18 billion euros for German banks.  A spokesman for German financial regulator BaFin declined
to comment. German newspaper Handelsblatt reported earlier that
German banks would need about 9.6 billion euros to meet the
EBA’s capital targets.  Eight European banks failed the official European Union
stress tests in July. In the latest round of tests, European
lenders have been asked to raise money on their own and only
seek aid from national and then European authorities if their
efforts fail. Rather than tapping investors or governments,
firms are trying to hit the 9 percent core capital target by
adjusting risk-weightings, limiting dividends, retaining
earnings, reducing loans and selling assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  