-- 
Giggs May Get Contract Extension at Manchester United, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-12-02T11:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/giggs-may-get-contract-extension-at-manchester-united-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with links to the Web sites:  Giggs Extension  Manchester United  may offer Ryan Giggs a 12-month contract
extension,  the Sun said.   The 38-year-old is closing is on 900 appearances for
United, and he’ll be approached next month to discuss staying
another year, the newspaper said.  Manager  Alex Ferguson  will allow the Welshman to make a
decision on his future without pressure, the Sun said.  New Striker?  Arsenal is pursuing Brazilian striker Leandro Damiao from
Internacional de Porto Alegre, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Gunners coach Arsene Wenger may try to sign the player in
January to beat Juventus, which has been scouting the 22-year-
old as well, the newspaper said. Wenger, who has also been
linked to Dortmund attacking midfielder Mario Goetze, is trying
to convince captain  Robin van Persie  to stay in north London by
bringing in new talent.  Tottenham wasn’t able to get Damiao with a 15 million pound
($24 million) bid earlier this year, and the price has increased
another 10 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Villa Striker  Aston Villa will sign Portuguese striker Yannick Djalo on a
free transfer next month after soccer’s ruling body refused to
approve his move to Nice from Sporting Lisbon, the Guardian
said.  The 25-year-old has been unable to play since FIFA’s
decision, the newspaper said. Villa manager Alex McLeish thinks
the player will compete for playing time with Darren Bent, Emile Heskey and  Gabriel Agbonlahor , the Guardian said.  Italian Job  Roma may sign Tottenham defender Vedran Corluka, who is
frustrated by lack of playing time in  London , the  Daily Mail 
said.  The 25-year-old wants to compete for a spot on the Croatian
team for the 2012 European Championship, and the Italian club
want him as a replacement for the injured Nicolas Burdisso, the
newspaper said. Roma is also considering Chelsea defender Alex,
the Mail said.  Corluka will sit down with Spurs manager Harry Redknapp to
discuss his future, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  