-- 
Gingrich Accepting Gore Invite Lands on Love Seat With Pelosi

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-02T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/gingrich-accepting-gore-invite-lands-on-love-seat-with-pelosi.html
The phone call came from Al to Newt.  Al Gore , the Democratic Party presidential nominee in 2000,
wanted to know whether  Newt Gingrich , the former Republican U.S.
House speaker, would appear in a 2008 television ad calling for
action to address climate change.  Gingrich, who was promoting his latest book “Contract With
the Earth” and urging “green conservatism,” agreed. In an e-
mail obtained by Bloomberg News that he wrote to the former vice
president, Gingrich thanked Gore “for the opportunity to
participate in the Protect Climate ad campaign.” He signed the
March 2008 note, “Your friend, Newt.”  Those exchanges led Gingrich, now a Republican presidential
candidate, to a chilly, rainy commercial set in April 2008,
sitting side-by-side, knee-to-knee on a love seat with then-
Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , with the cameras rolling.
It’s an event he describes today as “the dumbest single thing
I’ve done.”  Gingrich’s primary opponents already are pouncing on  the ad 
as evidence that the former speaker’s record on such core
conservative principles as opposing government regulations to
curb global warming makes him unsuited for the nomination and
less-equipped to defeat President  Barack Obama .  ‘Serial Hypocrisy’  Texas Representative  Ron Paul  released a Web video Nov. 30
that accused Gingrich of “serial hypocrisy,” which prominently
featured an excerpt from the Gingrich-Pelosi climate ad.  While the climate-change ad is the highest-profile
bipartisan event Gingrich engaged in between his 1999 retirement
from Congress and his presidential campaign, it isn’t the only
one. He’s also appeared with marquee Democrats, such as then-
Senator  Hillary Clinton , in gatherings highlighting health care,
global warming and education.  The former speaker’s willingness to become the Republican
headliner at such events helped keep him in the news and at the
center of national debates as he was also building his post-
political brand and a multi-million dollar consulting and
publishing business.  Gingrich was warned by his aides at the time that
participating in Gore’s “We Can Solve It” ad campaign could
have dire political consequences.  ‘Political Mistake’  “It was a political mistake,”  Rick Tyler , a former
Gingrich spokesman, said he told his boss at the time. Gingrich
“wanted to do the ad and felt it was more important to be
proactive on issues than it was to be reactive to political
expediency.”  Gingrich did have reservations about pairing with Pelosi,
who was viewed as a liberal icon by leaders of his party. In the
e-mail about a month before the commercial was filmed, Gingrich
told Gore that “appearing with Speaker Pelosi in the current
political environment is simply too problematic,” and suggested
approaching Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , the 2004
Democratic presidential nominee, as an alternative.  Meanwhile, Gingrich’s staff balked at what Gore’s Alliance
for Climate Protection wanted the former speaker to say in the
ad. They refused to clear the words “crisis” to describe
climate change or for him to say -- “We need new laws” -- to
address it, according to one person familiar with the making of
the commercial who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Script Negotiations  “We rejected the initial script because it stated
positions that we just didn’t believe were true,” said Tyler.
“They wanted Newt to basically talk about global warming, which
we would not do. At the time, ‘climate change’ was seen as a
safe thing to say.”  Gingrich’s staff and Gore’s negotiated intensely over the
commercial’s script, up until midnight the day of the shooting
at the foot of the Capitol in April 2008. There, with
temperatures in the 40’s and rain falling steadily as aides
looked on sipping warm soup, Gingrich and Pelosi took their
places on the love seat placed under a tarp and spoke their
lines.  “We don’t always see eye-to-eye, do we Newt?” says a
smiling Pelosi. “No,” says Gingrich, smiling back, “but we do
agree we must take action to address  climate change .”  Gore declined through a spokeswoman to comment for this
story, as did a spokesman for his Climate Reality Project.  Pushing Back  About a month after the commercial began airing, Gingrich’s
now defunct political action group, American Solutions for
Winning the Future, began its own advertising campaign -- a pro-
oil “Drill Here, Drill Now, Pay Less,” mantra aimed at
blocking legislation co-sponsored by Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, and John Warner, a
Virginia Republican, to combat climate change by curbing  carbon
emissions .  Today, most of Gingrich’s primary competitors deny climate
change is happening or that humans have a role in it. Gingrich
now says he’s “agnostic” on the issue.  As for his staff’s reasoning that “climate change” would
be politically safe language, they missed the mark for a 2012
Republican presidential primary candidate.  A  poll  released Sept. 22 by the Public Religion Research
Institute found that while almost 7 in 10 Americans overall say
there is solid evidence that the Earth is warming and two-thirds
believe it is due to human activity, less than half of
Republicans and only 41 percent of those who identify with the
 Tea Party  believe in climate change, and only 18 percent of both
groups attribute it to human activity.  Defending His Role  “I was trying to do something I failed to do. I do think
it’s important for conservatives to be in the middle of the
debate over the environment,” Gingrich told  Fox News  Nov. 8,
when he called his participation in the ad dumb.  Gingrich said in the interview he doesn’t “know whether
global warming is occurring,” and had appeared in the ad only
to advocate “finding innovative new ways to get cleaner
energy.”  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, working to slow
Gingrich’s momentum, is now turning those words against his
primary rival.  In a Nov. 29 interview on Fox News, Romney suggested that
while he’s willing to weather criticism for standing behind the
Massachusetts health-care law he signed -- a liability with
Republican base voters who liken its mandate for individual
coverage to the one in a new national law -- the former House
speaker has tried to dodge his own political albatross.  Romney Attack  “If I were willing to say anything to get elected,
wouldn’t I just say, ‘Oh, it was a mistake?,’ because I’ve
watched other people on the stage,” Romney said. “When someone
says, ‘Oh, I did this ad on global warming -- that was a
mistake.’ So, they just dust it aside, and that makes them more
attractive in a primary. I’m standing by what I did.”  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, said yesterday the
candidate has acknowledged that participating in the ad “was
stupid,” and that it didn’t accomplish his objective.  “It turned out to be a bad way to engage with the
opposition and, instead of ceding the issue completely to the
liberal left, to engage, and say, ‘Hey, conservatives care about
the environment too,’” Hammond said.  He said Gingrich has teamed with Democrats on such efforts
in recent years because his “goal is to solve the problem. It’s
to get across the finish line, and to do that you have to have a
coalition.”  Health Care  Gingrich’s opponents will have other bipartisan appearances
to use as weapons.  In 2005, he appeared with then-Senator Hillary Clinton at
an event called “Cease-fire on Health Care” at American
University in  Washington , where he called for “100 percent
coverage,” and a system that involves a “transfer of
finances” to help low-income people afford medical insurance.  “I know I risk sounding not quite as right-wing as I
should to fit the billing,” Gingrich said at the event
sponsored by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , a  drug company  and paying member of
Gingrich’s Center for Health Transformation.  A year before his ad with Pelosi, Gingrich teamed with
Kerry for a debate on carbon-reduction methods in which Gingrich
said, “My message is that the evidence is sufficient that we
should move towards the most effective possible steps to reduce
carbon loading of the atmosphere.”  And in 2009, Gingrich appeared with Obama and the Reverend Al Sharpton at the White House to promote changes in education
policy, which followed with a Philadelphia appearance on the
same issue with Sharpton and Obama’s Education Secretary Arne Duncan.  “There’s no doubt Gingrich has got more of a track record
of policy sins in the minds of conservatives than the other
candidates” for the Republican nomination, said  Greg Mueller , a
party strategist who served as a senior aide on  Steve Forbes ’s
2000 presidential campaign. If his rivals decide to try to
exploit them, he added, “those could be a liability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  