-- 
Global Tel*Link Cuts Debt Costs as Leveraged Loans Sink Most Since August

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-12-02T14:49:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/global-tel-link-cuts-debt-costs-as-leveraged-loans-sink-most-since-august.html
Global Tel*Link Corp., the Mobile,
Alabama-based provider of telephone services for prisoners,
reduced the borrowing cost of its buyout debt amid the worst
slump in leveraged-loan prices since August.  Loans  declined  1.8 percent in November to 90.47 cents on
the dollar, the biggest drop in three months, according to
Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. leveraged loan 100 index. Prices
averaged 90.53 cents yesterday.  A diminished supply of new corporate loans helped push down
borrowing costs even as investors sold off risky debt on concern
that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading. Global
Tel*Link sold its $635 million  term loan  for 98 cents on the
dollar, compared with a discount of 97 cents first pitched to
investors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
being bought by American Securities LLC also cut the  interest
rate  it will pay on the debt by 50 basis points to 5.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate.  “New issue supply has been relatively light,” said Bill
Hughes, head of leveraged syndicate at Citigroup Inc. “You’re
going to get a better result in a less crowded market.”  Companies sold $11.7 billion of institutional loans in
November and $7.5 billion in October, according to  Standard &
Poor’s  Leveraged Commentary & Data. That compares with $52
billion issued in February, the most of the year.  “If you look at the deals that priced in the last month,
certainly more of them flexed tighter than flexed wider,”
Hughes said.  Lower Spreads  Colfax Corp., a maker of pumps and valves based in Fulton,
 Maryland , cut the interest rate on a $900 million term loan it
was seeking to fund its acquisition of Charter International
Plc, according to Bloomberg data. Unifrax Corp., the Niagara
Falls, New York-based maker of high-temperature insulation
products, lowered the rate on debt backing its purchase by
American Securities, the data show.  Companies reduced the spread paid on newly issued first-
lien institutional loans to 4.96 percentage points more than
lending benchmarks in November, from an average 5.59 percentage
points in October, according to S&P’s LCD.  Original-issue discounts on institutional loans averaged
97.57 cents on the dollar in November, compared with 96.75 cents
in September, when they were the deepest of the year, S&P’s LCD
data show. Such discounts reduce proceeds for the borrower and
boost yields for investors.  The price of leveraged loans, a type of junk debt rated
less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P,
declined in the secondary market as European leaders sought to
keep  Italy , the region’s third largest economy, from succumbing
to its sovereign debt crisis.  European Crisis  “Europe has been a drag on all the markets,” said
Jonathan Insull, a  money manager  in New York at Crescent Capital
Group, which oversees about $9 billion of speculative-grade
debt.  Moody’s said Nov. 28 that the “rapid escalation” of
European debt crisis threatens all of the region’s sovereign
ratings. The  Federal Reserve  and five other central banks cut
the cost of emergency dollar loans to banks outside the U.S. to
help ease concern.  Reports this week have signaled the U.S. economic recovery
is picking up. Manufacturing expanded in November at the fastest
pace in five months and  consumer confidence  snapped back more
than forecast for the biggest monthly gain since April 2003. The
jobless rate fell last month to 8.6 percent, from 9 percent, the
lowest level since March 2009.  Part of the reason for a drop in loan prices “may be
people are selling out of existing stuff to make room for the
new deals,” said Crescent Capital’s Insull.  Loan Pipeline  About $4 billion of term loan B and second-lien bank debt
is currently in the market, and an additional $8.7 billion is
expected to be funded, according to data from Barclays Plc as of
Nov. 30.  “Some things have hit that have pushed the calendar up a
little bit,” Insull said. KKR & Co. lined up $595 million of
debt to back its buyout of safety-harness maker Capital Safety
Ltd., including a $375 million first-lien term loan, according
to Bloomberg data.  Spreads will likely widen again once mergers and
acquisitions pick up and the volume of new leveraged loans
rises, said Hughes.  Investors pulled $200.5 million from U.S. floating-rate
funds that buy bank debt during the week ended Nov. 30, compared
with $208.7 million of outflows the week before, according to
data from EPFR Global.  Next year, “the bias is going to be toward elevated
spreads,” particularly if money doesn’t start flowing into
retail funds that purchase loans, said Insull.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  