-- 
China ‘Hardest Hit’ as Global Funds Report More Outflows, Citigroup Says

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:15:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/global-funds-withdraw-1-7-billion-in-a-fourth-week-of-outflows-citi-says.html
Investors withdrew $1.7 billion from
global stock funds in the week to Nov. 30, the fourth
consecutive week of outflows, Citigroup Inc. said, citing data
from fund researcher EPFR Global.  Emerging-market equity funds had withdrawals of $500
million, Citigroup analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a
report dated today. China was the “hardest hit” among Asian
countries with outflows of $300 million, the report said.  Standard & Poor’s this week cut the credit ratings of some
of the world’s biggest banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG after the ratings firm revised
its criteria for the banking industry. In August, S&P downgraded
the U.S. sovereign credit rating from AAA, citing political
failure to reduce record deficits.  “The downgrade of U.S. banks and the uncertainty” over
reductions in the nation’s deficit have kept investors from
taking more risks, Yue Hin Pong, one of the Citigroup analysts
cited in today’s report on fund flows, wrote in an e-mail.  Asia excluding Japan equity funds had outflows of $800
million, the third straight week of withdrawals, according to
the report.  About $2 trillion was erased from the value of equities
worldwide last month as rising borrowing costs in the euro-area
stoked concern the debt crisis will derail growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.4 percent to 954.93
at 12:07 p.m. Singapore time, paring the biggest weekly gain in
a month, before U.S. jobs data and German Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s speech to lawmakers on  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
 emerging markets  index has fallen 17 percent this year, compared
with the 7.5 percent decline in the MSCI World Index of
developed countries.  Bond funds dedicated to emerging markets had outflows of
$725 million in the week ended Nov. 30, according to a report
from  Barclays Capital , citing data from EPFR. Dollar-denominated
notes had the biggest redemptions at $426 million, while local-
currency securities had withdrawals of $256 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  