-- 
GM May Change Volt Battery, Product Development Chief Says

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-12-02T21:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/gm-may-change-volt-battery-official-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  hasn’t ruled out
making changes to the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid’s lithium-
ion battery, Mary Barra, senior vice president of global product
development, told reporters in  Detroit .  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  has been
investigating the Volt to find the cause of three fires that
occurred in the car’s battery pack in the weeks following
separate collision tests. GM is working with NHTSA to find the
cause and determine if a fix is needed.  “If we learn from this process and have to make changes in
the field, we will,” Barra said. “If it’s something that we
feel is important to the safety of the vehicle, we’ll find a way
to do it.”  GM has offered loaner cars or will buy back Volts from
concerned owners if they feel the cars are unsafe. GM has made
the Volt one of the centerpieces of its U.S. marketing.  If a Volt owner wants the automaker to repurchase the car,
“we’ll have a conversation,” Barra said. “If we get to a
point where we think it’s the right thing to do, we will put the
customer first and that’s what we will do.”  The automaker has said it developed a procedure to handle
the car’s battery after an accident.  A Volt caught fire three weeks after a side-impact crash
test May 12 while parked at a NHTSA testing center in  Wisconsin ,
leading regulators to conduct more tests. Volt battery packs
were damaged in three more tests in November, causing two fires,
NHTSA said Nov. 25 in a statement on its website.  Volt’s Range  NHTSA isn’t investigating the  Nissan (7201)  Motor Co.’s Leaf or
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s Roadster, both of which have lithium-ion
batteries.  The Volt can go about 40 miles on electricity before its
gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator, which recharges
the battery. It has a range of 379 miles with electric and
gasoline power combined. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency last year estimated the Volt would average 60 miles per
gallon in combined gasoline-electric driving, compared with 50
mpg for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius.  The Volt’s range is about four times what Nissan’s Leaf
electric car travels on a single charge.  The Volt has been on the market for a year and went on sale
in all 50 states in October. In January, GM plans to boost
production to 60,000 a year from a rate of 10,000 annually. GM
sold 6,142 Volts this year through November.  GM rose 1.5 percent to $21.28 at the close in  New York . The
shares have slid 42 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  