-- 
Google’s $400 Million Admeld Purchase Approved by U.S. Justice Department

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-02T18:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/google-s-400-million-admeld-purchase-approved-by-u-s-justice-department.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $400 million purchase
of AdMeld Inc. was approved by the U.S. Justice Department after
regulators found competition in the online display advertising
industry ensures the acquisition won’t harm consumers.  The department said today its investigation of the deal
determined that Web publishers use multiple display advertising
platforms and move business among them in response to price
changes or the quality of ad placements.  “This use of multiple display advertising platforms,
commonly called ‘multihoming,’ lessens the risks that the market
will tip to a single dominant platform,” the department said in
a statement.  Google’s acquisition of New York-based AdMeld, announced in
June, will strengthen its position in online display
advertising, the segment of the Internet ad market that’s
outpacing others, according to Emarketer Inc., a New York-based
digital research firm.  AdMeld offers technology services to Internet publishers
that help manage display ads from hundreds of sources, including
ad networks. Customers of the company, founded in 2007, include
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  Fox News  and the Weather Channel.  ‘Unprecedented Moment’  “This represents an unprecedented moment for publishers,”
as opportunity in online advertising expands,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said in a  statement  posted on its
official blog. “We believe that improved technology and
services can help publishers seize it and make online
advertising work much better.”  AdMeld Chief Executive Officer Michael Barrett  said  on the
company’s website that the deal will close in the next few days.  Google, the world’s largest Internet-search provider, is
using acquisitions to add services and find new sources of
advertising. It made 57 purchases of intangible assets during
the first three quarters of the year, according to an Oct. 26
regulatory filing.  The company is expected to grab 9.3 percent of online
display advertising spending in the U.S. this year, up from 8.6
percent last year, making it the No. 3 provider, according to
EMarketer. Facebook Inc. will increase its share to 16 percent,
the No. 1 position, up from 12 percent a year ago, while  Yahoo!
Inc . will drop to 13 percent from 14 percent, EMarketer said.  Higher Sales  Google, which generates most of its revenue from
advertising, posted higher sales during the third quarter as the
number of clicks on ads rose about 28 percent and the average
price per click increased about 5 percent. Sales, excluding
revenue passed on to partner sites, rose to $7.51 billion.  The department’s approval of the AdMeld deal contrasts with
its treatment of Google’s $676 million purchase of ITA Software.
In April, the antitrust division imposed conditions on that
deal, including requirements that Google make information from
the travel-search company available to search-engine rivals and
let the government review any complaints that it’s acting
unfairly.  In August, Google said it would spend $12.5 billion for
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., its largest deal. The  Justice
Department  requested more information about the transaction as
it extended its review, the companies disclosed Sept. 28. Google
has said it expects to close that acquisition, announced in
August, by the end of this year or in early 2012.  Shared Authority  The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission
share authority to sue to block mergers they consider
anticompetitive and to review whether dominant companies are
abusing their market power.  In July, they ended two years of jockeying to lead an
antitrust probe of Google, agreeing to divide responsibilities,
two people familiar with the matter said at the time. The FTC is
conducting a broad investigation of the company’s dominance of
Internet search, Google disclosed on June 24.  “Although the antitrust division concluded that this
particular transaction was unlikely to cause consumer harm, the
division will continue to be vigilant in the enforcement of the
antitrust laws to protect competition in display and other forms
of online advertising,” the Justice Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 