-- 
Google’s AdMeld Deal to Clear U.S. Antitrust

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/google-s-admeld-acquisition-said-to-get-justice-department-staff-support.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $400 million
acquisition of AdMeld Inc. has been recommended for antitrust
approval by U.S. Justice Department staff attorneys, two people
familiar with the matter said.  The staff urged approval after a detailed analysis found
that AdMeld’s competitors in online display advertising were
strong enough to offer companies alternative ways to advertise,
one of the people said. The recommendation still must be
approved by senior department officials, said both of the
people, who didn’t want to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak about the matter publicly.  The recommendation contrasts with the department’s
reservations about Google’s purchase of ITA Software Inc. In
that case, the department required oversight of Google’s actions
before giving approval because government attorneys determined
online travel agencies that used ITA’s software, which
aggregates flight information, didn’t have many alternatives.  AdMeld offers technology services to Internet publishers
that help them boost revenue by managing display ads from
hundreds of sources, including ad networks. Customers of the New
York-based company, founded in 2007, include  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  Fox
News  and the Weather Channel.  Acquisitions, Purchases  The world’s largest Internet-search provider is using
acquisitions to add services and find new sources of
advertising.  Mountain View , California-based Google made 57
acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets during the first
three quarters of the year, according to an Oct. 26 regulatory
filing.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the staff recommendation. Adam Kovacevich, a
Google spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail
messages after regular business hours yesterday. AdMeld didn’t’
immediately respond to a request for comment sent via its
website.  AdMeld would help boost Google’s position in online display
advertising, the segment that’s outpacing the broader market,
according to Emarketer Inc., a New York-based digital research
firm.  Google is expected to grab 9.3 percent of online display
advertising spending in the U.S. this year, up from 8.6 percent
last year, making it the No. 3 provider, according to EMarketer.
Facebook Inc. will increase its share to 16 percent, the No. 1
position, up from 12 percent a year ago, while  Yahoo! Inc . will
drop to 13 percent from 14 percent, EMarketer said.  Google, which generates most of its revenue from
advertising, posted higher sales during the third quarter as the
number of clicks on ads rose about 28 percent and the average
price per click increased about 5 percent. Sales, excluding
revenue passed on to partner sites, rose to $7.51 billion.  ITA Condition  In April, the  Justice Department  cleared Google’s purchase
of ITA Software for $676 million, on the condition it makes
information available to search-engine rivals and lets the
government review any complaints that it’s acting unfairly.  In August, Google said it would spend $12.5 billion for
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., its largest deal. The Justice
Department requested more information about the transaction as
it extended its review, the companies disclosed Sept. 28. Google
has said it expects to close that acquisition, announced in
August, by the end of this year or in early 2012.  The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission
share authority to sue to block mergers they consider
anticompetitive and to review whether dominant companies are
abusing their market power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  