-- 
Greenland Says Still Attracts Oil Interest After Cairn Failure

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-12-02T08:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/greenland-says-still-attracts-oil-interest-after-cairn-failure.html
Greenland is still attracting
interest from oil and gas explorers after  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  ended
a $1 billion drilling program without finding viable reserves.  Joern Skov Nielsen, director of Greenland’s bureau of
petroleum and minerals, met about 70 industry leaders in
Copenhagen yesterday to discuss licensing rounds in 2012 and
2013 for acreage off the eastern part of the island.  Husky
Energy Inc. (HSE) , a Canadian explorer, plans to drill two exploration
wells in Greenland’s waters in 2013, he said.  “All of the super majors are interested, as well as a
number of very large companies,” Nielsen said today in a
telephone interview. “Everyone realizes that the area has a
very high potential, and there are similarities with the
Norwegian geology. Estimates by the U.S. Geological Survey point
to roughly 31 billion barrels of reserves there.”  Cairn drilled eight wells in two years on the western side
of the island, finding traces of oil in one of the industry’s
most advanced exploration efforts in Arctic waters.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  hold
licenses to explore off Greenland, an autonomous Danish
territory of 56,000 people.  “The Cairn campaign is quite encouraging geologically,”
Nielsen said. “We’ve only had eight wells in a very large
ocean, and statistically you need more than that in a frontier
area. But the wells strengthen the assumption that there are
hydrocarbons.”  Greenland, which gets about half its exports from shrimp,
has been granting offshore oil licenses and mineral concessions
to diversify its income. Greenland’s oil and gas resources may
total 50 billion barrels, according to the USGS. That’s more
than the U.S.’s proven crude reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  