-- 
Gross Says Fed Rates Stay Low Even With Job Growth: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-12-02T15:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/gross-says-fed-to-keep-rates-low-for-longer-even-with-job-growth.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said U.S. employment growth won’t prevent the  Federal
Reserve  from signaling that borrowing rates will remain lower
longer than policy makers have already indicated.  The Fed will keep the  target rate  for overnight loans at
current levels for as long as four years, up from the through
the middle of 2013 period outlined, Gross, manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.   Unemployment  in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in November
to a two-year low, while employers added fewer workers than
projected and earnings eased, indicating the labor market is
making limited progress.  The jobless rate dropped to 8.6
percent, the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  The economy still has “some slogging to do here,” Gross
said from Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California .
“The Fed is focusing on the problems in euro land and the
potential lock-up of the financial markets. The QE3 that I
expect is really not an increased amount of purchasing in terms
of the Fed’s balance sheet but an extended period language that
allows the market to anticipate a two, three, or four years
period of time where fed funds stay at 25 basis points.”  The Fed has held its target rate for overnight loans in a
zero to 0.25 percent range since December 2008 and pledged in
August to hold its key rate steady at least until mid-2013. The
central bank also purchased $1.7 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage debt between December 2008 and March 2010, and the $600
billion of Treasuries from November through June and began this
quarter extending the maturity of it debt holdings.  Payroll Gains  Six central banks led by the Fed made it cheaper this week
for banks to borrow dollars in emergencies in a global effort to
ease  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The yield on  Italy ’s 10-
year bond is still close to 7 percent as the debt crisis spreads
to the region’s core countries.  U.S. payrolls climbed 120,000, with more than half the
hiring coming from retailers and temporary help agencies, after
a revised 100,000 rise in October that was more than initially
estimated. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a gain of 125,000.  The benchmark U.S. 10-year note  yield  rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.12 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield on the 30-year bond was
little changed at 3.11 percent.  ‘Reflationary Efforts’  Yields on longer-maturity debt are likely to rise the most
if the economy continues to show signs of strength, Gross said.  “The Fed is going to stay low for a long, long time, and
that keeps twos and fives and actually tens fairly well
anchored,” Gross said. “But it’s the 30-year that will reflect
these reflationary efforts not only from the Fed but from the
ECB” and other European central banks working in conjunction
with the  International Monetary Fund  to support the highly-
indebted peripheral European nations.  A European proposal to channel central bank loans through
the IMF may deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($270 billion)
to fight the debt crisis, two people familiar with the
negotiations said today.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , euro-area finance ministers gave the go-
ahead for work on the plan, said the people, who declined to be
named because the talks are at an early stage. The need for a
new crisis-containment tool emerged as the effort to boost the
440 billion-euro rescue fund to 1 trillion euros fell short.  Printing Money  Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle
funds through the IMF, potentially to underwrite precautionary
lending programs for  Italy  or  Spain , the two countries judged to
be the most vulnerable now, the people said.  “There is going to be a lot of money printed and to the
extent that it results in reflation not just in the euro zone
but in the  United States  then it’s the long end that might be
vulnerable,” Gross said.  Gross’s $244 billion Total Return Fund has gained  2.49
percent (PTTRX)  this year, trailing 76 percent of peers. The fund has
returned an average of 7.47 percent over the past five years to
beat 97 percent of rivals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gross advised investors to keep their money in only the
safest investments, such as government debt of the U.S. or
 Canada , or even in cash. High-dividend paying shares from
companies such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  are
also attractive, he said.  “To the extent that you can get 3.5 or 4 percent from an
electric utility or a Coke or a Procter and a very stable cash-
flow-type of company relative to 2 percent 10-year Treasury,”
it’s an attractive investment, Gross said. “One has to be
suspicious in terms of the  risk premium  because markets go up 2
or 3 percent a day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  