-- 
Michael Douglas, Eli Broad Rub Elbows Amid Brisk Art Basel Sales

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/michael-douglas-eli-broad-rub-elbows-amid-brisk-art-basel-sales.html
By the end of  Art Basel Miami Beach ’s
VIP preview this week, art dealer Kavi Gupta sold 35 sculptures
by Chicago-based artist Theaster Gates.  Among them were 24 plinths with embedded porcelain plates,
displayed on the lawn in front of the  Bass Museum of Art  in
Miami and priced at $30,000 each. A $250,000 wooden structure
featuring 240 gleaming black-and-white, glass-lantern slides on
its ceiling went to the trustees of Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts.  “It’s been crazy,” said Gupta. “Most things were sold in
the first three hours.”  Sales were brisk at the  Miami Beach  Convention Center,
where the largest U.S. art fair runs through Dec. 4. Collectors
who got first dibs Wednesday on as much as $2.5 billion worth of
art included Los Angeles philanthropist Eli Broad and Russian
billionaire Roman Abramovich’s partner Dasha Zhukova.  Michael Douglas  and his wife  Catherine Zeta-Jones  checked
out an $8 million painting by  Pablo Picasso  and a $12 million
painting by Cy Twombly at the Acquavella Galleries. A separate
group that included Sean John Combs, sporting an arm sling,
supermodel Naomi Campbell and Vladislav Doronin, chairman of
Moscow-based real-estate developer Capital Group, made several
stops, including one at Gagosian gallery. Blue-chip art could be
found all over the fair:  Andy Warhol ’s self-portraits and
flowers, Anish Kapoor’s satellite dish-like sculptures and one
giant, plush, long-nailed creature by Takashi Murakami.  ‘In The Mood’  “People are in the mood to buy,” said art dealer
Christophe van de Weghe, who sold a 2004 abstract painting by
 Gerhard Richter  for $2.8 million and a small 1961  Frank Stella 
for $1 million.  Broad said he bought a large-scale drawing by Kara Walker
priced at $175,000 at Sikkema Jenkins & Co. gallery. Mexico’s La
Coleccion Jumex acquired a sculpture by Carol Bove, priced at
$150,000 at David Zwirner gallery.  “Contemporary art is becoming accepted as a better store
of value,” said California-based collector Dean Valentine.
“What else would you put money into? Dollars? Euros? Most asset
classes have been disappointing.”  Collectors seemed comfortable buying artworks priced at
$100,000 or less, according to dealers. First-time exhibitor
Algus Greenspon gallery from  New York  quickly sold two raw, film
poster-inspired paintings by Emily Sundblad for $8,000 and
$25,000.  Some Lingered  Paris-based Emmanuel Perrotin sold drawings and ceramic
sculptures by Klara Kristalova priced between 2,000 euros
($2,692) and 28,000 euros. Galerie Eigen + Art, which has spaces
in Leipzig and Berlin, sold Carsten Nicolai’s sculpture of sound
waves cast in aluminum for $50,000.  Those few pieces priced at $10 million or more, including
Picasso, Twombly and  Jeff Koons , lingered.  Wendi Murdoch left the VIP opening of the fair having
reserved a photograph by  Cindy Sherman  at  Skarstedt gallery .  “It’s my second time at the fair,” the wife of News Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, said at a barbecue beach
party she co-hosted with Zhukova at  Soho Beach House , where
 Paris Hilton  mingled with actors  Owen Wilson  and Adrien Brody.
“We look and we learn.”  There was more energy at the opening of the New Art Dealers
Alliance, or  NADA , fair yesterday, where younger galleries sold
emerging art, some at prices below $1,000. Within two hours,
paintings were pulled from the walls and packaged in bubble-wrap
to be carried off by buyers.  Doodle Prints  Miami-based nonprofit organization Locust Projects sold all
30 prints of gold American flags by Andrew Schoultz, at $500
each. Buyers snapped up Martin Creed’s $150 doodle prints at the
booth of New York nonprofit group White Columns.  Newman
Popiashvili  gallery sold several small paintings and photographs
by Georgian and American artists ranging from $800 to $12,000.  “We are still in a recession, or at least that’s how it
feels to a young gallery,” said co-owner Irena Popiashvili. “I
show artists in the price range that collectors can respond to
immediately.”  Art Basel Miami Beach runs through Dec. 4 at Miami Beach
Convention Center;  http://www.artbaselmiamibeach.com .  UBS AG (UBSN)  is
the fair’s main sponsor; NADA runs through Dec. 4 at Deauville
Beach Resort;  http://newartdealers.org .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 