-- 
Michael Kors Seeks to Raise $792.3 Million in U.S. IPO of Fashion Designer

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-12-02T21:56:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/michael-kors-seeks-to-raise-792-3-million-in-u-s-ipo-of-fashion-designer.html
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. , the
luxury-clothing company, is seeking to raise as much as $792.3
million in a U.S. initial public offering as the company’s
founder and the biggest investor trim their stakes.  The company said in a regulatory  filing  today that it is
offering 41.7 million shares on behalf of existing shareholders,
for $17 to $19 each. At the midpoint, the company would have a
market capitalization of about $3.4 billion.  Michael Kors 
Holdings isn’t selling any shares in the offering.  Michael Kors, the designer who founded the company in 1981,
is planning to cut his stake as retailers of  luxury goods 
outperform mid-priced department stores and discounters this
year. Net income in the fiscal year ended April 2 jumped 85
percent to $72.5 million on rising sales.  “It strikes me as opportunistic,” said Steven Dennis,
founder of the luxury consulting firm Sageberry Consulting LLC
in  Dallas . “The stock market is better, and the luxury market
has had a good run-up since the recession, and you can take some
money off the table while you still have some momentum.”  Michael Kors, who is a judge on the fashion-design show
“Project Runway” with Heidi Klum, sells “accessible luxury”
goods, with his handbags priced at $400 to $500, as opposed to
those starting at $800, Dennis said.  “He is fashion-forward, but not too so, so kind of safe
fashion,” he said. “He has a very solid business.”  Coach, Polo  At the midpoint of its  price range , Michael Kors Holdings
will be valued at 3.4 times trailing 12-month revenue.
Competitor  Coach Inc. (COH)  trades at 4.3 times, while  Polo Ralph
Lauren Corp. (RL)  trades at 2.1 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It feels a bit rich to me, but there are growth
opportunities there left to tap,” said Jeffry Aronsson,
chairman of Aronsson Group LLC in New York, which helps develop
fashion brands. “They’ve clearly done a remarkable job. They
weathered the recession of 2008 and 2009 and just kept going.”  Founder Kors is planning to sell 5.8 million shares,
trimming his stake to 8.6 percent following the IPO from about
12 percent. Sportswear Holdings Ltd., the company’s largest
investor, plans to sell 25.9 million shares, cutting its stake
to 38 percent from 52 percent. Kors Chief Executive Officer John Idol is planning to reduce his stake to 5.1 percent. The 41.7
million total shares being offered represent 22 percent of the
company’s outstanding stock.  Lawrence Stroll and Silas Chou, of Sportswear Holdings, a
private-equity firm, helped develop the Tommy Hilfiger brand,
and Idol previously ran Donna Karan International Inc.  “The company has done spectacularly well,” said Marc Cooper, head of the retail practice at New York-based investment
bank Peter J. Solomon Co. “They are super operators, they know
how to build brands.”  No Proceeds  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. are managing the IPO, according to the filing. The
stock will trade on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the ticker
KORS.  Michael Kors Holdings has principal executive offices in
 Hong Kong , while designer Kors, who is the chief creative
officer, leads a New York-based team that is responsible for the
company’s products, according to the prospectus.  The IPO is scheduled to price on Dec. 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company won’t receive any proceeds
from the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  