-- 
Michigan Sets Detroit Review in Step Toward Takeover Costing $400 Million

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/michigan-plans-review-of-detroit-s-finances.html
Detroit ’s finances will be given a
preliminary review by state officials starting Dec. 6,  Michigan 
Treasurer Andy Dillon said, in what may be the first step toward
the appointment of an emergency manager.  The 18th-largest U.S. city may face $400 million in
penalties if an emergency manager is put in charge, because of
swap agreements made with two banks that helped Detroit borrow
money in 2009, according to Ted Damutz, senior credit officer
for Moody’s Investors Service in  Chicago .  Dillon is aware of the potential penalty, Terry Stanton,
spokesman for the state treasury department, said by e-mail. He
said the financial review is only a first step in a process that
may lead to state intervention.  Detroit faces a $44 million cash shortfall by June, on top
of an accumulated $155 million deficit. Yesterday, Mayor Dave Bing and City Council members denounced the potential state
action, saying the city will heal itself. Republican Governor
 Rick Snyder  has said that while he doesn’t want to name an
emergency manager, the city needs help.  “The goal of the mayor and governor is to avoid the
appointment of an emergency manager,” Steve Serkaian, a Bing
spokesman, said yesterday by telephone. So concern that the
swaps penalties may kick in is “speculative,” he said.  UBS, Siebert  The penalties were included in a renegotiated financing
agreement after the city’s credit rating was cut in 2009, Damutz
said yesterday in a telephone interview. He said the city could
try to renegotiate terms if an emergency manager takes over
Detroit’s finances. A Moody’s report lists the banks as Zurich-
based  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Siebert, Brandford, Shank & Co. in  New York .  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman in New York, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment on the swaps,
left after normal business hours. A person answering a call to
Siebert’s West Coast headquarters in Oakland,  California , said
no one was available to provide a comment on the deals.  Dillon, in a conference call with reporters yesterday, said
he ordered a preliminary review because of the city’s worsening
cash flow and because the mayor, City Council and union leaders
have been unable to agree on a plan to reduce the deficit.  Bing has proposed eliminating 1,000 of the city’s 11,000
jobs, while the council wants to cut 2,300 positions, including
500 from the police and fire departments.  The financial examination will be completed within 30 days,
Dillon said. If it shows sufficient distress, a formal review
may be ordered to determine further action, which Dillon said
wouldn’t necessarily mean the appointment of a manager.  ‘Fixable’ Issues  The city’s difficulties “are fixable,” Dillon said. He
dismissed the possibility of a municipal bankruptcy.  A state law passed this year broadened the powers of
emergency managers over municipal finances, including the
ability to nullify union contracts, with the treasurer’s
consent.  Detroit ’s schools are already under control of such a
state-appointed overseer.  “It’s our goal to work together with the city in
coordination and to have a good, healthy city of Detroit,
because that’s critical to the future of Michigan,” Dillon
said.  Dillon’s action is “unfortunate,” Bing said in a
statement. He said the city would cooperate with the review.  “We believe we have the right plan to address the city’s
fiscal crisis,” the mayor said. “We will continue to work with
the City Council, our unions and other stakeholders to achieve
the necessary cuts and concessions, including pension, health-
care and work-rule reform.”  A review can be triggered when a municipality’s bond rating
falls to BBB or lower, or the equivalent, Dillon said. Detroit
is rated Ba3 by Moody’s and BB- by  Fitch Ratings  -- both three
steps below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  puts the city’s
credit one level higher at BB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  