-- 
Middle America Business Conditions Index for November (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-12-02T21:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/middle-america-business-conditions-index-for-november-text-.html
Following is the text from the Mid-
America Business Conditions Survey of supply managers and
business leaders in the region from Creighton University.  November survey results at a glance:  Leading economic indicator rises above growth neutral
Approximately 30 percent of firms anticipate adding new
employees in the first half of 2012 Employment gauge falls below
growth neutral for the fourth straight month
Supply managers expect wholesale prices to rise by 3.7 percent
over the next six months Anticipated annualized wholesale-price
growth has declined by 1.5 percentage points since February 2010.  After declining below growth neutral in October, the
Business Conditions Index for the nine-state, Mid-America region,
moved above 50.0 for November. The index, a leading economic
indicator from a monthly survey of supply managers, continues to
point to slow growth for the region for the next three to six
months and a small risk of a recession.  Overall Index:  The index, which ranges between 0 and 100, climbed to 52.6
from 49.9 for October. November’s reading is the 23rd time in
the past 24 months that the index rose above growth neutral.
“Surveys over the past several months indicate that the
slowdowns in the national and global economies are putting
downward pressure on the regional economy,” said Ernie Goss,
director of Creighton’s Economic Forecasting Group and the Jack
A. MacAllister Chair in Regional Economics.  The overall index, or Business Conditions Index, is a
mathematical average of indices for new orders, production or
sales, employment, inventories and delivery lead time. This is
the same methodology used by the National  Institute for Supply
Management .  Employment:  For a fourth straight month, the employment index remained
below growth neutral, though  the November reading inched higher
to 49.5 from October’s 49.0.“Our surveys over the last four
months indicate that job growth in the region has slowed
significantly. Approximately 18 percent of survey companies
reported net job reductions for November, the same as in
October,” said Goss.  This month firms, were asked about their hiring
expectations for the next six months. “Only 30 percent expect to
add workers while the remaining 70 percent anticipate layoffs or
level employment for the first half of 2012,” said Goss. “These
expectations are somewhat more optimistic than December 2010,
when 24 percent anticipated worker additions for the next six
months.”  Wholesale Prices:  The prices-paid index, which tracks the cost of raw
materials and supplies, rose to 60.9 from October’s 56.0. As
regional growth has waned, so have inflationary pressures at the
wholesale level. “Lower inflation in the pipeline gave the
Federal Reserve room to take the coordinated monetary easing
action it initiated yesterday with five other central banks,”
said Goss.  This month supply managers were asked how much they
expected prices of products they buy to increase in the next six
months. Approximately 20 percent of the supply managers expect
these prices to grow by more than 6 percent during the next six
months. Overall, supply mangers anticipate prices to grow by 3.7
percent over the next six months or approximately 7.4 percent on
an annualized basis. “Last February when we asked the same
question, supply managers expected annualized price growth of
8.8 percent.  Thus, anticipated wholesale price growth has
declined by 1.5 percentage points since February,” said Goss.  Inventories:  After declining below growth neutral for October, supply
managers in the nine-state region once again increased inventory
levels for the month. November’s inventory index climbed to 52.9
from October’s 48.5.  Confidence:  Looking ahead six months, economic optimism, as captured by
the November business confidence index, sank to 49.1 from
October’s already weak 49.5. “Supply managers in our survey
remain pessimistic about economic prospects for the first half
of 2012. Economic uncertainty in  Europe  and a frail U.S. housing
sector were identified as factors weighing on the economic
outlook,” said Goss.  Trade:  Tepid regional growth has pushed Mid-America firms to pull
back on their purchases from abroad. The November import index
once again sank below growth neutral with a reading of 49.5, up
slightly from October’s 48.0. “Even with an upturn in new export
orders to 52.1 from October’s 50.0, weak global economic growth
continues to restrain exports for firms in the region,” said
Goss.  Other Components:  Other components of the November Business Conditions Index
were new orders at 52.0, up from October’s 45.4; production or
sales at 52.4, up from 48.5; and delivery lead time at 56.5,
down from 57.9 in October.  The Creighton Economic Forecasting Group has conducted the
monthly survey of supply managers in nine states since 1994 to
produce leading economic indicators of the Mid-America economy.
States included in the survey are  Arkansas ,  Iowa ,  Kansas ,
 Minnesota ,  Missouri ,  Nebraska ,  North Dakota ,  Oklahoma  and  South
Dakota .  The Creighton Economic Forecasting Group uses the same
methodology as a national survey by the Institute for Supply
Management, formerly the Purchasing Management Association,
which has formally surveyed its membership since 1931 to gauge
business conditions. The overall index, referred to as the
Business Conditions Index, ranges between 0 and 100. An index
greater than 50 indicates an expansionary economy over the
course of the next three to six months.  SOURCE: Mid-America Business Conditions Survey,
http:/www.outlook-economic.com  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  