-- 
IMF’s New European Chief Shakes Up Department Amid Euro Crisis

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-12-02T20:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/imf-s-new-european-chief-shakes-up-dept-.html
Reza Moghadam, who took over European
operations at the  International Monetary Fund  last month, shook
up the department by appointing three new deputies as the fund
prepares for deeper involvement in the euro region’s debt
crisis.  Mahmood Pradhan, Aasim Husain, and Rodrigo Valdes will all
join from other departments as deputy directors, according to an
internal announcement dated Nov. 28 and obtained by Bloomberg
News. None of them is a citizen of a country of the 17-nation
euro region, where the IMF is co-financing bailouts to Greece,
Portugal and Ireland and is preparing to send a team to Italy to
audit the country’s efforts to reduce its debt.  “They are all of course superb economists, but they bring
much more to us at these trying times for the department,”
Moghadam, a U.K. citizen, said in an e-mail to some IMF staff
members. “They have all been intellectual leaders within and
outside the Fund, with enormous depth and expertise.”  Moghadam on Nov. 16 was named to replace Portuguese
national  Antonio Borges , who resigned for “personal reasons”
less than a year into the job. European finance ministers said
this week they would seek a greater role for the IMF alongside
their own bailout fund in their bid to tame the euro region’s
sovereign-debt turmoil.  “These three people had not worked on  Europe  before,”
said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington and a former IMF economist. “They don’t bring any
baggage with them so they are in a sense free to think newly
about how the IMF ought to be engaging with Europe in these
difficult moments.”  IMF spokesman  William Murray  had no immediate comment.  The new deputy directors are expected to start in mid-
December, according to Moghadam’s e-mail.  Deputy Directors  Moghadam’s e-mail didn’t say whether the current three
deputy directors in the European department would be replaced.
An IMF employee from the strategy department was assigned to the
department for three months to “help with the transition
process and human resource issues,” according to the e-mail.  Pradhan, a U.K. citizen born in  Uganda , is currently
mission chief to Japan and Singapore, according to the
announcement. He joined the IMF in 1993 after four years at the
 Bank of England , worked for more than 10 years in financial
markets including for hedge fund Tudor Investment Corp. and came
back to the IMF in 2007.  Husain, who is from Pakistan, spent most of his career at
the IMF, with positions ranging from assistant to the chief
economist to mission chief to Jordan. He most recently worked in
the strategy department, where he has supervised the IMF’s new
guidelines on  capital controls .  Valdes, a Chilean national working in the Western
Hemisphere department, oversees the work on countries including
the U.S. He joined the IMF in 2009 and previously worked as
chief Latin America economist for Barclays Capital Inc. and as
chief economist at the Chilean central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  