-- 
Indian Bonds Complete Best Week Since May 2010 as Economy Cools

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-12-02T12:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/india-s-10-year-bonds-set-for-4th-weekly-gain-as-economy-cools.html
India ’s 10-year  bonds  completed the
biggest weekly gain since May 2010 on speculation a slowing
economy and  Europe ’s debt crisis will prompt the central bank to
stop increasing borrowing costs.  Yields fell to an eight-week low after data showed this
week that gross domestic  product  grew an annual 6.9 percent last
quarter, the least in two years. The  Reserve Bank  of India has
raised the repurchase  rate  13 times since the start of 2010 to
8.5 percent. India auctioned this week quotas to global funds
for buying local-currency sovereign bonds after raising the cap
on offshore ownership by $5 billion last month.  “Given the growth concerns, there may be a pause in
interest-rate increases,” said R.S. Chauhan, Mumbai-based chief
dealer of fixed-income and currencies at  State Bank  of Bikaner &
Jaipur. “Foreign fund inflows will also support bonds.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 fell
17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage points, this week to 8.65
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate fell five basis points today.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
fell 21 basis points this week to 7.90 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian government has limited scope for a boost in
spending to create demand and spur growth, Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  said today.  “When the adverse impact of the 2008 crisis was felt in
the economy, we could generate domestic demand through a
stimulus package,” Mukherjee told a conference in  New Delhi .
“I am not in a position to provide that kind of fiscal
stimulus” even as the government makes some policy changes to
“improve the situation a little bit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  