-- 
India’s ‘Astonishing Auction’ Pushes Down Global Solar Price

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-05T13:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/india-s-solar-power-bid-prices-sink-to-record-consultant-says.html
India , the world’s third-largest
energy consumer, is cutting solar-power costs to a record by
forcing project developers into auctions, helping avoid the
spiraling renewable-energy subsidies that have hurt  Europe .  The lowest bid in India’s latest national auction on Dec. 2
came from Solairedirect SA,  France ’s second-largest producer,
which offered to sell photovoltaic electricity at 7,490 rupees
($147) a megawatt-hour. That’s 38 percent below the average
price set in a December 2010 auction and about 30 percent
cheaper than the global average for solar projects.  Governments in Europe including Germany and  Spain , the
world’s largest solar-panel markets, this year cut above-market
rates paid to all plant operators that led to ballooning costs
amid an escalating debt crisis. India is staying ahead in
driving down costs by forcing companies to compete on price.  “Astonishingly competitive pricing in the latest
auction,”  Anand Mahindra , managing director of Mahindra Group,
whose solar unit won two of the 28 contracts awarded for the
solar plants, said in a Twitter feed that was confirmed by his
spokeswoman Roma Balwani. “The sun appears to be shining on
India’s solar power program.”  Globally, power project developers on average demand to be
paid $208 per megawatt-hour to build a solar plant, $78 for a
wind farm and $76 for a coal plant, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance levelized cost of energy analysis.  Competing With Coal  The auction’s results for $700 million of projects shows
the price of solar power in India is closing in on the cost of
coal-fired generation faster than expected as photovoltaic
equipment costs plunge, said Mohit Anand, senior consultant at
Bridge to India Pvt., a New Delhi-based advisory firm.  Solar power may equal the cost of fossil fuel-based
electricity sold to commercial businesses as early as 2014 or
2015 if prices continue to fall at the rate seen in India over
the past 12 months, Anand said. KPMG LLP predicted in May solar
power may be as cheap as coal by 2017. The government said in an
August report that solar could reach grid parity by 2019.  Under India’s  program , the government proposed to buy solar
power at 15,390 rupees a megawatt-hour for 25 years. Companies
bid to sell at a discount to that price in a process known as a
reverse auction. Those offering the lowest rates win and are
awarded the rights to build plants with capacities of as much as
20 megawatts each.  Global Record  The average bid of the 28 winning projects was 8,780
rupees. That’s a nearly 30 percent drop from the average solar
power rate set by India’s first auction last December and 35
percent above India’s wholesale price of coal-based electricity
on Dec. 2, according to prices on the Indian Energy Exchange.
Even at equal prices, coal has an advantage in that it can
produce power at nighttime and at full strength under cloudy
skies.  Solairedirect’s offer is the third-cheapest on record
globally behind a bid for $110 a megawatt-hour in  China  and $120
in  Peru , according to Jenny Chase, the Zurich-based head of
solar analysis at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  In clean-energy auctions this year in  Brazil ,  Uruguay  and
Peru, wind farm and solar park developers have won contracts to
supply power at rates close to or below fossil fuel-based power.  Global solar power prices are plunging because of declining
equipment costs, with the spot price of solar panels dropping
about 40 percent this year as manufacturers, especially in
China, ramped up production, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Cost Justification  “Manufacturers are keen to offer discounts and to defer
payments because things are so competitive right now,” Anand
said. “Costs are going down and that’s really reflected in
these bids.”  The auction awarded 350 megawatts of capacity and was the
second under India’s national Solar Mission program that’s
positioning the country to become one of the world’s fastest-
growing solar markets by installing 20,000 megawatts, equivalent
to about 18 nuclear reactors, of sun-powered capacity by 2022.  The biggest contracts for 20-megawatt projects were won by
Indian developers who have already begun building smaller plants
in the country. They include  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global
Management LLC -backed Welspun Group, Mahindra Group’s solar
unit, World Bank-backed Azure Power India Pvt. and Kiran Energy
Solar Power Pvt., whose investors include Bessemer Venture
Partners, an early funder of Skype Technologies SA. That’s
according to Bridge to India’s Anand and a list compiled by
Energy Alternatives India, a Chennai-based consultancy.  GAIL India, Khosla  Other companies that won the right to build 5- to 15-
megawatt projects include  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s biggest
natural gas distributor, Fonroche Energie, a French panel maker,
Green Infra Ltd., which bought BP Plc’s Indian wind farms in
2009, and Sunborne Energy Holdings LLC backed by billionaire
 Vinod Khosla . Solairedirect won a 5-megawatt plant.  The winners are required to buy solar cells domestically.
India’s three largest traded makers of the cells used in solar
panels are  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR) ,  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI)  and  Websol
Energy Systems Ltd. (WESL)  Overseas manufacturers such as  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR)  and  Sharp Corp.  may also benefit because their thin-film
technology is exempt from the local sourcing rules.  Sujana Towers Ltd. (SUTL) , one of the project winners, rose as
much as 6.7 percent, Indosolar gained as much as 2.9 percent and
Moser Baer advanced as much as 2.7 percent in Mumbai trading
before retreating with the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index. Sujana closed down 4.7 percent, Indosolar lost
0.7 percent and Moser Baer declined 1.3 percent.  The companies will have seven months to arrange financing
and 13 months to complete the plants, according to  government
guidelines  on the website of NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd., the
state-run power trader overseeing the process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  