-- 
Irish Fiscal Deficit Widens on Banks; Tax Take Misses Target

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-12-02T16:51:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/irish-fiscal-deficit-widens-on-banks-tax-take-misses-target.html
Ireland’s budget deficit widened to
21.4 billion euros ($28.7 billion) in the 11 months through
November, boosted by the cost of rescuing the financial system.  In the year-earlier period, the shortfall was 13.4 billion
euros, the  Finance Ministry  in Dublin said in an e-mailed
statement today. The underlying deficit, excluding bank payments
and the sale of a state stake in  Bank of Ireland Plc (BKIR) , was more
than 1.6 billion euros lower than a year ago, it said.  The government plans 3.8 billion euros in cuts and tax
increases in the 2012 budget. The government is pursuing more
austerity as it tries to convince investors that measures worth
20 percent of the economy over seven years are enough to win a
return to the  debt market  by 2013 as the euro crisis escalates.
Tax revenue fell about 520 million euros, or 1.6 percent, below
the government’s forecast at end of November.  “The domestic economy remains extremely weak,”  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham in Dublin, said in a note
before the release. “The government needs a turnaround in
private demand if it is to reach the sort of annual growth rates
necessary to make inroads into its debt.”  Income tax fell 2.1 percent below target. Sales tax dropped
4.6 percent off target and corporation tax was 6.3 percent below
the government’s expectations.  Total debt servicing expenditure at the end of November was
about 5.2 billion euros, a 1.1 billion euro increase on the
year-earlier period.  The increase in the headline deficit figure was due to 3.1
billion euros in payments  Anglo Irish Bank Corp . and Irish
 Nationwide Building Society  and 7.5 billion euros in one-time
injections in other banks in July, the ministry said.  The figure also reflected a 1 billion euro in capital
receipts from the sale of part of the state’s stake in Bank of
Ireland in July, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  