-- 
Islamists Electoral Rise Due to Failed Secularism: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-12-02T00:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/islamists-electoral-rise-due-to-failed-secularism-pankaj-mishra.html
My last  column , on the strangely
renewable appeal of political Islam, provoked some strong
reactions from both extremes of the ideological spectrum.  Some correspondents urged me to reconsider -- even embrace
-- Islam as the most superior way of life, one that holds
answers to all problems of individual and collective existence.
Others accused me of endorsing the ideology of Islamism that
legitimizes such inhumane punishments as cutting off limbs and
stoning women to death.  Admittedly, much intellectual confusion -- and mischief --
is caused by an elastic concept like Islamism, which can be
stretched to accommodate the mass-murderer Ayman Al-Zawahiri as
well as the Tunisian leader and modernist thinker Rashid Ghannouchi. As it turns out, fast-moving events in the Arab
world illustrate what I was trying to say better than any
intellectual abstraction.  Since I wrote, voters in  Morocco  have given the moderately
Islamist  Justice and Development Party  more than one-quarter of
the parliamentary seats for which elections were held, making it
the largest bloc. Egyptians, turning out in large numbers to
exercise their long-denied franchise, also seem likely to
empower Islamist parties. Libyans as well.  Visionary Individuals  This is the most extraordinary political phenomenon yet in
the new century. My interest in it derives from a belief that
every new generation of men and women possesses the power to
open up fresh possibilities of political thinking and action --
what Hannah Arendt often called “natality.” As Arendt saw it,
this ever-renewed promise of politics was best realized by
visionary individuals and groups -- such as America’s Founding
Fathers or India’s  Mahatma Gandhi  -- who can creatively
interpret the particular historical situations they are thrown
into.  Nearly a century ago,  Turkey ’s Mustafa Kemal Ataturk seemed
to be that far-reaching individual in the Muslim world,
hectically making over his country in the image of the West. His
attempts at large-scale secularization -- which essentially
created a small, authoritarian elite -- were imitated by many
Muslim leaders. It is safe to say now that this political and
cultural experiment failed, that some selective borrowing from
Western modernity could not relegate Islam to the private
sphere.  Even before the Arab Spring, many Muslim countries had made
new ideological and political beginnings with leaders from non-
secular and non-elite backgrounds. In  Indonesia , the world’s
largest Muslim country, Abdurrahman Wahid, the leader of one of
the world’s biggest Islamic organizations, indispensably helped
his country’s transition from a dictatorship to representative
government.  In the same decade and a half, Turkey also witnessed the
political empowering of many of its previously underrepresented
people through the work of the Islamists in the Justice and
Development Party.  Still, the fact that Arab countries such as Egypt, Libya,
Morocco and Tunisia that have had ostensibly secular regimes now
seem to offer a new base for “Islamism” will no doubt set
alarm bells ringing in the West.  At least some of this fear and bewilderment is due to old,
persisting misperceptions -- and a bit of narcissism. The suave,
English-speaking Cairo residents who fronted the Egyptian
revolution to Western television viewers may have made it seem
like their own handiwork, with a little help from Facebook and
Twitter. But they were never representative of the Egyptian
population or the religiously conservative working classes that
really tipped the balance against  Hosni Mubarak .  Laptop Warriors  Furthermore, the ideological oppositions that arouse many
laptop warriors in the West -- liberal democracy versus
Islamism, secularism versus theocracy -- bleach out the mundane
but more significant social and economic factors behind the Arab
Spring: For instance, the fact that welfare-statism in  Tunisia 
followed by a globalized and apparently successful economy
produced a latent middle class whose high expectations, fueled
by the entertainment media, turned out to be impossible to
fulfill.  A socioeconomic analysis would reveal how a mass of
aspirers first came to be denied the highest fruits of
capitalist modernity, and were then pressed down to the ranks of
permanent losers. A historical account of secular Arab
despotisms would also show why and how they destroyed the
semblance of civil society previously maintained by clergy and
other Islam-minded social and political organizations.  It may be comforting for some Westerners to think of
middle-class Tunisians and Moroccans holding -- like their
counterparts in  Greece ,  Spain , the U.K. and the U.S. -- study
sessions on Galbraith, Keynes and Marx in tented “People’s
Universities.” But it seems more natural that Arabs should turn
to belief systems and political organizations still standing in
the ruins of the ancien regimes, whose promise of social justice
has become more attractive than ever.  These may seem menacingly “Islamist” in Western eyes. But
it is more useful to think of present and future election
results in  Muslim countries  as expressing a strong desire for
accountable governments that guarantee civil rights and a degree
of egalitarianism. That such desires are outlined by an old
ideal held by a moral community of believers should not be so
surprising.  Even in  Iran , which has suffered greatly from hard-line
Islamists, reform movements uphold Islamic principles. Following
the efforts of the country’s former president Mohammad Khatami,
the Green Movement has struggled to attain liberal freedoms
within an overall Islamic polity. While thwarted by a brutal and
increasingly reckless regime in Tehran, this endeavor will now
be undertaken in Arab countries, where devout Muslims deftly
using a vocabulary of social and political rights are all set to
assume state power.  Potential Tyrannies  It is possible, of course, that their experiment of
reconciling Islamic principles with modern statecraft and
globalized economies will fail. It may even result in religious
tyrannies and the exodus of secular and liberal elites.  As Ebrahim Yazdi, one of the leaders of Iran’s Green
Movement, put it in an  open letter  to Ghannouchi last week,
there is reason to be “seriously concerned about the long range
outcome.” He continued: “Our people, Muslims of every nation,
struggle for the restoration of their basic rights, liberty, and
sovereignty. But we do not have sufficient experience with
democracy … We fight and overthrow dictators, but not
dictatorship itself.”  Yazdi prescribed some ways of avoiding “the mistakes we
have made in Iran, or those of our brothers in  Algeria  and
elsewhere.” These included a “recognition and celebration of
the diversity of human society and pluralism” and the spirit of
tolerance and compromise.  These are admirable ideals. We will see whether and how the
new Islam-minded rulers of the Arab world will enshrine them in
legal and political institutions -- as opposed to declaring that
the Shariah law contains all that you need.  It is not even clear whether they realize that, as Yazdi
puts it, “elections are valued instruments, but are not by
themselves democracy.” In any case, unlike with Ataturk long
ago, this time the whole world is watching to see whether the
promise of political natality in the Muslim world can be
realized.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West:
How to Be Modern in  India ,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra in London at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 