-- 
Spanish Bonds Snap Seven-Day Gain on Downgrade Bets; Italian Debt Falls

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T18:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/italian-two-year-notes-drop-yield-rises-13-basis-points-to-6-45-percent.html
Spanish 30-year bonds snapped a
seven-day rally on speculation the nation’s credit ranking will
be cut due to the euro-area debt crisis. Italian notes declined.  Spain ’s government debt pared gains today on concern a
lower rating would make it more difficult for the nation to
reduce its deficit. Spanish and Italian bonds advanced earlier
as people familiar said a European proposal to channel central
bank loans through the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver
as much as 200 billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the crisis.  “There is a rumor circulating that Spain might be
downgraded,” said Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “The
euro reacted immediately, Italian yields and Spanish yields the
same. That’s pretty much why bunds are rallying.”  Spanish 30-year  yields  were little changed at 6.17 percent
at 5 p.m. in London, after dropping as much as 19 basis points.
The 4.7 percent bond due in July 2041 traded at 80.135 percent
of face value.  Two-year  Italian rates  climbed 25 basis points to 6.57
percent. They earlier declined 56 basis points. German bonds
rose, pushing the yield down four basis points to 2.14 percent.
The euro slid 0.5 percent to $1.3391.  Moody’s Investors Service currently ranks Spain as A1, its
fifth-highest investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
Spain on Oct. 13 to its fourth-highest investment rank, AA-,
after  Fitch Ratings  cut it to the same level on Oct. 7.  No Immediate Plans  Fitch has no immediate plans to change its Spanish rating,
said a spokesman for the company who declined to be named in
line with policy. Standard & Poor’s declined to comment when
asked if it had any imminent plans to change Spain’s rating.
Moody’s Investors Service doesn’t comment on market rumors, it
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Spanish and Italian two-year notes still completed weekly
gains on optimism European leaders meeting at a summit on Dec. 9
will agree on further steps to resolve the crisis.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , euro-area finance ministers gave the go-
ahead for work on the plan to involve the IMF, said the two
people, who declined to be named because the talks are at an
early stage. The need for a new crisis-containment tool emerged
as the effort to boost the 440 billion-euro rescue fund to 1
trillion euros fell short.  Meeting in Brussels  European heads of government will meet in Brussels as they
struggle to find a remedy for the debt crisis that drove yields
on Spanish and Italian debt to euro-era records last month.
Spain’s bonds climbed yesterday, and French yields fell the most
in 20 years, as demand increased at debt auctions and Draghi
signaled the central bank could do more to fight the crisis in
return for closer fiscal union.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday the euro
area must converge economically and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today the bloc needs a fiscal union, boosting
optimism the two are nearing an agreement.  “Sarkozy is moving closer to Merkel and with the ECB
willing to do its part, that’s helping  market sentiment ,” said
Elwin de Groot, an economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht,
 Netherlands . “If the euro-zone leaders come up with a strong
commitment then we will go higher with bund yields for sure.”  German bonds have returned 7.2 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds gained 2.6 percent
and Italian debt lost 8.4 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  