-- 
Jackson Went to Blagojevich’s ‘Guy’ to Aid Senate Bid, House Report Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-12-02T22:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/jackson-went-to-blagojevich-s-guy-to-aid-senate-bid-house-report-says.html
Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. told
ethics investigators that he enlisted then-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich ’s “guy” to help his effort to win an appointment
to the U.S. Senate seat vacated by Barack Obama’s election as
president, according to a report released today.  The report was released as the  House Ethics Committee 
announced it would continue its inquiry into whether the
Illinois Democrat improperly lobbied Blagojevich to appoint him
to the Senate vacancy after Obama’s 2008 election. Blagojevich
was convicted earlier this year of illegally offering to trade
the appointment for campaign cash or personal favors.  The Ethics Committee’s inquiry will “gather additional
information necessary to complete its review” of charges
referred by the Office of Congressional Ethics, said a  statement 
by the panel’s chairman, Alabama Republican Jo Bonner, and
California Representative Linda Sanchez, the ranking Democrat.  Jackson, in a statement, reiterated his previous assertions
that he “publicly and transparently” sought the Senate
appointment.  “I did nothing illegal, unethical or inappropriate in that
pursuit, and I believe that is what the Ethics Committee will
conclude at the end of this process,” the statement said.  In a Nov. 15 letter to the committee, also released today,
Jackson’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , said the lawmaker “never
offered to raise campaign funds for Blagojevich in exchange for
appointment to the Senate seat.”  Weingarten also said that Jackson, 46, “did not improperly
use his office staff and official resources” to seek the
appointment. The lawyer didn’t return a reporter’s request for
comment on the report.  ‘Probable Cause’  In its 2009 report released today, the ethics office said
“there is probable cause to believe” that Jackson either
“directed” Raghuveer Nayak to raise campaign money for
Blagojevich in exchange for the appointment or knew that “Nayak
would make such an offer” once he was enlisted to help the
congressman persuade the governor to give him the Senate seat.  In a memo of an April 9, 2009 interview the ethics office
conducted with Jackson, Nayak was described as a “prodigious
and obsessive supporter” of Blagojevich. The memo quoted
Jackson directly as describing Nayak as the governor’s “guy.”  Still, Jackson told investigators that Nayak never told him
he was planning to raise money for Blagojevich, the report said.  Nayak couldn’t be immediately reached for comment today.  ‘Public Campaign’  The ethics office, which has the power to investigate and
refer allegations of wrongdoing by House members, said there was
“substantial reason to believe” that Jackson broke federal law
and House rules by using his official allowance and staff to
mount a “public campaign” for the Senate appointment to
succeed Obama.  The ethics office investigation was triggered by the
disclosure of transcripts of wiretapped telephone conversations
involving Blagojevich that an “emissary” from Jackson had
offered to raise money or provide “money up front” if the
congressman were appointed to the Senate seat, the ethics
office’s report said.  The wiretapped conversations were presented by prosecutors
in the political corruption case against the former Illinois
governor. Blagojevich is scheduled to sentenced Dec. 6 by a
federal judge in  Chicago .  Blagojevich was impeached by state legislators and
then removed from office following a January 2009 trial in the
state Senate. In December 2008, while he was still governor, he
named Democrat Roland Burris to the vacant Senate seat.  Burris didn’t seek election to the seat in 2010. It was won
in that year’s vote by Republican  Mark Kirk .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  