-- 
Japanese Stocks Cap Best Week Since 2009 as U.S. Manufacturing Surprises

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-02T06:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/japanese-stocks-gain-for-2nd-day-as-u-s-manufacturing-beats-estimates.html
Japanese  stocks  rose for a second day,
sending the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its biggest weekly
advance in two years, after U.S. manufacturing grew more than
economists estimated and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG
said shares will rebound next year.  Kajima Corp.  and other builders gained after UBS said
government measures to help Japan recover from the March
earthquake may boost corporate earnings. DeNA Co., the social-
network website operator that’s buying a professional baseball
team, jumped 8.1 percent after Credit Suisse AG initiated
coverage on the stock with an “outperform” rating.  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7270)  fell 1.6 percent after the carmaker recalled
some Subaru models to repair brake defects.  The Nikkei 225 rose 0.5 percent to 8,643.75 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. For the week, the gauge gained 5.9 percent, the
biggest advance since December 2009, as  China  lowered curbs to
lending and central banks fought  Europe ’s debt crisis by making
it cheaper for banks to borrow in dollars. The broader Topix
rose 0.6 percent to 744.14 yen today.  “The  U.S. economy  isn’t as weak as investors feared,”
said Kenji Sekiguchi, general manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co. “The focus has shifted temporarily away from
Europe and toward the U.S., while investors wait for Europe to
come up with policies.”  S&P Futures  Futures on  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  rose 0.4 percent.
The index fell 0.2 percent yesterday in  New York  as better-than-
forecast manufacturing growth and a rally in French and Spanish
bonds weren’t enough to extend the biggest three-day gain in the
gauge since March 2009.  The Japanese government yesterday said it plans a fourth
extra budget, a step unprecedented since postwar reconstruction,
to help shore up an economic recovery that’s under threat from a
surge in the yen, Europe’s crisis and Thai floods that have
disrupted production.  The spending package will probably be more than 2 trillion
yen ($26 billion), Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said yesterday.
While governments in Europe and the U.S. are cutting spending,
Japan has already allocated 18 trillion yen in three packages
since the record earthquake in March.  Builders Obayashi Corp. and Tobishima Corp. advanced at
least 2.8 percent.  Kajima ,  Japan ’s biggest construction
company by sales, climbed 4.4 percent to 240 yen. Deutsche Bank
AG today said the stock was one of its top ten Japanese picks.  Below-Average Turnover  The value of shares traded on the Topix was below average
ahead of a U.S. Labor Department report that is expected to show
payrolls climbed by 120,000 workers in November after rising by
80,000 the previous month. Turnover on the first section of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange totaled 915 billion yen, about 30 percent
less than this year’s average of 1.3 trillion yen.  Stocks (TPX)  rose after Goldman Sachs said the Topix is likely to
rise to 800 by the end of 2012 as corporate profits rebound. UBS
said the index will likely reach 930 next fiscal year as the
government spending boosts earnings.  A gauge tracking communications companies was the biggest
contributor to the Topix’s gain among its 33 industry groups.
Credit Suisse initiated coverage of Japan’s Internet sector with
a rating of “overweight,” saying companies including Gree Inc.
and DeNA will start to export content.  DeNA, operator of the Mobage gaming site, jumped 8.1
percent to 2,519 yen. Baseball owners approved DeNA’s takeover
of the Yokohama BayStars team, Chairman Makoto Haruta said
yesterday. Gree, which runs a Facebook-like service in Japan,
advanced 2.3 percent to 2,514 yen.  Shipping lines gained after the  Baltic Dry Index , a measure
of cargo rates, rose for a fourth day.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. 
increased 3.9 percent to 269 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd.
gained 0.8 percent to 138 yen. The Topix index that tracks
shipping lines has fallen by about half this year.  Among companies that fell, Fuji Heavy Industries dropped
1.6 percent to 436 yen after the carmaker recalled some Subaru
models to fix brake defects. Fuji Heavy’s Subaru unit said it’s
halting sales of three of its four 2012 models in the U.S.  -- With assistance from Masaaki Iwamoto in  Tokyo . Editor: Jason Clenfield.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  