-- 
JPMorgan, BofA, Citigroup, Barclays, Madoff in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-02T12:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/jpmorgan-bofa-citigroup-barclays-aig-madoff-in-court-news.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were among five banks sued by
Massachusetts for allegedly conducting unlawful foreclosures and
deceiving homeowners.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  filed the
lawsuit yesterday against the three banks, as well as  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc ., in state court in Boston.
The banks are accused of engaging in unfair and deceptive trade
practices in violation of state law, according to the attorney
general.  “We believe the stakes could not be higher at this stage
of the game,” Coakley said at a press conference in Boston.
“The foreclosure crisis continues to be at the root of the
economic mess that we find ourselves in and our inability to
turn it around.”  State attorneys general across the country have been
negotiating a possible settlement with the five banks that would
resolve a probe into foreclosure practices that began more than
a year ago following disclosures that faulty documents were
being used to seize homes.  Wells Fargo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John
Stumpf said in a CNBC interview yesterday that he is
disappointed the lawsuit was filed. Wells Fargo is based in  San
Francisco .  “We’ve worked hard to come to an agreement that I think
would be good for the country and good for housing,” he said.
“We can work through that better together than working it out
in court.”  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, said its
GMAC Mortgage unit, which was named as a defendant, will
“vigorously defend” itself against the lawsuit and has worked
“in good faith” with Coakley’s office during the past year to
discuss mortgage servicing and ways to assist borrowers.  Tom Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, said
the bank is disappointed Coakley filed the lawsuit while
negotiations with state and federal officials continue.  “We continue to believe that collaborative resolution
rather than continued litigation will most quickly heal the
housing market and help drive economic recovery,” Lawrence
Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, said in a statement.  Citigroup hasn’t had time to review the lawsuit, Mark
Rodgers, a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in an e-
mail. The bank has been cooperating with the attorney general,
he said.  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Sues U.S. Claiming $350 Million in Excess Taxes  Wells Fargo & Co. sued the U.S. government claiming it’s
owed more than $350 million in refunds for tax overpayments.  Some excess payments were caused by “computational and
data entry errors” by the Internal Revenue Service, and the
government hasn’t acted on its claim for a refund, Wells Fargo
said yesterday in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims in Washington.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, says the overpayments
involve the interest rates on taxes paid and stem from
acquisitions by the bank from 1996 through 2008.  “Wells Fargo, on its own behalf and on behalf of its
predecessors whose assets and liabilities were assumed by Wells
Fargo” filed claims for refunds “based on application of a net
zero rate of interest,” according to the complaint.  Ancel Martinez, a Wells Fargo spokesman, declined to
comment immediately on the lawsuit. Sara Eguren, an IRS
spokeswoman, said the agency doesn’t generally comment on
litigation.  The case is Wells Fargo & Co. v. U.S., 11-808, U.S. Court
of Federal Claims (Washington).  Barclays Sued Over Competing Bid for Carbon Trader  A  Barclays Plc (BARC)  unit was accused of using its role as a deal
adviser to a carbon-trading firm to get confidential data about
a takeover target and then buying the company itself, according
to a lawsuit filed by CF Partners (U.K.) LLP.  CF Partners hired Barclays to work on its plan to buy
 Tricorona AB , a Sweden-based emissions trader, in 2008. When the
deal stalled, Barclays began secret negotiations with Tricorona,
according to papers filed by CF Partners’ lawyers.  Barclays, based in London, completed a $173 million deal
for 85 percent of Tricorona in July 2010. Barclays spokeswoman
Aurelie Leonard declined to comment on the dispute.  The bank used confidential research from CF Partners about
the value of Tricorona’s portfolio, according to the lawsuit. CF
Partners wants damages of least 82.4 million euros ($111
million) from Britain’s second-largest bank for breach of
confidence.  James McRobbie, general counsel of CF Partners, declined to
comment.  The case is CF Partners (UK) LLP v Barclays Bank Plc & Anr,
HC11C03443, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  Ex-Millennium Global Manager Charged With Securities Fraud  Federal prosecutors charged Michael Balboa, a former
portfolio manager at Millennium Global Investments Ltd., with
participating in a securities fraud scheme involving Nigerian
sovereign debt.  A criminal complaint unsealed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan alleges that Balboa and his co-conspirators sent
multiple e-mails to an independent valuation agent who inflated
month-end market prices for Nigerian warrants.  The complaint, filed by U.S. Postal Inspector Jessica
Brown, charges that Balboa engaged in an eight-month scheme in
2008 to commit securities and wire fraud with two unidentified
co-conspirators who are cooperating with the government.  Millennium Global in 2008 liquidated Balboa’s hedge fund,
which buys emerging-market debt, after lenders withdrew credit,
two people familiar with the situation said in October 2008.
Millennium Global, a London-based money manager, was founded by
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive Michael Huttman in
1994.  Balbao was also sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The case is U.S. v. Balboa, 11-mag-3038, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here and here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Greenberg’s AIG Bailout Suits Pursue Unique Theories  Maurice R. Greenberg, the former  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive officer, seeks to break new ground in
lawsuits challenging the U.S. takeover of the insurer in a
bailout that reached $182 billion.  Greenberg’s Starr International Co. sued the government
Nov. 21, calling the public assumption of 80 percent of stock in
the insurer in 2008 an unconstitutional “taking” of property
that requires $25 billion in compensation.  Starr also sued the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by loaning $85
billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms to banks in
a “backdoor bailout.” AIG almost collapsed after bets tied to
the housing market soured, and the bailout was revised at least
four times before reaching $182 billion.  Both complaints were filed by attorney David Boies, who
represented the U.S. in its Microsoft Corp. 1999 antitrust trial
and Al Gore in the Florida presidential recount litigation in
2000.  “Any time David Boies is asking for $25 billion, I would
say this is not a normal case,” said Robert H. Thomas of the
Honolulu firm Damon Key Leong Kupchak Hastert.  “He takes cutting edge cases in unexplored areas of law,”
said Thomas, who specializes in land-use and eminent domain.
“It’s audacious. As someone who represents plaintiffs in these
kinds of cases, I’d say more power to him. But it’s a stretch.”  Boies didn’t respond to requests for comment on his chances
of success in the Starr cases.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, said the
allegations have no merit.  “AIG’s board of directors had an alternative choice to
borrowing from the Federal Reserve, and that choice was
bankruptcy,” Gutt said. “Bankruptcy would have left all AIG
shareholders with worthless stock. The Federal Reserve’s actions
with regard to AIG helped to restore financial stability in the
United States during a period of intense volatility and
vulnerability in the U.S. economy.”  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Online Gambling Trial Judge ‘Unlikely’ to Dismiss Indictment  A federal judge said he’s unlikely to dismiss an illegal
gambling case involving the three largest Internet poker
companies doing business in the U.S.  “I think it extraordinarily unlikely the entire indictment
will be dismissed,” U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in
Manhattan said at the end of a hearing yesterday on a request to
dismiss the case. He said he would rule later on the motion and
that a trial, if held, would begin March 12.  Eleven defendants were accused in April of bank fraud,
money laundering and illegal gambling through the online
companies PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.  Lawyers for two of the defendants, Chad Elie and John
Campos, argued in court yesterday that the U.S. law making it a
crime for businesses to accept payment in connection with
unlawful Internet gambling doesn’t apply to poker.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Can Appeal $19 Billion JPMorgan Ruling  The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, who lost the
right to demand $19 billion in damages from  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , can appeal the ruling to a higher court, a judge said.  JPMorgan last month won dismissal of trustee  Irving
Picard ’s damage claims in his lawsuit alleging the biggest U.S.
bank aided Madoff’s fraud. Picard can’t sue for common-law
damages on behalf of the defunct Madoff firm’s customers, U.S.
District Judge  Colleen McMahon  ruled in New York.  The judge directed a clerk to enter a final judgment
dismissing eight claims from Picard’s complaint and said he can
appeal the ruling under a deal struck with JPMorgan, according
to court papers. Her decision followed a telephone conference
Nov. 30, she said.  Picard agreed to put his remaining claims against JPMorgan
on hold while he appeals. He told McMahon in a filing last month
he has “no choice but to appeal the order.”  “Permitting an immediate appeal would provide much-needed
finality for the trustee and the BLMIS estate as to the
viability of these claims,” he said. BLMIS refers to Madoff’s
firm.  Rulings by district judges McMahon and Jed Rakoff have
knocked more than $28 billion off of Picard’s claims against
banks and may cost him as much as $11 billion in recoveries from
other cases to benefit investors who lost money in the Ponzi
scheme, according to the trustee’s estimates.  The amount sought from JPMorgan, Madoff’s primary banker,
represented Picard’s estimate of principal lost by all Madoff
investors by the time the Ponzi scheme collapsed in December
2008, according to a complaint filed in June. The bank could
have stopped the fraud if it had passed on its suspicions to
regulators, he alleged.  JPMorgan said it didn’t know about or in any way become a
party to the fraud and couldn’t be held responsible for a scheme
orchestrated by Madoff alone.  Madoff pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year prison
term. Picard and his firm have made about $224 million in fees
since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The McMahon cases are Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-
cv-913; Picard v. UBS Fund Services (Luxembourg) SA, 11-cv-4212,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Lindsey Manufacturing Wins Dismissal of Foreign Bribery Case  Lindsey Manufacturing Co., the first corporation to go to
trial on charges it violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, won dismissal of its conviction after the judge found the
prosecution had engaged in “flagrant” misconduct.  U.S. District Judge Howard Matz in Los Angeles yesterday
threw out the convictions of the Azusa, California-based maker
of emergency electricity towers; Keith Lindsey, the closely held
company’s president; and Steve Lee, its finance chief, and he
dismissed the indictment.  Matz said it was “with deep regret” that he was compelled
to find that the government had allowed an Federal Bureau of
Investigation agent to testify untruthfully before a grand jury,
inserted falsehoods in requests for search warrants, improperly
reviewed e-mails between a defendant and her lawyer, and made
misrepresentations to the court, among other misconduct.  “Dr. Lindsey and Mr. Lee were put through a severe
ordeal,” the judge said in his ruling. “Charges were filed
against them as a result of a sloppy, incomplete and notably
over-zealous investigation, an investigation that was so flawed
that the government’s lawyers tried to prevent inquiry into
it.”  At a Nov. 29 hearing, where the judge had issued his
tentative decision to dismiss the case, Jeffrey Goldberg, a
Justice Department lawyer, argued that the government had made
only “honest mistakes” that didn’t warrant a finding of
misconduct.  The government is appealing the ruling, according to a
notice of appeal filed yesterday.  A jury in May found the company and the two executives
guilty of paying bribes, through an intermediary, to executives
with a state-owned Mexican utility to win contracts. Lindsey and
Lee faced as long as five years in prison for each of five
counts of bribing a foreign official, as well as five years for
a conspiracy count.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Rajaratnam Must Report to Prison After Bail Request Denied  Raj Rajaratnam, the former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
manager convicted of directing the biggest insider-trading ring
in a generation, must go to prison while he challenges the
government’s use of wiretaps in his trial, an appeals court
ruled.  Yesterday’s decision clears the way for Rajaratnam, 54, to
report to federal prison in Massachusetts to begin serving an
11-year sentence. He has been ordered to surrender Dec. 5.  “The defendant shall surrender at such time and place as
shall be instructed by the district court,” a panel of U.S.
appeals court judges in New York said, denying him a chance to
remain free on bail. Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam,
declined to comment on the ruling.  In a 20-minute hearing Nov. 30 before the appeals court in
Manhattan, a defense lawyer said improper wiretapping of
Rajaratnam’s phone conversations would lead to reversal of his
May conviction and that he should remain free in the interim.  Patricia Millett, another lawyer for Rajaratnam, told the
three-judge panel that the appeal presented a “substantial
question of law” and that Rajaratnam was unlikely to flee to
his native Sri Lanka before a ruling.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who presided over the
case and sentenced Rajaratnam in October, had rejected a request
for bail pending the appeal.  The appeals court panel included U.S. Chief Judge Dennis
Jacobs and Circuit Judges Robert Katzmann and Peter Hall.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-4416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Roomy Khan ’s Sentencing Delayed as Cooperation Continues  Roomy Khan’s sentencing for her role in the Galleon Group
LLC insider-trading case was postponed after U.S. prosecutors
said she’s still helping them investigate at least one person
who hasn’t been charged.  Khan, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive and stock trader, was
among the first people to plead guilty and cooperate with the
U.S. against Raj Rajaratnam, Galleon’s co-founder. She was
scheduled to be sentenced Dec. 5. Yesterday, U.S. District Judge
Richard Berman, who is presiding over her case, granted the
government’s request and set her sentencing for March 1.  While Khan didn’t testify at Rajaratnam’s trial, she played
a crucial role for the U.S. as prosecutors and agents with the
FBI used her information to obtain a court-authorized wiretap of
Rajaratnam’s phone, according to testimony from a pretrial
hearing in his case last year.  “Khan is continuing to cooperate in connection with the
investigation of at least one individual who has not yet been
charged,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson said.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of directing the
biggest insider-trading ring in a generation and sentenced to
serve an 11-year prison term. He lost a bid yesterday to remain
free pending his appeal and was ordered by a panel of judges at
the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York to surrender to U.S.
prison officials on Dec. 5.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 09-cr-991, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Del Monte Wins Approval of Settlement of KKR Buyout Suits  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  and Barclays Plc won a judge’s approval
of a $89.4 million settlement of investor lawsuits over the
buyout of the pet-food maker by a group of private-equity firms
led by KKR & Co.  The accord, which gave Del Monte investors about 50 cents
more a share, “provides excellent consideration,” Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster said before approving the
settlement yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington.  Investors in San Francisco-based Del Monte, maker of  Meow
Mix  cat food and  Milk Bone  dog biscuits, alleged they were
shortchanged in KKR’s buyout, for which London-based Barclays
provided some financing. Shareholders received a total $19.50 a
share as a result of the accord, according to court filings.  Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, couldn’t immediately
comment on Laster’s decision to approve the settlement yesterday
and Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a Barclays spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Chrissy Stengel, a Del Monte spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The accord resolves claims that Barclays, which also served
as Del Monte’s financial adviser, had conflicting interests in
the $5.3 billion deal because of its financing for the buyers.
The private-equity group led by New York-based KKR included
 Vestar Capital Partners  and  Centerview Partners  LLP.  As part of the settlement, Laster yesterday approved a
total of $22.3 million to cover Del Monte investors’ legal fees
and costs in bringing the case.  The case is In re Del Monte Foods Co. Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Ingersoll-Rand Reaches Settlement in Employee Payout Dispute  Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  reached a settlement with 130 employees
who sued for as much as $72 million in pay under an incentive
plan tied to the sale of the company’s  Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (DRC) 
unit.  Terms weren’t disclosed in court documents. The accord was
reached on Nov. 29 during the third week of a trial in federal
court in Newark,  New Jersey . U.S. District Judge Dickinson
Debevoise dismissed jurors before they could weigh whether
Ingersoll-Rand owed from $11 million, as the company argued, to
$72 million, as workers claimed.  “This was a good settlement,” attorney  Mark Lanier , who
represented a group of employees, said in a telephone interview.
“We were excited to finish the case. But by settling at this
time, we eliminated the risk of an adverse verdict or a two-year
appeal.”  Ingersoll-Rand, a Swords, Ireland-based maker of heating
and ventilation equipment, offered the plan, dated in 2000, to
retain workers when it began trying to sell Dresser-Rand. After
Dresser-Rand, which makes oilfield equipment, was sold in 2004
for $1.2 billion, Ingersoll-Rand said the 2000 plan no longer
applied. Workers sued and Debevoise ruled the plan remains in
effect, setting up the trial.  Misty Zelent, a spokeswoman for Ingersoll-Rand, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the settlement.  The case is Nye v. Ingersoll Rand Co., 08-cv-03481, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Two Rothstein Employees Charged in Lawyer’s Ponzi Scheme  Federal prosecutors charged two more associates of Scott
Rothstein, the Fort Lauderdale, Florida, attorney who last year
admitted to selling investors interest in bogus settlements in
sexual-harassment and whistle-blower cases.  William Boockvor, 66, was charged yesterday with one count
of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and helping Rothstein’s
scheme by preparing false documents purportedly from  TD Bank (TC) ,
where Rothstein’s firm held about 38 trust accounts, prosecutors
said in a statement.  The statements were used to convince investors that
Rothstein’s law firm was holding money in trust when in fact the
money was being spent on his lavish lifestyle and political and
charitable contributions. Boockvor worked for the firm doing a
variety of administrative tasks, according to prosecutors.  Marybeth Feiss, 42, one of Rothstein’s administrative
assistants, was charged with violating federal election campaign
laws and conspiring to defraud the U.S. by helping to bundle
more than $1 million in contributions to the presidential
campaign of U.S. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican.  The government said Feiss organized political fundraisers
where contributions were solicited for McCain’s campaign. The
law firm allegedly reimbursed its associates and employees for
their contributions, disguising those payments as bonuses or
expense reimbursements.  Feiss, reached at home, declined to comment on the charges.
No attorney was listed in federal records for Boockvor, and he
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Boockvor used unidentified co-conspirators who worked for
TD Bank to convince potential investors that the bank statements
were legitimate, the government said.  The latest cases bring to eight the number of people
charged in the scheme. “We are not done yet,” U.S. Attorney
Wifredo A. Ferrer in Miami said yesterday in a statement.  The cases are U.S. v. Boockvor, 0:11-cr-60281, and U.S. v.
Feiss, 0:11-cr-60282, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 