-- 
JPMorgan Follows UBS Cutting Carbon Jobs as Permits Plunge

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-12-02T08:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/jpmorgan-follows-ubs-cutting-carbon-jobs-as-emission-permit-price-dives.html
Investment banks are cutting traders
and analysts in climate-related businesses as a slump in shares
and carbon emission permits coincides with a deadlock in
international climate talks.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Managing Director for Environmental
Markets Odin Knudsen left his post in New York by mutual accord
after his team was shrunk, while UBS Securities LLC fired Vice
Chairman Jon Anda and his Climate Policy Group co-workers, Anda
and Knudsen said in interviews. Ben Lynch left his  London  job as
an alternative-energy analyst for  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and it was
taken over by a utilities analyst, company spokeswoman Claire
Tappenden said. The departures took place since September.  The biggest banks, trying to recover from trading losses
and a clampdown on investing their own money, are clipping
resources from emissions-related businesses as United Nations
talks have failed for years to extend Kyoto Protocol greenhouse-
gas curbs beyond their expiration in 2012. The International
 Emissions Trading  Association, the main carbon-market trade
group, has seen its membership slide about 6 percent this year.  “People are leaving the industry because they’ve been
fired or because they see no prospects,” said  Emmanuel Fages ,
head of energy research for  Europe  at Societe Generale SA in
Paris. “That is the sad story.”  Climate Talks  Fages said he used to work full-time on carbon at the
French bank’s emissions trading unit Orbeo and the industry now
occupies about 20 percent of his time.  JPMorgan spokesman  Brian Marchiony  declined to comment.  UBS officials confirmed Anda’s departure and declined to
give details about his department. “Jon Anda has left the bank
and is seeking new opportunities,” UBS’s New York-based
spokesman  Christiaan Brakman  said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “UBS remains committed to address climate change.”  The Kyoto emissions caps for industrialized nations, which
underpin carbon trading, are set to end in December 2012 unless
United Nations-led talks under way in  South Africa  produce an
extension.  Clean-power stocks and emission permits have plunged as the
European Union, the biggest advocate for climate action among
developed nations, is ravaged by its own sovereign debt crisis.  Benchmark EU carbon permits lost 44 percent in the year
through yesterday and fell to a record last week while the
Bloomberg Industry  solar energy index (BISOLAR)  plunged 65 percent,
damping investor demand for research and advisory services.  EU allowances for delivery this month fell 0.4 percent to
7.90 euros a metric ton today as of 8:14 a.m. on London´s ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The Bloomberg Industry Global Leaders
Large Solar Energy index     fell 0.6 percent, headed for its first
decline this week.  ‘Shakeouts, Departures’  “There are shakeouts and departures happening as you would
expect to be the case during any market that was a little bit
unsure about where it was going,”  Henry Derwent , president of
the International Emissions Trading Association, said in a
telephone interview. Carbon trading “is currently suffering, as
so many other markets are, from low economic activity in the
main area which is the European Union.”  About 10 institutions have withdrawn from the Geneva-based
trade group this year, cutting membership to about 150
companies, spokeswoman Noria Mezlef said.  EU countries, which subsidize clean energy and bought more
than 80 percent of solar panels last year as well as running the
biggest carbon market, are facing pressure to rein in budget
deficits as investors dump their sovereign debt. The turmoil
wracking the bloc has hurt photovoltaic equipment stocks and
businesses that service that industry.  ‘Little Companies’  “It been a tough time for everyone doing solar,”  John Hardy , who lost his job in  New York  as an alternative energy
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in August, said in an interview.
“Market capitalizations have dropped to a point where funds
can’t touch these little companies.”  He said he expects some of his colleagues and competitors
will also be let go because the market valuation of the industry
can no longer sustain their research.  Dennis Mignon left his job as a carbon trader at First
Climate in Bad Vilbel,  Germany , to trade  government bonds  at DZ
Bank AG in  Frankfurt , he said last week.  The value of carbon trading fell 8 percent to 23.7 billion
euros ($32 billion) in the third quarter from the previous three
months as the price of European emission permits tumbled,
according to New Energy Finance data.  ClimateCare  UBS shut its climate-change advisory practice and fired its
staff after theSwiss bank lost $2.3 billion from unauthorized trading this year.  JPMorgan, which sold its ClimateCare carbon offset
developer to the unit’s management in August, tied for second
place producing new credits last year, behind Vitol Group and
alongside Climate Change Capital Ltd., according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance data.  The New York bank cut back its environmental markets team
to just “a few” people compared with several “tens” of
people around the world at its height, Knudsen said in an
interview.  Societe Generale  said Nov. 25 it agreed to sell its 50
percent stake in carbon trading joint venture Orbeo to its
partner Solvay SA. The Paris-based lender will develop emissions
trading as part of its gas and power business, deputy head of
commodities Jonathan Whitehead said in a telephone interview.  “The emissions market, whatever shape or form it ends up
continuing in, is going to be an important part of our offering
for our clients,” he said Nov. 25. “The emissions market goes
hand in hand with the power market in Europe.”  A record 1.5 billion tons of EU carbon permits was traded
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange from July to September even
as the price slump cut the value of the transactions, exchange
data show. Trade in UN carbon credits was a record 348 million
tons in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  