-- 
Kenyan Shilling Weakens for a Second Day on Demand for Dollars

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-12-02T15:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/kenyan-shilling-weakens-for-a-second-day-on-demand-for-dollars.html
Kenya ’s shilling, the world’s best-
performer against the U.S. currency in the past month,
depreciated a second day on increased demand for dollars.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy slumped as
much as 0.5 percent before trading 0.1 percent weaker at 89.83
at 5:33 p.m. in Nairobi, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has strengthened 7.8 percent since Nov.
2, the biggest gain against the dollar among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Kenyan central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate 
by 1.5 percentage points to 18 percent yesterday to curb
inflation that’s at more than double the government’s target.
The worst regional drought in 60 years and higher fuel prices
helped spur inflation to 19.7 percent in November from 18.9
percent in the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics
said Nov. 29.  “The weakening is largely due to the fact that there is
demand for dollars by businesses and the market had already
factored in a potential rise of the benchmark by the central
bank,” Wilson Mutai, a dealer at Nairobi-based African Banking
Corp., said in a phone interview today.  The Tanzanian shilling strengthened for the second day,
gaining 1 percent to trade at 1,665 per dollar on low demand for
the U.S. currency.  Dollar “inflows are coming in from the tourism and mining
sectors, and non-governmental organizations with minimal demand
by the oil importers,” Eric Chijoriga, a dealer with National
Bank of Commerce Ltd., ABSA Group’s Tanzanian unit, said today
by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.  Uganda   Uganda’s currency appreciated for the fifth day, rising 0.4
percent to 2,525 per dollar.  “The shilling has gained because of weak demand as major
buyers have already covered their orders for the festive
season,” Faisal Bukenya, the head of  currency trading  at
 Barclays Bank  of Uganda Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  Uganda’s central bank halted interest rate increases for
the first time in five months after Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime- Mutebile said he expects inflation to slow next year.  “My confidence that inflation will fall during the course
of 2012 has been reinforced by the positive developments
observed in November,” Tumusiime-Mutebile said today. The
shilling’s gain “bears witness to the effectiveness of monetary
policy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  