-- 
Amazon’s Kindle Fire Ranks as Top IPad Challenger, IHS Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-12-02T18:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/kindle-fire-ranks-as-top-ipad-challenger-ihs.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s share of the tablet
computer market will surge to 14 percent this quarter as
consumer demand catapults the Kindle Fire to the No. 2 spot
after Apple Inc.’s iPad, according to research firm  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Amazon will probably ship 3.9 million units of the Fire in
the final three months of the year, IHS said today in  a report. 
After hitting store shelves on Nov. 14, the Kindle Fire has
surpassed more established products from  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.
and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  in vying with the iPad, which will ship
an estimated 18.6 million units, IHS said.  Jeff Bezos, chief executive officer of Amazon, stoked
demand for the Fire with low prices and promotions on his
company’s site, the world’s largest e-commerce provider. While
IHS says Amazon is losing money on every $199 tablet it sells,
Susquehanna Financial Group LLP said Nov. 15 that each machine
may generate $384 in revenue for the company when accounting for
sales of associated digital music, books and movies.  “Nearly two years after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rolled out the iPad, a
competitor has finally developed an alternative which looks like
it might have enough of Apple’s secret sauce to succeed,” Rhoda
Alexander, a senior research manager at IHS, said in the
statement.  Bezos is counting on revenue from that content to counter
the operating margin contraction that results from selling the
product at a loss.  Global tablet shipments will be about 64.7 million this
year, compared with 17.4 million in 2010, according to IHS. The
firm ramped up its forecast for shipments by 2015 -- to 287.5
million from the previous projection of 275.3 million.  The Fire has a 7-inch display, smaller than the iPad’s 9.7-
inch screen. The device runs on Google Inc.’s Android software,
have a dual-core processor and offer Wi-Fi connectivity, Amazon
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  