-- 
Neuberger Puts Analyst Fayad Abbasi on Leave Amid Trading Probe

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-12-02T23:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/neuberger-puts-analyst-abbasi-on-leave-amid-primary-global-trading-probe.html
Neuberger Berman  Group LLC said it
placed on paid leave Fayad Abbasi, a research analyst whose name
emerged at the insider-trading trial of James Fleishman, a
former Primary Global Research LLC sales executive.  Prosecutors at the trial showed the jury copies of e-mails
Fleishman sent his customers that the U.S. said contained
nonpublic information about technology companies. Abbasi was a
recipient at least one of the e-mails. Fleishman was convicted
Sept. 20 of conspiracy and securities fraud.  Current or former employees of Neuberger Berman, Level 
Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC may 
face criminal charges as part of an insider-trading probe by U.S. 
authorities, a person familiar with the matter said Nov. 30. The 
charges may be filed as early as this month, said another person 
familiar with the probe who also wasn’t authorized to speak 
because the matter isn’t public.  “Through a news report, we were informed that a research
analyst at our company was possibly under investigation,” a
spokeswoman for Neuberger Berman, a New York-based investment
firm, said today in an e-mailed statement announcing Abbasi’s
leave. “If there is an inquiry, our firm will cooperate with
all authorities.”  No Accusation  Abbasi hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing. A call to a
phone number listed for Fayad Abbasi in Larchmont,  New York ,
wasn’t answered. News of Abbasi’s leave was reported earlier
today by the Wall Street Journal.  Neuberger Berman manages more than $183 billion for clients
including pension funds. Abbasi joined the company in 2005 and
was named a portfolio manager in June 2008, according to
regulatory filings.  The allegations involving Neuberger Berman, Level Global
Investors and Diamondback employees stem from a four-year
federal probe by the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in New York, the
first person said. Caroline Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Bharara,
declined to comment on the new allegations.  According to evidence shown to the Manhattan federal jury
at Fleishman’s trial, the defendant sent Abbasi an e-mail on
July 21, 2009, that the U.S. said contained data from a so-
called expert networking consultant who was employed at  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and was moonlighting for Primary Global.  ‘Expert Sees’  The e-mail Fleishman sent had the subject header “Expert
sees AMD beating out  INTC (INTC)  in Q3/Q4.” AMD is the stock ticker
for Advanced Micro Devices; INTC is the ticker for chipmaker
Intel Corp. The e-mail said, “Expert expects AMD to take
notebook share in the mid/low range at Lenovo, Toshiba, Acer.”  The e-mail also contained what prosecutors said was a
“hyperlink” to an encrypted Primary Global website.
Prosecutors said the site was where fund managers could access a
complete array of nonpublic information posted by Primary Global
consultants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  