-- 
NJ Debt Climbs 3.1% to $38B as Growth Slows

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-02T21:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/new-jersey-s-debt-rise-3-1-to-38-1-billion-slowest-pace-in-four-years.html
New Jersey ’s debt increased 3.1
percent, the slowest growth in four years, as Governor  Chris Christie ’s administration reduced the pace of borrowing.  Bonded obligations climbed to $38.1 billion in the year
ended June 30, from $36.9 billion in fiscal 2010, according to a
report from the state Treasury Department today. Total
obligations, which include pension and post-employment benefits,
rose 12 percent to $65 billion.  Christie, a Republican who took office last year, has said
he wants to borrow less and use more cash to fund expenditures,
including transportation. New Jersey debt had more than doubled
over a decade, from $14.5 billion in 2001.  “The governor has greatly slowed the pace of bonded
indebtedness,”  Andy Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew
Sidamon-Eristoff, said in a telephone interview. “These
problems started before the governor took office and took
decades to create, and they’re going to take some years to
solve. He has put us on a path to do that.”  New Jersey had the third-highest total net-supported debt
among U.S. states after  California  and  New York , according to
the 2011 State Debt Medians report from Moody’s Investors
Service. Debt as a percentage of 2010 personal income was the
fourth-highest, at 7.9 percent, according to the report.  Bond Downgrade  The state’s bond rating was downgraded one step to Aa3, the
fourth-highest level, in April by Moody’s, which cited a
“weakened financial position” and an economic recovery lagging
behind the nation.  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  also cut
New Jersey’s debt ranking this year.  The ratings firms also cited the state’s growing pension
and health-care obligations as reasons for the downgrades.  The state owes $10.8 billion for missing payments into its
pension funds, according to the treasury’s annual debt report.
That obligation climbed 29 percent from $8.4 billion a year
earlier. The state hasn’t made pension contributions for most of
the past decade, including a $3 billion payment Christie skipped
last year.  A new law requires the state to make at least one-seventh
of its pension contribution this fiscal year, and then increase
the payment gradually each year until it is making the full
amount. Christie, 49, has said he intends to make a payment of
about $484 million before June 30, the minimum required.  Health Care  New Jersey’s obligation for post-employment health-care
benefits also increased, to $13.5 billion in fiscal 2011 from
$10 billion a year earlier, the debt report showed.  Christie signed a law June 28 that raised the  retirement
age  as well as the amount that government workers pay for health
benefits and pensions. The law also froze cost-of-living
increases until pension pools reach targeted funding ratios.  The report offers the first chance to quantify the health
of the state’s pension funds following the changes. The law
decreased the gap between fund assets and anticipated payouts,
or unfunded liability, by $17.6 billion, to $36.3 billion as of
June 30, 2010, Pratt said.  The state revised the earlier figures using the new pension
data and more recent numbers aren’t available, Pratt said.  Retirements among state and local workers surged with the
new pension and health-care regulations. A total of 11,385
people enrolled in the Public Employee Retirement System filed
to leave the workforce from January to June, up from 10,700 in
all of the preceding year, according to state Treasury
Department records.  Debt Service  The annual debt report excludes short-term financing and
bonds issued by state authorities, including the Turnpike
Authority, that are secured by their own revenue. It also
doesn’t include debt issued by local governments and bi-state
agencies, said James Petrino, the state’s public finance
director, who prepared the report and presented it today to the
state Commission on Capital Budgeting and Planning.  New Jersey’s debt as of June 30 includes $2.6 billion of
general-obligation bonds, $19.8 billion of revenue bonds and
$18.7 billion of installment obligations, which includes debt
issued by state authorities and payable by the state.  Total debt service is $2.8 billion this fiscal year, up
from $2.5 billion in 2011, and will grow to more than $3 billion
annually for at least the next five years, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  