-- 
Newedge Agriculture Head Dann Says Regulation Getting Stricter

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-02T15:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/newedge-agriculture-head-dann-says-regulation-getting-stricter.html
Commodities-futures market
regulation is tightening, creating a challenge for brokers,
according to Michael Dann, the new head of agriculture at
Newedge Group SA. Following are comments he made by phone and e-
mail this week:  “All markets are being more regulated. Liffe is
consulting with members to put a delivery limit in place. It
didn’t exist in coffee or cocoa or sugar, and they’re making
proposals. So the regulatory environment is becoming stricter,
is becoming more formal.”  “Regulation, compliance, procedure, those are all
challenges to the business. Self regulation, if it had worked,
well, they wouldn’t be regulating. Because of the regulatory
environment, you’ve got to have a critical size.”  “If the macros show that here in  Europe  we’ve got to have
austerity and belt tightening, then it’s likely we’re going
into a contraction cycle. And nothing cures high prices like
high prices. With high prices people look after their crops,
they plant more.”  “Metals have had a very good run, energy has had a
tremendous run and agriculture has had a great run. What
affects our business is if volumes decrease, if open interest
decreases, and if commodities lose interest.  “When the  Berlin Wall  came down, when  China  liberated,
then  India  started making progress,  Brazil  started developing,
you had a huge influx of new consumers. Hopefully, for the
foreseeable future, commodities will remain in the attention.”  “Matif has become a massive success story in the past
four years, and that’s because of the higher price, so that
increased the need for hedging. That increased the volumes in
the market.  “By cooperating and communicating, we can provide better
service. Larger clients have departments that cover many
commodities, so this is a natural synergy for the, say, grains
and sugar teams to explore. By having New York cocoa and London
cocoa working together we are better able to provide
information and liquidity to our clients, likewise for coffee
and sugar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 