-- 
Battersea Power Station’s Owner Is Put Into Administration by London Judge

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-12-12T17:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/next-battersea-station-owner-may-have-to-commit-1-1-billion.html
The owner of Battersea Power
Station, the  London  landmark slated for a 5.5 billion-pound
($8.6 billion) redevelopment, was put into administration by a
U.K. judge after it failed to repay senior creditors.  Judge Geoffrey Charles Vos in London today granted a
request by creditors led by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency to appoint an
administrator to sell the site. The group will try to recover
the entire 502 million pounds owed by the project’s owners by
selling the site, two people familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  “We came to the conclusion -- with the other lenders --
that such a move would offer the best means of getting the sales
process for the site back on track, and through that moving on
with the regeneration of the site,” NAMA spokesman  Ray Gordon 
said by telephone.  The 38-acre (15-hectare) site was valued at 500 million
pounds, developer and controlling shareholder  Real Estate
Opportunities (REO)  Plc said on Oct. 26. REO was given planning
consent a year ago for the redevelopment of the site, which is
2.2 miles (3.5 kilometers) by car from the Houses of Parliament.
Existing plans include a commitment to contribute more than 200
million pounds toward extending a London Underground line.  Planning Consent  Ernst & Young was appointed to administer investment units
of Battersea Power Station Shareholder Vehicle Ltd. including
REO Power Station Ltd. REO Site Assembly Ltd., REO 88 Kirtling
St. Ltd. and REO 8 Brooks Court.  REO’s assets in Ireland aren’t affected by the
administration order, the company said today in a statement.  REO fell about 19 percent to a record low of 33 pence
in London, cutting the company’s market value to 1.1 million
pounds. Trading volume was three times the daily average for the
past three months.  Creditors called in loans to Battersea Power Station
Shareholder Vehicle on Nov. 29. Chelsea Football Club Ltd.,
owned by Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , hired developer
Almacantar SA to help it find a place for a new stadium and said
one of the options was at the Battersea site.  “After several months of discussions and still no
acceptable offers on the table, administration is the only means
we have to ensure that a sales process is put back on track,”
Lloyd’s spokesman Emile Abu-Shakra said in a statement.
“Without a financially stable owner, the site’s future remains
unclear and that’s a situation we want to avoid.”  Pink Floyd  Cover  Battersea Power Station, featured on the cover of Pink Floyd’s 1977 album “Animals,” was designed by Giles Gilbert-
Scott, who also devised the red public telephone box, and built
in two stages, according to its website. The plant supplied a
fifth of London’s electricity in the early 1950s, according to
the Battersea Power Station Community Group website.  “The uncertainty over Battersea Power Station
redevelopment has been known for some time,” a spokesman for
the London mayor’s office said after creditors called in the REO
loans. “We are totally confident that new investors will come
forward to take over the Battersea Power Station development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 