-- 
Nigeria’s Naira Heads for Biggest Weekly Drop Since September

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-12-02T11:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/nigeria-s-naira-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-september.html
Nigeria ’s naira fell against the
dollar, heading for its biggest weekly drop since September on
demand for U.S. currency after the central bank lowered its
target band.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer lost 0.1
percent to 161.37 per dollar on the  interbank market  by 11:52
a.m. in Lagos, taking its decline this week to 1.1 percent. That
would be the biggest five-day drop since the week through Sept.
30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank on Nov. 21 lowered the midpoint of its
exchange-rate band at its twice-weekly auctions to 155 naira per
dollar from 150 naira, amid pressure from rising imports and
concern about weakening  oil prices , the source of more than 95
percent of Nigeria’s foreign-exchange income.  “The central bank has become more lax with maintaining the
band,” Dina Ahmad, an emerging-markets strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London , said in an e-mailed reply to questions
today.  Inflation in Nigeria remains a threat, leaving little room
to loosen monetary policy even as the European debt crisis
worsens, Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said
yesterday in an interview in  Port Louis , the Mauritian capital.  The central bank kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged at a
record high 12 percent on Nov. 22 and lowered the naira to help
boost economic growth and protect its reserves after raising the
rate by 6 percentage points since September last year. It
increased  interest rates  2.75 percentage points in October after
inflation climbed above the bank’s 10 percent target.  Ghana’s cedi was unchanged at 1.6465 against the dollar, as
of 10:54 a.m. in Accra, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  