-- 
Nikko Asset Scrapping IPO in Tokyo as Europe Debt Crisis Undermines Demand

-- B y   T a k u   K a t o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-12-02T03:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/nikko-asset-scrapping-ipo-in-tokyo-as-europe-debt-crisis-undermines-demand.html
Nikko Asset Management Co.  postponed
its initial public offering on the Tokyo Stock Exchange as the
deepening European debt crisis fuels global market turmoil.  “As there is no need for the company to raise cash through
an immediate listing, the company has decided that it is
appropriate to suspend the listing during this time of market
volatility,” Nikko Asset said in an e-mailed statement today.
“The company will seek to resume its listing plans when market
conditions are more stable.”  Global stocks plunged in the third quarter as the European
debt crisis worsened, driving the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  to its worst
performance since the end of 2008.  Japan ’s benchmark  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  lost 11 percent in the three months ended
September, the biggest decline in more than a year.  The IPO was initially planned on Dec. 15, Nikko Asset said
in a statement to Japan’s finance ministry. The share sales in
Japan and overseas were both suspended, it said.  Nikko Asset began choosing lead underwriters for its IPO in
July, three people familiar with the plan said at the time,
setting up the first debut share sale by a major Japanese asset
manager in a decade as Japan’s equity capital market started to
recover from the earthquake in March. Nikko Asset was preparing
to list on the  Tokyo  exchange as early as March 31, according to
the people in July.  Europe Crisis Escalates  The share sale was postponed “considering comprehensively
the current stock market and other factors, which result from
unexpected changes in the market conditions accompanied by a
further escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis,”
parent company Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. said in a
statement today.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust shares climbed 1.2 percent to 244 yen
at 12:36 p.m. in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 was little changed.  Citigroup Inc., which acquired Nikko Asset from Nikko
Cordial Corp. in 2008, sold the company to Sumitomo Trust as
part of a transaction that valued it at 120 billion yen ($1.5
billion) in October 2009.  Nikko Asset, founded in 1959, employs more than 500 staff
and has about 12.8 trillion yen under management. The investment
management firm, run by Chief Executive Officer Timothy McCarthy,
has subsidiaries in  London ,  New York ,  Singapore  and Sydney.  In Japan,  Nomura Asset Management Co.  and Daiwa Asset
Management Co. are among investment companies that remain
unlisted. Asset manager  Sparx Group Co. (8739)  listed on the Jasdaq
exchange in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 