-- 
Obama Failing on Brazil Trade Cedes Clout to China, Lugar Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T04:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/obama-failing-on-brazil-trade-cedes-clout-to-china-lugar-says.html
The top Republican on the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee said President  Barack Obama  is
missing opportunities to strike closer ties with Brazil,
allowing China to steal market share from U.S. companies in
 Latin America ’s biggest economy.  In prepared remarks Senator Richard Lugar will deliver
today in  Washington , the Indiana Republican said the U.S. needs
to elevate its relationship with Brazil to the status currently
enjoyed by longstanding allies such as Canada, the U.K. and
Australia.  “The U.S. agenda with Brazil should be much more
ambitious,” according to Lugar’s speech to the Brazil-U.S.
Business Council, an advanced copy of which was provided by his
office. “We are missing important opportunities to advance our
mutual interests.”  Brazil is helping anchor global economic growth as the
country invests to host the 2014 soccer  World Cup , 2016 Olympic
Games and state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  develops the biggest
offshore oil finds in the Americas in three decades. After
expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, the central bank forecasts the
$2.1 trillion economy will grow 3.5 percent this year.  While applauding Obama for making Brazil the centerpiece of
his tour of Latin America earlier this year, Lugar said that
more engagement is needed. A bilateral tax treaty -- Brazil is
the largest economy with which the U.S. lacks such an accord --
and a market access agreement with the Brazil and Argentina-led
Mercosur trade bloc would help regain lost momentum, Lugar said.  China’s Advance  “In too many cases, U.S. market share is being lost to
 China  and other countries whose governments have moved more
swiftly to embrace the opportunities of the Brazilian market,”
Lugar said. “It’s critical to move now, not only because of
competition from Asia and elsewhere, but because Brazil’s
economic role in the hemisphere is expanding rapidly.”  National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said Obama
is committed to increasing U.S.-Brazil ties and that the U.S.
was supporting Brazil’s desire to play a bigger role in
organizations like the  International Monetary Fund ,  World Bank 
and the Group of 20 nations.  Obama, speaking to a CEO business summit in Brasilia on
March 19, said “It’s time for the United States to treat our
engagement with  Brazil  on economic issues as seriously as we do
with nations like China and India.´´  China overtook the U.S. as Brazil’s biggest trading partner
in 2009 on stronger demand for the nation’s soybeans and iron-
ore. Still, exports of U.S. goods to Brazil have surged 22
percent so far this year, helping to pad a U.S. trade surplus
with the country that stood at $9.7 billion through September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  