-- 
Obama Administration Says Schools May Use Race for Diversity

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-12-02T20:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/obama-administration-says-schools-may-use-race-to-aid-diversity.html
The Obama administration told school
districts and universities they may consider the race of
students in programs to foster diversity, revoking  Bush
administration  guidelines that had advocated race-neutral
enrollment policies.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and Education Department laid
out approaches schools can use to promote racial diversity in
 documents  released today. The policy represents the
administration’s interpretation of three recent Supreme Court
decisions that have limited the use of race, without outlawing
it altogether.  “Racially diverse schools provide incalculable educational
and civic benefits by promoting cross-racial understanding,
breaking down racial and other stereotypes, and eliminating bias
and prejudice,” the administration said in the 14-page document
designed for elementary and secondary schools.  Officials told school district officials they could make
decisions about school locations, zoning lines and feeder
patterns with an eye toward the impact on racial diversity.  For universities, the administration said race-neutral
admissions policies need not be adopted if they “will be
ineffective to achieve the diversity the institution seeks.”  Supreme Court   How much impact the new guidance has will depend in part on
the Supreme Court, which will soon consider whether to revisit
the subject of university affirmative action in a case centering
on the  University of Texas  at Austin.  The high court ruled in 2003 that colleges can consider
race as an admissions factor as part of a “holistic” review of
the applicant’s file. On the same day, the justices struck down
a separate affirmative action program they said was too
mechanistic.  In 2007, after Republican President  George W. Bush  had
appointed two new members to the court, the justices put new
limits on integration efforts by public schools at the
kindergarten through 12th grade level. The ruling barred
districts from directly considering the race of particular
students in making school assignments.  The court stopped short of barring school districts from
making racial diversity a goal. The controlling opinion, written
by Justice  Anthony Kennedy , said districts can take other steps
to racially integrate.  The Bush administration issued its guidance the following
year, saying the Education Department “strongly encourages the
use of race-neutral methods for assigning students to elementary
and secondary schools.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  