-- 
Crude Rises to Two-Week High Amid Concern Iranian Tensions Will Intensify

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-02T21:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/oil-heads-for-weekly-gain-in-n-y-as-iran-tension-raises-supply-concern.html
Oil rose to a two-week high to cap
its first gain in three weeks amid concern that tension between
 Iran  and the West will intensify, threatening shipments from
OPEC’s second-biggest crude producer.  Futures climbed 0.8 percent after the U.S. Senate passed a
bill aimed at Iran’s central bank yesterday and the European
Union tightened sanctions. U.S. unemployment unexpectedly
dropped in November to a two-year low, while employers added
fewer workers than projected and earnings eased.  “The market is being bid up because of issues in the
Middle East,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis, which oversees
$1.3 billion. “I wouldn’t go home short over the weekend when
tensions between Iran and the rest are increasing.”  Crude oil for January delivery rose 76 cents to $100.96 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Nov. 16. Prices advanced 4.3 percent this week
and are up 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement rose 95 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $109.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  The European contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
oil traded in New York widened 19 cents to $8.97 a barrel. The
spread narrowed to $8.79 a barrel yesterday, the smallest
differential since March 8.  Senate Bill  The Senate bill would give the president the power starting
July 1 to bar foreign financial institutions that do business
with Iran’s  central bank  from having correspondent bank accounts
in the U.S. If enacted, it could be much harder for foreign
companies to pay for oil imports from Iran. The Obama
administration opposes the legislation.  Iran pumped 3.56 million barrels of oil a day last month, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Saudi Arabia  is the top producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries at 9.55
million barrels a day, according to Bloomberg data.  “Concerns about Iran are supporting the market,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “The reaction to the payrolls
data was an example of buy the rumor, sell the fact. We reached
our high just before the numbers were released.”  Oil retreated after the Labor Department reported at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington  that U.S. payrolls climbed 120,000 last
month, with more than half the hiring coming from retailers and
temporary-help agencies.  The number of people employed rose from a revised 100,000
increase in October that was more than initially estimated. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for November had
called for a gain of 125,000.  Debt Crisis  Oil prices have shifted over the last two years on the
latest developments in the European debt crisis and the
projected impact it would have on energy demand. The crisis that
began in  Greece  has spread to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain 
and threatens economic growth in the region.  “The market is accentuating the positive right now,” said
 Peter Beutel , the president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy
advisory company in New Canaan, Connecticut. “Oil is moving on
positive economic numbers and  Middle East  concerns. There are a
lot of reasons to be concerned about Europe, but the market is
shrugging them off.”  A proposal to channel central bank loans through the
 International Monetary Fund  may deliver as much as 200 billion
euros ($270 billion) to fight the crisis, two people familiar
with the negotiations said.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi, finance ministers gave the go-ahead for
work on the plan, said the people, who declined to be named
because the talks are at an early stage.  Oil also increased as gasoline futures rose to a two-week
high on speculation that supplies will fall after  Sunoco Inc. (SUN) 
halted output yesterday at a Pennsylvania refinery.  Marcus Hook   Sunoco said it would idle its 194,000-barrel-a-day Marcus
Hook plant as it seeks to sell that facility and another in
Philadelphia. The company said it will shut its 355,000-barrel-
a-day Philadelphia refinery by July if it can’t find a buyer.  “All of the action today is in the gasoline market because
of the closure of Marcus Hook,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with
BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York.  Gasoline for January delivery increased 5.83 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $2.6162 a gallon in New York. It was the highest
settlement since Nov. 16.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 425,387
contracts as of 4:40 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 544,164
contracts yesterday, 18 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.31 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  