-- 
Thomson Reuters CEO Glocer Steps Down as Smith Takes Over

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-12-02T22:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/thomson-reuters-says-chief-executive-glocer-to-be-succeeded-by-james-smith.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , the financial
news and information provider, named  James Smith  to replace
Chief Executive Officer Tom Glocer, who will retire after
leading the company since its creation in a 2008 merger.  Smith, 52, will become CEO on Jan. 1, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement. He was elevated to chief
operating officer in a September restructuring after running the
professional division that includes the Westlaw legal database
and Checkpoint tax-information service.  Glocer’s departure comes as Thomson Reuters shares have
declined 28 percent this year in Canadian trading. Last month,
the 52-year-old Glocer discussed working with Smith, his new
COO, in 2012 and said he was confident in restructuring moves at
the markets division, which makes up more than half of sales.  “The management change suggests that the improvements are
not coming fast enough to please the board,”  Claudio Aspesi , a
London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, said via phone
today. “The decline in the share price and the sense that the
market division was encountering headwinds that had not been
fully anticipated was of concern.”  Thomson Reuters fell 1.4 percent to C$26.83 at the close in
Toronto.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Share Price Slump  Glocer, 52, was CEO of Reuters Group Plc before its 8.7
billion pound ($17 billion) acquisition by Thomson Corp. and
stayed to run the combined company. He will also leave the board
of Thomson Reuters at year-end, the company said.  Thomson Reuters  shares have fallen 26 percent since the
deal was completed in April 2008. The company posted a 38
percent increase in third-quarter profit, driven by revenue
growth at its legal-information and tax units.  “I want you to know that we will be satisfied with nothing
less than all of our units performing at their best,” Glocer
said on the Nov. 1 earnings conference call. “We’ve begun to
deliver on our plan to achieve this.”  Glocer restructured the markets division, which provides
financial news and data, in July and told investors on Nov. 1
that he expected improved sales performance in 2012, which would
lead to revenue growth in 2013 in the business.  “On July 28, I told you that I take firm leadership for
our markets division and put it back on track for success,”
Glocer said on the Nov. 1 call.  Execution  Revenue in the professional division rose 10 percent in the
third quarter while markets sales increased 1 percent.  Smith, who began his career as a journalist, joined Thomson
Corp. in 1987, and was put in charge of its academic publishing
division in 2005. His promotion in September was part of a plan
to merge the Markets and Professional units.  “Smith seems to bring what the company probably needs
most, which is a very strong eye toward execution,” Sanford C.
Bernstein’s Aspesi said.  Devin Wenig, who ran the division that oversees the Reuters
news unit and was seen as a possible successor to Glocer, left
the company in July to become president of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s
Marketplaces division.  Woodbridge Co., the  investment company  controlled by the
Thomson family,  owned (TRI)  a 55 percent stake in Thomson Reuters as
of November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  