-- 
London Mining to Record Profit at Sierra Leone Mine in 2012

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-12-02T17:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/london-mining-to-record-profit-at-sierra-leone-mine-in-2012-1-.html
London Mining Plc (LOND) , which began first
production at its Marampa iron-ore mine in  Sierra Leone  today,
will be profitable next year and invest the money it earns to
expand the project, Chief Executive Officer Graeme Hossie said.  “No dividend is planned for 2012 because the value from
reinvestment is extremely high,” Hossie said today in a phone
interview. The London-based company is seeking to produce 1.8
million metric tons of iron ore next year and more than double
output to 4 million tons in 2013, he said.  London Mining, which has a five-year off-take agreement
with Glencore International Plc to sell 1.8 million tons a year
of the steelmaking raw material, is targeting an annual output
of 11.5 million tons in 2014 and 16 million tons in 2016. The
 iron ore  developer will receive $27 million from Glencore at the
end of January as part of the agreement, Hossie said.  “This is a significant milestone which should be taken
positively by the market,” Roger Bell, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., wrote in a report today, adding that the current
share price “undervalues the company’s growth options.”  London Mining rose 3.9 percent to 315.75 pence by the close
in the city, valuing it at 359.7 million pounds ($560 million).  The company, which invested about $169 million until the
beginning of production at Marampa, will need $65 million to
expand annual output to 4 million tons, Hossie said. The company
also estimates an additional investment of about $660 million to
reach a 12 million ton-capacity, he said.  ‘Talking to Glencore’  “We are talking to Glencore and a couple of other traders
about a new off-take agreement for the expanded production,”
Hossie said. The company is seeking to accelerate its expansion
by receiving loans or prepayments from off-take partners, he
said. “When we reach 16 million ton-production, I believe we’ll
have a mix of traders and  steel mills  as off-takers.”  London Mining, which is building a port to start first
shipment by the end of this month, won’t need to upgrade its
logistics even when it produces 11.5 million tons, Hossie said.
It will build a pipeline to transport slurry feed for pellet
production as it reaches an output of 16 million tons, he said.  The company has an option to ship its production to
European customers because of the high quality of the feed,
Hossie said. It “makes a lot of sense because margins will be
higher as the shipping cost is low,” he said.  The Marampa mine requires less than $60 a ton of investment
to produce iron ore, Hossie said. The company’s production cost
is $35 a ton, which it is seeking to reduce to $30 once the
output exceeds 4 million tons, he said.  Sierra Leone Growth  The spot price of iron ore delivered to Tianjin port in
 China  is at $133.60 a ton, down from a record of $191.90 in
February, according to The Steel Index. Hossie said he expects
prices to trade around the midpoint of a $120-$180 range.  Sierra Leone is rebuilding an economy devastated by an 11-
year civil war that ended in 2002.  African Minerals Ltd. (AMI)  began
shipments from its Tonkolili iron-ore mine on Nov. 4.  “It’s a very good place to invest because there are a lot
of opportunities in resource, agriculture and fishing
industries,” Hossie said. “There’s a real alignment between
companies and the government to invest and be successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  