-- 
Hospira Proving Drug Takeover Target With FDA Scrutiny: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-12-02T21:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/hospira-becoming-generic-drug-takeover-target-with-fda-scrutiny-real-m-a.html
Hospira Inc. (HSP) , embroiled in regulatory
scrutiny for flaws in its manufacturing practices, has become so
cheap that buyers may now pounce to claim a third of the world’s
market for specialty generic injectable drugs.  The maker of anesthesia and cancer treatments had fallen 49
percent this year before today, the  steepest (S5HLTH)  drop of any health-
care company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as Hospira
works to fix quality control problems at its plants after
receiving warnings from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
The  Lake Forest , Illinois-based company traded this week at a
record low of 1.46 times net assets, making it the cheapest
generic pharmaceuticals maker in the U.S. greater than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hospira’s depressed valuation and 30 percent share of the
$12 billion market for specialty injectable generics may attract
takeover interest from competitors  Fresenius SE  or  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  amid a decade-high drug shortage,
said Capstone Investments. While Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. says
the risk of the FDA halting manufacturing may deter potential
buyers, Hospira may be worth as much as $60 a share in a
takeover, according to Collins Stewart LLC, a 95 percent premium
to its 20-day trading average.  “The stock looks inexpensive here,” Maria Mendelsberg, a
 fund manager  at Denver-based Cambiar Investors LLC, which
oversees about $8 billion and owns more than 2 million Hospira
shares, said in a telephone interview. “For some of the bigger
drug companies this would be a good way to diversify. There are
so many injectable drug shortages.”  Working with FDA  Joachim Weith, a spokesman for  Bad Homburg , Germany-based
Fresenius, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail sent outside
normal business hours. Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Petach
Tikva, Isreal-based Teva, said the company doesn’t comment on
market speculation.  Dan Rosenberg, a spokesman for Hospira, said the company
doesn’t comment on stock price movements or market speculation.  “We are committed to addressing the FDA’s concerns and are
working diligently to make sure we fully comply with the
agency’s expectations,” he said in an e-mail. “We have worked
closely with the FDA during this process and our interaction has
been open and constructive.”  Hospira’s 49 percent drop this year had wiped out $4.6
billion in value for shareholders through yesterday. The S&P 500
Health Care Index of 51 companies had added 7.3 percent.  ‘Attractive Candidate’  The stock reached a two-and-a-half-year low of $28.17 on
Nov. 29, the cheapest relative to book value, or the value of
its assets minus liabilities, since it was spun off from Abbott
Laboratories and started trading separately in May 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At 1.46 times book value as of yesterday, Hospira is the
cheapest generic pharmaceutical company in America with a market
value greater than $500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The group trades at a median of 2.35 times net assets.  “With a stock that’s under a lot of pressure, it is an
attractive candidate because it trades at a value that’s below
what it is worth to an acquirer,” Shibani Malhotra, an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. Hospira may become an acquisition target if the
valuation is “further depressed,” she wrote in a note to
clients this week.  FDA Warning  In April 2010 the FDA sent Hospira a  warning letter  citing
deficiencies in manufacturing practices at its Clayton,  North
Carolina  facility and failure to validate manufacturing
processes at its plant in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, according
to Hospira’s U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
The warning also covered inadequacies in quality control and
investigations, Hospira said.  The same month, Hospira recalled two drugs -- propofol, the
anesthetic that contributed to  Michael Jackson ’s death, and
liposyn, an intravenous nutritional product -- for a second time
in six months because of manufacturing defects. The drugs had
been contaminated by particulates during manufacturing, Hospira
told the FDA.  In follow-up inspections in June and August of this year at
the Rocky Mount location, which accounts for about 25 percent of
revenue according to Capstone Investments, the FDA also listed
observations regarding quality systems, operating procedures and
areas for remediation and improvement, the company  said . Hospira
said it is implementing a “comprehensive remediation plan.”  Hospira would still be an attractive acquisition candidate
for Fresenius or Teva to boost their share of the specialty
injectable generic drug market, an industry that’s growing about
5 percent a year, according to John Putnam, a  Delray Beach ,
Florida-based analyst for Capstone Investments.  ‘Great Opportunity’  “There is a great opportunity here for generic
manufacturers to step in and produce these drugs,” Putnam said
in a telephone interview. “Those are companies that could make
some inroads or a foray into this.”  Hospira declined 2.3 percent to $27.64 today in New York.
Fresenius fell 1.2 percent to 71.03 euros in  Frankfurt . Teva’s
U.S. shares slipped 0.1 percent to $39.70.  Fresenius, with a market value of 11.7 billion euros ($15.8
billion) as of yesterday, owns  Fresenius Kabi , which sells
infusion therapies and clinical nutrition products and provides
generic intravenous drugs in the U.S.  Recent drug shortages may also drive takeover interest in
Hospira, said Cambiar’s Mendelsberg. There have been 232 drugs
in short supply this year, and most are generic injectables used
for cancer treatment and anesthesia, the American Society of
Health-System Pharmacists said last month.  Drug Shortages  More than 50 of the specialized injectable drugs in short
supply last year were manufactured by three companies: Teva,
Hospira and closely held American Regent Laboratories, October
data from the FDA show.  Last month Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic
drugs, reported its first drop in quarterly earnings in four
years because of fewer new U.S. generic-drug introductions.
Teva’s U.S.-traded shares were down 24 percent this year before
today, giving it a market value of $37.4 billion of yesterday.  While the injectable generic  drug industry  is attractive,
the risk of Hospira’s issues with the FDA escalating would be
too great for a potential buyer, according to analysts Ronny Gal
with Bernstein in New York and  Rick Wise  of Leerink Swann LLC.  Hospira shares fell 9.1 percent on Nov. 29 after RBC’s
Malhotra wrote in a note to clients that the manufacturing
issues may be “far greater than investors realize” and take at
least two to three years to resolve.  Consent Decree  Conversations with FDA experts indicate “a consent decree
is more likely than not,” she wrote. A consent decree would
give the FDA authority to shut down plants and force Hospira to
hire a third-party consultant, which could reduce production and
earnings, Malhotra wrote.  “I have no doubt that the stock is inexpensive relative to
its long-term prospects,” New York-based Wise of Leerink Swann
said in a telephone interview. Still, “companies dealing with
complex regulatory issues are not likely to be acquired,” he
said.  It wouldn’t be the first time that a company mired in FDA
scrutiny of its manufacturing violations was purchased, said
RBC’s Malhotra.  Sanofi (SAN) ,  France ’s largest drugmaker, acquired
Genzyme Corp. this year after the maker of genetic-disease
medicines was fined $175 million by the U.S. government under a
consent decree after one of its plants was contaminated.  “The best example is Genzyme where, once things got really
bad for them, they were a takeout candidate,” Malhotra said. If
Hospira were to be bought, “it would be much longer term. A
potential acquirer would want to know what they’re dealing with
and the depth of the issues, if there are any, and what it would
take to fix them before making any plans,” she said.  Buffett Criteria  Hospira was one of more than 30 companies in developed and
emerging markets identified by Bloomberg in October that met the
acquisition criteria  Warren Buffett  listed in his annual letter
to shareholders and were also cheaper than Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. based on its discount to net assets.  Hospira may be worth as much as $60 a share in a takeover
or breakup, based on a sum-of-the-parts analysis from Louise Chen, a New York-based analyst at  Collins Stewart . That would
equate to a price tag of almost $9.9 billion, compared with its
market value yesterday of $4.7 billion. Chen expects the shares
to reach $35 in the next 12 months on a standalone basis,
according to a Nov. 29 research note.  “Maybe if the stock continues to get cheaper another party
might become interested in it because it’s a unique franchise,”
Cambiar’s Mendelsberg said. “Even before all this happened I
thought it could be an attractive takeout. I’m hoping they can
get this resolved, but when you’re dealing with the FDA you just
don’t know what’s going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ; 