-- 
Papademos: Debt Swap Talks ‘Complicated’

-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T15:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/papademos-debt-swap-discussions-complicated-.html
Greece  and its private creditors are
involved in “complicated” negotiations on a debt-swap
agreement and scenarios coming to light shouldn’t be seen as
indicative of the final result, said Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos .  “Each side has its strategies and has starting
positions,” Papademos said today in comments to lawmakers
televised live on Vouli TV. “Greece’s national interest is our
basic goal and the basis supporting our position. That’s self-
evident and a given.”  Greece’s debt is forecast to balloon to almost double the
size of its economy next year without an accord with private
investors, the European Commission forecast last month. The swap
deal, part of a 130 billion-euro ($175 billion) second bailout
agreement for Greece, is supposed to help the nation reduce its
debt as a proportion of gross domestic product to 120 percent by
2020.  Greece’s 206 billion euros of privately held debt would be
reduced by 50 percent under an agreement announced at an Oct. 26
summit of European leaders in Brussels. The accord didn’t
resolve details of the swap, such as the reduction in net
present value investors would face.  ‘Points of View’  “The negotiations between Greece and representatives of
 credit institutions  are under development and while these are
ongoing, scenarios, different points of view and information on
the parameters will be published,” Papademos said. “This
information should not be seen as facts of the final result.”  Greece and its private creditors are in disagreement over
the  interest rate  on new bonds and how 30 billion euros intended
to sweeten the deal will be used, said a person who is on the
lenders’ negotiating committee. Greece is pushing for a coupon
of 4.5 percent on new 20-year to 30-year bonds, while the banks
are seeking a rate of 7 percent to 8 percent, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private.  European leaders earmarked 30 billion euros to help
structure the swap as part of the Oct. 26 accord. The lenders
would like to have those funds put in an escrow account and used
to guarantee the new bonds, the person said. The Greek
government would prefer to use the money to pay the lenders cash
directly and issue fewer new bonds, according to the person.  Camps ‘Distant’  Based on their current proposals, the two camps “remain
distant,” said Dimitris Drakopoulos, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , in an e-mailed note yesterday.  The co-chairmen of the creditor committee are Institute of
International Finance Managing Director  Charles Dallara  and Jean Lemierre, a senior adviser to BNP Paribas SA. Representatives of
 Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) , Deutsche Bank AG,  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,
Commerzbank AG,  Axa SA (CS)  and  CNP Assurances (CNP)  are among the 11
members of the steering committee.  A voluntary restructuring of the debt could serve as a
model for other countries, said IFF Deputy Managing Director
Hung Tran.  A Greek deal may “be used as a prototype or a template for
potential situations in other countries,” Tran told journalists
during a briefing yesterday at Greylock Capital Management LLC,
a New York investment firm. “If we have a voluntary resolution
then market participants might expect a somewhat more reasonable
and more orderly process when it comes to other countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  