-- 
Pernod Shakes Up Malibu With ‘Snowflakes’ as Sales Lag: Retail

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-12-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/pernod-shakes-up-malibu-with-snowflakes-as-sales-lag-retail.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI)  is turning to
cocktails, coconut snowflakes and tequila to revive flagging
sales at its Malibu rum brand.  Pernod dropped to a 7.6 percent share of the U.S. spirits
market, the biggest by volume, in 2010 from 8.4 percent in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Competitor  Diageo Plc (DGE) 
is No. 1 with 23 percent, measured in millions of cases. Global
sales of Malibu, a coconut-flavored rum, have been growing more
slowly than Pernod’s top 14 brands as a whole, which also
include Absolut vodka and Chivas Regal whisky.  “The brand’s been struggling to connect with the consumer
in the U.S. for a number of years,” said Simon Hales, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London. Innovation is “clearly
what U.S. consumers are demanding at the moment.”  Distillers are focusing marketing budgets on their biggest
brands to drive sales, offering seasonal varieties and unusual
blends to grab consumer attention. Pernod,  France ’s biggest
distiller, is selling a festive version of Malibu with
“flakes” of coconut and collaborating with hip-hop artist Ne-
Yo on Malibu Red, a rum-and-tequila concoction to go on sale in
the U.S. in March.  The association could help Paris-based Pernod revive the
image of the Malibu brand, according to  Trevor Stirling  at
Sanford C. Bernstein.  Sagging Shares  Pernod shares have dropped 2 percent this year, compared
with a 14 percent gain at Diageo and a 1.9 increase in the
Bloomberg Europe 500 Beverages Index, amid concerns about a
slowdown in Chinese cognac sales and worries about the company’s
level of debt. Pernod fell 1.5 percent to 68.96 euros yesterday,
giving the company a market value of 18.3 billion euros ($24.6
billion). It had 9.79 billion euros of total debt on June 30.  Malibu used to belong to Diageo, which sold the brand for
about $800 million 10 years ago to gain U.S. regulatory approval
to buy Seagram’s drinks unit. Pernod gained control of the brand
through its $14 billion purchase of Allied Domecq Plc in 2005.  Since then, sales have stagnated, growing 2 percent in 2006
and 3 percent last year on an organic basis, lagging behind
Pernod’s overall 7 percent improvement in the year ended June.  Pernod started selling Malibu Cocktails in the U.S. last
year, premixed drinks in flavors including rum punch and
“Caribbean cocktail.” The company added Malibu Black this year
-- a stronger version of the liquor -- aimed at men.  Making Brand Fun  “The recent innovation has been very important for Malibu,
and is key to driving growth again,” said Jamie Isenwater, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “It’s making the brand
fun again.”  Products such as premixed cocktails -- which come in
pouches with a carrying handle and a dispenser -- can give
consumers ideas about how to mix the liquor, and what with, said
Ian Shackleton, an analyst at Nomura in London.  “One of the problems has always been ‘what is Malibu?’”
he said.  “Do most consumers know it’s a rum? It doesn’t fit
easily in one category.”  Pernod will sell the rum-and-tequila blend Malibu Red at a
premium to the original. A 750 milliliter bottle of Malibu costs
$12.99 on Binny’s Beverage Depot website.  Singer and rapper Ne-Yo, or Shaffer Chimere Smith Jr., may
help attract his fans to the brand in bars and clubs, where
drinks are generally more expensive and more profitable for
distillers.  Catching Club Crowd  “If you take music, particularly hip hop, it speaks to
that club-going audience,” John Birnsteel, director of
corporate brand strategy at FutureBrand, said. “There’s an
inherent sexiness with alcohol that makes it appealing to people
who have an edgy persona.”  Diageo has also collaborated with celebrities to sell
alcohol, introducing cream liqueur Qream With a Q with rapper
Pharrell this year. Sean “Diddy” Combs, the Grammy Award-
winning singer of “Shake Ya Tailfeather” has been promoting --
and taking a share of the profits from -- Diageo’s ultra-premium
Ciroc vodka since 2007.  Revenue from Ciroc, sold in more than 70 countries, soared
122 percent last year, tapping into demand for so-called super-
premium vodkas. Diddy, who gets half the profit from the brand,
could earn more than $100 million from the partnership, Diageo
estimated in 2007. Pernod declined to say how much profit Ne-Yo
will make from the Malibu Red collaboration.  Celebrity Communication  “Celebrity is part of the way we can communicate our brand
values,” said Martin Riley, head of marketing at Pernod.
However, “it has to be something that has a credible fit. It’s
not just about paying someone to say ‘I like to build this
brand’ -- it’s more long term.”  There can also be pitfalls to getting a well-known
personality to endorse a brand. While Diddy has used parties and
television interviews to push grape-based Ciroc vodka,
businesses run the risk of personal scandal creating negative
associations.  “ Tiger Woods  was the moment where people recognized the
celebrity endorsement cut both ways,” Birnsteel said. The
golfer lost endorsement contracts with companies including AT&T
Inc., Accenture Plc and PepsiCo Inc. after a 2009 car crash led
to his admission of marital infidelity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  