-- 
Peru Can Keep Rates on Hold as CPI Slows, Velarde Says

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-12-02T20:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/peru-likely-to-keep-key-interest-rate-on-hold-as-cpi-slows-velarde-says.html
Peru’s central bank probably will
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.25 percent next
week as growth moderates and inflation is seen slowing from a
two-year high, bank President Julio Velarde said.  “We don’t see any reason in principle to change the
monetary policy stance,” Velarde said in an interview in Cuzco,
Peru. “Inflation expectations are well anchored” within the
central bank’s target range, he said.  Consumer prices  climbed faster than economists expected
last month on rising food and fuel costs, indicating that the
central bank has little room to relax monetary policy to
mitigate the impact of slower global growth. The annual
inflation rate rose to 4.64 percent, the highest since April
2009 and up from 4.2 percent in October. The central bank
targets inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Food prices rose as the La Nina weather pattern affected
yields of local crops and after imported soybean, corn and wheat
prices surged in the first half of 2011, Velarde said. The bank
doesn’t expect a rise in grain prices next year.  The central bank increased its benchmark rate five times
between January and May, pushing it to a two-year high, to
contain inflation expectations. The bank has kept rates on hold
since June as the economy slows. The board next meets Dec. 7.  “The pause was initially due to concern about the
political context affecting demand and also because of the
international situation,” Velarde said. “Looking ahead, we
don’t see any demand-related pressures nor any of these
pressures from foods” that would cause inflation to accelerate,
he said.  Global Question  Private investment spurred by surging metal prices led to
an average 7.2 percent growth in  Peru  in the last five years.
Growth slowed for a fifth straight quarter in the July-through-
September period as flagging demand for the country’s exports
and global market turmoil damped investment.  The economy  expanded  an annual 6.5 percent in the third
quarter, compared with expansion of 7.9 percent in the first
half of the year, the national statistics agency said Nov. 28.  “We don’t see a significant slowdown yet,” Velarde said.
Growth will slow next year “more because of international
uncertainty” he said.  The suspension of the $4.8 billion Minas Conga copper and
gold project following anti-mining protests won’t harm growth
unless other mine investments are also halted, Velarde said.  Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SAA (BVN)  and partner Newmont Mining
Corp. agreed Nov. 29 to a government request to suspend work on
the project following environmental protests by communities
concerned the mine will curtail water supply.  The yield on the nation’s 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond
due August 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 5.66 percent at 2:40 p.m.  Lima  time, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 