-- 
Petronas Tackles Malaysia’s Gas Problems as Net Rises

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-12-02T00:35:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/petronas-tackles-malaysia-s-gas-problems-as-net-rises-correct-.html
(Corrects attribution in last paragraph of story published
Dec. 1.)  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s
state oil company, announced plans to tackle the Southeast Asian
nation’s gas supply shortage as it reported a 48 percent jump in
quarterly profit.  The Kuala Lumpur-based group, which manages all the
country’s energy reserves, will build a fourth gas import
terminal and a second floating liquefied natural gas plant,
Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas told reporters
today. It also agreed to partially absorb extra costs incurred
by power producer  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)  due to supply
disruptions, he said.  Gas shortages have forced Tenaga to buy costlier oil and
distillate for electricity generation. This incurs additional
cost of 400 million ringgit ($127 million) every month, Chief
Executive Officer Che Khalib Mohamad Noh said on Oct. 28.
Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, has reduced supplies of low-
cost, subsidized natural gas due to maintenance of plants.  “As a national company, we’ll play our part and share the
misery,” Shamsul said. “We hope Tenaga will play its part too.
Tenaga is encouraged to be inefficient and we’re not prepared to
fund the inefficiency.”  Petronas spends as much as 20 billion ringgit a year to
subsidize gas at below market price to industrial users
including Tenaga, said Shamsul.  Malaysia  needs to shift to a
market-driven mechanism to determine prices, he said.  Tenaga posted a 453.9 million ringgit loss in the three
months ended Sept. 30, while Petronas said net income climbed to
16 billion ringgit from 10.8 billion ringgit a year earlier.
Sales grew 26 percent to 71.8 billion ringgit, the oil
corporation said in a statement.  Boosting Reserves  Increased earnings will boost the amount of spare cash
Petronas has to spend on discovering new energy reserves after
paying 30 billion ringgit in dividends to the Malaysian
government again this year.  Crude  oil prices  in  New York  averaged $89.63 a barrel in
the three months ended Sept. 30, up from $76.20 a year earlier.
Higher oil prices in the three months through September also
boosted quarterly earnings of Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company.  Oil prices will likely average $85 to $87 a barrel in 2012,
Shamsul said.  Petronas may venture into the power generation business in
Japan and  India , the chief executive said. It’s also bidding for
an oil and gas rights in Myanmar, Wee Yiaw Hin, executive vice
president of exploration and production, told reporters in  Kuala
Lumpur .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  