-- 
Philippine Peso Halts Four-Week Decline on Higher Remittances

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-12-02T08:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/philippine-peso-halts-four-week-loss-as-remittances-increase.html
The  Philippine peso  gained, halting a
four-week loss, on signs Filipinos living abroad are sending
more money home as the Christmas holidays approach.  Asian currencies appreciated against the dollar this week
after six central banks led by the  Federal Reserve  agreed to cut
the cost of providing dollar funding via swap agreements and to
make other currencies available as needed. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fifth
meeting yesterday, citing inflation risk.  “Seasonally, the peso is strong because of the inflows,”
said Antonio Espedido, a treasurer at China Banking Corp. in
Manila. “The move by the central banks also helped because
they’re saying whatever liquidity is needed to salvage the
global economy, they’re there in unison to provide it.”  The peso climbed 1.5 percent this week to 43.27 per dollar
at the close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency was little changed today.  Remittances rose 8.4 percent to $1.7 billion in September
from a year earlier, the central bank said Nov. 15. It will
report the October data next week.  Bangko Sentral kept the rate it pays lenders for overnight
deposits at 4.5 percent, while raising its inflation forecasts
for 2011 to 2013. Policy makers may have more flexibility to
support growth next year if inflationary pressures brought about
by storms turn out to be temporary, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said after the decision.  The yield on the government’s 6.375 percent bonds due
January 2022 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 5.67 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The
rate declined six basis points this week.  “The market may have to calibrate expectations on the
policy rate given the higher inflation forecasts,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Manila-based Chinatrust
Philippines Commercial Bank Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  