-- 
PIC Wins Court Challenge to Convert Debt in Holcim’s South African Partner

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-12-02T16:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/pic-wins-court-challenge-to-convert-debt-in-holcim-s-south-african-partner.html
The Public Investment Corp. can
switch preference shares it owns in Afrisam Ltd. into stock
after an application by the cement maker’s largest shareholder
to block the conversion was dismissed by a South African court.  “There can be no suggestion that there is any illegal
threat to the applicant’s rights,” Judge Eberhard Bertelsmann
said in his judgment in the North Gauteng High Court in  Pretoria 
today. Afrisam’s board must approve the conversion of the PIC’s
4.7 billion rand ($590 million) in preference shares into equity
within 20 days, he said.  The PIC, which manages 1 trillion rand in South African
state-worker pensions, will gain control of  South Africa ’s
second-biggest cement producer with the conversion, allowing
Afrisam to reorganize debt that threatens to bankrupt the
company, the PIC said.  Holcim (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest cement
producer, created Afrisam in 2006 by selling its South African
business to black investors led by Bunker Hills Investments Ltd.
and retaining a 15 percent stake. That share and the 37 percent
owned by Bunker Hills will be diluted to “almost nothing” post
the conversion, Bunker Hills said.  “The judgment provides clarity,” said PIC Chief Executive
Officer Elias Masilela in a mobile-phone interview after the
judgment. “We will now be able to proceed with that clarity.”  Bunker Hills Appeal  Bunker Hills will appeal the court judgment, Peter Tshisevhe, a lawyer for Johannesburg-based  investment company ,
said after the ruling in Pretoria, declining further comment.  South  Africa ’s government is pushing companies from banks
to mines to sell stakes to black investors to make up for
discrimination during apartheid, which ended in 1994. Bunker
Hills funded the acquisition, its only investment, with about 23
billion-rand in debt, which it’s struggling to repay after a
recession curbed cement demand in Africa’s largest economy.  Afrisam management owns 13 percent of the company, while
the Pretoria-based PIC has 20 percent plus the 4.7 billion rand
in preference shares. Community trusts owns the rest. Worldwide
Africa Investment Holdings Ltd., of which former  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) 
Chief Executive Officer Phuthuma Nhleko wants to convert the 3.7
billion rand it’s owed by Afrisam into shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  