-- 
Polish Central Bank to Favor Stimulus, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-12-02T17:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/polish-central-bank-to-favor-stimulus-morgan-stanley-says.html
Poland ’s central bank will shift its
policy toward monetary “stimulus” from defending the zloty as
a European recession weighs on 2012 growth, Morgan Stanley said.  Economic growth will slow to 2.5 percent next year from an
estimated 4.2 percent in 2011, Pasquale Diana, an economist at
Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote today in an e-mailed note.
Policy makers will cut rates 50 basis points to 4 percent next
year, starting in the second quarter, Diana said.  The central bank has sold foreign currency four times in
the last 10 weeks to buoy the zloty, the third-worst performer
among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the
euro crisis threatens Polish exports and banks. The regulator
understands it can’t “flex its muscles” to stop global
investors fleeing  Europe , Governor  Marek Belka  said Nov. 30.  “With growth momentum set to slow significantly and
inflation also coming off next year thanks to base effects, we
believe that there will be a gradual shift in Monetary Policy
Committee commentary away from the weaker zloty and toward the
need for more monetary stimulus,” Diana wrote.  The zloty fell 0.2 percent against the euro to 4.4937 as of
6:44 p.m. in Warsaw.  While the economic slowdown will be less severe than after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse, Poland has no
room to step up spending this time round, according to Diana.
This strengthens arguments to cut interest rates, he said.  Re-elected Prime Minister Donald Tusk in November laid out
his plans to trim the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year and 1 percent in 2015 from an
estimated 5.8 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  