-- 
Rand Strengthens to Three-Week High, Posting Best Week Since October 2008

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-12-02T15:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/rand-strengthens-for-fifth-day-heading-for-its-best-week-since-april-2009.html
The rand appreciated to a three-week
high against the dollar, its best week since October 2008, as
U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped and a European
lending plan encouraged demand for higher-yielding assets.  South Africa ’s currency strengthened as much as 1.5 percent
to 7.9733, its highest level since Nov. 11. It traded 1 percent
firmer at 8.0121 as of 4:38 p.m. in Johannesburg, a fifth day of
gains, bringing its weekly advance to 6.2 percent.  The U.S. unemployment rate declined to 8.6 percent in
November, the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Non-farm payrolls
climbed by 120,000 from a revised 100,000 in October. The dollar
retreated against most of its major peers as investors turned
toward riskier assets.  “A positive outcome in today’s U.S. non-farm payrolls
would only serve to further boost sentiment,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition Analytics,
and colleagues wrote in an e-mail. “We would therefore be more
inclined to turn a little more bullish on the rand.”  A plan to channel central bank loans through the
 International Monetary Fund  may deliver as much as 200 billion
euros ($270 billion) to fight the euro region’s debt crisis, two
people familiar with the negotiations said.  More than $3 trillion was added to the value of global
stocks this week after central banks took steps to ease Europe’s
debt crisis and support economic growth. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  signaled yesterday that the ECB could do
more to fight the debt crisis as long as governments push the
euro area toward a fiscal union.  Debt Crisis  “The effects of the injection of liquidity into the global
financial system could keep the mood positive and the rand on
the front foot into next week,” Nomvuyo Guma, a Johannesburg-
based currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by
e-mail  German Chancellor Angela Merkel today likened solving
 Europe ’s debt crisis to a marathon as she rejected joint euro-
area bonds and central bank action while pushing for closer
economic ties and tougher budget enforcement. Merkel is due to
hold talks with the French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on Dec. 5
to coordinate their approach to a summit next week  Meeting of Minds  “Germany and  France  seem to be edging towards an agreement
on a new euro zone treaty that places controls on government
spending and debt,”  John Cairns , a Johannesburg-based currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank, said in e-mailed comments.
“It seems we have a temporary reprieve in the crisis.”  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 gained for a
fifth day, driving the yield down 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 6.63 percent, the lowest since Nov. 11. The
yield has fallen 45 basis points this week, the most since five
days ending Dec. 19, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  