-- 
Range Fuels Cellulosic Ethanol Plant Fails, U.S. Pulls Plug

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-12-02T22:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/range-fuels-cellulosic-ethanol-plant-fails-as-u-s-pulls-plug.html
Range Fuels Inc. , a cellulosic
ethanol company backed by as much as $156 million in U.S. loans
and grants from President  George W. Bush ’s administration, is
being forced by the government to liquidate its only factory
after failing to produce the fuel.  The closely held company, which counts  Vinod Khosla , a
venture capitalist and Sun Microsystems Inc. co-founder, as an
initial investor, shuttered the factory in Soperton,  Georgia , in
January after not delivering on its promise to convert woodchips
into ethanol, which was intended to help the U.S. become less
dependent on foreign oil.  Soperton’s failure comes after Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel
maker that received a $535 million federal loan guarantee, filed
for bankruptcy in September. The ethanol project received $46.3
million of a $76 million grant from the Energy Department and
half of an $80 million loan from the Agriculture Department,
according to each department.  “We are disappointed that this company did not succeed and
we will be working on behalf of the American people to protect
the federal government’s interest in the loan, which was
announced by the previous administration,” Justin Dejong, a
spokesman for the Agriculture Department in Washington, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  While the Solyndra guarantee won approval under President
Barack Obama’s administration, the Soperton project was
initiated as part of President Bush’s push to aid alternatives
to corn as a source for ethanol. The loan guarantee was
announced on Jan. 19, 2009, the final day of the  Bush
administration , according to an Agriculture Department document.  Ambitious Plan  Cellulosic ethanol is a variety of the fuel that uses non-
food feedstocks, such as corn cobs, woodchips or switch grass.
The U.S. has had to slash the amount of the fuel it required in
gasoline because it isn’t available.  The Soperton plant began construction in 2007 and was to
initially produce 20 million gallons of the biofuel in 2008 and
expand capacity to more than 100 million gallons a year by 2009,
Khosla said in a November 2007 interview.  In an e-mail, Khosla referred questions to Range Fuels
Chief Executive Officer David Aldous. A website for the company
goes to the server default page and a telephone listing says the
line has been disconnected.  Aldous said today in an e-mail that the company found a
buyer that would take over the debt and purchase the distillery,
only to have the Agriculture Department reject the deal, citing
taxpayer interest.  The project received more than $160 million in venture
capital investments from Khosla Ventures LLC and other
companies, Aldous said.  Plant Closure  The plant was closed after a technical defect limited it to
run at half rates and it produced cellulosic methanol, a fuel
the Environmental Protection Agency doesn’t consider eligible
for use to meet federal biofuel targets.  AgSouth Farm Credit, servicer of the loan, will move
forward with a liquidation plan in anticipation of a  foreclosure
sale  for the Soperton plant to begin in January, according to an
Agriculture Department document.  Range repaid $2 million of the Agriculture Department loan
in 2010, then missed its scheduled payment in January 2011 and
triggered the default, according to the document.  A foreclosure sale is planned for Jan. 3, according to the
Agriculture Department.  The Energy Department said it suspended funding earlier
this year and formally terminated its agreement with Range in
August.  “Based on signs that the project was in trouble earlier
this year, the department took steps to reduce the future
financial risk for the American taxpayers, including terminating
the technology investment agreement with the company,” Jen Stutsman, a spokeswoman for the Energy Department in  Washington ,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  