-- 
RBC, Scotiabank Profits Top Estimates on Domestic Banking

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-12-02T21:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/rbc-scotiabank-profits-top-estimates-on-domestic-bank-money-management.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , two of Canada’s three biggest lenders, reported fourth-
quarter profits that topped analysts’ estimates on  consumer
banking  and asset-management gains.  Royal Bank, the country’s largest lender, said net income
for the period ended Oct. 31 rose 43 percent to C$1.6 billion
($1.58 billion), or C$1.07 a share. Scotiabank, the No. 3 bank,
said profit climbed 11 percent to C$1.24 billion, or C$1.07 a
share.  The banks join Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, which reported yesterday that domestic banking
profits climbed as Canada’s economy rebounded 3.5 percent in the
third quarter. The lenders signaled that economic “headwinds”
and increased competition will persist in 2012 due to a slowdown
in lending and uncertainty from Europe’s debt crisis.  “There’s a lack of loan growth, lack of revenue expansion
opportunities, you’ve got a plateauing in the domestic market,”
said  Bob Decker , a  money manager  at Aurion Capital Management in
Toronto, whose firm oversees about C$5.5 billion. “It’s a very
competitive environment.”  Royal Bank rose 3.7 percent to C$48.77 at 4 p.m. in trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Scotiabank (BNS) , the country’s  worst-
performing  bank stock this year, fell 2.5 percent to C$48.99.  Scotiabank said it expects 5 percent to 10 percent
earnings-per-share growth in 2012, compared with an 18 percent
increase in fiscal 2011. Last year’s target was 7 percent to 12
percent profit growth.  ‘Escalating Costs’  “Escalating costs relative to revenues in both the
domestic and international segments is something for investors
to keep an eye on,”  Brad Smith , an analyst at Stonecap
Securities in Toronto, said in a note to clients.  Royal Bank said it earned C$1.11 a share from continuing
operations, topping the 97-cent-a-share average adjusted
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Scotiabank
said it earned C$1.10 a share before one-time items, beating the
C$1.08-a-share average estimate from analysts.  Royal Bank’s Canadian banking profit rose 18 percent to
C$904 million as home-equity loans, personal and business
deposits and business loans grew.  “We’re very focused on taking a disproportionate share of
any growth in the market,” Janice Fukakusa, the bank’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview. “We’re always talking
about getting a 25 percent premium in growth over the rest of
the market, and that really drives a lot of our longer-term
value and profitability.”  Wealth Management   Wealth-management earnings rose 8 percent to C$189 million,
while insurance profit surged 58 percent to C$196 million from a
year earlier, when earnings were pared by a C$116 million loss
on the sale of the bank’s Liberty Life Insurance Co. business.  Profit from the RBC Capital Markets investment-banking unit
fell 25 percent to C$278 million on lower fixed-income trading
due to “challenging” markets. Trading revenue across the bank
fell by more than half to C$279 million, led by a decline in
trading of interest rate and credit.  “The thumb of  Europe  has really been pressing on Royal
Bank the hardest, largely because they are so sensitive to the
capital markets businesses and trading more so than other
banks,” said  Craig Fehr , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis .  Royal Bank told investors today it has C$36.9 billion in
“gross drawn exposure” to Europe.  Caribbean Banking  International-banking profit, including Caribbean banking
and its RBC Dexia partnership and excluding the U.S. RBC Bank
that’s being sold, was C$12 million, compared with a C$7 million
loss a year earlier.  For the year, Royal Bank said it earned C$4.85 billion,
down from C$5.22 billion in 2010.  Scotiabank, also based in Toronto, said domestic consumer-
banking profit climbed 4.3 percent to C$460 million, boosted by
mortgage and auto loan fees. Asset-management earnings climbed
33 percent to C$250 million.  “Home is where the heart is and where the money is,” said
 Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which oversees about C$4 billion.
“Scotia is in various countries around the world and it’s
significant for them, but as not as significant as Canadian
operations.”  International-banking profit climbed 10 percent to C$373
million because of loan growth and acquisitions in Uruguay.  Scotiabank may continue to make more “strategic”
acquisitions outside of  Canada  after making six last year, said
 Brian Porter , the international bank group head.  Investment-banking profit fell 16 percent to C$230 million
on lower trading revenue and “a more modest risk appetite.”  For the year, profit climbed 21 percent to a record C$5.27
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  