-- 
Treasury Notes Fall for Sixth Day on Speculation U.S. Payrolls Increased

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-12-02T12:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/treasuries-head-for-weekly-loss-on-speculation-u-s-job-growth-accelerated.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
sixth day before a government report that economists said will
show U.S. job growth quickened last month, confirming the
world’s largest economy is gaining momentum.  Benchmark notes extended their biggest weekly decline since
October as a European proposal to channel central bank loans
through the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver as much as
200 billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the debt crisis, two
people familiar with the negotiations said. Recent reports point
to stronger growth and the U.S. central bank shouldn’t rush to
ease monetary policy further,  James Bullard , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , said yesterday.  “Payrolls will be the major driver today,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .
“Treasuries have come under pressure this week and hopes for a
strong number are in place.”  Ten-year  yields  climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.13 percent at 7:39 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in November 2021 fell 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount
to 98 27/32. The yield has increased 16 basis points this week,
the most since the period ended Oct. 14.  The 10-year yield will rise to 2.18 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of financial companies,
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.
The yield will reach 2.30 percent by the end of March 2012, the
surveys show.  Hiring Increases  The U.S. added 125,000 jobs in November, compared with
80,000 in October, the Labor Department will say today,
according to the median forecast in Bloomberg News survey. The
jobless rate held at 9 percent, based on the responses. The
report is due at 8:30 a.m. Washington time.  The data may add to evidence the U.S. economic recovery is
taking hold. Manufacturing expanded in November at the fastest
pace in five months, the  Institute for Supply Management 
reported yesterday. The New York-based Conference Board said
last month its index of  consumer confidence  rose in November by
the most since April 2003.  “The current yield level is too low given the growth
outlook,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest publicly
traded bank by assets. “Yields are likely to rise gradually as
we continue to see good numbers in the  U.S. economy .”  Returns in 2011  Treasuries remain one of the best-performing bond markets
this year -- even after this week’s declines -- as  Europe ’s debt
crisis soured sentiment toward the region’s assets and bolstered
demand for the safest U.S. assets.  Treasuries due in 10 years or more have returned 18 percent
in the past six months, the most among 144 bond indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies after accounting for currency changes. Ten-year yields
have risen 45 basis points from a record low of 1.67 percent set
Sept. 23.  “Money is flowing from the euro to Treasuries,” said
Yoshiyuki Suzuki, who helps oversee the equivalent of $70.7
billion as the Tokyo-based head of fixed income at Fukoku Mutual
Life Insurance Co. “The upside in yields will be limited.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 1.4 percent today amid
optimism an alignment of German and French views on measures
needed to arrest the region’s debt woes will pave the way for
crisis-fighting assistance from the  European Central Bank .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring this
month rose 1.2 percent.  Marathon  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  likened solving the debt
crisis to a marathon in a speech today as she rejected joint
euro-area bonds and central bank action while pushing for closer
economic ties and tougher budget enforcement.  Germany  is leading a push with  France  for closer economic
ties among euro nations allied to tougher enforcement of budget
rules to counter the debt crisis now in its third year. Merkel
said she will consult with French President Nicolas Sarkozy on
Dec. 5 to coordinate their approach to next week’s summit.  Thirty-year  Treasury yields  advanced three basis points to
3.13 percent, extending their weekly gain to 21 basis points.  This week’s drop in Treasuries was driven by a Fed
announcement on Nov. 30 that the premium banks pay to borrow
dollars overnight from central banks will decline by a half-
percentage point to 50 basis points.  Fed Purchases  Fed officials are debating whether the central bank should
resume large-scale purchases of securities to push down an
 unemployment rate  that has been stuck at 9 percent or higher
since April.  The Fed is  scheduled  to sell as much as $8.75 billion of
Treasuries due in 2013 today as part of a plan announced in
September to replace $400 billion of shorter maturities in its
holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs. It also
plans to buy as much as $2.75 billion of securities due from
2036 to 2041.  “The data have come in stronger than expected, so I think
the logical thing now is to wait and see,” Bullard said in an
interview in  New York  yesterday at the Bloomberg Hedge Fund
Conference. “See if we continue to get a good read on the
holiday season and start out the new year stronger or weaker,
and also assess the situation in Europe and see how that feeds
back to the  United States .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  