-- 
Treasuries Head for Weekly Loss on Speculation U.S. Payrolls Increased

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T02:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/treasuries-decline-for-sixth-consecutive-day-before-u-s-payrolls-report.html
Treasuries headed for their steepest
weekly loss since October before a government report today that
economists said will show U.S. jobs growth quickened last month,
confirming a pickup in the world’s largest economy.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and
inflation-indexed securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.11
percentage points yesterday, the most in two weeks. The five-
year average is 2.04 percentage points.  James Bullard , president
of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , said recent reports
point to stronger growth and the central bank shouldn’t rush to
ease monetary policy further.  “The current yield level is too low given the growth
outlook,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest publicly
traded bank by assets. “Yields are likely to rise gradually as
we continue to see good numbers in the  U.S. economy .”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 2.09
percent as of 10:53 a.m. Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note due in November 2021 changed
hands at 99 6/32. The rate reached 2.14 percent yesterday, the
highest since Nov. 14, and it has advanced 13 basis points this
week, the most since the five-day period ended Oct. 14.  The yield will advance to 2.18 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. Shimazu predicts 2.3 percent.  Jobs Data  The U.S. added 125,000 jobs in November, compared with
80,000 in October, the Labor Department will say today,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The jobless rate probably held at 9 percent, based
on the responses.  U.S. manufacturing expanded in November at the fastest pace
in five months, the  Institute for Supply Management  in Tempe,
 Arizona , reported yesterday. The New York-based Conference Board
said last month that its index of  consumer confidence  rose in
November by the most since April 2003.  This week’s decline wasn’t enough to knock Treasuries from
their place as one of the best-performing bond markets this
year, with the gain driven by demand for the relative safety of
American securities during  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Treasuries due in 10 years and more have returned 20
percent in the past six months, the most among 144 bond indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Benchmark 10-year yields are within about 45
basis points of the record low of 1.67 percent set Sept. 23.  Flowing to Treasuries  “Money is flowing from the euro to Treasuries,” said
Yoshiyuki Suzuki, who helps oversee the equivalent of $70.7
billion as the Tokyo-based head of fixed income at Fukoku Mutual
Life Insurance Co. “The upside in yields will be limited.”  Fed officials are debating whether the central bank should
resume large-scale purchases of securities to push down an
 unemployment rate  that has been stuck at 9 percent or higher
since April.  “The data have come in stronger than expected, so I think
the logical thing now is to wait and see,” Bullard said in an
interview in  New York  yesterday at the Bloomberg Hedge Fund
Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link. “See if we continue to get
a good read on the holiday season and start out the New Year
stronger or weaker, and also assess the situation in Europe and
see how that feeds back to the United States.”  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Rocky Swift  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 vwgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  