-- 
Republican Governors Slap Reins on Unions Undeterred by Backlash in Ohio

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/republican-governors-slap-reins-on-unions-undeterred-by-backlash.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
has battled teachers association leaders over rewriting tenure
rules, while Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  said he’s weighing
whether to back curbs on nongovernment unions.  The two are among several Republicans trying to limit the
power of organized labor even after a successful bid by another,
Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker , spurred a recall drive and voters
repealed a similar law championed by  Ohio ’s  John Kasich .  Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell, chairman of the
 Republican Governors Association , said those developments won’t
sway his members from pursuing efforts to rein in unions. In
some cases, that means expanding the roster of 22 states with
right-to-work laws. In others, pending bills would place limits
on the reach of  labor organizations  in government and industry.  “People realize the states that are doing the best on
budgets, on  job creation ” are those with laws barring new
workers from being required to join unions, McDonnell said
yesterday at a meeting of the group in Orlando,  Florida . “You
see unions fighting for their lives” in those states, he said.  Lawmakers began enacting such measures in the 1930s, after
federal legislation let employers that sign contracts with
organized labor fire workers who refuse to join unions,
according to the National Right-to-Work Legal Defense Foundation
Inc. In 2001,  Oklahoma  became the 22nd state to add such rules.  Worker Pay  The average worker in a right-to-work state is paid $30,167
a year, or about $5,333 a year less than workers in those that
don’t have the rule, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  Indiana ’s Daniels said he’s weighing whether to back a
pending right-to-work bill. He said such a law would make his
state more attractive to businesses considering relocating.  “We’re missing between a quarter and a third of the
opportunities because the business has this as a prerequisite,”
Daniels said. “That’s a big matter to us, a big deal. In this
economy, a state like ours needs every edge it can get.”  Louisiana  Governor  Bobby Jindal  has also backed legislation
to change the way teachers are evaluated and overhauling tenure.  In  New Hampshire , the  House of Representatives  on Nov. 30
failed to override Democratic Governor John Lynch’s veto of a
similar measure.  “Today, 130 elected representatives in the House stood
with ironworkers, teachers, nurses and firefighters to sustain
Governor Lynch’s veto,” Mark MacKenzie, president of the New
Hampshire AFL-CIO, said in a statement. “Their vote is a clear
signal to all of our elected leaders, in New Hampshire and
elsewhere, that attacking the rights of everyday Americans isn’t
the key to economic prosperity.”  Recall, Repeal  Overhauling education, adding jobs and cutting the cost of
government will top to-do lists for the coming year, according
to Republican governors who gathered for two days this week near
Walt Disney World in  Orlando . Out of 29 Republican governors,
26, plus Luis Fortuno of  Puerto Rico , attended the meeting,
which held sessions on everything from China trade to politics.  Walker, who took office in Madison in January, faces a
recall spearheaded by incensed union leaders after signing a law
that limits most collective bargaining to wages and outlaws
automatic dues collection from workers’ pay.  Christie, whose 2009 election made him the first Republican
to win a statewide New Jersey race since 1997, said he thinks
Kasich and Walker may both benefit as taxpayers see savings from
the measures they championed.  “Some of this stuff is emotional and it’s cyclical, so you
can’t allow yourself to get caught up in that,” Christie said.
“If you wind up being governed by polls in this job, then
you’re going to be a failure. You are absolutely going to be a
failure.”  Union Opposition  Attempts to curb bargaining power are “overreaching,”
Brandon Davis, political director of the Washington-based
 Service Employees International Union , said in a statement.  “The Republican Governors’ Association is interested in
advancing a political agenda that caters to the needs of the
richest 1 percent rather than the nurses, firefighters, police
officers and teachers who care for us when we’re ill, teach our
children and keep us safe from harm,” Davis said by e-mail.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer plans to push for a bill
similar to a proposal she raised last year, to revamp the
compensation system for public employees and making it easier to
fire those who perform poorly, she said in an interview.  Idaho Governor Clement “Butch” Otter earlier this year
signed a package of education bills that include limiting union
negotiations to salary and benefits alone. Superintendent of
Instruction Tom Luna faced a recall drive that failed to gain
enough support to get on the ballot, Otter said in an interview.
He said after meetings with other Republican state leaders, he
doesn’t think a backlash to the changes made in  Wisconsin  or
Ohio will have much effect on similar efforts.  “There’s not anybody who’s going to back off of their
original intent because of what Scott’s going through or what
John Kasich went through,” Otter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau at  simonebaribeau@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 