-- 
RIM Tumbles as Sales Shortfall Signals Apple Extending Lead

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-12-02T22:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/rim-third-quarter-revenue-misses-company-forecast-on-slowing-device-demand.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  plunged the
most in 11 weeks after saying revenue missed its forecast last
quarter amid accelerating market-share losses for BlackBerry
smartphones and PlayBook tablets to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Third-quarter revenue was “slightly lower” than the $5.3
billion to $5.6 billion the company had projected and earnings
were “at the low to mid point” of its forecast, according to
an unscheduled statement from Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM today.
RIM said it doesn’t expect to meet its full-year profit target.  The shortfall -- the fourth straight quarter sales missed
analysts’ estimates -- puts more pressure on co-Chief Executive
Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis  as they seek to revive
a company that once dominated the U.S. smartphone market. RIM’s
market-share decline has prompted investors such as  Jaguar
Financial Corp. (JFC)  to call for a change in leadership and for RIM
to divide into separate companies or seek a sale.  “The next question from a management perspective is do
they need someone different? They cannot keep going on the same
course forever,” said Bahl & Gaynor Investment Counsel’s  Matt McCormick , whose firm oversees $4.1 billion. McCormick, speaking
from Cincinnati, said he’s “glad” his firm doesn’t own RIM
stock.  RIM fell 9.7 percent to $16.77 at 4 p.m. in New York,
percent, the most since its previous sales miss in September.
The stock has lost 71 percent this year as Apple advanced 21
percent.  PlayBook Slump  RIM will record a $485 million pretax provision to revalue
the inventory for the PlayBook tablet, which has failed to win
over users in a market dominated by Apple’s iPad. RIM said more
promotions are needed to drive demand for its tablet, whose
shipments  fell (RIMM)  to 150,000 units last quarter, less than a third
of the 500,000 tablets RIM shipped in the first quarter after
they went on sale in May. In its most recent quarter, Cupertino,
California-based Apple sold a record 11.12 million iPads.  “When the PlayBook is supposed to be the savior and it’s
not, where do you go,” McCormick said.  RIM posted its first quarterly revenue decline in nine
years in September, and is struggling to move its BlackBerry
lineup onto a new operating system called BBX. The company’s
U.S. market share sank to 9.2 percent in the third quarter from
24 percent a year earlier as consumers opted for Apple’s iPhone
and phones from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  that run
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, according to researcher Canalys.  RIM’s current products “are now in terminal decline,”
said Tavis McCourt, an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. in
Nashville, Tennessee, who has a “market perform” rating on RIM
shares. The BBX devices will be “crucial if there is ever going
to be a turnaround.”  Further ‘Erosion’  RIM said device shipments in the fourth quarter will
decline from the third quarter. In the fiscal third quarter
ended Nov. 26, BlackBerry smartphone shipments were 14.1
million, in line with the company’s forecast.  “RIM’s soft fourth quarter outlook sustains concerns of
further franchise erosion and raises the bar for a turnaround,”
 Mike Abramsky , an RBC Capital Markets analyst, said in a note
today. He has a “sector perform” rating on the stock.  Analysts on average predicted third-quarter profit to
decline to $1.20 a share and sales to slump to $5.31 billion,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. RIM’s earnings
forecast for the period was $1.20 to $1.40 a share.  The company also said it booked $50 million in costs for a
service disruption customers suffered last quarter.  RIM plans to report detailed results for the third quarter
on Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  