-- 
Samsung Asset to List MSCI Korea Index-Backed Exchange-Trade Fund in 2012

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-12-02T02:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/samsung-asset-to-list-msci-korea-index-backed-exchange-trade-fund-in-2012.html
Samsung Asset Management Co., South
Korea’s biggest manager of exchange-traded funds, said it’s
preparing to list a fund that tracks the  MSCI Korea Index (MXKR)  in
 Seoul  next year for the first time in the nation.  The Seoul-based money manager aims to list as many as 10
new ETFs in 2012, including products backed by stock indices of
Asian  emerging markets  such as China, Indonesia and India, Bae
Jae Kyu, chief investment officer of the ETF division at
Samsung, said in an interview at his Seoul office yesterday. The
company is also considering setting up an ETF in the U.S. that
tracks Korean stock gauges including the  Kospi 200 Index (KOSPI2) , he
said.  ETFs are typically designed to mimic the performance of
indexes. Unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once daily
after the end of each trading session, ETFs are listed on an
exchange where shares are bought and sold throughout the day
like stocks.  South Korea ’s ETF market is forecast to triple by
2015, according to the nation’s bourse operator. Global ETF
assets surged to $1.39 trillion as of October, from $74.3
billion in 2000, according to a report by  BlackRock Inc.   “ETFs are definitely a hot trend now," Bae said. "Money
flowed in there even during the market’s decline this year."  The MSCI Korea Index fell 6.9 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 17 percent drop in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index and a 7.5 percent retreat in the MSCI World Index,
a gauge of developed countries.  ‘Bullish’ View  The value of ETF assets in South Korea, the fourth-biggest
market for the products in  Asia  now, may triple to 30 trillion
won ($27 billion) by 2015, according to Hwang Sung Yun, an
executive director of the Kospi market division at Korea
Exchange Inc. A total of 107 ETFs, valued at about 9.4 trillion
won, are currently traded on the bourse, exchange  data  show.  ‘‘We are bullish on the ETF market,’’ Hwang said in an
interview at his Seoul office. ‘‘It will continue growing
especially at a time when investors seek some simplicity amid
uncertainties in the financial markets. More investments will
come from pension funds going forward as well.’’  Samsung Asset is not alone in betting on the growth
potential of ETFs.  Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. , South
Korea’s second-largest  money manager , agreed in July to buy the
exchange-traded fund business of Jovian Capital Corp., a
Canadian money manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  