-- 
Nigeria Inflation Threat Leaves No Room for Interest-Rate Cut, Sanusi Says

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-12-02T11:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/sanusi-says-nigerian-inflation-a-threat-.html
Nigerian inflation remains a
“threat” to the economy, leaving little room to loosen
monetary policy even as the European debt crisis worsens, said
Lamido Sanusi, the central bank governor.  Price pressures in  Africa ’s largest oil producer are a
bigger concern than economic growth, Sanusi said in an interview
yesterday in Port Louis, Mauritius, where he was guest speaker
at a Bank of Mauritius event.  “Unless there is a massive threat to reserves, the case
for loosening monetary policy has not been made yet,” Sanusi
said. “At the moment, inflation remains the threat. There is no
clear risk to growth.”  The Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  kept its benchmark
rate unchanged at a record 12 percent for the first time this
year on Nov. 22, betting that 6 percentage points of rate
increases since September 2010 will curb  inflation . Price
pressures may climb in 2012 as the government prepares to end
fuel subsidies and the economy expands an estimated 7.7 percent,
according to central bank forecasts.  “Unless you get a sign that the economy is really slowing
or that foreign exchange demand falls sharply I think rates will
stay on hold,” Gregory Kronsten, chief economist at FBN Capital
Ltd., said in a phone interview today from Lagos,  Nigeria ’s
commercial capital.  Nigerian Naira  The Nigerian currency’s 5.4 percent decline against the
dollar in the  interbank market  since the end of June has added
to import costs, lifting the  inflation  rate to 10.5 percent in
October, above the bank’s 10 percent target. The naira was at
161 per dollar at 8.40 a.m. in Lagos. The central bank’s
official target for the naira was lowered to 155 per dollar from
150 on Nov. 22.  “A rate cut at this stage for Nigeria could be a risky
move,” Dina Ahmad, an emerging-markets strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London , said in an e-mail. “The performance of
the naira since August has been very poor and this will likely
feed through to inflation as well.”  Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest economy, plans
to scrap fuel subsidies to help save 1.2 trillion naira ($7.5
billion) in state spending next year. The  House of
Representatives , the lower house of Parliament, today rejected
the proposal, while the Senate is yet to decide.  Fuel Subsidies  Ending fuel subsidies will be beneficial for foreign-
exchange reserves and ease pressure on the naira, while having a
“short-term” impact on inflation, Sanusi said. The
inflationary effect may be “exaggerated” because diesel is
already deregulated and motorists in some parts of the country
don’t pay the subsidized price, Sanusi said.  “In the short term we will battle with inflation,” he
said. “Unless there is any serious second-round effect, we’ll
bring it down again gradually. Certainly, there will be a first
round impact and supply side shocks of the removal of the
subsidy.”  The fiscal authorities are taking a “cautious” approach
to the European crisis, budgeting for an oil price of $70 a
barrel in next year’s spending plan, down from $75, Sanusi said.  “That’s a good sign for us as monetary authorities as
fiscal authorities are very much aware of the risks involved and
are formulating their budget projections on the assumptions that
those risks might crystallize,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  