-- 
Saudi Arabia Poised for Record Heavy-Crude Premiums on Fuel Oil

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-12-02T02:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/saudi-arabia-poised-for-record-heavy-crude-premiums-on-fuel-oil.html
Rising demand for  fuel oil  is
allowing  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest exporter, to sell its
lowest-grade crude at record premiums to buyers in  Asia .  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the state-owned producer, is likely
to offer  Arab Heavy  oil for January at 25 cents a barrel more
than benchmark Oman and Dubai crude when prices are announced
next week, up 50 cents from December, according to the median
estimate of nine refiners surveyed by Bloomberg.  Arab Medium  may
be set at a premium of $1.60, or 40 cents higher. That would be
a record for the two grades and the first time Arab Heavy is
sold at a higher price than its marker.  China’s growing fuel-oil demand, combined with rising tax
on Russian exports, pushed Asian prices for the heating and
shipping fuel to the highest level in almost two years in
November and boosted refiners’ need for crude rich in the oil
product. That has made deliveries of Dubai crude for next-month
more expensive than later cargoes, a price relationship known as
 backwardation , and encouraged  Saudi Arabia  to sell future
deliveries of its own oil at higher premiums to make up for the
lower benchmark price.  “The crude market in Asia has become tightened on the back
of strong demand from China and other Asian countries,” said
Osamu Fujisawa, an independent oil economist in  Tokyo  who worked
for 30 years at the Saudi Arabian oil company, which is known as
Saudi Aramco. “The main reason why Saudi Aramco will raise
prices is because of the Dubai backwardation.”  Dubai for next month cost $2.02 a barrel more than
deliveries in three months this week, the steepest backwardation
in two years, according to data from PVM Oil Associates, a
London-based broker. The spread has averaged 38 cents this year.  Fuel-Oil Strength  China ’s  imports  of fuel oil climbed 4 percent in October
from a month earlier, data from the country’s Customs General
Administration showed. The nation’s purchases may rise 23.8
percent this year to 28.49 million metric tons and 19.5 percent
in 2012 to 34.07 million tons, Zhu Jiasheng, an analyst with C1
Energy, said in Qingdao, China, on Nov. 24.  The average loss from producing fuel oil in Singapore was
$3.63 a barrel in November, the smallest since February 2010,
according to PVM. Producers typically accept  losses  from making
it because it’s a residue of the refining process that companies
can offset with the profit from higher-value products such as
gasoline, diesel and naphtha.  Singapore fuel oil’s discount to crude, called the crack
spread, is “good,” Abolfazl Rostami, responsible for marketing
of petroleum products at National Iranian Oil Co., said Nov. 28.
The market tightened after  Russia  imposed an export tax on the
fuel and  Iran  upgraded its refineries, cutting output, he said.  Russian Tax  Russia announced new taxes starting Oct. 1 designed to
encourage higher-value exports such as crude, while discouraging
sales of fuel oil. The decision may cut the country’s shipments
next year by about 100,000 barrels a day, or 10 percent of its
output, JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based researcher, estimated in
September.  China will double sales of tax-free ship fuel, or bonded
bunker fuel, by 2015, according to China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., or Sinopec, the nation’s largest refiner. Chinese demand
for bunkers may climb to 13 million tons next year from 11
million tons this year and 9.1 million tons in 2010, Shao Lei, a
sales director at the fuel-oil unit of PetroChina Co., the
nation’s biggest oil company, said Nov. 24.  Oil demand in China, the world’s biggest energy consumer,
rose 1.45 percent in October from a year earlier to 9.086
million barrels a day according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The country’s crude  purchases  from Saudi Arabia jumped 16.3
percent in October to 4.6 million metric tons, the highest since
December 2009, customs data show.  China Demand  China’s biggest refineries ran at 87.7 percent of capacity
in the two weeks ended Nov. 24, up 2.8 percent from the previous
period, according to Oilchem.net, a Shandong-based energy
information website.  About 500,000 barrels a day of refining capacity is
scheduled to start next year in  India , the world’s fourth-
largest energy consumer, according to estimates from JBC Energy.
More than half of that is scheduled in the first quarter, JBC
said in a note on Nov. 24.  “Prospective refining capacity additions in India as of
2012 may up the amount of Middle Eastern crude purchased by
companies considerably,” JBC said. Saudi Arabia will increase
oil shipments to some Indian refiners next year as they add
plants and seek alternative supplies after a payment dispute
with Iran, four people with direct knowledge of the plans said
Nov. 15.  ‘Bullish Outlook’  “Looking forward, the outlook for sour grades remains
decidedly bullish,” JBC said in a Nov. 28 note.  Saudi ’s so-called light crude is typically more expensive
than heavier oil because it’s easier to turn into higher-value
products such as gasoline.  Saudi Aramco , based in Dhahran, may
raise its Arab Extra Light price for January by about 10 cents
to a premium of $4.05 barrel above Dubai and Oman, according to
the Bloomberg survey. Arab Light may also climb 10 cents to
$2.60 above the benchmark price.  Crude shipments from Saudi Arabia to the Asia-Pacific
region were 4.26 million barrels a day in 2010, or about 64
percent of total exports, according to OPEC’s annual statistical
 bulletin . The country pumped 9.55 million barrels a day in
October, according to a Bloomberg News survey of  oil companies ,
producers and analysts.  Dubai and Oman  crudes averaged $108.41 a barrel yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, up 22 percent this
year. Middle East oil exporters such as Iraq, Kuwait and Iran
set their official prices based on changes to Saudi levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in  Singapore  at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  