-- 
Sberbank to Add Lukoil Swiss Bank, BNP’s Unit in M&A Spree

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-12-02T16:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/sberbank-to-add-lukoil-swiss-bank-bnp-s-cetelem-in-buying-spree.html
OAO Sberbank  plans to buy 75 percent
of BNP Paribas SA’s Cetelem consumer credit unit by March after
completing acquisitions of Volksbanken International AG and
Moscow-based Troika Dialog by mid-February.  Russia ’s biggest lender also intends to buy SLB, OAO
Lukoil’s Swiss banking unit, “in the nearest months” to enter
the market for high-net-worth individuals, Sberbank said in a
statement, citing Chief Executive Officer  German Gref ’s comments
to employees today.  Sberbank, which has just under 50 percent of all deposits
in Russia, agreed on July 14 to buy a network of nine small
banks in countries including the  Czech Republic , Slovakia,
Hungary and most of former Yugoslavia from Austria’s
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. Gref said then the acquisition
was the first step in making Sberbank a “global bank.”  The lender agreed in March to pay at least $1 billion for
the 64 percent of Troika held by Chairman and CEO Ruben Vardanian and his partners and the 36 percent held by  South
Africa ’s Standard Bank Group Ltd. Gref wants to turn the former
Soviet Union savings bank into a full-service financial firm
that can compete at home and abroad on everything from bond
underwriting to  stock trading  and mergers and acquisitions
advisory.  “Today Sberbank is one of the most stable banks in the
world,” Gref said during the three-hour call with employees,
according to the statement. In terms of return on capital,
Sberbank is “one of the most efficient companies in the
world,” he said.  The lender is “carefully watching” potential takeover
targets in Turkey and Poland, Chief Financial Officer Anton Karamzin said on a Nov. 30 call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  