-- 
LSE Aims to Cut Risk of Reinvesting Collateral in Italian Banks

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 
2011-12-02T13:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/lse-aims-to-cut-risk-of-reinvesting-collateral-in-italian-banks.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc is
reducing how much risk it takes when investing cash from its
Italian clearing subsidiary, Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia
SpA, today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter reports.  The LSE has “tightened over time our treasury investment
policies,” Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said on an
earnings call on Nov. 16. That includes “placing cash margin on
shorter-term deposits, mostly overnight,” as well as introducing
“callback facilities in place for faster return of cash for any
longer-term deposits,” he said.  Clearing houses manage counterparty risks by building up
guarantee funds and requiring cash collateral margins on
transactions. They typically reinvest the collateral to earn
profits for shareholders.  The LSE’s Italian clearing business reported 54.3 million
pounds ($85 million) in net treasury income in the six months to
Sept. 30, more than triple the figure in the same period last
year. The money comes from the 8.4 billion euros ($11.3 billion)
in initial cash margin from customers who use the platform,
including Italian banks, the  LSE (LSE)  said in its earnings call.  The treasury then lends the money on a short-term basis to
banks, less than half of which are in  Italy . Higher yields on
these deposits contributed 19.6 million pounds to the increase
in treasury income in the six months to Sept. 30 compared with a
year earlier, according to a presentation on Nov. 16.  Negotiated Rates  “We’ve continued to negotiate improved spreads on deposits
placed with a range of banks”, Doug Webb, the exchange’s chief
financial officer, said on the earnings call, citing “relatively
low liquidity in the Italian interbank loan market at present
and a strong demand for short-term cash deposits.” The LSE
declined to provide further details about where its money was
reinvested.  The LSE has benefited from Italian banks’ willingness to
pay higher rates to attract deposits. Italy’s two largest banks,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , reported a combined
decline of 52 billion euros in customer deposits since the
beginning of the year, according to third-quarter filings.
UniCredit sold its remaining 13.6 percent stake in CC&G to LSE
for 62 million euros in November.  “The chances of a meaningful loss of CC&G’s deposits are
slim”, Jillian Miller, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in
Atlanta, wrote in a report on Nov. 17. “However, a certain risk
does exist and shareholders need to take that into account”.  CC&G did not need to hold capital against the risk of
Italian banks defaulting because it is “regulated by the central
bank,” Rolet said on the Nov. 16 call. “We have a unique
relationship. We have access to their liquidity, so there’s no
need to take provisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  