-- 
Seadrill Offers to Acquire 28.5% Stake in Sevan Drilling

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-12-02T17:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/seadrill-offers-to-acquire-28-5-stake-in-sevan-drilling-2-.html
Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , owner of the world’s
second-largest ultra-deepwater fleet, offered to buy 28.5
percent in Sevan Drilling ASA as it targets growth in Brazil.
Sevan Drilling shares surged the most since May.  Seadrill, whose largest shareholder is shipping tycoon  John Fredriksen , offered to buy 96 million shares for $65.5 million
through a group of brokers, Arendal, Norway-based Sevan Drilling
said today in a statement. The completion is subject to Pareto
Securities AS entering a definitive agreement with SV Unsecured
Ltd. to buy the shares.  Rising oil prices have resulted in higher exploration
budgets and the need for rigs capable of operating in harsh and
deepwater environments such as Brazil and the Arctic. The
acquisition of Sevan Drilling, which has two rigs under contract
with Petroleo Brasileiro SA, advances plans announced by
Seadrill last month to evaluate the creation of a separate
Brazil-listed company.  “Growth in deepwater is a big part of our strategy, so
fits in very well,” Seadrill Chief Financial Officer Esa
Ikaheimonen said by e-mail. “Furthermore, strengthening our
play in  Brazil  is fully aligned.”  The implied value per rig is well below $500 million,
making the acquisition good value even if the Petrobras
contracts are priced well below the present market, he said.  Drawn-Out Process  Sevan Drilling shares jumped 20 percent to 5.46 kroner in
Oslo trading, the biggest intraday gain since May 3. Seadrill
advanced 1.1 percent to 201.7 kroner.  “We view this as a complementary acquisition that will add
scale and will fit strategically well into Seadrill’s plans of
creating a separate Brazilian drilling company,” Robert A.
Jensen and Anders Bergland, analysts at RS Platou Markets AS,
said in an e-mailed note.  “Based on earlier acquisitions by Seadrill, we expect an
acquisition of Sevan Drilling could be a drawn-out process,”
the Platou analysts wrote. “It is unlikely that a bid for the
company would be offered at a material premium to the initial
investment.”  ABG Sundal Collier Norge ASA, Arctic Securities ASA, First
Securities AS, ING Bank NV, Pareto and SEB Enskilda AS received
and accepted an “all-or-nothing” bid from Seadrill. As part of
the deal, SV Unsecured will be released from a “lock-up
undertaking” in the shares, and Seadrill will be subject to a
similar lock-up.  SV Unsecured on Nov. 30 bought the shares as part of the
restructuring of  Sevan Marine ASA. (SEVAN)   “We got this information 30 minutes ago and so far we have
no comments,” Jon Wilmann, chief financial officer of Sevan
Drilling, said by phone today. Calls made to Sevan Drilling’s
CEO Scott Kerr’s mobile phone weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  