-- 
Sex Addict Prowls Subways, Bars; Comic Cook Gets Serious: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/sex-addict-prowls-subways-bars-comic-cook-gets-serious-film.html
Brandon is always on the prowl.  In the subway, the handsome  New Yorker  stunningly played by
 Michael Fassbender  in “ Shame ” stares flirtatiously at pretty
passengers. In bars, his quiet charisma attracts the best-
looking women. At home in his tidy Manhattan bachelor’s pad --
and at his unspecified white-collar desk job -- he surfs the Web
for porn.  And when that’s not enough, he hires hookers.  His insatiable sexual appetite precludes any meaningful
relationships, romantic or otherwise. He bickers with his
wayward sister Missy (a bleached-blond  Carey Mulligan ) after she
unexpectedly drops in for an extended stay.  Sharply directed by British artist/filmmaker Steve McQueen,
“Shame” is about an outwardly content man with an empty soul.
No matter how many women he sleeps with, Brandon can’t fill that
emotional void.  Despite all its writhing naked bodies and Fassbender’s full
frontal nudity, the film isn’t prurient. It’s a sad, gloomy look
at extreme loneliness in the midst of one of the world’s most
bustling cities.  Fassbender, who played an Irish Republican Army prisoner in
McQueen’s first film, “Hunger,” captures Brandon’s tortured
psyche with minimal dialogue or action (if you don’t count the
sexual gymnastics). He reveals the character mostly through
subtle looks and gestures, notably in a scene where he’s
devastated after failing to perform in bed with a beautiful
colleague (Nicole Beharie).  Mulligan lends strong support as Sissy, a lounge singer who
delivers a slow, show-stopping performance of “ New York , New
York.” Her one-night stand with Brandon’s sleazy married boss
(James Badge Dale) creates even more conflict with her brother.  “Shame,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , is playing in New
York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  Chicago  and  Washington .
Ratings: ***1/2  ‘Answers to Nothing’  You need a scorecard to keep track of all the characters in
“ Answers to Nothing ,” an ensemble drama about a varied group
of unhappy Los Angelenos searching for meaning in their lives.  A partial list includes a married therapist (Dane Cook)
having an affair with a sultry rock singer (Aja Volkman); a
recovering alcoholic (Miranda Bailey) caring for her disabled
brother; a black TV writer (Kali Hawk) who hates black people; a
nerdy teacher ( Mark Kelly ) obsessed with finding a missing girl;
and a former police cadet (Erik Palladino) who attends
strangers’ funerals.  Rock Singer  The film has 52 speaking parts, so it’s easy to get mixed
up, especially since the characters overlap and intertwine. But
director/co-writer Matthew Leutwyler lets the connections unfold
in a believable way, making them more than just dramatic
devices.  Cook, best known as a stand-up comedian, shows he can
handle a serious role. And Volkman, the slender, dark-haired
lead singer in the rock band Nico Vega, makes an impressive film
debut that features her Joan Jett look and  Janis Joplin  singing
style.  “Answers to Nothing,” from Roadside Attractions, is
playing in major U.S. cities. Rating: **1/2  ‘ Sleeping Beauty ’  Don’t let the title fool you: This “ Sleeping Beauty ” is
no children’s fairy tale.  Julia Leigh’s debut feature is a disturbing story of erotic
desire and sexual perversion. It’s not beautiful and certainly
won’t help you sleep.  The central character is Lucy (stoic Emily Browning), a
willowy Australian college student who pays the bills with
menial work as a waitress, copying machine collator and medical
guinea pig. For kicks, she picks up guys at bars.  One day she answers an ad that leads to a kinky sex job.  After being heavily sedated, Lucy lies in bed while elderly
men act out their fetishes on her motionless body. The only
house rule is “no penetration”; otherwise all bets are off.  Lucy is unconscious during these sessions and afterward is
strangely detached from the experience.  So was I.  “Sleeping Beauty,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New
York. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 