-- 
Shale Pioneers Plan Next English Wells After Fracking Causes Earthquake

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-12-02T14:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/shale-pioneers-plan-next-english-wells-after-frack-causes-quake.html
The sound that woke Caroline Murphy
after midnight on April 1 was so loud she thought a car had
crashed into her house. She doesn’t feel any better knowing it
was the U.K.’s first recorded earthquake caused by natural-gas
exploration.  “It sounded like something had hit the house and literally
jolted us out of bed,” Murphy, said at her home in Singleton, a
village of about 900 in Lancashire, northwest  England . “It was
like a car or crashing metal. It was such a loud sound.”  Murphy’s home is within three miles of a drill site
belonging to  Cuadrilla Resources Ltd ., an explorer that says
it’s found more natural gas trapped in the local shale rock than
 Iraq  has in its entire reserves. The magnitude 2.3 tremor that
shook Murphy, and a second weaker quake on May 27, forced
Cuadrilla to suspend hydraulic fracturing, the process of
blasting sand, water and chemicals into shale that’s made the
U.S. the world’s largest natural-gas producer.  The company plans to start fracturing again next year as
debate intensifies on shale’s potential in the U.K. The
earthquakes are another argument for campaigners who say
fracking, as the technique has become known, blights the
landscape and risks polluting water supplies -- an issue in this
part of England, where farms grow cabbages, zucchini and
radishes using water from underground aquifers.  “They say they’ve been fracking for years and years and it
hasn’t caused any problems,” Murphy, an artist and designer,
said in an interview. “I say: ‘You caused an earthquake. To me,
that’s a big issue.’”  Economic Rewards  Supporters of shale gas say the U.K. can’t afford to
overlook the potential. The North Sea fields discovered in the
1970s that made the U.K. self-sufficient are running dry and the
country will import more than half its gas supplies this year.
The prospect of plentiful, cheap gas -- prices have fallen about
75 percent since shale drilling took off in the U.S. -- could
help the economy, said  Tim Yeo , who chairs parliament’s energy
and climate change committee.  “It is likely the U.K. has quite substantial shale gas
reserves and there may be sufficient resources to replace a
significant amount of reserves,” Yeo, a member of the governing
 Conservative Party , said in a telephone interview. “Shale is
good from a security point of view. It gives us some degree of
protection from international gas prices.”  Poland ,  Europe ’s biggest holder of unconventional natural
gas, has granted more than 100 licenses to companies including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   A Freak Event  “The real opportunity for this area is the ‘Aberdeen
effect,’” said Rob Green, head of enterprise and investment for
the Blackpool Bay Area Co., a local regernation agency. Aberdeen
is the hub of the U.K.’s offshore oil and gas industry. “The
U.K.  certainly has that potential to take an early lead.”  Eric Vaughan fractured his first well in  Ohio  more than 20
years ago. Now Cuadrilla’s chief operating officer, Vaughan said
the earthquakes were a freak event, caused when the process
disturbed a fault line.  The fault “has to be stressed just right, brittle and
ready to go already, and we drilled that well into a spot,”
Vaughan said as he toured one of Cuadrilla’s three drilling
sites. The amount of water and energy used was “nowhere near
enough to actually create an earthquake. You couldn’t pull
anything about the shale from that.”  Nonetheless, there have been other earthquakes associated
with shale gas production. The  Oklahoma Geological Survey  said a
study of time and geology showed a possibility that fracking a
well near Elmore City on Jan. 17 had caused a series of 43 minor
tremors over a period of 24 hours.  First Tremor  The first tremor set off by Cuadrilla was on April 1 and
measured 2.3 on the Richter scale, strong enough to be felt, but
unlikely to do any damage. A weaker quake of 1.5 was recorded in
May. Cuadrilla halted fracking operations and will not resume
them until the U.K.’s Department of Energy and Climate Change
has reviewed the situation, Vaughan said. A spokesman for the
department said the assessment is ongoing.  Cuadrilla, backed by Riverstone Holdings LLC, a private
equity investor that includes former  BP Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  John Browne  among its directors, wants to start fracking
again. The company said its first wells showed the shale rock
it’s exploring may hold 200 trillion cubic feet of gas. While
only a fraction will ever get drilled, 10 percent of that amount
is enough to supply the U.K. for about six years.  “The shale is very thick throughout this area,” Vaughan
said in an interview. “The rock itself is a similar shale to
some of the plays in the U.S. One of the differences here is
there’s just a lot more of it.”  Production  Cuadrilla plans to fracture three wells next year, he said.
If the wells prove potentially profitable, the driller will need
to apply for a separate production license, requiring further
environmental and planning assessments. Production could start
as early as 2013, economic development advisers Regeneris
Consulting said in a report commissioned by Cuadrilla.  The biggest debate over shale drilling is whether it risks
polluting water supply. Although  France  has banned fracking
because of the risk of contamination, a U.K.  parliamentary
committee report  in May found no evidence shale drilling
threatens underground water supplies. In the U.S., the
Environmental Protection Agency expects to complete a report
into shale and drinking water in 2014.  Cabbage Field  Cuadrilla drilled through a local aquifer to reach the
shale layer, which starts 6,000 feet (1,829 meters) below the
surface. While the resource isn’t used for drinking water, it is
pumped for the irrigation. The company has taken extra measures
to seal the drill pipe from water-bearing rock, Vaughan said.
Campaigners said they’re concerned about local farms.  “We don’t want to see the same mistakes being made as in
the U.S.,” said Graham Bentley, member of local opposition
group Ribble Estuary Against Fracking. “There’s the increase in
traffic, the issue of contamination, air pollution and this area
is a strong growing area that supplies many of the large
supermarkets.”  For Doreen Stopforth, who can see a Cuadrilla drilling rig
from the window of the house she’s lived in for 39 years, the
issue is simpler. What works in the plains of  Texas  isn’t
suitable for her corner of Lancashire.  “One morning we got up and it looked like we had  NASA 
outside, in the middle of a cabbage field,” the retiree said.
“It’s not like America. It’s so vast. Here it’s heavily
populated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  