-- 
Some in GOP Reject Payroll-Tax Cut Extension

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/some-in-gop-reject-payroll-tax-cut-extension.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  will
seek in the next week to persuade fellow Republicans to set
aside their concerns and support a one-year extension of a
payroll tax cut that some members of the party are resisting.  The Ohio Republican presented a plan yesterday to members
of his caucus that would extend the  payroll tax  cut for
employees into 2012 and offset the forgone revenue. The proposal
hasn’t been released publicly, and some of the Republicans
expressed skepticism about it.  Boehner is facing a political dilemma of tending to his
party’s concerns while trying to rebuff Democratic criticism
that Republicans are willing to allow taxes for the middle class
to increase. Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican,
said many Republican lawmakers during the caucus meeting
cautioned Boehner against pushing a proposal to the House floor.  “Most of the people standing up were troubled with moving
ahead on this,” Flake told reporters.  Unless Congress acts, the tax cut -- which lowered the
employee portion of the Social Security payroll tax from 6.2
percent to 4.2 percent for 2011 -- will expire Dec. 31. The 2011
tax break resulted in $111.7 billion in forgone revenue to the
Treasury over 10 years, according to the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation.  The government transferred money from the general fund to
cover the reduced funding for  Social Security .  House Republicans   The House hasn’t scheduled a vote on an extension. If 24 or
more Republicans don’t back it, Boehner will need the support of
some Democrats for passage.  The debate marks an unexpected reversal for congressional
Democrats, who remain bitter over the deal President  Barack Obama  struck late last year with Republicans to extend the Bush-
era tax cuts through 2012. Boehner and other Republican leaders
cautioned that allowing tax cuts for  income ,  capital gains  and
dividends to expire would harm the economy and small business
owners. That’s the argument Democrats now are using to pressure
Republicans to extend the payroll tax cut.  Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , the House
Democratic leader, said lawmakers should “stop toying with the
American people and their economic security.”  She told reporters yesterday that Republicans are “feeling
the heat” from Democrats over  tax policy .  The ‘High Ground’  Representative Steve Israel of New York, who leads the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said his party has
the “high policy ground” on taxes as a result of the payroll
debate.  “We’ve got them trying to defend the indefensible,”
Israel said.  Obama told reporters yesterday that a failure to extend the
payroll tax cut “would be a significant blow to our economy.”  “I expect that it’s going to get done before Congress
leaves,” Obama said. “Otherwise, Congress may not leave at all
and we can all spend Christmas here together.”  At a press conference, Boehner said he wasn’t worried about
Republicans losing control of their message on tax issues.  “The fact is that Republicans are doing everything we can
to allow American families and small businesses to keep more of
what they earn,” he said. “The other side can go out, come out
with all the rhetoric they want to come up with, but the facts
are facts.”  Surtax Fails  The  U.S. Senate  on Dec. 1 rejected a Democratic proposal
that would have imposed a 3.25 percent surtax on annual income
exceeding $1 million to pay for extending the payroll tax cut
and expanding it to employers.  The Senate also thwarted a Republican measure that would
have extended the payroll tax cut for employees for one year and
offset the cost by reducing the  federal workforce  by 10 percent,
freezing federal pay through 2015 and requiring high earners to
pay more for  Medicare  premiums.  The Republican proposal was rejected by 26 members of the
party. Some Republicans, such as Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah ,
said they are troubled by the tax cut and that it hasn’t
provided economic growth as promised. Representative Tim Walberg, a Michigan Republican, said the tax cut is a short-term
solution that stops lawmakers from tackling the more fundamental
fiscal problems the U.S. faces.  ‘Flat Broke’  “Extending and taking away the pain and taking away the
reality that we are flat broke and printing our money right now
has really hurt this country,” Walberg said. “We understand
that we have a problem that we just can’t kick down the road.”  Like the Republican plan that was blocked in the Senate,
the proposal being developed in the House includes a federal pay
freeze, according to Representative  Peter King , a  New York 
Republican.  Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican, said
the House measure would change the structure for  unemployment 
insurance and would avoid cuts to physician reimbursements by
Medicare for two years. It would include language addressing the
Keystone pipeline and an Environmental Protection Agency
proposal to limit emissions for industrial boilers, LaTourette
said. These provisions could attract more Republican support.  “There’s obviously some angst among some members of our
conference,” LaTourette said. “It’s the speaker’s job to work
that out.”  Pelosi said lawmakers should use the money that would have
funded the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  to cover the extension’s
cost.  “It’s the perfect place to go,” she said.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican who said in June that the payroll tax cut is a
“sugar high,” said yesterday that he thinks a deal will be
worked out to extend the break.  “We’ll figure it out,” he said. “It’s all good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  