-- 
Southern California Winds Howl a Second Night Leaving 400,000 Homes Dark

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/southern-california-cleanup-slowed-as-winds-howl-a-second-night.html
Utility crews struggled to restore
power to more than 430,000 homes in  Southern California  as
residents braced for a second night of unusually powerful Santa
Ana winds.  Severe winds and fallen trees hampered repair crews
yesterday and residents near downed or dangling lines should
stay inside, Southern California Edison, which said in a
 statement  that 215,086 customers had lost service.  “Customers without power should prepare for the
possibility of being without service overnight and possibly
longer,” the utility, owned by Rosemead-based  Edison
International (EIX) , said.  Los Angeles County declared a state of emergency because of
the unusually strong Santa Ana conditions that result when wind
rushes through ridges that surround the second-largest U.S. city.
Strong winds are forecast to continue through mid-day today,
with gusts near 60 miles per hour -- approaching gale force --in
the mountains of Ventura and  Los Angeles  counties, the National
Weather Service forecast on its  website .  The hardest-hit areas in Edison’s service area included
foothill communities of La Canada Flintridge, Monrovia and
Altadena. Pasadena, which has its own utility, declared a state
of emergency, as did neighboring Sierra Madre.  Hurricane-force winds downed  power lines  and caused flights
to Los Angeles International Airport to be diverted in the early
hours of Dec. 1.  About 130,000 customers of  Los Angeles Department of Water
& Power , which serves 1.4 million in Los Angeles city, were 
without electricity as of 3 p.m. yesterday, the utility said 
in a statement.  Two Days  Customers should expect waits as long as 48 hours for power
to be restored, the DWP said. The utility had more than 100
crews in the field responding to more than 1,000 incidents,
according to the utility. Workers from within  California  and
outside the state were called in to help.  Pacific Gas & Electric, with a service territory that
stretches from the Oregon border to Bakersfield, California, had
90,014 customers without power as of 4 p.m. yesterday, said
Jason King, a spokesman.  Santa Ana winds -- dry, warm gusts that blow in from the
desert -- reached 140 miles per hour along mountain crests
yesterday, according to the  National Weather Service .  It’s “the strongest easterly wind event in the past
several years,” and the gusts combined with dry weather are
creating a “significant fire threat,” the service said on its
website.  Flights Diverted  At Los Angeles International Airport, 23 inbound flights
were diverted overnight into Dec. 1 because of debris blown onto
runways and an hourlong  power failure  that started Nov. 30.
Operations returned to normal yesterday morning.  Schools in Pasadena, Eagle Rock, Los Feliz and as far east
as Glendora, about 20 miles from Los Angeles, were closed
yesterday.  The storm is being caused by a difference in air pressure
across the U.S. West, said Brian Edwards, a meteorologist with
commercial forecaster AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  The pressure gradient causes high winds that are funneled
through mountain passes, producing even higher gusts, he said.
Some winds at higher elevations have been clocked at more than
150 miles per hour. Should those winds be sustained, they would
match the strength of a Category 4 hurricane, the second
strongest on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  While Santa Ana winds are common in Southern California
this time of year, this week’s windstorm is a once-in-a-decade
event because gusts are stronger than are normal and affect a
large swath of the West, Edwards said.  “The unusual thing is how widespread it is,” he said.  High-wind warnings cover parts of California,  Nevada ,  Utah 
and  New Mexico , the  National Weather Service  said. Sustained
winds of 35 to 45 miles per hour are expected across much of the
region, with gusts as intense as 65 miles per hour or more.
Sustained winds of that strength are equivalent to a tropical
storm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  