-- 
South Africa Urges Envoys Not to ‘Water Down’ Climate Agreement

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T16:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/south-africa-urges-envoys-not-to-water-down-climate-agreement.html
South Africa ’s environment minister
urged countries at United Nations climate talks not to weaken
any new agreements with language so vague that it’s meaningless
in the effort to fight global warming.  “Let’s not water down the agreement that comes out of
here,” Edna Molewa, South Africa’s minister of water and
environmental affairs, said in an interview.  More than 190 countries are gathered in Durban, South
Africa, to decide the fate of the existing Kyoto Protocol and
determine whether to start talks for a new, legally binding
climate treaty that includes all countries.  The U.S. has rejected the European Union’s push for a
mandate to negotiate an agreement by 2015, arguing that major
 developing countries  such as  China  still aren’t willing to do
their fair share under a new accord.  Molewa said while any agreements stemming from United
Nations-led talks in Durban must not be too weak, they should
strive to find language that satisfies key concerns of all
parties.  “Even if we call it the ‘Durban Deal’ it should still be a
deal that we can all be proud of that carries environmental
integrity,” she said.  The issue of what legal form a new agreement may take is a
major point of contention at the UN talks that end next week.
Andre Correa do Lago, head of  Brazil ’s delegation in Durban,
said the matter of whether to pursue a new legally binding
treaty needs to be explored.  Not ‘Perfectly Followed’  The current  Kyoto Protocol , whose first phase of emissions-
reduction requirements for developed nations expire next year,
is legally binding yet it still hasn’t been “perfectly
followed” by some countries, Lago said.  South Africa and Brazil are part of the “Basic” bloc of
developing countries that also includes China and  India . Molewa
said the group views the EU’s plan as a proposal and not a
precondition to potential agreements in Durban.  “Once we say it’s a condition, it’s tantamount to saying
‘take it or leave it,’” she said. “Let’s go to engage the EU
and when we engage let’s remove the conditionalities and engage
as parties.”  Molewa said it’s essential that countries in Durban reach
consensus on a second phase of emissions reductions under Kyoto
as well as on forging a “road map” for a new deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  