-- 
Spain Boosts Bank Contributions to Deposit-Guarantee Fund

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-12-02T15:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/spain-boosts-bank-contributions-to-deposit-guarantee-fund-1-.html
Spain ’s government increased the
contributions banks make to the  deposit-guarantee fund  and
allowed it to take on debt.  Spain will fix a new maximum contribution of three euros
($4.05) per 1,000 euros of banks’ deposits guaranteed by the
fund, up from two euros, Acting Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
said at a news conference in Madrid today after a weekly cabinet
meeting. The fund will now be able to take on debt to “fully
fulfill its functions,” the  finance ministry  said in a
statement.  Salgado’s announcement of beefed-up resources for the
deposit-guarantee fund, a vehicle that can also bolster the
solvency of banks when necessary, follows an election pledge
made by Prime Minister-in-waiting  Mariano Rajoy  to speed up the
cleanup and restructuring of the banking system. Bank of Spain
Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said last night the
country should consider starting a so-called bad bank, which
analysts say may help spur credit and growth by clearing assets
damaged during a property crash from lenders’ balance sheets.  “It sounds like the creation of the bad bank has been
decided and now the question is how it’s going to be financed,”
said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an economics professor at IESE
business school in Madrid. “Given the sovereign situation and
political considerations, you’re going to ask the banks to
contribute.”  Banks Object  Salgado announced in October plans to merge Spain’s
industry-financed deposit guarantee funds into one entity so
that commercial and savings banks will share losses that may
arise when lenders seized by the state are sold.  The commercial banks’ association today objected to
increased payments to the deposit-guarantee fund, saying it was
“surprising and unjust” that they were being made to
contribute more when they hadn’t received government bailouts.
The Spanish banking industry has as much as 176 billion euros of
so-called “troubled” assets linked to real estate, according
to the Bank of Spain.  Rajoy has asked for at least two papers from academics on
how to create a bad bank, two people with knowledge of the
matter said on Nov. 25. Both proposals outlined mechanisms for a
state-backed agency to buy soured assets such as real estate
from banks at a discount, said the people, who declined be named
as the process isn’t public.  Ireland’s Bad Bank  Aristobulo de Juan, a former head of banking supervision
who helped tackle a banking crisis in the 1980s that caused the
collapse of more than 50 banks, has been championing the
possible role of the deposit-guarantee fund, writing in
newspaper columns it would be a way to share the costs of the
process between the banking industry and the Bank of Spain.  Salgado said today she couldn’t comment on what Rajoy’s
government may be planning. Even so, she said Ireland’s creation
of a bad bank increased the need for an international bailout.  “We can say that the experience we have of one country,
which also had a significant real-estate bubble, is that the
decision to create a bad bank contributed very much to its
needing to ask for external assistance,” Salgado said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  