-- 
Spain’s PP-Run La Mancha Cuts Public Pay in Austerity Drive

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-12-02T16:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/spain-s-pp-run-la-mancha-cuts-public-pay-in-austerity-drive-1-.html
Spain ’s Castilla-La Mancha, run by
the  People’s Party  that is set to assume national power, will
cut public workers’ pay and increase working hours in a plan to
trim Spain’s largest regional deficit without raising taxes.  PP Deputy Leader Maria Dolores Cospedal, who has governed
La Mancha since May, will lengthen public workers’ week to 37.5
hours from 35 hours and make a 3 percent gross cut in their
wages. It will move to prevent absenteeism and introduce public-
private partnerships in hospitals, the administration said in an
e-mailed statement.  The PP is set to take over the national government on Dec.
21 after storming to victory in elections last month to secure
the biggest majority of any Spanish party since 1982. Prime
Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  has yet to say how he will meet
campaign pledges of trimming the  budget deficit  and working to
regain Spain’s AAA credit rating.  “Sweat today will avoid tears tomorrow,” Cospedal said,
according to the statement. “The difficult situation forces us
to renounce all but the strictly necessary.”  Four “unviable” hospitals in the region will be managed
by public-private partnerships, and infrastructure projects will
be postponed, the Toledo-based government said. Distribution of
free school materials will be “reconsidered in line with family
income,” and school bus routes will be redesigned.  Castilla-La Mancha, which fell to the PP in May’s regional
elections after three decades of Socialist rule, had the largest
deficit of Spain’s 17 regions last year, at 6.5 percent of its
gross domestic product. The shortfall amounted to 6.4 percent in
June and will end 2011 at about 9 percent of regional GDP,
Cospedal said today. Castilla-La Mancha accounts for 3 percent
of Spain’s economy, about the same share that  Greece  has of the
euro region’s GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  