-- 
Stark Says Fiscal Consolidation Is of ‘Utmost Importance’

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-12-02T18:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/stark-says-fiscal-consolidation-is-of-utmost-importance-1-.html
Juergen Stark, a member of the
 European Central Bank ’s executive board, said fiscal
consolidation in  Europe  is of “utmost importance” and monetary
policy will remain dedicated to  price stability .  Stark blamed Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis on governments
that failed to curb lax fiscal policies, violation of fiscal
rules and deteriorating public finances.  “These developments have raised doubts in financial
markets on the political will and capacity to live up to their
commitments and to do whatever is needed to comply with the
rules of the game within a monetary union,” Stark said in a
speech in New York today.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel today rejected a plan for
joint euro-area bonds or making the European Central Bank the
lender of last resort as quick fixes of the two-year-old crisis
that has spread from  Greece  to Italy, the euro-region’s third-
biggest economy. She joined with  France  to push for closer
economic ties and locking in tougher enforcement of budget
rules.  “With fiscal imbalances and deteriorating competitiveness
in euro area countries at the root of the current crisis, there
can in my view be no discussion which policy makers should make
a move,” Stark said today. “Ambitious fiscal consolidation and
structural reforms by national governments in the euro area are
required now -- or actually, yesterday.”  The euro dropped against the dollar amid speculation its
advance this week couldn’t be sustained and on concern European
leaders may not agree at a summit Dec. 9 on how to handle the
region’s debt crisis. The euro weakened to $1.3392 at 1:37 p.m.
in  New York , from $1.3461 late yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net  