-- 
European Stocks Rise, Extending Biggest Weekly Jump Since 2008

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-12-02T17:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/stock-index-futures-climb-before-u-s-report-which-may-indicate-job-growth.html
European stocks climbed, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index extending its largest weekly rally since
November 2008, after a report showed that the U.S. unemployment
rate fell below 9 percent last month.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rose 11 percent after a report that the
lender has a plan to shore up its capital without state aid.
 Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  surged 8.9 percent following a report that
private-equity firms  CVC Capital Partners  and Bridgepoint
Capital Holdings may be considering a cash bid.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.9 percent to 240.73 at the close in
 London . The benchmark has rallied 8.7 percent this week, its
biggest advance in three years, as the European Central Bank and
five other central banks lowered the cost of dollar funding,
China cut its  reserve-requirement ratio  for banks and  U.S.
consumer confidence  unexpectedly rose in November.  “What is exciting is that the  unemployment rate  has fallen
to 8.6 percent,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales
trading at ETX Capital in London. “It might improve economic
sentiment ahead of Christmas with fewer people being out of
work.”  A Labor Department report showed  unemployment  in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in November to a two-year low, while
employers added fewer workers than projected and earnings eased,
indicating the labor market is making limited progress.  The jobless rate dropped to 8.6 percent, the lowest since
March 2009, the release showed. Payrolls climbed 120,000, with
more than half the hiring coming from retailers and temporary-
help agencies, after a revised 100,000 increase in October that
was more than initially estimated. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey had called for a gain of 125,000.  Budget Monitoring  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said earlier today that
only fiscal union will tackle the euro area’s debt crisis at its
roots, as she used a speech to lawmakers in Berlin to outline
her position before a European Union summit on Dec. 9. The euro
area needs fiscal oversight that’s “binding” and punishes
states that persistently breach debt and deficit rules.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called for “more
discipline” and automatic penalties for nations that break
fiscal rules late yesterday. In his speech in Toulon, France,
Sarkozy said the 17-nation euro area, bound by a currency
introduced a decade ago and intended to be permanent, risked
“exploding” if members failed to converge.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled yesterday that the
 European Central Bank  could do more to fight the sovereign-debt
crisis in return for closer fiscal union.  A European proposal to channel loans from national central
banks through the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver as
much as 200 billion euros ($268 billion) to fight the debt
crisis, two people familiar with the negotiations said.  ‘Soaking in Stimulus’  “The market is soaking in stimulus, low rates and
improving jobs data all at once which makes for bullish moves,”
said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities
GmbH in Munich.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every western-
European market except Norway. France’s CAC 40 Index advanced
1.1 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 1.2 percent.
Germany’s DAX Index increased 0.7 percent.  Commerzbank surged 11 percent to 1.50 euros as Die Welt
said  Germany’s second-biggest bank  could generate about 1
billion euros by retaining profit through June 30. The lender
could boost its core capital by 3 billion euros by offloading
some 30 billion euros in risk-weighted assets, the newspaper
said, citing options that its supervisory board will discuss
today. The lender could also generate as much as 6 billion euros
by converting hybrid capital, according to Die Welt. The German
newspaper cited banking officials.  European Lenders Jump  Banking shares were the  best-performing industry  today,
soaring 4.3 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  rose 3 percent to 510.7
pence in London, while  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA surged 9.4 percent to
31.60 euros in Paris.  Home Retail  jumped 8.9 percent to 98.4 pence, the largest
increase in nine months and the seventh day of gains for the
longest rising streak in five years. CVC and Bridgepoint are
working on a deal that would value the owner of the Argos chain
at a “significant premium” to its market price, the  Daily Mail 
said today. Spokesmen for Home Retail, Bridgepoint and CVC
declined to comment.  Mining Companies Climb  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, the  world’s biggest
mining companies (BLT) , paced gains in commodity stocks, rising 4
percent to 2,000.5 pence and 1.3 percent to 3,346.5 pence,
respectively. The industry was among the best performers in the
 Stoxx 600  this week, surging 12 percent. Aluminum, copper, lead,
nickel and zinc all climbed on the London Metal Exchange today.  Daimler AG (DAI)  advanced 1.7 percent to 33.93 euros. A report
from Autodata Corp. yesterday showed that U.S. light-vehicle
sales accelerated to their fastest pace in 2011. Daimler sells
more than 17 percent of its vehicles in the U.S., Bloomberg data
shows.  Separately, Daimler plans to cut production costs by 10
percent annually in 2012 and 2013, Reuters reported, citing
Wolfgang Nieke, a works council member.  Neopost SA gained 2.1 percent to 52.65 euros as it said
after the market close yesterday that its  third-quarter revenue (NEO) 
rose to 242 million euros from 233.7 million euros a year
earlier. Neopost also confirmed its full-year outlook.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell 6.4 percent to 17.80 euros, the
biggest decline in the Stoxx 600 today, after  Germany’s biggest
steelmaker  posted a  fiscal full-year loss  because of 2.9 billion
euros of impairments charges, mostly after it delayed the
construction of a plant in Brazil.  -- Editors: Will Hadfield, Srinivasan Sivabalan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  