-- 
Suh Loses Appeal of Two-Game NFL Suspension for Stomping Opposing Player

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-02T21:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/suh-loses-appeal-of-two-game-nfl-suspension-for-stomping-opposing-player.html
Detroit Lions defensive tackle
 Ndamukong Suh  lost his appeal of a two-game suspension for
stomping on an opposing player in a Thanksgiving game against
the  Green Bay Packers .  Art Shell, a Hall of Fame lineman who’s now an appeals
officer appointed and paid by both the  National Football League 
and its players union, today informed Suh and the Lions that the
appeal was rejected, league spokesman Greg Aiello said in an e-
mailed statement.  Suh will miss the team’s next two games, on the road
against the New Orleans Saints (8-3) on Dec. 4 and home versus
the Minnesota Vikings (2-9) on Dec. 11. The Lions are one of
three 7-4 teams currently jockeying for the two playoff spots
designated for team that don’t win their division.  The NFL suspended Suh without pay for “unsportsmanlike
conduct” after his fifth rules violation in two seasons that
resulted in on-field discipline. ESPN reported that Suh will
lose $164,000 in salary.  Suh was assessed an unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty and
ejected after tangling with Packers lineman Evan Dietrich-Smith
in the third quarter of the nationally televised game in  Detroit 
on Nov. 24. Replays showed that Suh grabbed the back of
Deitrich-Smith’s helmet with his right hand and pushed Dietrich-
Smith’s head into the turf three times. As Suh stood up, he
stamped his right foot on Deitrich-Smith’s arm.  Suh said after the game that he was trying to regain his
balance in order to remove himself from the situation and didn’t
intentionally step on Deitrich-Smith. On Nov. 25 he apologized
on his Facebook page to his teammates, organization and fans for
his “unacceptable” actions the previous day.  Suh has been fined three times previously by the NFL and
met with Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in New York on Nov. 1 to
discuss how to better play within the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 