-- 
Sweden is Safest as Crisis Upends Bond Market

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-02T09:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/swedish-bonds-safer-than-german-debt-as-europe-crisis-upends-market-logic.html
Sweden  is enjoying its lowest
borrowing cost ever relative to Germany as investors reward the
biggest Scandinavian economy for cutting its debt to less than
half  Europe ’s average and enforcing discipline at its banks.  “Everybody is basically fleeing the euro area, not
Europe,” said Georg Andersen, the managing director of the
banking unit of Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen, Europe’s biggest
issuer of mortgage-backed covered debt. “The Nordic area stands
out as a safe haven.”  Almost two decades after resolving its last banking crisis,
Sweden boasts the world’s best-performing bond market. The
country, which opted to stay outside the euro, has paid down its
debts and imposed stricter controls on its lenders. Sweden’s
government made a profit on its 2008 financial rescue, will post
a budget surplus this year and pays less than any other European
Union member to borrow for 10 years.  Investors are willing to lend to Sweden for 10 and 30 years
at  interest rates  lower than they charge Germany. Borrowing for
a decade costs the largest Nordic economy about 40 basis points
less, and it hasn’t paid more than the euro area’s biggest
economy since September, echoing the discount it got from
investors between June 2008 and March 2009.  Lowest Ever  Swedish government securities repayable in 10 years or more
delivered a return of 28 percent this year, including reinvested
interest and ignoring currency swings, the best of any sovereign
 debt market  tracked by Bloomberg during the period. Swedish 10-
year yields relative to similar-maturity German bunds touched
the  lowest ever  on Nov. 25, as the Nordic country’s borrowing
costs sank 64 basis points below bunds.  Swedish 10-year bonds yielded 44 basis points less than
similar-maturity  Germany  bunds today, versus 40 basis points
yesterday. Swedish 10-year yields slipped 3 basis points,
sending the bond to its highest in four days.  Europe’s leaders have failed to solve the common currency’s
turmoil 19 months after  Greece  became the first nation in the
bloc to seek external aid to stay afloat. The debt-market
hierarchy is shifting as even Germany displays symptoms of
becoming ensnared in the turmoil and investors start to question
the survival of the euro.  “People are allocating money away from all euro
exposures,” said Andreas Halldahl, who oversees the equivalent
of $18 billion as head of Swedish rates at Storebrand
Kapitalforvaltning AS in  Stockholm .  Swedish Success  Sweden’s success lies in part in its focus on income
equality, Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in an
interview last month. Sweden has the world’s highest tax burden
as a percentage of gross domestic product after Denmark. The two
countries also boast some of the most equal income distributions
in the world, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Sweden’s financial regulator will require the country’s
biggest banks to target capital buffers of at least 10 percent
of their risk-weighted assets by 2013, with the ratio rising to
12 percent two years later. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  sets a minimum target of 7 percent by 2019. Sweden’s
government says the more rigorous capital standards are
necessary to protect taxpayers from potential losses.  It costs 15 percent less to insure against a default of
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , based in Stockholm, than it does to guard
against a  credit event  at Germany’s biggest lender, Deutsche
Bank AG, credit default swap spreads show.  Standard & Poor’s 
yesterday raised the ratings of SEB AB and Swedbank AB, two of
Sweden’s four biggest banks, to A+ from A, citing their access
to funding and earnings prospects.  Declining Debt  Sweden’s government debt will narrow to 36.3 percent of GDP
this year from 40.2 percent before the global financial crisis
started in 2007, according to the European Commission’s latest
estimates published Nov. 10. Danish government debt will reach
44.1 percent, compared with a euro-area average of 88 percent,
according to the commission.  Norway  has a $530 billion wealth
fund built from its oil income, compared with outstanding debt
of 609 billion kroner ($105 billion).  “We have a strong fundamentally weighted allocation to
those countries from a fiscal sustainability perspective and
from a diversity perspective,” said Gregor MacIntosh, head of
rates in Geneva at Lombard Odier Investment Managers, which
oversees $37 billion. “They aren’t issuing debt hand over fist
unlike some of the other more embattled nations.”  German Breaches  He said he’s “quite overweight” Norway in particular.  Germany’s government will post debt equivalent to 81.7
percent of GDP this year, compared with the euro area’s targeted
limit of 60 percent, a level Germany has breached each year
since at least 2005.  Sweden, Norway and  Denmark  all boast current account
surpluses, signaling more money is flowing into their economies
than leaving their borders. Sweden’s surplus widened to 76.1
billion kronor in the third quarter, the highest tally since the
start of 2008, the statistics office said on Nov. 30.  Nykredit is tapping into the influx with a pan-Nordic
brokerage in Stockholm, opening this month, to cater to demand
for Nordic bonds from  South America , the  Middle East  and  China ,
Andersen said.  “U.S. money market funds are taking money out of the euro
area and putting it into Sweden, so liquidity is actually
pouring into Sweden and Denmark,” he said.  Budget Surpluses  The eight largest so-called prime U.S. money funds raised
their holdings of short-term securities issued by Stockholm-
based  Swedbank (SWEDA) , the biggest lender in the Baltic states, by 72
percent in October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sweden will post a  budget surplus  in 2011 for a second
year, and the nation’s public finances will remain in the black
through the commission’s forecast horizon until 2013. In
neighboring Norway, the government expects its general financial
surplus to be 13.6 percent of GDP in 2011.  “We are seeing now that investors are also turning away
from the traditional healthy euro countries,” said Henrik Henriksen, chief investment strategist at PFA Pension A/S,
Denmark’s second-biggest pension fund with $45 billion in
assets. “The bottom line is that at the end of the day, the
debt crisis is Germany’s problem as well.”  The cost of insuring against a German default climbed 66
percent this year, according to prices of credit default swaps.
It costs $98,000 to insure against losses on $10 million of
five-year German sovereign debt, up from $59,000 on Dec. 31,
data provided by CMA show. Insuring Swedish debt costs $73,000,
compared with $34,000 at the start of the year.  Investors also are balking at the  European Central Bank ’s
reluctance to do more to support the euro region, meaning
countries with debt-issuance backing from their own central
banks are getting a relative boost, Henriksen said.  “Investors are currently drawn to countries that have
their own money printer, their own currency and their own
monetary policy,” he said. “Right now it’s a relative beauty
competition where investors buy what they find to be the least
ugly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net 
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  