-- 
Sweden May Delay Countercyclical Buffers Till 2015, Frisell Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-12-02T12:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/sweden-may-delay-countercyclical-buffers-till-2015-frisell-says.html
Sweden  probably won’t require banks
to add countercyclical buffers to their capital reserves until
after 2014 to help lenders adjust to a slowing economy, the
chief economist of the country’s financial regulator said.  “As it looks now, it looks pretty gloomy so it’s hard to
see a big buffer would be implemented already from 2014,”  Lars Frisell , who’s also a member of the Basel Committee for Banking
Supervision, said in a Dec. 1 interview in Stockholm.  Sweden, whose biggest banks have combined assets more than
four times the size of the largest Nordic economy, wants the
lenders to target tougher  capital requirements  earlier than the
Basel Committee has set. The government argues the more rigorous
standards are needed to ensure taxpayers are protected from the
risk of losses.  Sweden’s four biggest lenders, including the region’s
biggest, Nordea Bank AB, must target common equity Tier 1
capital of at least 10 percent from January 2013 and 12 percent
in 2015, the government said on Nov. 25. Basel sets a 7 percent
target, to be met by 2019.  Sweden indicated last month it might be ready to implement
the countercyclical measures, aimed at tightening credit growth
during economic booms, already by 2013. Such a buffer, which
could rise to as high as 2.5 percent, would be decided by a
committee and implemented according to domestic market share and
through advance notice to banks.  Scandinavian Plan  Frisell said that the plan is to work with  Norway ,  Finland 
and  Denmark  on a similar model.  Nordea, Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Swedbank AB and SEB AB
are Sweden’s four largest banks. International regulators want
lenders to adopt countercyclical buffers to curb lending booms,
strengthen balance sheets and counter potential bubbles.  Chintan Joshi, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in
 London , said Riksbank analyses going back to 2000 on
countercyclical buffers for individual banks shows the lenders
would have been subject to the top ratios.  “The full charge of 2.5 percent would have been applied at
certain points so the calculation has teeth,” Joshi said in a
note on Nov. 29.  Sweden’s economy will stagnate in 2012 after expanding 4.5
percent this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on export
demand, Nordea forecast yesterday. Sweden’s central bank will
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.75 percent by the second
half of next year from the current 2 percent, it said.  The Riksbank warned on Nov. 29 that Sweden’s lenders aren’t
immune to contagion stemming from Europe’s debt crisis and
remain vulnerable to liquidity risks.  The major Swedish banks “should continue to reduce their
structural liquidity risk, that is the difference between the
maturities of assets and liabilities, and approach the minimum
level of 100 percent in the Basel Committee’s structural
liquidity measure, the net stable funding ratio.”  According to Frisell, “it’s clear that NSFR is tougher for
our big banks to meet so they will need more time to meet the
100 percent,” he said. “We don’t want to destroy the market.
In due time NSFR, or a version of it, will come into effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  