-- 
Swiss Re Targets Growth in the $5 Billion ‘Green Risk’ Market

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-12-02T16:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/swiss-re-targets-growth-in-the-5-billion-green-risk-market.html
Swiss Re Ltd.,  the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, is seeking a “significant portion” of the
potential $5 billion global market to insure the risks of
renewable energy projects, a company executive said.  “The worldwide insurance market for weather derivatives
traded over-the-counter is about $2.5 billion in notionals,”
Juerg Trueb, head of environmental and commodity markets at
Swiss Re, said in an interview in  London . “The market for
operational and construction risk for renewable energy might be
double that size in premiums. We aim at capturing a significant
portion of these combined markets.”  So-called clean projects that harness the wind and sun to
generate electricity for sale face risks to their revenue such
as volatility in the weather, changes in the political support
or subsidies available to developments, and insufficient access
to funds during times of austerity.  Risks rise as projects get bigger and more complex, driven
by governments seeking to meeting regional targets for clean
power, Trueb said. Investment in renewable energy power plants
overtook that for fossil fuels for the first time last year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The European Union
aims to source 20 percent of its energy from renewables by 2020.  “We believe that risk-taking and risk management is needed
to unlock investment in this space,” Trueb said.  ‘Acute Hazard’  Financial risk, when projects are unable to get sufficient
funds, is the most “acute hazard” for the renewables industry,
according to a report by Swiss Re and the Economist Intelligence
Unit Ltd. that surveyed 284 energy and finance executives.  Renewable projects may use loans to cover as much as 80
percent of the cost. As the European sovereign debt crisis has
worsened, banks are curbing lending, while governments trying to
curb deficits have lowered subsidies for clean power. The U.K.
proposed a cut of as much as 55 percent in the price for solar
power in October, while both Spain and  Italy  have scaled back
their so-called feed-in tariffs for solar energy producers.  Developers may mitigate financial risk by seeking
alternative funding, according to the report from Zurich-based
Swiss Re.  Political risk is the most difficult to manage, Trueb said.
“We don’t feel comfortable with political risks,” he said. “I
would be surprised if somebody becomes comfortable to cover the
impacts of governments cutting back subsidies.”  Other risks include the use of unproven technologies.  Increasingly Complex  “As projects become increasingly complex, it will be
difficult to use only technologies that are known,” said Aviva
Freudmann, a research director at the EIU, while closing plants
because of damage or failure, as well as fluctuations in
commodity prices such as ethanol, are also hazards.  The biggest market for renewable energy insurance is likely
to be the U.S. where projects are larger, followed by China and
 Europe , Trueb said.  Africa , where projects may be scattered over
a wider area and built on a smaller scale than in other regions,
offer opportunities for insurers, Trueb said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  