-- 
Stocks in Switzerland Post Biggest Weekly Rally Since 2009

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-12-02T16:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/swiss-stocks-climb-before-u-s-jobs-report-nobel-biocare-rises.html
  Swiss stocks (SMI)  climbed, posting their
biggest weekly rally since July 2009, after a U.S. report showed
the unemployment rate in the world’s largest economy
unexpectedly fell in November.  Nobel Biocare AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of
dental implants, rose 3.1 percent.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest banks, climbed more than 3.5
percent.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , the banking-software maker, gained
6.1 percent after striking a partnership with International
Business Machines Corp.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 0.7 percent to 5,718.85 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge rallied 6 percent this week, its
largest increase in more than two years. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also climbed 0.7 percent today.  “The numbers were good and there is optimism about the
U.S. recovery,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital
Markets in Geneva.  Unemployment in the U.S. dropped to 8.6 percent in
November, the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. Payrolls climbed
120,000 last month after a revised 100,000 increase in October.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News had called for a gain of
125,000 and for the jobless rate to remain at 9 percent.  “The payrolls figures were weaker” than economists had
predicted, Plassard said. “If there’s less  job creation , one
must think about the fact that offers are shrinking and that the
better  unemployment rate  we see now might be a reflection of
people who are retiring or who are no longer entitled to
 unemployment benefits .”  Merkel, Sarkozy  German Chancellor Angela Merkel repeated her wish to rework
European Union rules to lock in budget monitoring and seal off
the European Central Bank from political interference, as part
of measures to contain the region’s debt crisis.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  late yesterday called for
“more discipline” and automatic penalties for nations that
break fiscal rules.  “There seems to be some movement coming to the political
arena in Europe,” said Reto Huenerwadel, a senior economist at
UBS in Zurich. “There’s hope that Germany and France will make
clear steps toward each other.”  Nobel Biocare gained 3.1 percent to 11.82 Swiss francs, its
highest price since Aug. 11, after UBS estimated that the
company is worth 15.70 francs apiece as a leveraged-buyout
target. At that price, a private-equity investor can expect a
22.1 percent internal rate of return, UBS said citing a
proprietary LBO model.  Banks Advance  UBS and Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s biggest banks, climbed
3.6 percent to 11.36 francs and 5.7 percent to 22.87 francs,
respectively, as a gauge of European banks was the  best
performer  of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth manager,
rose 3.1 percent to 34.15 francs.  Temenos increased 6.1 percent to 15.60 francs. The company
late yesterday said it agreed on a deal with International
Business Machines Corp. in which IBM will offer “consulting and
integration services together with software and hardware
resources for Temenos implementations.”  “This agreement with IBM serves as an important seal of
approval for Temenos’s products,” Panagiotis Spiliopoulos, an
analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients
today. “A stronger emphasis on the partner model should help
improve Temenos’s cash-flow metrics.”  Transocean, Richemont  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest provider of offshore
oil rigs, rallied 4 percent to 40.55 francs, its biggest rally
in six weeks, as crude headed for its first weekly gain in
three.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the maker of Jaeger-LeCoultre
watches, added 1.9 percent to 49.80 francs. The company’s
Panerai and Cartier brands may hire more employees in
Switzerland, Le Temps reported. Separately, HSBC Holdings Plc
added Richemont to its “Europe Super Ten Portfolio.”  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, rise 1.7 percent to 206.20 francs after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. recommended buying the shares, saying the company is
“firmly on track” to deliver on the targets it announced in
December 2010. Goldman reiterated its “conviction buy” rating.  Tecan Group AG (TECN)  gained 4.2 percent to 62.30 francs after UBS
recommended buying the stock, saying the maker of  laboratory
equipment  has the potential for double-digit revenue growth in
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  