-- 
Syria Risks ‘Full-Fledged Civil War’ Unless Assad Ends Crackdown, UN Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-12-02T13:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/syria-risks-full-fledged-civil-war-unless-assad-ends-crackdown-un-says.html
Syria  risks being engulfed in a civil
war unless President Bashar al-Assad’s government ends its
crackdown on opposition protesters, said the top human-rights
official of the  United Nations .  “The Syrian authorities’ continual ruthless oppression, if
not stopped now, can drive the country into a full-fledged civil
war,” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said at
a special session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva.  More than 4,000 people have been killed since unrest began
in mid-March, tens of thousands have been arrested and more than
14,000 are reported to be in detention, Pillay said today. She
called for Syria to be referred to the  International Criminal
Court  and said the international community needs to take
“urgent and effective” measures to protect the Syrian people.  The crackdown has continued even as other nations increase
economic and political pressure on the Syrian government, which
says it is fighting foreign conspirators, armed gangs and
Islamists. Demonstrations against al-Assad’s leadership were
inspired by the so-called Arab Spring movements that toppled
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  The European Union yesterday banned the export of equipment
and technology to the Syrian oil and gas industry as well as of
equipment and software for monitoring the Internet and phones,
while the U.S. imposed sanctions on one of al-Assad’s uncles and
a commander of Syria’s elite 4th Armored Division.  Oil Companies   As part of its latest sanctions against Syria, the EU added
12 people and 11 entities including three oil companies to the
bloc’s list of those targeted by an asset freeze and a travel
ban. The three petroleum companies are Syria Trading Oil Co.,
General Petroleum Corp. and Al Furat Petroleum Co., according to
the decision published today in the EU’s  Official Journal .  Turkey and the  Arab League  have also imposed punitive
measures. The UN has been paralyzed over Syria since Oct. 4 when
 Russia , which sells arms to Syria and  China , which buys it oil,
delivered the first double veto since 2008 to block a Security
Council resolution calling for al-Assad to halt the crackdown.  Speaking at the HRC session, Russia’s ambassador to the UN
in Geneva, Valery Loshchinin, and his Chinese counterpart, He Yafei, urged all parties to end violence and resolve the crisis.  Russia, China  Loshchinin urged Syria to “show openness and cooperate”
and said “positive steps taken by the government of Syria
should be recognized by the council.” At the same time, he
warned against foreign intervention, which he said would
“threaten unforeseen and very serious consequences.”  The Chinese ambassador said his country opposes the
politicization of human-rights matters, and is concerned that
such cases could be settled in international courts.  A total of 307 children have been killed in the violence so
far, according to Pillay. November was the deadliest month for
children, with 56 killed, said Sergio Paulho Pinheiro, chairman
of the independent international commission of inquiry.  The HRC meeting in Geneva, its third special session on
Syria this year, was held to discuss a report by the independent
international commission of inquiry in which the Syrian
government’s forces are accused of murder, rape, torture and
crimes against humanity. The panel will is scheduled to vote
later today on a draft resolution on how to act on the report’s
findings.  Free Syrian Army  Soldiers who left the al-Assad’s army to set up an
opposition force known as the Free Syrian Army have called for a
no-fly zone and two buffer areas with international backing, the
group’s leader, Riad al-As’ad, a former Syrian colonel, said in
a Nov. 18 interview. The FSA wants a buffer zone in the north,
on the Turkish-Syrian border, and another in the south near
 Jordan  to help them bring the fight closer to al-Assad.  The FSA, which says it has more than 25,000 soldiers, has
in the past month attacked targets linked to the government,
including an assault on a base near Damascus that is linked to
air force intelligence.  In addition to its export bans, the EU added 12 people
accused of being responsible for human-rights violations and 11
entities supporting the Syrian leadership to its sanctions list,
which includes an asset freeze and visa ban. The EU also
prohibited the trading of Syrian bonds and the opening of Syrian
bank branches in the 27-nation bloc.  Military Targeted  The U.S. also applied sanctions on Syria’s Military Housing
Establishment, a company controlled by the  Defense Ministry  that
provides funding for the government, and the Real Estate Bank,
the country’s second-largest bank, which administers the
government’s borrowings, the Treasury in  Washington  said.  The sanctions bar “U.S. persons” from engaging in
transactions with the designated entities and blocks any assets
they may have under U.S. jurisdiction.  Turkey  will expand the measures it imposed on Syria on Nov.
30 if al-Assad fails to halt his crackdown, Turkish Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said. Syrian government assets held in
Turkey are being frozen, al-Assad’s leadership team is banned
from entry, transactions with Syria’s central bank and trade
bank are prohibited, credit agreements are suspended, and arms
sales and shipments have been halted, he said in Ankara.  The Turkish sanctions follow those adopted by the Arab
League against Syria on Nov. 27, after the government in
Damascus refused to admit Arab observers into the country. The
measures include a freeze on Syrian assets and a travel ban on
senior officials in al-Assad’s government.  Syria suspended its free-trade agreement with Turkey and
its membership in the  Union for the Mediterranean  yesterday in
response to the EU sanctions, the state-run  Syrian Arab News
Agency  said. The union is aimed at strengthening ties between
the EU and countries in North Africa and the  Middle East .  Syria’s $60 billion economy, which grew 5.5 percent in
2010, may shrink 2 percent this year, the  International Monetary
Fund  said, while the  Institute of International Finance  said the
figure would be at least 5 percent. The government expects
growth of 1 percent, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said
in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 