-- 
Syria Is Censured by UN Council for ‘Widespread, Systematic’ Violations

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   F r e e d m a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T17:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/syria-is-censured-by-un-council-for-widespread-systematic-violations.html
The  United Nations Human Rights
Council  censured  Syria , condemning “the continued, widespread,
systematic and gross violations of human rights” by President
Bashar al-Assad’s government.  After an all-day special session in Geneva, the 47-member
council approved the censure resolution, asking UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon to take “the necessary measures” to
support the  Arab League ’s efforts to end the violence in Syria.  Russia ,  China , Cuba and Ecuador voted against, while 37
members voted in favor and six abstained. The resolution was
revised after negotiations with China and Russia, which warned
earlier in the session that foreign interference in Syria in the
name of human rights would have “unforeseen and very serious
consequences.”  The council also agreed to forward to Ban “for appropriate
action and transmission to all UN relevant bodies” a report by
its independent International Commission of Inquiry, which found
“gross violations of human rights” had been committed in Syria
since protests against al-Assad’s government began in mid-March.  The commission  said  in its Nov. 28 report it was “gravely
concerned that crimes against humanity have been committed” in
Syria and that it had documented patterns of summary execution,
arbitrary arrest, enforced disappearance, torture including
sexual violence and violations of children’s rights.  Introduced by  Poland   Today’s resolution, introduced by Poland, also recommends
that the UN’s main bodies urgently consider the commission of
inquiry’s conclusions and take appropriate action. The document
further establishes the mandate of a special rapporteur on the
human-rights situation in Syria who can follow up on the
commission’s work.  Navi Pillay, the UN’s high commissioner for human rights,
told the council earlier today that more than 4,000 people,
including at least 307 children, have died in the Syrian
uprising. She warned that Syria faces a “full-fledged civil
war” if the regime’s “continual ruthless repression” against
peaceful protesters and civilians isn’t stopped now.  Al-Assad faces growing economic and political pressure to
end the crackdown against protesters who were inspired by
popular movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and
 Libya .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 