-- 
U.S. Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Declines to 8.6%

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-02T21:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/u-s-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-declines-to-8-6-payrolls-rise-by-120-000.html
Job gains in the U.S. picked up last
month and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to the lowest
level since March 2009, a decline augmented by the departure of
Americans from the labor force.  Payrolls climbed 120,000, after a revised 100,000 increase
in October, with more than half the hiring coming from retailers
and temporary help agencies, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a 125,000 gain. The jobless rate declined to
8.6 percent from 9 percent. Revisions to prior reports added a
total of 72,000 jobs to payrolls in September and October.  “It’s good news, not great news,” said Nariman Behravesh,
chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington, Massachusetts, whose
forecast matched the survey median. “The labor market is
gradually healing.”  The Obama administration used the data to push for an
extension of a payroll-tax cut it says is needed to maintain the
expansion and reduce the jobless rate further. At the same time,
the report damped speculation that Federal Reserve policy makers
meeting on Dec. 13 will embark on another round of large-scale
asset purchases.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little changed at
1,244.27 at 4 p.m.  New York  time, erasing an earlier gain of as
much as 1.3 percent. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note fell to 2.03 percent from 2.09 percent late yesterday.  Europe  Crisis  There are also signs Europe’s troubles may be starting to
ease. A European proposal to channel central bank loans through
the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver as much as 200
billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the debt crisis, two
people familiar with the negotiations said.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , euro-area finance ministers gave the go-
ahead for work on the plan, said the people, who declined to be
named because the talks are at an early stage.  Europe’s debt crisis has been a source of uncertainty on
the outlook for the  U.S. economy , prompting companies such as
 DirecTV (DTV)  to keep a tight rein on spending and employment.  “We’re tightening our belts in terms of spending,”
 Michael White , chief executive officer of the largest U.S.
satellite-TV provider, said in an interview last week. “We’ll
cut back on overhead, hiring and programming.”  Aircraft Maker  Among companies expanding payrolls is  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
largest U.S. aircraft maker. The Chicago-based company is hiring
about 100 machinists a week as it boosts production by about 60
percent over three years to whittle down a backlog that now
stretches to nearly 4,000 aircraft.  The unemployment rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, was forecast to hold at 9 percent. The decrease in
the jobless rate reflected a 278,000 gain in employment at the
same time 315,000 Americans left the  labor force .  “You’d like to see the unemployment rate coming down when
people are coming into the job market, not disappearing,” James Glassman, senior economist at JP Morgan Chase & Co. in New York,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom
Keene .  President  Barack Obama  said the drop in the jobless rate is
a sign the recovery is getting stronger, and extending a cut in
the payroll tax will provide more fuel for the economy.  Energy Efficiency  “We need to keep that growth going,” Obama said after he
and former President Bill Clinton toured a building in
Washington to promote a government and private industry
initiative to upgrade the energy efficiency of public and
commercial buildings that the administration says will help
create construction jobs.  Employment at service-providers increased 126,000 in
November, including a 50,000 gain in retail trade as companies
began hiring for the holiday shopping season. The number of
temporary workers increased 22,300.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, increased mostly part-time staff by 4 percent for the
November-December shopping season. See’s Candies Inc., a
chocolate maker owned by Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said it would
add 5,500 mostly temporary workers.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
140,000 after a revised gain of 117,000. Still, factory payroll
growth slowed and construction employment dropped.  Government payrolls decreased by 20,000 in November,
including a 16,000 decline on the state and local levels.  Limited Wage Gains  Even as payrolls grow, limited wage gains are restraining
consumers’ ability to boost spending, which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy. Average hourly earnings fell 0.1
percent to $23.18, today’s report showed. The average work week
for all workers held at 34.3 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- decreased to 15.6 percent
from 16.2 percent.  The report also showed an increase in long-term unemployed
Americans. The number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or more
increased as a percentage of all jobless, rose to 43 percent
from 42.4 percent.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues last month
cut economic growth forecasts for 2012 and said unemployment
will average 8.5 percent to 8.7 percent in the final three
months of next year, up from a prior range of 7.8 percent to 8.2
percent.  Differing Interpretations  Fed policy makers today offered differing interpretations
of the decline in the unemployment rate.  “While the rate is certainly a very favorable rate, I would
highlight that a lot of it is because people pulled out of the
workforce,” Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said in
a speech. Rosengren said in a Nov. 16 speech that the central
bank still has power to boost the economy through lower  interest
rates .  Charles Plosser , president of the Philadelphia Fed, said in
a Bloomberg radio interview it’s a sign the “labor market is in
fact healing.” Plosser has dissented twice this year against
decisions to ease policy.  “Whether the swoon in the unemployment rate is legitimate
or not, the doves on the Fed have just been sidelined from
advocating QE3, at least for the next few months,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut , referring to a third round of asset purchases.  Six central banks led by the Fed acted on Nov. 30 to make
more funds available to lenders to preserve the global
expansion. The move came after European leaders said they failed
to boost the region’s bailout fund as much as planned, fueling
concern about a possible breakup of the euro bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  