-- 
U.S. Diverges From EU on Durban Climate Pact

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-02T14:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/u-s-diverges-from-eu-on-climate-pact-as-envoys-prepare-text.html
The U.S. and the European Union gave
contradictory views about a key proposal at United Nations
climate talks as envoys drew up a 100-page document outlining
conclusions for the meeting aimed at fighting global warming.  Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU environment representative,
said the 27-nation bloc’s call for a “road map” pointing
toward the next climate treaty is “advancing.”  Jonathan Pershing , the U.S. deputy envoy on climate, said the measure is
meeting “strong resistance” with some  developing countries .  The comments indicate divisions about the most
controversial issues at the annual global warming talks after a
week of talks with officials. Tomorrow, the diplomats will
publish a draft text proposing outcomes for the meeting before
ministers and 10 heads of state gather to debate the pact.  “We see very good progress on a package of measures to do
with adaptation” to climate change,  Christiana Figueres , the UN
diplomat coordinating the talks, said at a briefing today in
Durban,  South Africa . “Durban will move forward with
adaptation.”  Her comments sidestepped the question over whether the
meeting will extend the current climate treaty, the  Kyoto
Protocol , whose limits on  greenhouse gases  expire in 2012.  China and India, which have no restrictions under the
treaty, are leading a bloc of developing nations demanding
industrial nations sign up for new commitments. Japan, Russia
and  Canada  already refused to extend the pact. The U.S. never
ratified it.  EU Proposal  The EU, which has done the most to limit carbon dioxide
fumes under Kyoto, said it would only sign up to more cuts if
all polluters back a mandate in Durban envisioning a new legally
binding treaty by 2015 that would come into force by 2020.  “This goal is advancing,” Runge-Metzger said at a press
conference today. “Many countries see the goal of keeping the
warming to 2 degrees requires a good action. Many parties can
see that waiting until 2015 or longer to start discussing the
next steps will simply be too late. This process takes time.”  Pershing said the U.S. wouldn’t adopt new targets without
the involvement of developing nations. China and  India  have
become two of the three biggest polluters since Kyoto was
negotiated in 1997.  U.S. View  “My own sense from what I’m hearing from the major parties
is that while some want it, others do not, and I have not
observed a sense in my discussions that they’re prepared to
change their minds; and by that I mean the major economies, the
major emerging economies, which have indicated strong resistance
to having to undertake at this stage a commitment to a legally-
binding obligation,” Pershing said at a press conference. “In
that context, the U.S. also would not be prepared to undertake
legally-binding obligations.”  Chinese envoy  Su Wei  earlier this week said the EU proposal
was “shifting the goal posts” away from an agreement in 2007
where the UN talks set out plans to extend Kyoto.  Brazil ’s
delegate said he couldn’t see any conclusion from Durban that
didn’t include an extension of Kyoto.  The document due tomorrow includes proposed conclusions
from the Long Term Cooperative Action track of the UN climate
talks, a process that envisions a treaty outside the Kyoto
structure. It will span 22 chapters covering measures that help
nations adapt to  climate change  and the financial mechanisms
aimed at channeling aid to developing nations, Figueres said.  ‘Not Perfect’  “The text that appears tomorrow morning is not a perfect
text,” Figueres said. “It gives them a very good sense what
the package is going to look like next week. That will include
the work that has been done on the technology mechanism, on the
adaptation committee.”  Heads of state from 10 nations including Ethiopia, Gabon,
Nauru, Senegal and Fiji arrive in time for the ministerial
portion of the talks beginning Dec. 6. EU Climate Commissioner
 Connie Hedegaard  and Todd Stern from the U.S. State Department
will lead their delegations.  The meeting is scheduled to finish on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  