-- 
U.S. Senate Approves Sanctions Aimed at Crippling Iran Oil Sales

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n ,   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-12-02T20:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/u-s-senate-overrules-obama-with-iran-oil-sanctions.html
The  U.S. Senate  took aim at the
Iranian central bank in an effort to choke off oil exports,
while the European Union stopped short of targeting crude as it
 tightened sanctions  intended to curb  Iran ’s nuclear program.  The Senate bill, passed unanimously yesterday, would give
the president the power starting July 1 to bar foreign financial
institutions that do business with Iran’s  central bank  from
having correspondent bank accounts in the U.S. If enacted, it
could be much harder for foreign companies to pay for oil
imports from Iran, the world’s third-largest crude exporter. The
Obama administration opposes the legislation.  While EU remains divided over calls to halt purchases of
Iranian oil, ministers meeting yesterday in Brussels added 180
Iranian officials and companies to their sanctions list and
started work on measures against Iran’s oil exports, banks,
transportation and the Revolutionary Guard Corps.  “The Central Bank of Iran has become a vital intermediary
for purchasers of Iranian crude because existing sanctions
against the Persian Gulf country have constrained Iran’s ability
to access the international financial sector to settle oil
trades,” said Mark Dubowitz, director of the Iran Energy
Project at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in
 Washington .  Renewed international pressure over Iran’s nuclear
ambitions risks igniting tensions in the Middle East that may
threaten the flow of oil to the increasingly fragile world
economy. Iran denies western allegations that its nuclear
program is disguising weapons development.  U.K. Embassy Stormed  The moves by Europe and the U.S. to deepen Iran’s political
and economic isolation came as furor continued over this week’s
storming of the U.K. Embassy in Tehran.  European officials said the attack had the blessing of
Iran’s government. Britain evacuated its staff from the mission
and ordered Iranian diplomats out of the U.K. The assault
prompted international condemnation, and Italy,  France  and
 Germany  recalled their ambassadors from Iran.  The U.S. administration opposed the Senate sanctions
against Iran on the grounds that by targeting an important oil
supplier for  Asia  and  Europe , the move threatens to fracture the
international coalition backing coordinated pressure on the
country and may send  oil prices  soaring if world supply is
perceived to be in jeopardy.  Oil-Price Risk  “There’s absolutely a risk” that “the price of oil would
go up, which would mean that Iran would, in fact, have more
money to fuel its nuclear ambitions, not less,” Undersecretary
of State Wendy Sherman told the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee yesterday before lawmakers voted.  EU states are also grappling with the implications of
sanctions aimed at strangling Iran’s crude exports.  “ Greece  has a certain number of reservations” about an
oil cutoff, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters
in Brussels yesterday. “We have to take account of them and
work with the different partners so that the interruption of
Iranian deliveries can be offset by higher production in other
countries.”  Oil had its first gain in three weeks amid concern that
tension between Iran and the west will disrupt  Middle East 
exports. Futures gained 76 cents, or 0.8 percent, today to
$100.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since Nov. 16. Prices increased 4.3 percent
this week.  UN Report  The aim of the new U.S. sanctions, the measure’s sponsors
said, is to deprive Iran of revenue and thereby force the regime
to abandon nuclear-weapons work. The latest confrontation was
triggered by a Nov. 8 report by  United Nations  atomic inspectors
that drew on “credible” intelligence to argue that Iran’s
efforts to build a nuclear bomb “may be ongoing.”  Oil is Iran’s major source of income, supplying more than
50 percent of the national budget, according to International
Monetary Fund figures. It earned the Islamic state $56 billion
in the first seven months of this year, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  The EU said its latest measures will strike at  Iran’s
nuclear program , the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Line and
members and affiliates of the Revolutionary Guard Corps. The
bloc will freeze the assets of the targets and bar them from
traveling to Europe. With France’s Juppe calling for “tough and
unprecedented sanctions” on Iranian banks and the oil business,
the ministers aim to hammer out the tougher measures by their
next meeting in January.  Sever ‘Links’  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  declined to say
whether an oil-purchase halt will be part of the package. She
told reporters the bloc will “look at a range of issues
including the energy sector, but the detail of exactly what
shall be done now goes to the technical experts.”  Yesterday’s U.S. and EU moves follow the Nov. 21
announcement by the U.S., the U.K. and  Canada  of expanded
sanctions aimed at Iran’s banking system.  While  China  has supported four rounds of United Nations
sanctions on Iran, leaders in Beijing as well as a number of
U.S. allies in Asia and Europe who buy Iranian oil have so far
resisted targeting the nation’s energy products.  The top refiners of Iranian oil are China,  Japan ,  India ,
 Italy  and  South Korea , according to the U.S.  Energy Information
Administration .  The U.S. measure would come into effect if included in
final legislation negotiated by the House and Senate and signed
by President Barack Obama. It would permit the president to
waive sanctions for national security reasons or because of
insufficient oil supply to replace Iran’s crude.  Market Timing  The timing would allow the market to adapt while rising
production from  Libya  and Iraq helps European refiners offset
the loss of Iranian crude, Senator Mark Kirk, an Illinois
Republican and co-sponsor of the measure, said in a telephone
interview.  “We intentionally put a delay in the language so markets
could adjust,” he said.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia, pumped
about 3.6 million barrels of oil a day last month, a Bloomberg
survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million barrels a
day in 2010, according to OPEC statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  