-- 
Payrolls May Be Shorting U.S. Job Gains

-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-12-02T19:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/u-s-households-find-work-in-sign-job-market-better-than-payrolls-suggest.html
American households may be signaling
the job market is stronger than the payroll numbers indicate.  Employers said they took on 120,000 workers in November,
bringing job gains over the past four months to 534,000, Labor
Department data showed today in  Washington . A separate survey of
households showed 278,000 more people were  employed  last month,
pushing the increase during the same period to 1.28 million.  At turning points in the economy, the latter may prove more
accurate because it’s more likely to pick up hiring at small
companies and new firms that may be under the government’s
radar. In another sign of recovery, the payroll figures the last
three reports have been revised up by a combined 91,000 on
average for the prior two months.  “Maybe we are doing a little better than the payroll
survey suggests,”  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said in a research
note. “The payroll survey keeps getting revised up and up and
up,” he said, and “the household survey is more likely to
catch start-ups.”  The employment increase in the household survey helped
propel a decrease in the  jobless rate  to 8.6 percent, the lowest
since March 2009, from 9 percent in October, today’s report
showed. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected no change.  A shrinking workforce also contributed to the decline in
joblessness, taking some of the shine off the unexpected drop.  Unemployment Drops  “When the  unemployment rate  declines, we want to see both
employment and participation increase as discouraged workers
return to the  labor force ,” Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of
America Corp. in New York, said in a note to clients. “Today,
we got the former, but not the latter, making the 0.4 percentage
point drop look a bit suspect. We would not be surprised to see
the unemployment rate give back some of its decline in coming
months.”  Small companies may be behind the recent increase in
household jobs. The net share of owners planning to hire over
the next three months rose 4 points to a net 7 percent, the
highest reading since September 2008, a report today from the
 National Federation of Independent Business  showed today. Small-
business owners increased employment in November for the first
time in five months.  “The employment indicators delivered a significant
positive signal, still at weak levels but a meaningful movement
forward,”  William Dunkelberg , chief economist for the NFIB,
said in a statement. “A bit more  job creation  should emerge.”  More Volatile  To be sure, the household survey is a more volatile series
than the payroll survey because the sample is smaller. It covers
about 60,000 families, compared with the poll of employers that
covers 140,000 businesses representing about 440,000 worksites.  “We can’t get too excited, because if you look at the past
12 months they are showing the same picture,” said Gault. “The
household survey was doing worse earlier on and is now catching
up.” Nonetheless, if this divergence continues, “that would be
stronger evidence that the payroll number is underestimating.”  At the same time, consecutive gains over the past four
months in the household survey cannot be easily dismissed.  “While this survey is far more volatile than the
establishment survey, four months could be considered a trend,
meaning the labor market might be stronger than the payrolls
tally suggests,”  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.  2.5 Million  The household survey does include groups not captured by
the payroll figures, like people working for themselves and
agricultural workers. After  adjusting  to make the data adhere
with what is captured in payrolls, the household figures showed
a 498,000 jump in hiring in November. Since November 2010,
adjusted household  employment  has climbed by 2.5 million
compared with a 1.6 million payroll increase.  An increase in hiring of temporary workers, which may
foreshadow gains in permanent staff as companies wait to make
sure improvement in sales is sustained, is also a positive
signal. Payrolls at temporary-help agencies climbed by 22,300 in
November and are up by 98,900 in the past five months, today’s
report from the Labor Department showed.  “Over time, household employment and payroll employment
have trended together, but in recent years the household measure
has tended to lead, suggesting bigger payroll gains are coming
very soon,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High
Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla,  New York , said in a note
to clients. “There are clear signs in the household employment
and temp numbers to suggest better times are ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  