-- 
U.S. Senate Backs Sanctions Intended to Cripple Iran’s Crude Oil Exports

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 
2011-12-02T00:47:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/u-s-senate-backs-sanctions-intended-to-cripple-iran-s-crude-oil-exports.html
The U.S. Senate today unanimously
approved a measure to sanction foreign financial institutions
that do business with the Central Bank of  Iran , a move aimed at
reducing the number of countries able to buy Iranian crude oil.  The measure, if enacted into law, would make it more
difficult for Iran to get paid for oil sold to foreign buyers.
It gives the Obama administration power to bar foreign financial
institutions that do business with the Central Bank of Iran from
having correspondent accounts in the U.S.  The amendment to the 2012 defense authorization bill, which
sets Pentagon policy and spending targets for the fiscal year
that started Oct. 1, was sponsored by Senators Mark Kirk, an
Illinois Republican, and Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat.
It passed by a vote of 100-0.  The Obama administration opposes the amendment on the
grounds that, by threatening oil supplies for key Asian and
European partners, the move may fracture the international
coalition behind coordinated sanctions on Iran and send the
price of oil soaring.  “There’s absolutely a risk that, in fact, the price of oil
would go up, which would mean that Iran would, in fact, have
more money to fuel its nuclear ambitions, not less,”
Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman told the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.  The full Senate is expected to vote on the defense bill
later today. The House and Senate will need to negotiate a final
bill that would go to President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  Pressure on Nuclear Program  The aim of the sanctions measure is to deprive Iran of its
main source of revenue and thereby force the regime to abandon
nuclear weapons work. On Nov. 8, a United Nations atomic
inspectors report cited examples of clandestine weapons work,
which Iran denied.  The Central Bank of Iran is a vital intermediary for
purchasers of Iranian crude because existing sanctions against
the Persian Gulf country have so constrained Iran’s ability to
use the international financial sector to settle oil trades,
said Mark Dubowitz, director of the Iran Energy Project at the
Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington.  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, supplying over 50
percent of the national budget, according to International
Monetary Fund figures. Oil provided the Islamic state $56
billion in the first seven months of 2011, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Oil prices  have increased 9.7 percent this
year to close at $100.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  U.S. Undersecretary of Treasury David Cohen testified
before the same panel that taking unilateral U.S. action against
the central bank is likely to undermine sanctions support that
the U.S. has garnered from international partners over the last
three years.  EU Action  The European Union today added 180 Iranian officials and
companies to a blacklist and debated further measures. On Nov.
21, the U.K.,  Canada  and the U.S. announced new measures,
including Britain’s sanctioning of Iran’s financial system.  The top refiners of Iranian oil are China,  Japan ,  India ,
 Italy  and  South Korea , according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  While  China  has supported four rounds of UN sanctions,
leaders in Beijing as well as a number of U.S. allies in  Asia 
and  Europe  who buy Iranian oil have resisted targeting Iran’s
energy products.  “ Greece  has a certain number of reservations” about an
oil cutoff, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters
at an EU foreign ministers’ meeting in Brussels today. “We have
to take account of them and work with the different partners so
that the interruption of Iranian deliveries can be offset by
higher production in other countries,” he said.  International Coalition  Coordinated action with allies and partners is better than
unilateral U.S. action, Cohen suggested. “It is imperative that
we act in a way that does not threaten to fracture the
international coalition” and “does not inadvertently redound
to Iran’s economic benefit,” Cohen testified.  Iran pumped 3.6 million barrels a day last month, a
Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million
barrels a day in 2010, according to Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries statistics.  The Senate measure would go into effect July 1 if included
in final legislation signed by Obama. The measure would permit
the president to waive sanctions for national security reasons
or because of insufficient oil supply to replace Iran’s crude.  The timing would allow the market to adapt while rising
production from Libya and  Iraq  helps European refiners offset
the loss of Iranian crude, Kirk said in a telephone interview
today.  Adjustment Period  “We intentionally put a delay in the language so markets
could adjust,” he said.  Iran is the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia . About 15.5
million barrels of oil a day, about a sixth of global
consumption, flows through the Strait of Hormuz between Iran and
Oman, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  The Obama administration has imposed numerous restrictions
on Iran aimed at cutting off financing, shipping and insurance
for Iranian banks and enterprises it accuses of illicit
activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  