-- 
U.S. Said to Have No Plans for Loans to IMF in Euro Crisis

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-12-02T22:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/u-s-has-no-plans-to-make-bilateral-loans-to-imf-official-says.html
The U.S. has no plans to make
bilateral loans to the  International Monetary Fund  to help stem
the European debt crisis, a  Treasury Department  official said.  The IMF has ample resources, said the official, who
declined to be identified as a condition for holding the
briefing with reporters in Washington today. The fund has about
$400 billion in uncommitted resources, the official said.  European finance ministers said this week they would seek a
greater role for the IMF alongside their own bailout fund in
their bid to tame the euro region’s sovereign-debt turmoil.
Several countries including Brazil and Mexico have said they are
ready to help boost IMF resources.  The Treasury official said that if other countries make
bilateral contributions it doesn’t have any implications for the
U.S. The  European Central Bank  has been and must remain central
to the response to the crisis, the official said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will travel to
 Europe  next week for meetings with political leaders and central
bankers as they prepare for a summit on the continent’s
worsening debt crisis. The Treasury official said President
 Barack Obama  asked Geithner to take the trip.  Geithner will meet French President Nicolas Sarkozy,
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  during his Dec. 6-8 trip, the Treasury
Department said in a statement today. He will return to
Washington before the Dec. 9 summit in Brussels.  May Not Suffice  IMF chief  Christine Lagarde  has indicated that the $390
billion the IMF currently has available for lending may not
suffice should the global outlook worsen.  Lagarde said yesterday that Group of 20 nations are
prepared to boost the fund’s resources as the European debt
crisis threatens the global recovery.  “If circumstances require, the G-20 will commit the
resources that are necessary for the IMF to play its systemic
role,” she said during a press conference with Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  in Brasilia. “That gives you a
range that is almost without a cap, without a limitation.”  A European proposal to channel central bank loans through
the IMF may deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($268 billion)
to fight the debt crisis, two people familiar with the
negotiations said.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by Draghi, euro-area finance
ministers gave the go-ahead for work on the plan, said the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are at an
early stage. The need for a new crisis-containment tool emerged
as the effort to boost the 440 billion-euro rescue fund to 1
trillion euros fell short.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  