-- 
UBS’s Harris as No. 1 Forecaster Says Housing Will Drive U.S. 2012 Growth

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-12-02T00:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/ubs-s-harris-as-no-1-forecaster-says-housing-will-drive-u-s-2012-growth.html
Working his way through a plate of
wild Alaskan halibut at a restaurant a couple of blocks from
Radio City Music Hall in  New York , UBS Securities LLC Chief
Economist  Maury Harris  holds forth in a slight Texas twang on
what he expects from the  U.S. economy  in 2012.  It isn’t a story of gloom and doom--although Harris worries
that the turmoil in Europe will weigh on growth in the U.S. He
sees some unexpected bright spots driving U.S. expansion and
preventing a renewed downturn, Bloomberg Markets reports in its
January issue.  Harris’s predictions matter. His team is No. 1 among
economic forecasters for the world’s largest economy during the
two-year period ended on Sept. 30, according to data compiled
for Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking.  Harris, a native of Waco, Texas, says one of the most
important pieces of evidence favoring continued U.S. growth is
home prices.  “We think that house prices have stabilized,” Harris says.
That’s crucial, he adds, because what makes the aftermath of the
2008 to 2009 U.S. financial meltdown different from its post-
World War II predecessors is that the housing market has taken
so long to recover.  A loosening of bank lending standards for auto, credit card
and other consumer loans is another reason for optimism, says
Harris, who has been forecasting economic trends for more than
three decades.  No Home Loans  “Banks are competing for nonmortgage loans,” he says. “You
can borrow money for anything except a house.”  The No. 1 firm in the world for economic forecasting is
London-based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “For 2012, it’s a divided and disconnected world facing
many policy dilemmas,” says  Gerard Lyons , chief economist at
Standard Chartered Bank, the U.K.’s second-largest financial
institution by market value and a firm that does much of its
business in Asia. “In the West, it’ll be seen as an era of
austerity,” Lyons says. “In the East, it’ll be investment and
growth.”  While the likelihood of a renewed downturn in the U.S. and
Europe is low, Lyons says, the possibility exists.  No Double Dip  “If we were to have a double dip, it would probably be
triggered by a combination of factors: a loss of confidence, an
external shock or a policy mistake,” he says. “No part of the
world is decoupled from any other part.”  The Bloomberg Markets ranking includes predictions by 354
forecasters covering 11 countries plus the euro zone. The U.S.
ranking looks at the work of 78 forecasters during the two years
started on Oct. 1, 2009. It measures the accuracy of economic
forecasts in 13 categories, including gross domestic product,
unemployment, consumer and producer price indexes, home sales,
industrial production and personal spending.  The euro-zone ranking measures nine categories, including
GDP, inflation, unemployment, consumer sentiment and industrial
production.  In the competition for the top forecasting firm, banks and
research companies were ranked if they made predictions for the
U.S. and at least four other countries. Standard Chartered’s
economics team ranked 17th of the 78 teams that evaluated U.S.
economic indicators. It was No. 2 for India, No. 3 for  China  and
No. 5 in predicting the U.K.’s performance.  DekaBank a Winner  The top economists for the euro zone were  Andreas Scheuerle 
and Peter Leonhardt at Frankfurt-based DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale; for the U.K., Adam Chester and David Page at
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ; for China, Ting Lu at Merrill Lynch
Asia Pacific Ltd., a unit of  Bank of America Corp ., in  Hong
Kong ; for  Brazil ,  Luciano Rostagno  at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA
in Sao Paulo.  Most of the top economists agree with Standard Chartered’s
Lyons that 2012 will see a wide division between East and West.
And disparities will arise even within the Western economies.
Harris says he sees the U.S. economy expanding by 2.0 percent in
2012, while Scheuerle of DekaBank predicts that the euro zone
will grow 0.5 percent.  “We’re expecting a mild recession in the euro zone as a
whole,” Scheuerle, 46, says. “A lot depends on the timing of the
debt crisis and the political solution.”  Papademos Takes Over  A debt-ridden  Greece  had formed a unity government under
new Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  to address the austerity
measures demanded by the European Union in exchange for more
loans and debt forgiveness.  As Greece moved to resolve the issues that have crippled
its growth, the contagion spread to Italy, with 10-year Italian
bond yields closing at a euro-era high of 7.25 percent on Nov.
9. Yields above 7 percent have already locked Greece, Portugal
and Ireland out of the capital markets and forced them to seek
aid.  On Nov. 12, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi resigned; he
was replaced by Mario Monti, an economist and former
international adviser to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Scheuerle, a native of Stuttgart, Germany, sees an Italian
credit crunch coming.  “The bank lending surveys are very bad for Italy,” he says.
“That itself is a danger for euro-zone development.”  Scheuerle, who’s in his 11th year at DekaBank after
receiving a Ph.D. in economics from Tuebingen University, says
that when he started forecasting growth in the region, the
primary focus was on France, Germany, Italy and Spain.  Small Country Focus  “We now have to monitor very closely a lot of small
countries too, especially Greece, Portugal and Ireland,” he
says.  Scheuerle and Leonhardt say increased sales of European-
manufactured goods, such as heavy machinery and automobiles, to
markets in the Middle East, Asia, Africa and  Latin America  could
help put a lid on a euro-zone downturn.  “If the  emerging markets  are stable -- we expect a
slowdown, but not a dramatic slowdown -- that should help to
stabilize the European economy,” Scheuerle says.  Emerging economies showed great resilience in 2011 and are
likely to do so again in 2012, Standard Chartered’s Lyons says.
They will be buoyed “by sound fundamentals, plenty of room for
policy maneuver, and confidence about the future,” he says.  According to projections from the  International Monetary
Fund , the global economy will grow 4 percent in 2012, largely
driven by emerging-market nations. World growth will be about 4
percent in 2011 and was 5.1 percent in 2010, the IMF says.  Inflation Worry  One negative for emerging markets, Lyons says, is
inflation. Annualized 2011 inflation in October topped 7 percent
in Brazil, 9.7 percent in India and 5.5 percent in China.  The Chinese government has sought to quash price rises by
requiring banks to put aside higher capital reserves. That could
help mute economic growth. However, the main factor in holding
down Chinese growth is  Europe , No. 1 China forecaster Lu says.  “The slowdown is mostly driven by slowing export growth
because of the weakness in the European economy,” he says. Lu,
36, says China will expand by 8.6 percent in 2012 -- in line
with Lyons’s projection of 8.5 percent -- after growing 9.2
percent in 2011.  Lu received his economics training at Peking University and
at the University of California, Berkeley, where he started
working toward an economics Ph.D. in 2000.  “I was born in a farmers’ family in a small village at the
end of the Cultural Revolution, and I experienced major economic
reforms during my childhood,” says Lu, who grew up in Jiangsu
province. “The massive economic and social changes in my
hometown in the 1980s convinced me that I should study
economics.”  Romer Student  He says his hobby is fishing, though he’s often too busy to
find the time for it.  At Berkeley, one of his teachers was  Christina Romer , who
went on to become President Barack Obama’s chief economic
adviser. And whereas Romer’s specialty is the Great Depression,
Lu’s was the Asian financial crisis, which broke out when he was
pursuing a master’s degree at Peking University in 1997.  “We discussed the Asian financial crisis every day,” says
Lu, who’s in his sixth year of forecasting the Chinese economy
at Merrill Lynch. “My experience in 1998 was very important for
me to understand 2008.”  He says he was quick to see that the tumult in the U.S.
financial system would have a major impact in China.  China Sea Change  “A week after the Lehman bankruptcy, I wrote a report
forecasting that there would be a sea change in China’s
policies,” he says. He says he accurately predicted that China
would hold off on any devaluation of the renminbi.  Lu says China is ready to put in place “a big fiscal
stimulus if there is another global financial crisis on the
scale of 2008.”  China remains the economic engine of the global economy,
according to the top economists. Even the slightest slowdown
there reverberates in the West, where right now “the
fundamentals are poor,” Lyons says.  Those fundamentals are improving in the U.S., says Harris
of Stamford, Connecticut-based UBS Securities, the investment-
banking division of Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest
bank. He gained his top ranking by accurately predicting, month
by month, the U.S. economic expansion that began in June 2009.  After adjusting for inflation, GDP climbed to a $13.34
trillion annual pace in the third quarter of 2011, topping the
$13.33 trillion peak reached in the last three months of 2007.  Revised U.S. Forecast  The U.S. economy will expand 2.2 percent in 2012 and 2.5
percent the following year, according to the median estimate of
63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Nov. 4 to Nov. 9.  Harris this week revised down his forecast for U.S. growth
next year, to 2 percent from 2.3 percent, citing projected
weakness in both the euro zone and the global economy.  “We try not to be deluded by anecdotes,” Harris says.
“Clients, sales-people, traders are always telling economists,
‘In my neighborhood, you got to see what’s happening.’ And we
tell them, ‘This is why you have an economist, because we try to
systemically organize evidence.’ We’re the nerds who go to the
library to try to look up the answer.”  The Texan got interested in economics in his hometown
library, where at age 17 he picked up Robert Heilbroner’s “The
Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times and Ideas of the Great
Economic Thinkers.” He earned a bachelor’s degree in economics
from the University of  Texas , San Antonio, and then a master’s
and a Ph.D. in the discipline from Columbia University.  PaineWebber Veteran  Harris worked for two decades at PaineWebber Inc. and has
been with UBS since it bought PaineWebber in 2000.  Harris says UBS’s projections are a team effort with fellow
forecasters Sam Coffin, Kevin Cummins and Drew Matus. Until two
years ago, the weekly statistical jam sessions included Jim
O’Sullivan, who left UBS to become chief economist at MF Global
Inc.  O’Sullivan’s work there earned him the No. 2 spot among
forecasters of the U.S. economy in the Bloomberg Markets
ranking. His job switch also rendered him unemployed after MF
Global declared bankruptcy on Oct. 31 and dissolved after making
wrong-way investments in euro-zone fixed-income securities.  “It’s a bit of a mess, frankly,” O’Sullivan, 48, says of
the aftermath.  O’Sullivan says his accurate forecasts of the U.S. economy
were a matter of crunching data and then interpreting it.  “For some data, it is largely a matter of judgment,” says
the New York-born son of Irish immigrants, whose parents moved
the family back to Ireland when he was 9 years old. “For some,
we rely heavily on econometric models. Unfortunately, there are
no infallible leading indicators.”  The statement could apply equally to the U.S. economy and
to overreaching financial firms such as MF Global.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 