-- 
Railroads Avert U.S. Holiday-Season Strike on Union Accords

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-12-02T21:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/unions-avoid-rail-strike-as-congress-prepared-to-intervene-1-.html
Freight railroads won new labor
agreements with two unions, averting a strike in the holiday
shipping season, after U.S. lawmakers said they were prepared to
intervene in the dispute.  The Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen and
the American Train Dispatchers Association, representing 26,500
workers, reached tentative accords, the  National Railway Labor
Conference , a Washington-based group that bargains on behalf of
railroads, said in an e-mailed statement last night.  Winning the contract agreements ended the threat of a
walkout that could have occurred as soon as Dec. 6, the
Association of American Railroads trade group said in a
statement. Another union, the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way
Employes, extended a “cooling-off” period to Feb. 8.  “While the railroads only agreed upon an extension with
BMWE, we are hard pressed to envision a situation where BMWE
would not eventually work out a deal,” Jason Seidl, a Dahlman
Rose & Co. analyst in New York, said today in a note to clients.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroads Index (S5RAIL)  fell 0.1 percent
today. The gauge consists of the three largest publicly traded
U.S. railroads:  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ,  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk
Southern Corp. (NSC)   $2 Billion  A freight-rail work stoppage would have cost the  U.S.
economy  about $2 billion a day, the Washington-based AAR said.
The House was ready to vote on legislation to prevent a “job-
crushing railway labor strike,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said yesterday before the union accords.  The agreements call for raises of more than 20 percent over
six years, A. Kenneth Gradia, a labor conference official, said
in the group’s statement.  Ten unions have tentative deals and two have ratified
agreements. The maintenance-employees group said this week it
plans to bargain into February. It speaks for 25,100 workers who
build and maintain tracks, according to the labor conference.  Talks among 30 freight railroads, including Union Pacific
and Warren Buffett’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe, and unions
representing 132,000 workers broke down in September after
almost two years, triggering a 90-day strike ban under U.S. law.  Railroads carry 43 percent of the freight volume moved
between cities, according to the railroad association.  Congressional Action  House transportation committee Chairman  John Mica , a
Florida Republican, and Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican,
on Nov. 30 proposed adopting the recommendations of a board
President  Barack Obama  appointed in October to resolve the
dispute.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, made
a similar proposal and added one to extend the Dec. 6 bargaining
deadline until Feb. 8.  U.S. business groups urged Congress to prevent a strike if
the companies and unions didn’t resolve the dispute.  “We are not thrilled with Congress getting involved in
settling labor disputes,” Alex Herrgott, director of
transportation and infrastructure for the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , said in an interview. “But we’re more concerned about
losing $2 billion a day without intervention.”  One-third of U.S. exports and 70 percent of coal shipments
travel by rail, Herrgott said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  