-- 
Turkish Toll-Road Auction Attracts Loan Requests for at Least $3 Billion

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   L o u i s e   M e e s o n
-- 
2011-12-02T10:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/turkish-toll-road-auction-attracts-loan-requests-for-at-least-3-billion.html
Bidders for the rights to operate
Turkish toll roads and bridges have approached banks to raise at
least $3 billion of funding, according to three people with
knowledge of the requests.  Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s biggest builder, and Rome-based toll
specialist Autostrade per l’Italia SpA will bid alongside
Turkish contractors for the 25-year rights to operate eight toll
roads about 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles) long and two
crossings over the Bosporus.  The government’s sale of toll highways is part of a
privatization drive to pull in 12.5 billion liras ($6.8 billion)
selling assets including electricity grids and the national
lottery next year.  Turkey  is seeking to sell state-owned
businesses to help pay down debt, even as the global financial
crisis makes it more difficult for potential buyers to borrow.  “Privatization of highways is attractive for investors
because we are talking about a well-operating system with
predictable cash inflow over the years as the project seems
pretty bankable and doesn’t need much investment,” said Tunc Yildirim, a director at broker Standard Unlu in Istanbul.  The loans being sought from U.S., Japanese and European
banks would cover most of the price for the rights, said the
people, who didn’t want to be identified because talks are
private. The auction is expected to raise at least $3 billion
and as much as $6 billion, according to three other people
familiar with the government’s plans.  Auction  Four groups of companies are expected to take part in the
auction, the people said. The bidders must produce a bid bond of
$200 million to take part in the auction, the Ankara-based asset
sale agency said on its website. The final bidding deadline is
Feb. 16, the people said, with prequalification applications due
by Jan. 19.  Vinci, based near Paris, has joined forces with Turkish
contractor Limak Holding AS, two of the people said. The group
may get other partners, they said.  Maxence Naouri, a spokeman for Vinci, declined to comment.
Ebru Ozdemir Kislali, Limak’s deputy chairwoman, declined to
comment.  Autostrade is bidding with Turkey’s  Akfen Holding AS (AKFEN) , Dogus
Holding AS and Makyol Insaat Sanayi Turizm & Ticaret AS, Akfen
said Nov. 30.  MV Holding AS, Nurol Insaat & Ticaret AS, Fiba Holding AS
and  Alarko Holding AS (ALARK)  are in talks to form a joint venture,
Onurhan Homris, chief executive of MV Holding said in a
telephone interview.  “We may get a foreign partner in our group and are in
talks with one,” he said.  UEM Group Berhad, a Kuala Lumpur-based highway operator
owned by  Khazanah Nasional Bhd ,  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s largest
conglomerate, and Gozde Girisim Sermayesi Yatirim Ortakligi AS,
an Istanbul-based private equity firm, signed a memorandum of
understanding for a possible joint bid, the companies said on
Oct. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Meeson in London on 
 lmeeson@bloomberg.net  and Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
   eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 