-- 
Turkish-U.S. Fight Against PKK to Be Widened, President Gul Says

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-12-02T16:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/turkish-u-s-fight-against-pkk-to-be-widened-president-gul-says.html
Turkey and the Obama administration
will step up their fight against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party,
or PKK, as the U.S. completes its military withdrawal from  Iraq ,
Turkish President  Abdullah Gul  said.  The Turkish-U.S. battle against the PKK, which both
countries list as a terrorist group, will “continue in a much
more powerful manner,” Gul said in a video on his  website  after
he met with U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  in Ankara today. “His
meetings in Iraq on this matter are very decisive,” Gul said.  Biden visited U.S. troops and political leaders in Iraq,
which shares a border with southern Turkey, before arriving in
Turkey late yesterday. The PKK has its command center in
northern Iraq’s mountains. The U.S. seeks to strengthen the
three-way security collaboration with Turkey and Iraq.  “We are consulting closely with Turkey on how we can
provide additional help in the future” to end PKK attacks,
Biden told  Turkey ’s Hurriyet newspaper in written responses to
questions before his arrival. “As the majority of U.S. forces
have already withdrawn from Iraq, we do not expect that the
security environment in northern Iraq will change
dramatically.”  The U.S. has agreed to sell Turkey three Super Cobra
military helicopters to use against the PKK. The U.S. also
transferred four Predator drones from Iraq to Turkey’s airbase
in Incirlik, and the U.S. stands “strongly” with Turkey to
combat the PKK, Biden’s national security adviser, Antony Blinken, told reporters before the vice president left for Iraq.  Turkey has been carrying out airstrikes in northern Iraq
and sent special forces across the border after the PKK killed
more than 30 Turkish soldiers and policemen in October in the
deadliest attacks since the 1990s. In  Iraqi Kurdistan , the
president of the regional government, Massoud Barzani, said his
administration will pressure the PKK to end attacks in Turkey,
Turkey’s NTV news channel reported yesterday.  Biden is scheduled to meet Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  at his Istanbul home tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. local
time, a spokesman for the premier said today in a telephone
interview. Erdogan is recovering from a Nov. 26 digestive tract
operation and won’t be leaving his residence to attend
tomorrow’s Global Entrepreneurship Summit, where he was
initially scheduled as a keynote speaker along with Biden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  