-- 
Wal-Mart’s Asda Sees Delay Overtaking Tesco in U.K. Non-Food

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-12-02T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/wal-mart-s-asda-sees-delay-overtaking-tesco-in-u-k-non-food.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  Asda
supermarket chain may take longer than planned to meet a goal of
overtaking  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  as the U.K.’s largest non-food goods
seller, according to the head of its George clothing brand.  Asda’s objective of surpassing its rival by 2015 may be
hindered by a slowing economy, with a volatile consumer climate
and increased sourcing costs becoming the “new normal,” George
Managing Director Andrew Moore said in an interview.  “We are still motivated by the challenge of significantly
growing our non-food business, but we might have to take a leaf
from  George Osborne  about the timescale on it,” Moore said at
his offices in Lutterworth,  England . He referred to comments
this week by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the U.K. faces
an additional two years of austerity cuts as the euro-region
debt crisis has a “chilling effect” on the economy.  Stagnant sales and rising costs of materials such as cotton
have caused retailers to curb expansion. Billionaire retailer
 Philip Green  announced last week that he planned to close about
250 stores in the next few years. Asda, the U.K.’s third-largest
clothes seller, said last year that it planned to add 150 Asda
Living stores to achieve its goal of non-food leadership.  “The difficulty about making categorical statements like
that is you also have to make some reference to what everyone
else does and what happens to the market,” Moore said of the
Leeds, England-based retailer’s plans. “So yeah it could
happen, but it depends what happens in the market and what level
of investment our competitors want to put into it.”  Mild Weather  Asda continues to add Living stores and its “aspirations”
for opening the outlets are unchanged, a spokeswoman for the
retailer said by e-mail, without giving a timescale.  Asda and Tesco have a higher proportion of non-food sales
than competitors such as  J Sainsbury Plc, (SBRY)  making them vulnerable
to a reduction in discretionary spending. Tesco’s non-food
revenue slumped 4.8 percent in the first half as shoppers made
fewer visits to its large-format stores.  “Against a backdrop of a general merchandise market that’s
seen a slowdown in recent times, a slowdown in Asda’s plans
seems sensible,” said Nick Coulter, a food retail analyst at
Nomura in London. Coulter estimates that non-food products
represent about 15 percent of Tesco’s sales. Asda gets about 20
percent of revenue from non-food, of which George represents
about half, according to the spokeswoman.  The outlook for U.K. clothing retailers is “challenging,”
Moore said. Unseasonably mild weather in October and November
hurt sales of winter apparel, while the Chancellor’s statement
“didn’t exactly fuel people with enthusiasm,” he said.  Faster Fashions  A drop in  retail sales  in October suggested a “worrying”
weakness in demand from shoppers, the  British Retail Consortium 
said Nov. 8.  U.K. consumer confidence  stayed close to its lowest
in more than 2 1/2 years in November, GfK NOP Ltd. said Nov. 30.  Cost inflation, which caused Asda to raise clothes prices
by 5 percent to 8 percent in the fall, will subside in 2012 as
the price of cotton eases, Moore said. Average selling prices
will be “around flat” he said, though the cost of man-made
fibers and of manufacturing in China continue to rise, he said.  Asda added its first U.K. supplier this year and has
increased its sourcing from countries closer to its domestic
market, such as Turkey and  Egypt , to ensure faster delivery of
products and to combat rising costs in  China .  About a quarter of the retailer’s women’s wear is obtained
from countries in the  Europe  ‘Zone 1’ region, such as Lithuania,
compared with about 15 percent two years ago, according to Helen
Connolly, the divisional head of buying. That means products
such as an 8-pound ($12.57) Oriental printed woven-fabric top
takes about six-to-eight weeks to move from the design phase to
stores, compared with as many as 18 weeks from China.  Gift Buying  Rising prices have led Britons to purchase fewer expensive
items such as winter coats, while essential products such as
socks and underwear have gained, Moore said.  The executive said he expects a “definite shift” in
Christmas buying this year toward practical gifts such as
scarves and hats and away from “gimmicky” items such as mugs.
Asda typically makes about 10 percent of annual sales in the
holiday season. Innovations such as the 6-pound AbracadaBRA, a
bra that adds two sizes, are also likely to be popular, he said.  Moore became head of the George brand in March last year,
replacing Anthony Thompson, who resigned to join Fat Face, the
sports clothing chain. He joined Asda from  South Africa ’s
Woolworths Holdings Ltd. in 2008, and worked for 25 years at
Marks & Spencer Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer.  Plans to open George franchise outlets in the  Middle East 
in the first half of 2012 are on schedule, the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  