-- 
Western Digital Gains as Disk-Drive Maker Raises Quarterly Revenue Outlook

-- B y   X u   W a n g   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-12-02T21:33:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/western-digital-gains-after-raising-quarterly-revenue-forecast.html
Western Digital Corp (WDC)  climbed the most
in more than four months after the California-based maker of
disk drives and networking products raised its quarterly revenue
forecast, citing its recovery from flooding in Thailand.  Western Digital  climbed 7.5 percent to $31.44 at the close
in New York, the biggest gain since July 22. The stock, which is
down 7.3 percent this year, was the top performer in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Revenue will be at least $1.8 billion in the December
quarter, the Irvine-based company said in a statement yesterday.
In October after flooding in Thailand had devastated factories
and constrained supplies, Western Digital predicted sales of
$1.05 billion to $1.25 billion. The company resumed hard-drive
production in  Thailand  this week, “well in advance of our
earliest expectations when the floods hit,” Chief Executive
Officer John Coyne said in the statement.  “The recovery seems to be ahead of schedule,”  Mark Miller , an analyst with Boca Raton, Florida-based Noble
Financial Group, said in a telephone interview today. “And a
good part of the stronger sales is also from the higher
prices.” He has a “hold” rating on the shares.  Western Digital joins rival  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  in
signaling this week that the industry is recovering from the
disaster. The floodwaters engulfed much of the industrial
heartland north of Bangkok, sidelining production of disk drives
and components. Western Digital was hit worse than Seagate,
whose factories weren’t directly affected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Xu Wang in  New York  at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  