-- 
Western Digital Increases Sales Forecast as It Recovers From Thai Flooding

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-12-02T03:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/western-digital-increases-sales-forecast-as-it-recovers-from-thai-flooding.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , a maker of
disk drives and networking products, raised its quarterly
revenue forecast after rebounding from a flood in  Thailand  that
devastated factories and constrained supplies.  Revenue will be at least $1.8 billion in the December
quarter, the company said in a statement. In October, after
early assessments of the damage, Western Digital had predicted
sales of $1.05 billion to $1.25 billion. The company resumed
hard-drive production in Thailand this week, ahead of schedule.  “The passion, perseverance, ingenuity and execution
exhibited by the WD team has been extraordinary and enabled us
to make substantial progress in partially restoring our
operations in Thailand, well in advance of our earliest
expectations when the floods hit,” Chief Executive Officer John Coyne said in the statement. “Much work remains to be done, but
we couldn’t be more pleased.”  Western Digital joins rival  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  in
signaling this week that the industry is recovering from the
disaster. The floodwaters engulfed much of the industrial
heartland north of Bangkok, sidelining production of disk drives
and components. Irvine, California-based Western Digital was hit
worse than Seagate, whose factories weren’t directly affected.  Western Digital expects its gross margin to be higher than
23 percent this quarter, with operating expenses of about $265
million -- not counting one-time expenses related to the floods,
acquisitions and litigation.  Flood Expenses  The floods will cost it $225 million to $275 million in the
period, beyond whatever it recovers from insurance.  Western Digital rose 0.6 percent to $29.25 at the close
yesterday in  New York . The shares have declined 14 percent this
year before today.  The company, which counts Hewlett-Packard Co.,  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
and Acer Inc. among its customers, relies on its plants in
Thailand for 60 percent of production, according to Wannarat Charnnukul, Thailand’s industry minister.  Western Digital expects to start manufacturing parts known
as head sliders in the March quarter, both in Thailand and
 Malaysia . The company also said the acquisition of Hitachi
Global Storage Technologies will be completed during that
period, after it satisfies requirements imposed by the European
Commission.  Seagate, based in Cupertino,  California , saw its shares
climb this week after forecasting higher sales than analysts had
estimated. The company said it withstood flooding in Thailand
better than much of the industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  