-- 
Western-Funded Russian Vote Watchdog Complains of Pressure

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-02T17:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/western-funded-russian-election-watchdog-expects-official-ban.html
A Russian vote-monitoring group said
authorities are hindering its observation of parliamentary
elections this weekend as a Moscow court imposed a fine in a
case brought by prosecutors.  “The most important aim is to prevent us from monitoring
the vote, so we can’t get a full picture allowing us to issue
our findings as we do for every election,” Olga Novosad, a
spokeswoman for  Golos , or Voice, said by phone today.  Moscow prosecutors  yesterday issued a warning against Golos
after “uncovering violations of the electoral law” and filed
an administrative case against the group. The tribunal  fined
Golos 30,000 rubles ($970), Novosad said.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party may get
about 53 percent in Dec. 4 elections to the State Duma, from 64
percent in 2007, according to reports released Nov. 25 by the
state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion , or
VTsIOM, and the independent Levada center. That would be the
first time it fared worse at nationwide polls compared with a
previous ballot since its creation by then-President Putin 10
years ago.  Foreign powers are seeking to intervene in the election by
financing civil-society groups, Putin said at a United  Russia 
party congress in Moscow on Nov. 27, when he accepted the
party’s nomination to run for a third term as president in
March. He didn’t specify which countries he referred to.  ‘Judas’  “Judas isn’t the most respected biblical character among
our people,” Putin said. Foreign governments should “direct
that money toward paying down their own state debt and end this
ineffective and costly foreign policy.”  Golos has received 520,000 euros ($701,532) in European
Union funding since 2006, according to the European Commission’s
Moscow representative office. Golos has also received U.S.
grants, Novosad said. The U.S. Embassy in Moscow declined to
comment.  The group plans to deploy 3,000 observers in 40 of 83
Russian regions in the election. Authorities in various parts of
Russia have been pressuring Golos volunteers to stop their
activities and the Ministry of Justice conducted a search of its
office in Novosibirsk in Siberia, it said today.  ‘Non-Political Program’  “It’s a misperception that sometimes pops up in Russian
debate that the EU would support organizations like Golos in an
attempt to favor a certain political agenda,” Soren Liborius, a
spokesman in Moscow for the European Commission, the 27-nation
trading group’s executive arm, said in a telephone today. “The
EU support to Golos is part of a general, non-political
program.”  Europe ’s main election watchdog, the  Organization for
Cooperation and Security in Europe , is also deploying observers
for the elections. International observers condemned the
previous polls in 2007 won by Putin’s party as undemocratic.  About 5,000 electoral violations have been recorded so far,
according to a  website  set up by Golos. A banner link to Golos’s
map of violations was this week removed from news website
Gazeta.ru, owned by billionaire Alisher Usmanov. The
publication’s deputy editor resigned in protest.  Freedom House, a Washington-based democracy watchdog,
called on the Russian government to end its “legal and media
assault” on Golos, which it said has been the subject of
several critical articles in state-controlled media.  ‘Serious Questions’  “There can be little doubt that these attacks on Golos are
being conducted on behalf of the Russian leadership and its
party of power,  United Russia ,” David J. Kramer, president of
Freedom House, said in an e-mailed statement. “The campaign
against Golos is yet another reason to raise serious questions
about the legitimacy, openness and competitiveness of Russia’s
parliamentary election.”  The three main Russian opposition parties, the Communists,
the  Liberal Democratic Party  and Just Russia, said this week
their candidates and activists have been beaten and arrested,
while authorities have seized campaign materials and distributed
false literature. Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , and the
premier’s United Russia party denied the accusations. The
Central Electoral Commission didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Putin, 59, first came to power in 2000 and may rule for two
more six-year terms, making him the longest-serving leader since
 Josef Stalin . President  Dmitry Medvedev , who took over in 2008
because Putin was constitutionally barred from serving three
consecutive terms, agreed in September to swap jobs with Putin
next May, taking the premier’s post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  