-- 
Yemen Clashes Leave Eight Dead as Conflict Threatens Gulf-Backed Agreement

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-12-02T14:37:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/yemen-clashes-leave-eight-dead-as-conflict-threatens-gulf-backed-agreement.html
Fighting in the southern Yemeni city
of Taiz left eight people dead, including three soldiers, as the
conflict threatens to undermine a Gulf-backed peace agreement.  Five people were killed today in shelling carried out by
the Republican Guard, led by outgoing President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s son, Taha al-Sharabi, a doctor at the al-Rawdha hospital
in the city, said in a phone interview. That raises the death
toll from artillery fire since yesterday to 16, he said. The
 Defense Ministry ’s website said three soldiers were killed in
clashes with anti-government gunmen in Taiz today.  Tens of thousands protested in Freedom Square in Taiz to
demand Saleh’s ouster and trial, according to Hisham al-Jaradi,
an activist. The shelling of Taiz also triggered rallies across
the country today, drawing hundreds of thousands of
demonstrators who urged the  United Nations Security Council  to
send observers to the southern city.  Saleh agreed to cede power under a Nov. 23 accord brokered
by the Gulf Cooperation Council and backed by the U.S. that
would see Vice President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi taking over as
interim leader. Elections would follow by Feb. 21 in which
Saleh’s party and the opposition would both support Hadi.
Opposition candidate Mohamed Salem Basindwah was chosen to lead
the national unity government, and pledged on Nov. 29 to tackle
issues including fuel shortages.  Basindwah said in an e-mailed statement that the shelling
of Taiz was an “intentional act to foil the agreement,” and
warned that the opposition may reconsider the power transition
accord if Hadi doesn’t take action to stop the attack.  Al-Jaradi said that shells hit the protesters’ camp in Taiz
today while they were preparing to bury six earlier victims.
Tuhib al-Dubaee, who preached the Friday sermon in central Taiz,
said that the “peaceful revolt” against Saleh will continue.  Saleh, in power for more than three decades, would be the
fourth leader to succumb to the popular unrest of the so-called
Arab Spring, following those toppled in Tunisia, Egypt and
 Libya . His crackdown on anti-government protesters that began in
January has left almost 900 people dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 