-- 
YTL May Sell Singapore’s Orchard Boulevard Apartment Project in First Half

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-12-02T07:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/ytl-may-sell-singapore-s-orchard-boulevard-apartment-project-in-first-half.html
YTL Corp. (YTL)  may begin selling its
luxury home project in downtown Singapore in the first half of
2012, more than four years after buying the site, as the
Malaysian developer expands its holdings in Asia.  The project, converted from an old apartment building on
Orchard Boulevard that the company purchased in 2007, will have
78 units targeting wealthy Asian buyers from countries including
 China , Indonesia and Malaysia, according to Kemmy Tan, the head
of YTL’s real estate unit in the city-state.  YTL Managing Director Francis Yeoh has been expanding
outside of Malaysia into the real estate markets in countries
including  Japan , China and neighboring Singapore to take
advantage of Asia’s growing affluent property investors. The
group also has businesses in utilities and cement.  “Wealthy Asian property buyers have now gained more
exposure to more sophisticated life-style and design,” said Tan,
adding that she estimates buyers will probably be willing to pay
a 20 percent premium compared to regular prices for the design
by a renowned architect.  The project will be designed by Antonio Citterio, an
Italian architect whose work includes the Bulgari Hotel in Milan
and Bali and the Ermenegildo Zegna Group’s new Milan
headquarters, marking his first residential project in  Asia .  Record Purchase  YTL bought the original Westwood Apartments building for
S$435 million ($339 million) in 2007, a record at the time for
the purchase of an existing apartment through a so-called en-
bloc sale. It had since leased out the units.  Tan declined to say how much YTL will sell the units for,
which will have areas of between 1,000 and 3,500 square feet,
adding that the average prices of luxury apartments in the area
range between S$3,800 and S$5,000 a square foot. St. Regis
Residences, a five-minute walk away, was last purchased at
S$2,776 a square foot in September, while the Marq on Paterson
Hill and Orchard Residences, about 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) away,
sold homes at more than S$4,000,  government data  showed.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company is the biggest shareholder
of  Starhill Global REIT (SGREIT) , a Singapore-based property trust that
owns stakes in the city’s retail malls such as Ngee Ann City and
properties in  Tokyo ’s Roppongi and Daikanyama shopping districts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  