-- 
Zynga Eyes $1B in Biggest Web IPO Since Google

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-12-02T20:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/zynga-seeking-1-billion-in-biggest-internet-initial-offering-since-google.html
Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of
games on Facebook, is seeking as much as $1 billion in the
biggest initial public offering by a U.S. Internet company since
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s debut.  The company is offering 100 million shares for $8.50 to $10
apiece, according to a regulatory  filing  today. The high end of
the range would value San Francisco-based Zynga at $7 billion.  The IPO values Zynga at as much as 6.8 times sales in the
year through Sept. 30, or more than triple  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS) ’s price relative to sales in the same period, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Zynga is working to keep its lead over the
 Redwood City , California-based company, which bolstered its own
online services by purchasing PopCap Games this year.  “In a lot of ways, they’ve found the secret sauce to
optimize their games for social networks,” Anupam Palit, senior
equity analyst at New York-based GreenCrest Capital Management
LLC, said of Zynga. “A risk is that there’s no competitive moat
-- if someone else finds a nice formula that works, they’ll use
it. The EA-PopCap combination poses a very significant business
risk.”  Electronic Arts had a market value of $7.73 billion,
or 2 times trailing 12-month sales, as of yesterday’s close,
Bloomberg data show.  Scaling Back  Zynga had originally planned a larger IPO, scaling back
after Internet companies including  Groupon Inc.  and  Pandora
Media Inc . sank following their debuts this year, a person
familiar with the plans said yesterday. Zynga is selling about
14 percent of its common stock, a larger portion than some Web
companies have sold this year in offerings.  The  price range  puts Zynga’s market value at least 29
percent lower than the level implied by a February investment by
mutual funds affiliated with  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to
today’s filing. The funds bought 5.3 million preferred shares
for $75 million, or $14 a share, today’s filing shows. When the
IPO is completed, each of those preferred shares will convert to
one common share, according to the filing.  Those funds may still recoup the paper loss before the IPO,
if Zynga raises its asking price in response to strong investor
demand. The sale is scheduled for Dec. 15, according to
Bloomberg data.  Facebook IPO?  Facebook may raise about $10 billion in an IPO next year
that would value the world’s largest social-networking site at
more than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter
said this week. Google, operator of the world’s biggest search
engine, raised $1.9 billion in its 2004 IPO, including an over-
allotment option.  Zynga is selling all of the 100 million shares in the
offering and expects net proceeds of about $889 million,
according to the filing. That would add to a cash pile that
totaled $604 million as of Sept. 30.  If underwriters exercise an option to buy 15 million
additional shares in the over-allotment, then venture backer
Avalon Ventures would sell the largest portion of Zynga at more
than 2.5 million.  If the over-allotment is exercised, Foundry Group and
Institutional Venture Partners would each sell about 2.5 million
shares, while Union Square Ventures would offer 2.2 million.
Venture firm  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , Zynga’s biggest
shareholder after Pincus, isn’t selling shares in the IPO.  Trimming Stakes  Google and buyout firm  Silver Lake  would trim their stakes
by about 1.7 million shares each. Mail.ru Group Ltd. and Digital
Sky Technologies, both managed by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, would sell more than 1 million shares combined.
Investment firm Tiger Global Management would offer about
554,000 shares.  Founder and Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus , who isn’t
selling any shares in the offering, will have about 37 percent
voting control once the offering is complete. His salary was
$300,000 in 2010, according to Zynga’s filing.  Pincus owns about 112 million shares of common stock, which
the IPO would value at as much as $1.12 billion. The $10 top of
the IPO range is more than 5 times the average price of $1.76 at
which existing investors bought their Zynga stock, according to
the filing.  Popular Games  Zynga aims to capitalize on the popularity of social
networks and virtual goods. The company lets users play games
for free and then makes money by selling items, such as a
townhouse in “CityVille” or a shipyard in “Empires &
Allies.”  Founded in 2007, Zynga has hired Morgan Stanley and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to manage the IPO. Zynga’s shares will trade on
the  Nasdaq  Stock Market under the symbol ZNGA.  About 6.7 million of Zynga users were paying customers in
the first nine months of the year, up from 5.1 million in the
year-earlier period, according to the filing. Revenue more than
doubled to $828.9 million. The worldwide virtual-goods market
will more than double to $22.5 billion in 2015 from $9.27
billion last year, according to  Lazard Capital Markets .  In October, Zynga announced a new service, called Project
Z, geared toward reducing its dependence on Facebook users. The
company also introduced new games, including “Zynga Bingo” and
“Hidden Chronicles.”  Ninety-three percent of Zynga’s third-quarter revenue was
generated on Facebook, the world’s most popular social network.
That number has ranged from 91 percent to 94 percent since the
beginning of last year, according to Zynga filings.  More Mobile Games  Adding more mobile games is part of Zynga’s plan to
diversify. The company said in November that the number of daily
active users on mobile devices increased more than 10-fold from
November 2010 to September 2011, reaching 9.9 million. By
October, the number was 11.1 million.  Sunil Paul, a founding partner of venture capital firm
Spring Ventures, recently joined Zynga’s board. Paul, who
started software companies Brightmail Inc. and FreeLoader, was
brought on because of “his extensive experience with Internet
companies,” Zynga said on Nov. 17.  Groupon went public earlier this month, helping revive the
IPO market after the European debt crisis and stock-market
 volatility (VIX)  hampered deals. The shares of the Chicago-based
company, which leads the Internet-coupon industry, have dropped
5.3 percent through yesterday.  Angie’s List, a site that rates plumbers, contractors and
other service providers, has seen  its shares  decline 3.5 percent
since their debut on the Nasdaq on Nov. 17.  Groupon Effect  Zynga’s choice to seek a lower valuation “is a reflection
of what we’ve seen in Groupon,” said  David Dillon , a San
Francisco-based portfolio manager at HighMark Capital
Management, which oversees about $17 billion. “If you price
yourself too high, you do yourself a disservice in the long
term.”  Declines in shares of newly listed Internet companies this
year have come as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged as
much as 19 percent from a peak and volatility spiked to a two-
year high.  LinkedIn Corp. , which more than doubled in the weeks
following its May IPO, now trades about 50 percent above its
offer price.  Yelp Inc., which features user reviews of restaurants and
businesses, also is planning an IPO. The San Francisco-based
company filed on Nov. 17 to raise as much as $100 million in a
2012 offering. The $100 million amount is typically used as a
placeholder to calculate fees and may change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  