-- 
Zynga Plans to Sell Shares for $8.50-$10

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-12-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-02/zynga-is-said-to-sell-higher-portion-of-stock-in-ipo-than-internet-peers.html
Zynga Inc. will sell about 15 percent
of its common stock in an initial public offering, said a person
with knowledge of the matter, breaking with a practice among
Internet companies this year of using a lower free float to
boost demand.  Zynga, the biggest maker of games on Facebook Inc.’s site,
plans to sell shares for $8.50 to $10 apiece in its IPO to raise
as much as $1 billion, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. That would  value  Zynga
at as high as $7 billion, less than it previously had targeted,
the person said.  The game developer decided against a low float for its
stock after companies such as  Groupon Inc.  and  Pandora Media
Inc.  tumbled following their IPOs, the person said. While
selling fewer than 10 percent of their shares helped those
companies boost early demand for their offerings, the stocks
have more recently dropped below their initial prices.  “It’s a reflection of what we’ve seen in Groupon,” said
 David Dillon , a San Francisco-based portfolio manager at
 HighMark Capital Management , which oversees about $17 billion.
“If you price yourself too high, you do yourself a disservice
in the long term.”  Filing Today?  Zynga, whose shares will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol ZNGA, plans to disclose IPO terms today, the
person said. Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
managing the IPO.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment.  Led by Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus , Zynga is
seeking to capitalize on the popularity of social networks and
virtual goods. The company lets users play games for free and
then makes money by selling items -- say, a townhouse in
“CityVille” or a shipyard in “Empires & Allies.”  A $7 billion market value would price Zynga at 6.8 times
trailing 12-month sales of $1.02 billion, according to financial
results disclosed in the company’s IPO filing.  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS) , the game maker that bought Zynga rival PopCap Games in
August, was valued at $7.73 billion at yesterday’s close. That’s
about two times sales over the past 12 months, Bloomberg data
show.  Zynga’s targeted valuation is less than half the $14.05
billion that the company said in a September regulatory filing
represented its fair value in August.  Paying Customers  Zynga updated its IPO filing on Nov. 4 to show that 6.7
million of its users were paying customers in the first nine
months of the year, up from 5.1 million in the year-earlier
period.  Revenue  more than doubled to $828.9 million.  The worldwide virtual-goods market will more than double to
$22.5 billion in 2015 from $9.27 billion last year, according to
 Lazard Capital Markets .  To help it add more customers hungry for virtual items,
Zynga is stepping up spending on research and marketing -- which
in turn is crimping profit. The company posted $30.7 million in
net income in the nine months that ended in September, down from
$47.6 million a year earlier.  In October, Zynga announced a new service, called Project
Z, geared toward reducing its dependence on Facebook users. The
company also introduced new games, including “Zynga Bingo,”
“CastleVille” and “Hidden Chronicles.”  Ninety-three percent of Zynga’s third-quarter  revenue  was
generated on Facebook, the world’s most popular social network.
That number has ranged between 91 percent and 94 percent since
the beginning of last year, according to Zynga filings.  Mobile Games  Adding more mobile games is part of Zynga’s plan to
diversify. The company said in November that the number of daily
active users on mobile devices increased more than 10-fold from
November 2010 to September 2011, reaching 9.9 million. By
October, the number was 11.1 million.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service, is
also making preparations for an IPO. The company is considering
raising about $10 billion in a deal that would value it at more
than $100 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  