-- ‘Inside Job’ Problem Begs More Than Disclosure: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-18T16:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/-inside-job-problem-begs-more-than-disclosure-view-correct-.html
Economics, at its best, has a noble
goal: Figure out what makes people better off and how we can
have more of it. Its practitioners in academia need to do a more
effective job of defending that ideal against private interests.  Academic economists have recently become the unaccustomed
subjects of intense scrutiny. The 2010 documentary “ Inside
Job ” drew public attention to the board seats, consulting gigs
and sponsored research that tie many of them to Wall Street.
They often failed to disclose such conflicts of interest in
their research papers and public comments on topics such as
financial reform -- omissions that could influence decisions
affecting the lives and livelihoods of millions of people.  At its annual meeting earlier this month, the  American
Economic Association  took a step toward solving the disclosure
problem. It adopted guidelines requiring economists, when making
public comments or publishing papers in AEA journals, such as
the American Economic Review, to detail any funding they have
received from interested parties.  Universities and other research institutions should follow
suit, and some already are. As employers, they have more power
to turn guidelines into rules. And by adopting common standards,
they can help academics avoid confusion over what needs to be
reported.  Disclosure Not Enough  Disclosure, though, won’t eliminate the actual conflicts.
Even the best-intentioned economists -- and particularly those
in the area of finance -- face a litany of influences pushing
them toward a rosier view of the industries they study. In a
yet-to-be-published paper,  Luigi Zingales , a finance professor
at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, likens
the pressure to regulatory capture. A pro-business attitude, he
notes, can increase an economist’s chances of landing lucrative
consulting, expert-witness and research contracts, and can
facilitate publication in academic journals whose editors are
themselves captured. (Zingales is a contributor to Bloomberg
View’s Business Class  blog  and has accepted money for speeches
to Dimensional Fund Advisors, an  investment company , and Banca
Intermobiliare, an Italian private bank, among others.)  As a small test, Zingales looked at the 150 most-downloaded
papers that had been done on executive pay -- a subject he
reasoned could legitimately be argued either way. He found that
papers supporting high pay for top executives were 55 percent
more likely to be published in prestigious economic journals,
suggesting that the editors, also academic economists, have a
bias.  Economists’ ties to industry have been particularly
noticeable amid the debate over how to fix global finance.
Consider the  Squam Lake Group , a panel of influential economists
formed in 2008 to propose reforms of everything from  credit
derivatives  and money-market mutual funds to bank-capital
requirements. Thanks to the disclosures on their websites, we
know that 13 of the 15 members have received money from the
financial industry or its lobbyists, for activities ranging from
speaking engagements to directorships.  For example, in 2010, as regulators were working out how to
shore up the banking system, two members of the group -- Anil Kashyap of the Booth School of Business and Harvard economist
 Jeremy Stein  -- co-wrote a  paper  on the potential economic costs
of bank capital. The sponsor of their research: the Clearing
House Association, a trade group that represents JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Bank of America Corp. and other major financial
institutions. Theirs is just one of many examples in which
widely respected economists have done research funded by
interested parties.  Fully Disclosed  Some conflicts might not be as bad as they look. Kashyap
and Stein fully disclosed their source of funding, and their
paper actually supported higher  capital requirements . Kashyap
said he saw the offer as an opportunity to make some extra money
while exposing a new audience to research he was already doing
(Stein wouldn’t comment because he awaits review of his
nomination to the  Federal Reserve ). But here’s the problem:
Nobody, not even the authors, can be 100 percent sure what they
would have said if they hadn’t accepted money from the industry.
Later papers by others, for example, sought to quantify the
benefits -- not just the costs -- of higher capital.  Appearances matter. They can undermine the authority, and
hence the impact, of otherwise excellent work -- a reality that
other professions have recognized. Journalists at places such as
the  Wall Street  Journal and Bloomberg News must eschew financial
ties to the industries they cover to avoid the perception of
impropriety. They sign codes of conduct to confirm the absence
of conflicts.  Social norms in academia probably haven’t progressed to the
point where a code of conduct would stick. Also, a blanket ban
on income from industry would almost certainly be too extreme.
Consulting gigs, for example, can give academics a more
practical and nuanced understanding of their subjects.  Hence, the immediate task is to get economists to recognize
that, like all mortals, they may be reluctant to bite the hand
that feeds them. We at Bloomberg View will seek to highlight
problematic conflicts, and we encourage others to do the same.
Zingales, for example, envisions a university center that would
name and shame academics who do suspect research for money. That
sounds like an excellent idea.  True, if such efforts succeed in preventing economists from
accepting some industry money, that could make a career in
academia less lucrative. But the loss would be more than made up
for in improved credibility.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 