-- More Than Half of U.S. States Making Progress on Health Care Requirements
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-18T20:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/28-states-show-progress-on-health-law-marketplaces-u-s-report-says.html
More than half of U.S. states have
taken steps to create marketplaces for selling health coverage
to the uninsured required under the 2010 health-care law, the
U.S. said today.  Fourteen states and the  District of Columbia  have enacted
legislation or executive orders creating so-called insurance
exchanges that will offer websites and telephone services where
people without coverage can shop for subsidized policies
starting in 2014. Another 14 have indicated they plan to follow
suit, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said in a
report today.  “States are taking strong steps to implement health
reform,” White House Deputy Chief of Staff Nancy-Ann DeParle
said in a statement. “We will ensure Americans in every state
have access to an exchange and the same kinds of insurance
choices as members of Congress.”  The report pointed to Republican governors including
Alabama’s Robert Bentley and Idaho’s Butch Otter who have
started building exchanges while their states pursue a
constitutional challenge to overturn the law at the U.S. Supreme
Court. Other Republican governors cited were Michigan’s  Rick Snyder  and Nevada’s Brian Sandoval.  “Establishing an exchange does nothing to change the fact
that Obamacare is an overwhelmingly bad deal for both states and
taxpayers, nor does it indicate support,” said Mike Schrimpf, a
spokesman for the  Republican Governors Association  in
Washington. The White House, he said, “is desperate to show
progress and is selectively searching for any evidence that
states are taking action.”  About 24 million Americans are projected to buy insurance
through the exchanges through 2019, according to the
Congressional Budget Office. The federal government will open
exchanges in states that don’t show progress building their own
by the end of the year, such as by passing enacting legislation.  Eight states have either taken no action toward opening an
exchange or have said they won’t, according to the  Menlo Park ,
California-based  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit that
tracks implementation of the health law. They are: Alaska,
 Texas , South Dakota, Ohio,  New Hampshire ,  Florida , Louisiana and
Arkansas.  Massachusetts opened the nation’s first insurance exchange,
called the Connector, in 2006. Connector health plans covered
about 172,000 people in the state, the agency  said  in December.
 Utah  followed in 2009, though its exchange is aimed at small
businesses and provides insurance for less than  6,000 people .  California was the first state to authorize an exchange
after the national health law passed in March 2010.  The government has awarded about $730 million in grants to
states to help build exchanges. Every state but Alaska has
accepted at least an initial planning grant of about $1 million.
 Rhode Island  has received the most money, $65 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  