-- Accel Facebook Bet Poised to Become Biggest Venture Profit: Tech
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/accel-s-facebook-bet-poised-to-become-biggest-ever-venture-profit-tech.html
A few months after struggling to
raise a new fund in 2005,  Accel Partners  bet $12.2 million on a
website run by a college dropout. Seven years later, that wager
is poised to be the most profitable ever for a venture firm.  Accel, whose partners include Jim Breyer and Kevin Efrusy,
is the top outside investor in  Facebook  Inc., owning about 10
percent. Assuming Facebook is valued at $100 billion, Accel’s
stake on paper is worth about $10 billion.  When Accel made its Facebook investment, the site had just
2.8 million users -- all on college campuses -- and was run by a
21-year-old  Mark Zuckerberg . Now it has 800 million members
worldwide and an estimated $4.27 billion in 2011 sales,
according to EMarketer Inc. That explosive growth is poised to
deliver an 800-fold return on Accel’s money, catapulting the
firm to the forefront of the venture industry.  “This is what makes venture capital and Silicon Valley
unique in the world,” said Steve Blank, who helped found eight
companies and now teaches  entrepreneurship  at the  University of
California  at Berkeley and  Stanford University . “It’s what VCs
do incredibly well. Accel, in this one, deserves all of it.”  Accel’s prospective payday shows the hits-driven nature of
the venture business, where one investment can make an entire
fund profitable and establish a firm as the market leader.
 Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers  had that distinction from early
bets on e-commerce and Web search companies, before missing out
on most of the social-media leaders. It later bought shares of
Facebook and Twitter Inc. at less favorable prices.  IPO Plans  Facebook plans to raise $10 billion in the IPO, with a
filing coming soon, a person with knowledge of the matter said
in November. The offering would value the Menlo Park,
California-based company at more than $100 billion, according to
the person.  Accel, located a 10-minute drive away from Facebook in  Palo
Alto , isn’t the lone winner among investors. Russia’s Digital
Sky Technologies and PayPal Inc. co-founder Peter Thiel are due
for a payback too.  Greylock Partners  and Meritech Capital
Partners also are investors, as well as Elevation Partners,  co-
founded  by U2’s Bono.  Founded in 1983 by Arthur Patterson and Jim Swartz, Accel
was an unlikely investor in Facebook. The firm focused on
hardware companies such as UUNet Technologies Inc. and Redback
Networks Inc. rather than Internet companies during the dot-com
boom of the late 1990s. Google Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Yahoo!
Inc. and Netscape Communications Corp. went on to produce
billions of dollars for other venture backers.  Early Investment  Accel began raising money for a more Web-focused fund in
the mid-2000s, though that effort faced challenges.  Harvard
University  and other prospective investors backed out of the
fund, forcing Accel to cut the size of it to $440 million --
smaller than any investment pool it had raised since 1998.  In May 2005, less than six months after completing the
fundraising, Accel made one of the first investments: a startup
that was then called Thefacebook. Zuckerberg had begun the
company during the previous year in his Harvard dorm room.  Breyer and Efrusy oversaw Accel’s $12.2 million investment,
which assumed a $100 million valuation, and Breyer gained a seat
on the Facebook board.  “It was a big leap of faith at the time,” Efrusy said in
an interview in March. “Any one of these investments you do, in
hindsight they may look obvious, but at the time they look
scary.”  Accel declined to comment for this story, as did Jonathan 
Thaw, a spokesman for Facebook.  Fund’s Payback  Investors in Accel’s fund have already seen some of the
rewards. By selling 17 percent of its original Facebook stake
last year at a $34 billion valuation, Accel paid back investors
in the 2005 fund, while holding onto the bulk of its stake for
future gains.  Accel’s potential payday would generate more than twice the
combined gains of Sequoia Capital and  Kleiner Perkins  in
 Google’s (GOOG)  2004 IPO, the biggest venture-backed offering until
now, according to the National Venture Capital Association.  Still, Accel’s fortunes will depend on what happens to
Facebook’s stock after its IPO. While the venture firm may sell
some shares in the offering, it will probably be required to
hold the rest for six months, the so-called lock-up period.  Google shares  more than doubled in the first six months
after the  Mountain View , California-based company’s IPO,
boosting the value of Sequoia’s and Kleiner Perkins’s holdings.
In the 1990s, Web companies such as Yahoo and Amazon also gained
most of their value after their IPOs.  New Model  At $100 billion, Facebook would already be the eighth-
biggest U.S. technology company by  market value . It would be
half the size of Google, even with only 15 percent of the
revenue. Facebook stayed private longer than its Internet
predecessors, meaning the bulk of investors’ gains may have
already been realized, said venture capitalist Maha Ibrahim.  “Facebook has changed the model a little bit,” said
Ibrahim, a partner at Canaan Partners in  Menlo Park . “Before,
it was very rare for a company of their size to still be
private.”  As the social-networking market in the U.S. matures,
Accel’s partners are scouring the globe for new deals. Breyer is
handling investments in  China , while Efrusy and Andrew Braccia
mine startups in  Brazil . Other partners are focusing on  Europe ,
 India  and  Australia .  Groupon Deal  Accel’s recent success isn’t limited to Facebook. The firm
was among the biggest  venture winners  last year, thanks to its
stake in daily-deal site  Groupon Inc (GRPN) . In last year’s U.S. IPO
market, Accel ranked behind New Enterprise Associates, another
Groupon investor, and Sequoia, the biggest venture backer of
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)   Most of Accel’s companies and venture investments in
general produce less dramatic results. Coremetrics, a software
company backed by Accel, was acquired in 2010 for an undisclosed
price, and semiconductor maker Artimi Inc. merged with a
competitor in 2008.  Even if Facebook generates a record return for the venture
industry, it’s unlikely to spur other startups to file for IPOs
soon, said  Mark Heesen , president of the National  Venture
Capital  Association in Arlington, Virginia. Facebook’s size and
brand are unmatched by any other private, venture-backed
company, he said this month in an interview on “Bloomberg
West.”  “I don’t think Facebook will have these huge coattails
that people are saying it will have,” Heesen said. “Every
other possible IPO that’s out there will have to stand on its
own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  