-- Hackers Target Sony for Anti-Piracy Bill, Website Says
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-01-19T02:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/hackers-target-sony-for-anti-piracy-bill-support-website-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , owner of entertainment
websites crippled by hackers last year, is under threat of new
attacks for its support of Hollywood-backed anti-piracy measures
in the  U.S. Congress .  Anonymous, the group behind attacks on corporate and
government sites, plans to hack into Tokyo-based Sony’s main
website on Jan. 23, letting visitors to the page download
copyright-protected music and videos, according to
 SCMagazine.com , the Australian edition of a security website.  The group threatened also to reveal Sony executives’ home
addresses and other personal information, according to the
website, which monitors Anonymous online forums.  An e-mailed message left for  Barrett Brown , an informal
spokesman for Anonymous in  Texas , wasn’t immediately returned.
Sony declined to comment, spokeswoman Sandra Genelius said.  In December, people who said they were members of the group
posted a video message on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube warning Sony
that they planned to target the consumer-electronics, movies and
music company for supporting anti-piracy measures. The
entertainment industry-sponsored legislation is aimed at
fighting copyright infringement by websites outside U.S.
jurisdiction.  Eight U.S. lawmakers dropped their support today for
pending anti-piracy legislation as Google, Wikipedia and other
websites protest the measures.  Anonymous said last April that it would wage digital war on
Sony for trying to stop people from tinkering with the
PlayStation 3 video-game console. The group denied
responsibility for a series of intrusions that brought down the
Qriocity and PlayStation Network entertainment services and
affected several Sony websites, while saying some members of the
loosely organized collective may have been behind it.  Sony’s U.S. shares rose 2.1 percent to $17.12 today at the
New York close. They have fallen 52 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  