-- Takeda to Trim 9% of Global Workforce to Bolster Profit From 11-Year Low
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-01-19T08:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/takeda-plans-to-reduce-europe-u-s-workforce-by-2-800-jobs-in-three-years.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ,  Asia ’s
biggest drugmaker, plans to eliminate about 9 percent of its
workforce over the next four years to integrate Nycomed, the
Swiss company it’s targeting to spur  profit  from an 11-year low.  Takeda will cut 2,800 jobs, mainly in Europe and the U.S.,
to help yield net savings of about 130 billion yen ($1.7
billion) by the year ending March 31, 2016, the  Osaka , Japan-
based company said yesterday. The drugmaker said costs
associated with the plan will trim 35 billion yen from  net
income  in the current financial year, forecast in November to
plunge 31 percent.  European units may be merged or sold as part of the
integration of Nycomed, bought for 9.6 billion euros ($12
billion) in September. The Zurich-based company may help buffer
 Takeda (4502)  from a slump in sales of Actos, the bestselling diabetes
drug that will face competition from generic copies next August.  “I’m not fully convinced by the restructuring plan,” said
Fumiyoshi Sakai, a health-care analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Tokyo. “I’m not sure that it’s enough,” he said in an
interview. He has a “neutral”  rating  on Takeda shares and
expects them to fall to 3,000 yen over the next 12 months.  Takeda (4502)  advanced 1.3 percent to 3,225 yen in Tokyo trading
as of the close at 3 p.m., the biggest increase in four weeks.
The benchmark  Topix index  gained 0.8 percent. The shares have
lost 19 percent of their value over the past year, almost
matching the 21 percent drop in the Topix.  ‘Quick Results’  The earnings outlook for the next fiscal year is uncertain
because of a sharp drop in Actos sales in  Japan  and the threat
of copycat medicines, Sakai and colleague Toshiyuki Tateno said
in a report yesterday.  “The rationalization measures are likely to produce quick
results, but the impact on net profit is uncertain,” they
wrote. The announcement may “spark a brief rally, but it
remains to be seen whether the announced measures alone will be
enough to turn around performance” from April 2013.  Takeda had more than  30,000 employees  as of Sept. 30,
bolstered by the acquisition of Nycomed, which gave it customers
in 42 more countries and reduced  reliance  on sales in Japan and
the U.S., where first-half revenue declined 10 percent because
of the stronger yen.  German Jobs  “While our combined operations in more than 70 countries
are more complementary than overlapping, there are a number of
areas where we will need to make changes to ensure efficient and
flexible operations,” Takeda President  Yasuchika Hasegawa  said
in a statement yesterday.  More guidance on the financial impact of the restructuring
plan will be given when Takeda reports third-quarter  earnings  on
Feb. 1, the company said. The plan includes the elimination of
2,100 jobs mainly in Europe and 700 in the U.S. across research,
commercial, operations and administrative functions, Takeda
said.  About 1,200 Takeda and Nycomed workers are affected in
 Germany , most of which are in Konstanz, according to a joint
statement by IG BCE, a chemicals and energy trade union, and the
local workers’ council. Most of the employees in Konstanz are in
research and development, the statement said.  The unions called the job cuts “a huge mistake” and are
planning a protest in Konstanz on Jan. 24, the statement said.  Cost savings in  Europe  are pegged at 40 billion yen for
fiscal 2014, 10 billion yen more than a May forecast, Takeda
said yesterday.  Takeda cut its profit  forecast  in November by 32 percent to
170 billion yen for the current fiscal year, the lowest since
2001. It’s  expected  to report net income of 194 billion yen,
according to the average of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg in the past four weeks.  “It’s still unclear to me how Takeda can make the best out
of the Nycomed acquisition in terms of earnings,” Atsushi Seki,
a health-care analyst at Barclays Plc based in Tokyo, said by
telephone yesterday. “It’s hard to see what will be the driver
for growth going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  