-- U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan Lyman Says Half a Million May Face Famine
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-18T11:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/half-a-million-sudanese-will-face-famine-by-march-u-s-special-envoy-says.html
About half a million people in
 Sudan ’s border states of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile may
face “emergency conditions bordering on famine” by March, said
the U.S. special envoy to Sudan, Princeton Lyman.  This “could be a horrific tragedy that would rattle the
souls of  Africa  and the world for years to come,” Lyman said
today in  Pretoria , the South African capital. African leaders
should urged Sudan to allow international and United Nations aid
agencies access to the area, he said.  “There is a lot of pressure if that doesn’t happen to try
and provide assistance across the border against the wishes of
the government of Sudan,” he said. “We have made no decision
to do that.”  Border state clashes have intensified since  South Sudan 
seceded on July 9 and took control of the former state’s oil
output of 490,000 barrels a day. President Umar al-Bashir’s
government is battling members of the Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement-North, which was part of South Sudan’s ruling party
until the south’s independence and is banned by Sudan.  Zach Vertin, a Sudan analyst with the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group , said President Barack Obama’s
administration has been discussing the possibility of starting
an operation to provide aid to civilians in Southern Kordofan
and Blue Nile without Sudan’s approval.  Pressure to Act  “ Washington  has given this a great deal of thought, as it
and others have made clear that it will be difficult to ignore
further catastrophe in Southern Kordofan,” he said today by
phone from Nairobi,  Kenya . “It’s a very tough call, but with
Khartoum providing no avenues for cooperation and an even
greater humanitarian crisis looming, Washington feels pressed to
act.”  U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice  said
yesterday that Sudan’s government has “deliberately denied
access” to international aid and UN workers in the conflict in
the two states, Her concerns were spelled out in a Jan. 16
letter to the president of the  Security Council ,  South Africa ’s
Baso Sangqu.  U.S. provision of aid without Sudan’s consent, Vertin said,
“could potentially prompt a negative response from Khartoum,
cause further deterioration of U.S.-Sudan relations, and
generate consternation from those already made wary by
international intervention in  Libya .”  Direct Confrontation  Lyman said the fighting in the two states risks drawing
Sudan and South Sudan into direct confrontation.  “It’s a serious conflict and because of that conflict
there have been clashes between the government of Sudan and the
forces of South Sudan over the border,” he said. “So there is
a danger not only in that conflict, but of it spreading and
involving the two countries. It’s a danger if this conflict
isn’t brought under control.”  Lyman urged the Sudanese authorities to halt bombing in the
states and said that if they did and allowed aid groups access
to Southern Kordofan and  Blue Nile , the U.S. was willing to
“move forward” on discussions about removing Sudan from a
State Department list of state sponsors of terrorism.  Sudan has been categorized by the U.S. as a state sponsor
of terrorism since 1993 and subject to U.S. economic sanctions
since 1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Pretoria at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  