-- Alta Colleges Sued by State for Law-Enforcement Job Promises
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-18T19:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/alta-colleges-sued-by-illinois-over-law-enforcement-degree-job-promises.html
Alta Colleges Inc., operator of the
for-profit Westwood colleges, misleads prospective students that
its criminal-justice degree program qualifies them for law
enforcement jobs, said  Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan.  Madigan is suing Denver-based Alta for alleged violations
of the state’s Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices
Act. She seeks $50,000 fines for each violation, an order
forcing the suspension or forfeiture of Westwood’s criminal-
justice program, and tuition refunds.  “Everybody here thought they were getting a valuable
degree,” Madigan told reporters at a Chicago press conference
today, flanked by students who claimed they completed the
Westwood program then learned prospective employers wouldn’t
recognize their diplomas. “Turns out all they were getting was
a useless degree.”  Degrees issued by Alta’s four Chicago-area campuses are
unrecognized by Illinois State Police, the Chicago Police
Department and many suburban departments, Madigan said.  ‘Exorbitant Costs’  “Westwood officials lied to potential students about
almost every aspect of its criminal-justice program, from its
exorbitant costs to a graduate’s slim career prospects,”
Madigan said in a separately issued statement.  Alta said it’s cooperating with Madigan’s office to resolve
issues.  “We are proud of our legacy of helping students obtain
their educational goals. We have hundreds of successful
graduates working in the private and public criminal justice
field throughout the state of Illinois,” the company said in a
statement.  The 65-page complaint filed today at a state courthouse in
 Chicago  identifies four Westwood College locations in and around
the city as well as an online program. Madigan said students
routinely incurred $60,000 to $70,000 in student loan debt to
finance their studies.  Nationwide, about 1.8 million students are enrolled in for-
profit college degree programs and about 96 percent of those
students borrow money to do so, the attorney general said.  Jessica Pierce, 29, now of Hobart,  Indiana , was one of
those students standing with Madigan today. She told reporters
she owes $54,000 for her Westwood degree with which she had
hoped to join the Chicago Police Department.  “I was the first from my family to go to college,” she
said. While a school official had assured her Westwood was
“fully accredited,” she said she later learned that was untrue
and that the credits accrued there weren’t transferable.  “It was really not a very good school to attend,” Pierce
said.  The case is Illinois v. Alta Colleges Inc., 12CH01587, Cook
County, Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 