-- America Movil’s Wireless Prices Targeted by Mexico Regulator’s New Rules
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-18T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/america-movil-s-wireless-pricing-targeted-by-mexico-s-telecom-regulator.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  may face
restrictions on its mobile-phone prices, such as the difference
in fees for calls within and outside its network, under rules
that  Mexico ’s telecommunications regulator is considering.  The Federal Telecommunications Commission may be ready to
propose the changes to Mexico’s regulatory improvement agency by
February, said Mony de Swaan, the agency’s president. The rules
would apply to any carrier declared dominant in the mobile-phone
market by the nation’s antitrust agency, a designation that
Mexico City-based America Movil received in 2010.  “We’re already in contact with operators sharing ideas,”
de Swaan said last week in an interview in Mexico City. “We
could even discuss the possibility of regulating prices.”  The conditions would represent another blow by the
regulator as Mexico’s government seeks to chip away at  America
Movil ’s 70 percent share of the wireless market. Last year de
Swaan’s agency reduced, by more than half, the prices the
carrier can charge to connect calls from rivals to its own
users.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , gets
38 percent of its sales and half of its profits from Mexico, its
biggest market of the 18 countries where it operates.  Singling out one operator with regulations is an “old-
fashioned” practice that has been used by countries to help new
entrants in the market, said Alejandro Cantu, America Movil’s
general counsel, in an interview yesterday in Mexico City.  Promoting Competition  “The mandate of the authorities is to promote competition,
not to help out operators,” he said. “All current operators in
Mexico have been operating here forever. It’s quite different to
be an inefficient operator than to be a new entrant.”  Rules that apply only to the biggest operator may increase
prices for all mobile-phone users, Cantu said.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Mexico’s second-largest wireless carrier,
with 21 percent of subscribers, has proposed that the regulator
force America Movil to charge less to connect calls from rivals
than its competitors can charge.  “Some sort of solution must be found,” Juan Abellan,
president of Telefonica’s Mexico unit, told reporters last
month. “If not, it will be impossible to break up this 70
percent market share.”  America Movil already is facing new rules from de Swaan’s
agency in the market for lines leased to competitors. Under a
 proposal  sent to the regulatory improvement agency in October,
the dominant carrier would have to publish a reference price and
would be monitored for its payment of penalties to competitors
when it failed to meet obligations.  The antitrust agency declared America Movil’s Telefonos de
Mexico SAB unit dominant in the leased-line market in 2009.  Agency’s Role  While the telecommunications regulator is analyzing whether
to regulate prices directly, de Swaan said he isn’t convinced
that should be the role of the agency. One option is to address
the difference between what the carrier charges for “on-net”
calls between its customers and more expensive “off-net” calls
from its users to other carriers.  As the largest carrier, America Movil has an advantage by
being able to provide the biggest community of subscribers, who
can call each other more cheaply by being on the same network.  “These types of calls are a common practice worldwide,”
said Cantu of America Movil. “Elimination of pricing
differentiation such as on-net/off-net calls stops innovation
and reduces benefits to end users.”  Colombian Rules  The telecommunications agency has consulted with its
counterpart in  Colombia , which has attempted similar regulations
to reduce America Movil’s market share there, de Swaan said.
Developing the rules may require some trial and error to
determine their effect on the market, he said.  The Colombian Communications Regulation Commission found
America Movil’s unit dominant for outgoing wireless calls in
2009, according to the carrier’s 2010 annual report. The agency
required the company later that year to begin offering the same
rate for calls outside its network as it does for on-net calls.  America Movil’s market share in Colombia has fallen to 65
percent at the end of September from 67 percent two years
earlier, according to government  statistics .  While the agency increases its scrutiny of the wireless
market, it’s also turning its attention to Mexico’s broadcast
television industry, where  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  and TV Azteca SAB
share almost all of the nation’s viewers.  TV Networks  After commissioning two studies and a public consultation,
the agency’s board is scheduled to debate today whether to go
ahead with a public auction of airwaves that could be used to
create two new national TV networks or several regional
networks, de Swaan said.  If the measure is approved, the process of developing the
auction rules and carrying out the tender would take about 18
months, assuming there isn’t any legal action that delays the
process, de Swaan said. An auction of mobile-phone airwaves was
completed in 2010, three years after it was announced by the
agency, following lawsuits by  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*) , the nation’s
third-largest mobile-phone carrier, which disagreed with the
auction conditions.  The telecommunications agency is also planning a new
auction of airwaves for wireless communications, de Swaan said.
It would include spectrum in the 3.5 gigahertz band and in the
1.7 gigahertz band, where 30 megahertz of nationwide coverage
went unsold in the 2010 auction.  The regulator also is reviewing a new plan to consolidate
area codes in Mexico, de Swaan said. Some formerly rural areas
of the country are now parts of cities, and phone users still
have to pay long-distance rates to call other parts of town.  America Movil  gained  1.9 percent to 15.41 pesos at the
close in Mexico City. Televisa rose 2.6 percent to 57.31 pesos,
and Azteca climbed 0.8 percent to 9 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  