-- America’s Dirty War Against Manufacturing (Part 1): Carl Pope
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/america-s-dirty-war-against-manufacturing-part-1-carl-pope.html
“I’d love to make this product in
America. But I’m afraid I won’t be able to.”  My host, a NASA engineer turned Silicon Valley
entrepreneur, has just conducted a fascinating tour of his new
clean-energy bench-scale test facility. It’s one of the Valley’s
hottest clean-technology startups. And he’s already thinking of
going abroad.  “Wages?” I ask.  His dark eyebrows arch as if I were clueless, then he
explains the reality of running a fab -- an electronics
fabrication factory. “Wages have nothing to do with it. The
total wage burden in a fab is 10 percent. When I move a fab to
 Asia , I might lose 10 percent of my product just in theft.”  I’m startled. “So what is it?”  “Everything else. Taxes, infrastructure, workforce
training, permits, health care. The last company that proposed a
fab on Long Island went to  Taiwan  because they were told that in
a drought their water supply would be in the queue after the
golf courses.”  So begins my education on the hollowing-out of the American
economy, which might be titled: “It’s not the wages, stupid.”  Manufacturing’s share of U.S. employment peaked in 1979 and
has since fallen by almost half. Although manufacturing has been
a relative bright spot in the dismal economy of the past couple
of years, in the last decade, the U.S. lost a third of its
manufacturing jobs, with the damage rippling far beyond that
base to erode millions of jobs that are dependent on it.  Tomorrow’s Losses  The loss of textile, shoe and toy production to low-wage
competitors such as China, and now  Cambodia , has devastated a
few regions, particularly  South Carolina . But the loss of
yesterday’s manufacturing isn’t the really painful part: It’s
losing tomorrow’s manufacturing: automobiles, electronics, metal
fabrication, specialty chemicals, appliances and consumer
electronics.  Those industries left the U.S. in search not of cheaper
workers, but of more supportive governments. If the U.S. lost
manufacturing due to high wages (or unions, labor laws,
regulation -- the other commonly cited villains), how do you
explain the manufacturing success of Germany and  Japan ? Germany,
the world’s pre-eminent high-end manufacturing economy, has
higher wages, stronger unions and stricter labor laws than the
U.S. Japan, too, is a high-wage competitor, yet Toyota Motor
Corp. still makes 60 percent of its vehicles there. General
Motors Co. makes only about 30 percent in  North America .  So if wages aren’t to blame, what is?  Policy. But is U.S. government policy really hostile to
manufacturing?  Sadly, yes. Take  tax policy . Historically, manufacturing
was the high-wage sector of the economy -- manufacturing jobs
still pay about 30 percent more than service jobs in education
and health care -- so tax policy milked it. Manufacturing
companies, in the old days, actually paid the corporate income
taxes that many others avoided. Commodity producers (oil,
timber, agribusiness) lobbied for, and received, federal
subsidies, with investors in oil and gas wells simply voiding
corporate income taxes on the profits they earned. Banking,
retail and services found their own ways around taxes, often by
offshoring intellectual property or shifting profit to  tax
havens . Eventually, manufacturers figured out how to duck taxes
as well -- by going overseas.  Varying Regulations  Yet it isn’t just taxes. Wind turbines, for example, are
enormous, heavy and expensive to transport -- so there is a big
advantage to fabricating them close to the installation point.
But consider the predicament of the Spanish wind manufacturer
Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA after it began operations in
 Pennsylvania . Because the George W. Bush administration’s
Department of Transportation wouldn’t establish uniform
standards for transporting the enormous turbine blades, each
state followed its own rules. Whenever a blade crossed a state
line it had to be unloaded by a construction crane and then
reloaded to conform to the next state’s specifications.  Similar policy failures explain why  Minnesota ’s Port of
Duluth exports iron ore to  China  and imports wind turbines from
 Europe . On the way to China, the ore freighters pass  Chicago ;
Gary,  Indiana ;  Cleveland ; and Buffalo,  New York  -- cities where
steel could be made and turned into turbine towers. But the U.S.
wind market is too small, and the government too focused
elsewhere, to make it profitable.  And that Long Island golf-course story? Not unique to New
York. During the 1991  California  drought, Silicon Valley’s
electronics manufacturers were warned by Governor Pete Wilson
that the state might have to shut off their water supply.
Agriculture, Wilson said, came first. When I asked a Silicon
Valley lobbyist in  Sacramento  if he had quietly received
assurances that California would prioritize 21st-century
computer chips over 19th-century alfalfa, he said he hadn’t. In
fact, he said, some plant expansions initially planned for
Silicon Valley were being diverted to Oregon to secure access to
water.  In 1991, it was Oregon. Today, it’s Asia. Conventional
wisdom blames globalization for the exodus of factories and
jobs. Because other countries pay lower wages, the thinking
goes, there is nothing we can, or even should, do about it. But
the evidence of  Germany  and Japan -- and the experience of
manufacturers in the U.S. -- tells a very different story.  We are not victims of an impersonal Leviathan called
“globalization.” We’re the suckers who allowed our government to
sacrifice the manufacturing sector while protecting the  real
winners : commodities, intellectual property, finance and
agribusiness. The U.S. didn’t lose its manufacturing leadership;
it threw it away.  In the next two parts of this series, I’ll discuss how that
happened and what we can do about it.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the Sierra Club. The
opinions expressed are his own. Read Part  2  and  3  of the series.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@sierraclub.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 