-- Thames-Estuary Airport Will Be Explored as Heathrow Expansion Is Precluded
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-18T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/thames-estuary-airport-to-be-explored-as-alternative-to-heathrow-expansion.html
Britain may build a 50 billion-pound
($77 billion) airport on the mudflats of the Thames estuary
instead of expanding London’s crowded Heathrow hub as the
government examines how to meet burgeoning demand for flights.  Options for boosting capacity include the new base on the
Kent coast, east of the capital, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
office said in a statement today. Construction of a third runway
at Heathrow remains off the agenda, the statement said.  With Europe’s busiest hub operating at the limits of runway
capacity and hemmed in by urban sprawl, London Mayor  Boris Johnson  has led a campaign for a new site at the mouth of the
Thames, with planes approaching over the sea. British Airways,
the top U.K. carrier, said more flights are needed but that a
new airport may not be feasible and would damage existing links.  “A Thames Estuary hub would be an extremely complex
project with many technical, operational, environmental and
financial hurdles,” BA, a unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , Europe’s third-largest carrier, said in a
statement. “It would require the closure of Heathrow, which
would have profound effects on jobs and business locations in
west  London , the M4 motorway corridor and the Thames Valley.”  ‘Left Behind’  A document setting out a framework for U.K. aviation policy
will be published in the spring, said a spokeswoman for Cameron,
whose government left the door open for the estuary option in an
autumn budget statement specifying that it would “explore all
options” for retaining a U.K. hub, bar expansion of Heathrow.  Johnson, a Conservative like Cameron, said today that
sovereign wealth funds will be “only too happy” to invest in a
project -- dubbed “Boris Island” by the U.K. media -- which he
reckons is key to London retaining its status as a global city.  “You can’t go on expecting Britain to compete with  France 
and  Germany  and other European countries when we simply can’t
supply the flights to these growth destinations,  China ,  Latin
America ,” the mayor said in an interview on BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” show. “We are being left badly behind.”  Heathrow “is fundamentally in the wrong place,” he added,
with the government “absolutely right to start looking at a more
imaginative solution.” Architect  Norman Foster , the designer of
 Hong Kong ’s airport, has also drawn up plans for a coastal site.  LibDems Opposed  While Cameron has given his provisional backing to the
project, according to the Daily Telegraph newspaper, his
coalition ally, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , is against it,
a spokesman for the lawmaker said by e-mail. Clegg’s Liberal
Democrats opposed all airport expansion in southeast England in
their last general election manifesto on environmental grounds.  BAA Ltd., Heathrow’s owner and a division of Spanish
infrastructure group  Ferrovial SA (FER) , said its own hub will need to
be expanded whether or not a new airport is built elsewhere.  “Aviation capacity constraints are damaging the U.K.
economy,” it said in a statement. “A new airport in the Thames
Estuary would cost up to 50 billion pounds and take decades to
build. During this time we would be handing over on a plate the
U.K.’s historic trade advantages. Growth can’t wait.”  U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd., which has its main base at Heathrow, said in a statement
that Britain is already becoming “hamstrung” by a lack of
capacity growth and that a quicker fix is needed.  ‘One Hub’  “The government should consider all the possible options,
not just a Thames Estuary airport,” Virgin said. “The U.K. needs
one strong and viable hub, and the impact on jobs and business
of moving this away from west London must be considered.”  Unite, Britain’s biggest union for aviation workers,
dismissed the Johnson plan as a “vanity project” threatening
100,000 Heathrow jobs, while the GMB said in a statement it was
“plain daft” not to consider growth at the existing hub, which
could be expanded more quickly and at less cost.  The London Chamber of Commerce and Industry also backed
construction of a third runway at Heathrow in the near term.  “Extra capacity will be required far sooner,” Colin Stanbridge, the lobby group’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “It is therefore important that solutions which can
be put into place much faster are not ruled out.”  Habitat Threat  The  Royal Society for the Protection of Birds ,  Europe ’s
largest conservation charity with more than 1 million members,
said the Thames Estuary plan threatens a habitat of “immense
importance” for 300,000 migratory birds, some of them globally
rare. “Bird strike” would also be more of a risk, it said.  As recently as October 2010, Cameron told lawmakers he had
“no plans” for an airport in the estuary or any other part of
Kent, the RSPB said in a statement, citing  Hansard records .  The coalition government canceled plans to add a runway at
Heathrow in 2010 amid concern about increasing noise levels for
people living directly beneath the flight path. The airport
handled a record 69.4 million passengers last year on 476,197
flights, or 99.2 percent of its 480,000 limit.  “Airports and airport expansion have proved to be the most
emotive of issues over many years,” said  Howard Wheeldon , senior
strategist at BGC Partners in London. “But whether Boris Island
is feasible or not we must go through a formal process of
consultation with a view to deciding whether building an airport
in the sea is something that we should contemplate.”  A consultation will start in March, the Telegraph said. The
government said this month it planned to proceed with a 32.7
billion-pound high-speed rail network to cut journey times
between London and cities in central and northern  England .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net 
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  