-- Man Group Steps Up Cost Cuts as Assets Fall
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-01-18T17:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/man-group-assets-drop-9-5-as-market-turmoil-erodes-investment-performance.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund, will reduce pay and eliminate jobs
in a plan to reduce costs by about 10 percent as market turmoil
prompted clients to withdraw money.  The $75 million of reductions will add to $40 million
already being implemented, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke 
told reporters on a conference call today. Two-thirds of the
savings will be made this year and the rest in 2013, he said.
The firm employed about 1,600 people at the end of March.  Man Group is trying to make savings as turmoil in Europe
hurt its investment returns. Clients withdrew a net $2.5 billion
from the company’s investment funds during the fourth quarter
amid concern that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis would make it
difficult for money managers to find profitable wagers. Assets
under management fell to $58.4 billion at the end of December
from $64.5 billion three months earlier, the firm said.  The decline in assets under management was “in line with
reduced expectations, but the cost savings are an unexpected
positive,” Haley Tam, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. who rates
the stock a “neutral,” wrote in a note to clients today.  The shares rose 6.8 percent to 114.4 pence in London
trading for a market value of about 2.1 billion pounds ($3.2
billion). The stock has declined 9 percent so far this year.  ‘Attack’ Cost Base  “Man should attack its expense base,” Barclays Capital
analyst Daniel Garrod, who rates Man Group “overweight,” wrote
in a Jan. 16 report to clients. The company should reduce its
dividend and consider pay cuts for fund managers, particularly
at the GLG Partners LP unit acquired in 2010, he wrote. “If GLG
outflows continue, management need to do more here, addressing
staff numbers” and pay, he said.  Man Group’s revenue comes from fees for managing client
money, and fees charged for any investment gains on the funds.
Analysts have been reducing 2012 profit estimates for Man Group
after concluding that the decline in assets and investment
losses for the firm’s biggest hedge fund,  AHL Diversified (MAHLDGB) , will
threaten fees the company charges clients.  Man Group said adjusted pretax profit in the nine months
through December was $257 million compared with $599 million in
the 12 months through March 2011. Man Group is changing year-end
reporting period to December.  “Trading conditions have been tough,” Clarke said in a
statement today. “Investment performance varied significantly
across styles, with market volatility and reduced market
liquidity impacting trading opportunities.”  Barclays’s Garrod this week cut his earnings-per-share
estimate for the company to 12 pence a share from 17 pence.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Rae Maile reduced their
2012 profit estimate for Man Group to 5.7 pence from an earlier
estimate of 25.7 pence, according to a Jan. 6 note to clients.  AHL Program  AHL, a $21 billion program that uses computer algorithms to
spot profitable trades in  futures markets , fell 7.7 percent in
the fourth quarter, Man Group said in the statement.  AHL funds would now have to rise about 12 percent on
average to hit their so-called high-water mark, the point at
which Man Group can charge investors fees for positive
investment performance, the company said. Reaching the high-
water mark will probably take about 12 months, according to
JPMorgan’s Maile. Investors pulled a net $800 million from AHL
in the fourth quarter.  The company’s investment funds, which include hedge funds
and so-called long only strategies that bet on rising asset
prices, lost a net $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter.  GLG Purchase  Man Group paid $1.6 billion for GLG in 2010 to add  hedge
funds  overseen by individual stock and bond investors after
analysts questioned whether the company’s product offerings were
too dependent on the computer-driven AHL.  Outflows from GLG totaled $1 billion in the fourth quarter,
Man Group said in the statement. Clients mainly pulled money
from GLG hedge funds that invest in securities issued in Europe
and  emerging markets , the company said. Man Group has dropped 49
percent since it announced the GLG acquisition on May 17, 2010.  Noam Gottesman, a founding partner of GLG, stood down as
co-CEO of GLG to take on the role of non-executive chairman of
GLG’s units in the U.S., Man Group said today. Manny Roman will
continue as sole CEO of GLG and chief operating officer of Man
Group, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  