-- Programmer Charged With Stealing U.S. Treasury Software from New York Fed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-19T08:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/man-said-to-be-charged-by-u-s-in-federal-government-computer-data-theft.html
U.S. Treasury Department software
used to track federal collections and payments was stolen by a
government contractor’s employee who worked at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York , federal prosecutors said.  Bo Zhang , 32, who worked for an unidentified technology
company, was a computer programmer assigned to work on source
code at the New York Fed from May until August, the U.S. said in
a criminal complaint against him that was unsealed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. Zhang is a Chinese citizen, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who didn’t want to be
identified because the information wasn’t public.  The software system relates to the “tracking of the
billions of dollars that are electronically transferred every
day in the U.S.’s general ledger,” prosecutors said.  Zhang has been in the U.S. on a work visa since 2000, said
another person familiar with the matter who also didn’t want to
be identified because the information isn’t public. Zhang worked
previously at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America
Corp. , the person said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott yesterday agreed to
release Zhang on a $200,000 bond secured by a condominium
located in the Flushing, Queens, section of  New York City . Cott
ordered that he surrender all of his travel documents and
restricted his movements to parts of New York and to  New Jersey ,
where Zhang’s lawyer said his client works. Cott set the next
court appearance in the case for Feb. 17.  ‘No Compromise’  Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Liu Weimin said he
hadn’t heard about the charges and declined to comment, when
asked about the case at a regular briefing for reporters in
Beijing today.  After court yesterday, Zhang’s lawyer, Joseph Grob,
declined to comment on the charges or whether his client is a
citizen of  China  or a naturalized U.S. citizen.  Matt Anderson , a Treasury spokesman, said the department
has worked to strengthen security procedures for Federal Reserve
contractors working on Financial Management Service projects.  “There was no compromise of any transaction data, personal
identifying information or federal funds,” Anderson said in an
e-mailed statement.  After being questioned by  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agents on Aug. 11, Zhang admitted he stole the proprietary
software code belonging to the Treasury in July, according to
the criminal complaint.  Treasury Data  The Government-wide Accounting and Reporting computer
program provides federal agencies with an account statement
similar to a customer’s bank statement, of federal agencies’
account balances with the Treasury. It also covers appropriation
and non-expenditure activity, payments, deposits and intra-
governmental actions that affect the account balances within the
Treasury.  In August, a colleague of Zhang’s told supervisors at the
New York Fed that Zhang had claimed to have lost an external
hard drive containing the GWA code, according to court filings.  Zhang told FBI agents that he copied the code onto the hard
drive of a computer in his office at the  Federal Reserve  and
then copied it to an external hard drive. He later removed that
drive from government offices without authorization and copied
its contents onto a home computer and his personal laptop, the
U.S. said.  Zhang told the FBI that he knew it was wrong to take the
GWA source code, according to court filings.  ‘Private Use’  “He asserted that he took it for private use and in order
to ensure that it was available to him in the event that he lost
his job” with the New York Fed, prosecutors said.  Zhang owns a business in which he provides training,
including computer training, and showed the GWA code to one of
his students, according to the complaint.  The New York Fed detected the breach through its
established security procedures and referred it to law
enforcement officials,  Jack Gutt , a spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The New York Fed has further strengthened its already
considerable protections as a result of this incident,” Gutt
said in the statement.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said in a
statement, “Our cyber infrastructure is vulnerable not only to
cybercriminals and hackers, but also alleged thieves like Bo
Zhang who used his position as a contract employee to steal
government intellectual property.”  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 12-mag-00108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  