-- Women Receive Bone Tests Too Often for Osteoporosis, Study Finds
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/many-women-screened-for-osteoporosis-don-t-need-it-researchers-report.html
Many women who get screened for
osteoporosis may not need it, suggesting current guidelines may
spur extra tests, increasing costs and unnecessary treatment, a
study found.  Osteoporosis, a loss in bone density that can cause breaks
and injuries, develops in fewer than 10 percent of women at age
80, if they had normal density at age 65, researchers said
yesterday in the New England Journal of Medicine.  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force , which sets testing
guidelines, recommends a bone-density test every two years. The
latest study suggests a healthy result at age 65 probably means
woman can wait at least 15 years before being tested again
because of how slowly the disease develops.  “There’s strong belief that the more we test, the more we
are helping patients,” said Margaret Gourlay, a University of
 North Carolina  at Chapel Hill researcher and study author.
“This is a good example of why that doesn’t hold up at all.”  Osteoporosis  affects about 12 million Americans older than
50, including half of all post-menopausal women at some point,
the U.S. task force says. The recommendation for testing every
two years was made because not enough is known about the
development of the disease, the group has said.  Each screening costs about $250, Gourlay said in a
telephone interview. Unnecessary tests can lead to false
positives and prescriptions of drugs such as Warner Chilcott’s
Actonel or  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Evista, leading to greater patient
risk than protection, she said.  Medicare Reimbursement  Some doctors prescribe tests every two years because
Medicare, the U.S. health plan for those 65 and older,
reimburses for the exams on that schedule, Gourlay said. The
research team tracked patients to gather available evidence to
avoid health decisions made on “marketing, advocacy, and public
beliefs that have encouraged overtesting and overtreatment,”
the report said.  Just as a lack of information has caused some doctors to
test too often, it has led others to ignore osteoporosis
completely, Gourlay said. Patients don’t remind doctors about an
initial osteoporosis screening, which is not as common as
mammograms for  breast cancer  or tests for cholesterol, she said.  The study followed about 5,000 mostly white women over 15
years and regularly tested their bone mass starting at age 67.
Gourlay said the group’s next goals include gathering data about
osteoporosis treatment in men and in women younger than 65.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 