-- Apple Is Said to Plan Digital-Textbook Push to Bolster IPad Use in Schools
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/apple-said-to-plan-textbook-push-to-bolster-ipad-use-in-schools.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has been selling
thousands of iPads to grade schools since its 2010 debut. Now it
plans to beef up the educational content available for the
tablet so teachers and students find those purchases worthwhile.  At an event in  New York  tomorrow, Apple will announce a set
of tools that make it easier to publish interactive textbooks
and other digital educational content, said two people with
knowledge of the announcement, who requested anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The plans, to be unveiled by Apple Internet software chief
Eddy Cue, are aimed at broadening the educational materials
available for the iPad, especially for students in kindergarten
to 12th grade, the people said. By setting its sights on the $10
billion-a-year  textbook industry , Apple is using the tablet to
encourage students to shun costly tomes that weigh down
backpacks in favor of less-expensive, interactive digital books
that can be updated anywhere via the Web.  “Apple will raise a lot of awareness about digital
textbooks and how education is going digital,” said Osman Rashid, whose company, Kno Inc., develops e-textbook software.  Apple’s new software is designed for a broad range of
authors to be able to publish the content in a digital format,
similar to what  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  does with its direct publishing
tools, said the people. Large publishers will be able to create
digital versions of textbooks, with embedded graphics and video.  Creating Teaching Tools  Apple also wants to empower “self-publishers” to create
new kinds of teaching tools, said the people. Teachers could use
it to design materials for that week’s lesson. Scientists,
historians and other authors could publish professional-looking
content without a deal with a publisher.  Apple is likely to promote a modified version of the ePub
standard, the format used by many e-book publishers, said the
people familiar with the company’s plans.  Natalie Kerris , a
spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment.  Education is one piece of how Apple’s iPad became the
fastest-selling consumer electronics product in history. As of
September, Apple had sold about 40 million iPads, generating
$25.3 billion in sales. The device is now Apple’s second-best
selling  product , behind the iPhone and ahead of Mac personal
computers and iPod music players.  While the event is expected to aid iPad sales to educators,
 Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., said the event
won’t have a material impact on the company’s shares. No new
hardware products are expected to be unveiled.  Education Sales Force  Apple is building upon a presence in education that was
established when its earliest computers won a following among
students and schools in the 1980s. A dedicated piece of the
company’s sales force reaches out to school districts and
universities to pitch Apple’s products for the classroom.  In a sign of that effort’s success,  New Jersey ’s Hasbrouck
Heights School District bought 250 tablets last year for use in
algebra classes.  Nevada ’s Clark County School District paid $687
per iPad in a trial program so 1,150 Las Vegas middle- and high-
school students could use iPads loaded with the same algebra
material, made by publisher Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.  The purchases come even as school districts grapple with
budget shortfalls, challenging educators to choose where they
allocate funds, said Jay Diskey, executive director of the
 Association of American Publishers ’ school division.  “It’s important to look at the issue of K-12 textbooks
through the prism of government procurement,” Diskey said.
“Many states and school districts are strapped for cash.”  Justifying the Price  In some cases, the price of the iPad -- which starts at
$499 -- is keeping school districts from making the purchases,
said Bethlam Forsa, the head of content and product development
for Houghton.  “The price is an issue,” she said. “The key area of
focus is to ensure there is enough content out there to justify
the price.” Just after the iPad was introduced, Forsa said the
company committed to developing new educational material.  Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  had focused on the textbook
business before his death in October. He told biographer Walter Isaacson that the industry was ripe for a digital disruption
because of the interactive capabilities made possible by the
iPad. Jobs had held meetings with publishers, including  Pearson
Education Inc. , about teaming up with Apple, according to
Issacson’s book, “Steve Jobs,” published last year. Jobs
wanted to create electronic texts and curriculum material for
the iPad.  Jobs had lured John Couch, one of Apple’s early employees,
back to the company in 2002 to help lead its push in education,
one person familiar with Couch’s role said. Roger Rosner, a vice
president of productivity applications, led the engineering
effort, said the person.  Fraction of Market  The electronic-textbook market is still nascent. On college
campuses, even as the latest best-sellers have become popular
for devices such as Amazon’s Kindle, digital textbooks were just
2.8 percent of total textbook sales in 2010, according to the
 National Association of College Stores .  A March survey of 655 college students by the Oberlin,
Ohio-based trade group found that three-quarters of students
preferred a printed textbook to an electronic version. That’s
even though e-textbooks cost as much as 60 percent less than new
print copies, which  averaged  $62 each in the 2009-2010 school
year.  “E-textbooks have had a slow go of it,” said Charles
Schmidt, a spokesman for the college stores group. He attributes
the lackluster interest to students not being as technologically
adventurous when it comes to education texts, professors
sticking to traditional course materials, and publishers not
offering compelling interactive content.  Harvard Business School   As more of these features are added and as the iPad and
other tablets become more popular, Schmidt said the prevalence
of digital texts will increase. He predicts digital college-
course materials will account for 10 percent to 15 percent of
the market in the next school year.  Among the schools making more materials available in
digital formats is  Harvard Business School , which is converting
a library of 17,000 case studies to tablet-enhanced formats.  Along with Apple, software companies such as Inkling
Systems Inc. and Kno have been working with publishers like
Pearson’s and  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  to make their content more
compelling. In Inkling’s version of the best-selling textbook
 “Campbell Biology,”  students can navigate 3-D pictures of
cells, listen to the proper pronunciation of a word or quiz
themselves.  Still, the iPad needs more content to be able to become a
common tool, said Bill Rieders, executive vice president at
 Cengage Learning , a publisher of higher-education textbooks that
makes its materials available in digital form.  “It is too early to tell if it has improved education,”
Rieders said. “The jury is still out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  