-- Apple, Danisco, Cypress, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-18T11:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/apple-danisco-cypress-google-hitler-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a lawsuit in
Germany seeking to ban sales of  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s
smartphone models, including the Galaxy S Plus and the S II.  The suit targeting 10 smartphones was filed in the
Dusseldorf Regional Court and is based on Apple design rights in
Europe, court spokesman Peter Schuetz said by telephone
yesterday. Apple also started a separate suit against five
Samsung tablet computer models related to a September ruling
banning the Galaxy 10.1, he said.  Last month, the Dusseldorf court said it is unlikely to
grant an injunction against the Galaxy 10.1N, a modified version
of the Galaxy 10.1 tablet, and an appeals court also voiced
doubts about the reach of Apple’s European Union design right
that won the company the injunction against the 10.1. The new
suits aren’t filed under emergency proceedings and allow Apple a
new procedure against both models.  Since winning the September injunction, Cupertino,
California-based Apple has faced setbacks in its battle against
its closest rival in tablet computers. The iPad maker failed to
persuade an Australian court on Dec. 9 to reinstate a ban in
that country. Both companies also filed patent suits against
each other in several European countries.  A spokesman for Samsung, who declined to be identified,
said the company had received both suits.  The new cases are LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 293/11 and 14c O
294/11.  Danisco Loses Bid to Delay  Novozymes (NZYMB)  Trial on Animal Feed Patent  Danisco A/S (DCO)  lost a bid to delay a U.K. trial in its patent
battle with Novozymes A/S over a type of enzyme that aids
digestion of animal feed.  Danisco, a unit of  DuPont Co. (DD)  that makes food additives,
sought to pause the case until the  European Patent Office  ruled
on the dispute.  Novozymes (NZYMB) , the world’s largest maker of industrial enzymes,
is fighting to defend its animal feed patent in  Denmark ,
Germany,  Finland  and the Netherlands. The U.K. Court of Appeal
yesterday rejected Danisco’s second application to push back the
trial, and for permission to use documents from the U.K. case in
the European proceedings.  The European Patent Office, which isn’t part of the
European Union but offers the closest protection available to an
EU-wide patent, revoked Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novozymes’
patent in July. The decision was appealed by Novozymes and will
be heard by the EPO later this year.  Danisco’s lawyer Christopher Stothers and Novozymes’ lawyer
Morag Macdonald declined to comment after yesterday’s hearing.  European Patent Office Says Patent Filings Increased in 2011  The European Patent Office said patent filings increased by
3 percent last year compared with 2010.  The office received 243,000 patent applications and granted
62,115 patents, Munich-based EPO said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. About 62 percent of all filings last year came from
outside  Europe , with U.S. applications at 24 percent, Japanese
applications at 19 percent and Chinese applications at 7
percent.  The EPO isn’t part of the European Union and has 38 member
countries. The EPO offers the closest thing presently available
to an EU-wide patent.  Cinven Said to Seek $660 Million of Loans to Fund CPA Buyout  Cinven Ltd., the London-based buyout firm, is seeking about
430 million pounds ($660 million) of financing for its leveraged
buyout of patent business CPA Global, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The owner of the Pizza Express restaurant chain hired HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to arrange the funding,
which includes 310 million pounds of senior loans and 120
million pounds of mezzanine debt, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  Cinven is buying CPA from  Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP) 
for about 950 million pounds, the  Daily Telegraph  reported
without saying where it got the information. CPA, which ICG
started acquiring in 2010, provides management services for
intellectual property rights, patents, designs and trademarks,
according to its website.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Cypress Drops Trade-Secrets Case Against Maxim Integrated  Cypress Semiconductor Corp., a  San Jose , California-based
chipmaker, said it dropped a trade-secrets case against  Maxim
Integrated Products Inc. (MXIM)   The case can be refiled if necessary, Cypress said in a
Jan. 13 statement. The San Jose, California-based company sued
Sunnyvale, California-based Maxim in June in  California  state
court over trade secrets covering touchscreen technology.  Cypress Chief Executive Officer T.J. Rogers said in his
company statement that the suit alleged that Maxim went after
Cypress’s intellectual property by trying to hire some of his
company’s key employees. “Maxim has been unsuccessful” in its
hiring attempts, he said.  Maxim declined to comment on the Cypress statement, company
spokeswoman LuAnn Jenkins Walden said in an e-mail.  The case is  Cypress Semiconductor Corp. (CY)  v. Maxim Integrated
Products Inc., 1-11-cv-202605, California Superior Court, Santa
Clara County.  Copyright  Google Plans Home Page Protest Against U.S. Piracy Measures  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it would place a link on its home page
today protesting anti-piracy measures in the  U.S. Congress ,
joining other Internet companies demonstrating against the
Hollywood-backed legislation.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
and Facebook Inc. are among companies opposing House and Senate
bills they say they will hurt the growth of the U.S. technology
industry. Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia where users
contribute entries, said it planned to shut the English version
of its website for 24 hours today to protest the measures.  “We oppose these bills because there are smart, targeted
ways to shut down foreign rogue websites without asking American
companies to censor the Internet,” Samantha Smith, a Google
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP
Act in the Senate are backed by the movie and music industries
as a means to crack down on the sale of counterfeit goods by
non-U.S. websites. Hollywood studios want lawmakers to ensure
that Internet companies such as Google share responsibility for
curbing the distribution of pirated material.  A legislative push led by the Washington-based Motion
Picture Association of America and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the nation’s largest business lobbying group, has run into a
backlash from Web companies that say the bills would saddle them
with new liabilities and technology mandates.  Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, called the decision
to shut the website an “extraordinary” action in response to
the proposed laws, which “endanger free speech both in the
 United States  and abroad, and set a frightening precedent of
Internet censorship for the world.”  The administration of President Barack Obama said in a blog
post on Jan. 14 that it wouldn’t support legislation that
encourages censorship, undermines cybersecurity or disrupts the
structure of the Internet.  Smith, the Google spokeswoman, said the company respects
copyright. “Last year we took down 5 million infringing Web
pages from our search results and invested more than $60 million
in the fight against bad ads,” she said in an e-mail.  ‘Mein Kampf’ to Be Republished in  Germany  Without Authorization  Albertas Press plans to publish a book containing excerpts
from Adolf Hitler’s “Mein Kampf” in Germany without permission
of the Bavarian state, which owns the copyright, Spiegel online
 reported .  The London-based publishing house previously published
reprints of Nazi-era newspapers, creating a furor in Germany,
according to Spiegel.  Peter McGee, who owns Albertas, said that while “Mein
Kampf” is poorly written, one can’t recognize its insanity
without confronting the text, Spiegel reported.  Although the copyright on Hitler’s work won’t expire until
2015, Albertas made no effort to contact the copyright holder
for approval before publication, according to Spiegel.  For copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Ghana’s New Patriotic Party Protects IP by Registering Symbol  Ghana’s New Patriotic Party registered its symbol to
protect its intellectual property, the Accra  Daily Mail 
 reported .  As a result of the registration, permission from the party
will be required for use of the symbol, according to the
newspaper.  Those who use the mark without authorization face potential
legal action, according to the Daily Mail.  The symbol features a blue elephant in a white circle that
is enclosed in two rectangles, one white and one blue, the
newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Latham Hires Wilson Sonsoni Biotech Litigator Daniel G. Brown  Latham & Watkins LLP hired Daniel G. Brown for its IP
practice, the Los Angeles-based firm said in a  statement 
yesterday.  Brown , a patent litigator, joins from Palo Alto,
California’s  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC . He has
represented pharmaceutical and life-sciences companies in
disputes, including patent cases triggered under provisions of
the Hatch-Waxman Act.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from
the University of Houston and a law degree from the University
of Cincinnati.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  