-- Applications at Top Universities Retreat Amid `Impossible' Odds
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-01-19T19:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/applications-at-elite-u-s-colleges-slow.html
Elite U.S. colleges such as the
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology and  Columbia University 
are experiencing a slowdown or drop in applications for freshman
admission after years of record increases.  Columbia reported an 8.9 percent decrease in applicants to
31,818 for the 2011-2012 year after surging 33 percent last year
when the school joined the Common Application. MIT had 1 percent
growth, the smallest increase in seven years, while the number
of students applying to the  University of Pennsylvania  fell 1.7
percent after jumping 40 percent in the past three years
combined.  Athletics programs, early-admission policies, competition
for seats and other school-specific issues may be having a
greater effect on student applications rates, counselors and
admissions deans said. High school seniors are getting the
message that it can be next to “impossible” to win a seat at
these schools, said Jon Reider, head of college counseling at
 San Francisco ’s University High School.  “There is a finite number of teenagers who have the
credentials to make themselves competitive for schools like this
and, at a certain point, that level is hit,” said Reider, a
former admissions officer at Stanford University. “The supply
of kids flattens out.”  Early Admissions  Penn admitted 12 percent of applicants last year and
Columbia  6.9 percent . One reason for the decline in Penn’s
applications to 31,127 is that more colleges have early
admission programs, Eric J. Furda, dean of admissions, said in
an e-mail. Penn, based in Philadelphia, also required an
additional essay this year, which might have had a small impact,
Furda said.  Fellow Ivy League schools  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and  Princeton University , in Princeton,  New
Jersey , reinstated early applications after a break of several
years.  Early admissions at Harvard and Princeton probably affected
Columbia’s application volume, Jessica Marinaccio, dean of
undergraduate admissions, said in a statement.  Dartmouth College also reported a slowdown in applications
growth, and early admissions programs at other schools may have
played a role, Maria Laskaris, dean of admissions, said today in
an interview.  Laskaris estimated applications climbed by at least 3.5
percent from a total of 22,385 last year, when Dartmouth had
growth of 19 percent.  MIT Marketing  MIT, based in Cambridge, cut its direct marketing to
potential applicants by about 40 percent to eliminate students
who weren’t likely to be admitted based on their PSAT score,
said Stuart Schmill, dean of admissions. MIT sought a smaller
“but highly appropriate pool,” he said. The school, which
doesn’t accept the Common Application, received 18,084
applications for this year. Last year it admitted less than 10
percent of applicants.  “We’re not trying to encourage increased numbers just for
the sake of it,” Schmill said in an interview. “We’re happy
given that applicant pool is as diverse and talented as ever.
For us that is a terrific outcome.”  The cost to attend MIT this year including tuition, fees,
room and board is $55,270, according to the school’s  website . At
 Columbia , the cost is $59,208 for students who live on campus,
according to the school.  ‘We Are The 6%’  Applications for freshman admission are often taken as a
proxy for a school’s popularity. Many colleges, including those
in the  Ivy League , buy names of prospective students who score
high on standardized tests and send them marketing brochures and
e-mails. The boost in applications makes the colleges appear
more selective. A Harvard student group sells T-shirts sporting
the slogan “ We are the 6% ,” in reference to the undergraduate
college’s admission rate last year.  The Common Application, which Columbia joined last year, is
used by more than 400 colleges. It’s an online form students can
use to apply to multiple schools.  “Given the increased accessibility associated with the
Common Application, schools initially accepting it have
typically seen a two-year increase in application volume of 10
to 25 percent,” Marinaccio said in the statement. “Our
application numbers this year appear to be normalizing to a size
consistent with this trend and at a level that continues to
indicate strong student interest.”  All-Time Highs  Last year, freshman applications climbed to all-time highs
at the eight Ivy League institutions in the northeastern U.S.
The other schools in the league plan to release their
applications numbers in the coming weeks.  Freshman applications to  Stanford University , near  Palo
Alto ,  California , rose 7 percent to a record of almost 37,000,
the school reported last week. Stanford may be benefiting from
its location in Silicon Valley, connection to the technology
world, orientation toward  Asia  and because it attracts top
students who are interested in national-level intercollegiate
sports, Reider said. Stanford admitted 7.1 percent of applicants
last year.  Stanford senior  Andrew Luck , the Cardinal quarterback and a
two-time Heisman Trophy runner-up, has garnered national
attention and is considered a top National Football League
prospect. The women’s soccer team won its first a national
championship in December.  Duke, Northwestern  Duke University , which last year offered seats to 13
percent of applicants, may be the beneficiary of some
competitors having admission rates in the single digits.
Freshman applications to the school in Durham,  North Carolina ,
increased by 6.2 percent to more than 31,000, according to
Christoph Guttentag, dean of admissions.  “While sports may have a nominal impact on applications at
Duke, it says something about selective college admissions when
a 13 percent admit rate looks more possible,” Guttentag said in
an interview.  Applications increased by 3.5 percent at  Northwestern
University  to almost 32,000, according to a statement from the
Evanston, Illinois-based school. Northwestern admitted 18
percent of applicants last year.  Georgetown University ’s applications increased by an
estimated 4.2 percent to about 20,500 for the coming school
year, said Charles Deacon, dean of admissions. The school in
 Washington  didn’t do anything differently this year, said
Deacon, adding that he could “easily” increase applications
and move Georgetown into the 30,000 range by buying more names,
joining the Common Application and significantly increasing
international travel and recruitment to  China  and  Korea .  “We are not doing any of these things because they don’t
mesh with our philosophical position about the appropriate way
for the appropriate students to apply to us,” Deacon said in an
interview. “It allows us to fill our class appropriately and
still give adequate time and attention to each candidate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 