-- Hard News Tops Fluff in Revamped CBS Morning Show: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/hard-news-tops-fluff-in-revamped-cbs-morning-show-greg-evans.html
“ CBS (CBS)  This Morning,” the network’s
revamped, low-key eye-opener, is a morning show for people who
bristle at the in-your-face bonhomie that greets the sleepy on
powerhouse rivals “Today” (NBC) and “Good Morning America”
(ABC).  The third-place program formerly known as “The Early
Show” can seem refreshingly businesslike by the touchy-feely
standards of daybreak TV.  Co-anchors  Charlie Rose , Erica Hill and designated fluff
handler Gayle King seem instructed to ease viewers into the day.  On Monday, CBS led with straightforward reports about the
Italian cruise ship disaster and  Jon Huntsman ’s exit from the
Republican primaries before spending a few minutes on an un-
frilly Golden Globes segment.  Usually seated at a large, glass-topped roundtable in an
appealing brick-walled, loft-like set, the hosting trio is now
into its second week of staking claims and breaking ice.  Rose is the hard-news man, handing off the lighter items to
King.  Hill, a holdover from “The Early Show,” made the sharpest
impression.  Oh, Please  While Rose and King sat enraptured as film honcho  Harvey
Weinstein  kvetched about a critical New Yorker magazine review
from 12 years ago, a smiling Hill delivered the best line of the
first week: “We’re glad you’re past it.”  A strong contender for the low point of the week was an
idiotic discussion among King, Hill and contributor Lee Woodruff
(wife of ABC News correspondent Bob Woodruff) prompted by rapper
Jay-Z’s revelation that wife Beyonce once had a miscarriage.  Said Woodruff: He’s “given men permission to grieve.”  As a ratings ploy, CBS’s faith in news and restraint seems
as risky as its gamble on King.  Oprah Winfrey ’s best pal and protege landed a fine first-
week get -- an interview with  Michelle Obama  that was chopped
and served over several days. But King, cautious rather than
charismatic, lacks the get-to-it curiosity of her mentor.  Still, a comparison of the network programs gives CBS the
newsier edge. On a day when “GMA” worried about Heather Locklear’s health, praised a “hero grandma” and plugged a
second-hour interview in which “Madonna really opens up,”
“This Morning” highlighted correspondent Lara Logan’s report
on U.S. Marines photographed urinating on Taliban corpses.  (A special edition of the “Charlie Rose” interview show
appears on Bloomberg Television, Radio and mobile applications.)  “CBS This Morning” airs Monday through Saturday on CBS
at 7 a.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 