-- Target Suspends Efforts to Sell Credit Card Receivables
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-01-18T21:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/target-suspends-efforts-to-sell-credit-card-receivables-3-.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, suspended the planned sale of its
 credit card  portfolio and agreed to pay JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
$2.8 billion to retire 2008 financing.  Discussions with potential partners will be revived later
this year, the Minneapolis-based retailer said today in a
statement. The payment to JPMorgan, along with a make-whole
premium, will reduce fourth-quarter earnings per share by 8
cents, Target said.  Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  announced plans to
sell the credit-card portfolio in January 2011 to use the cash
to buy more stock and pay down debt. Target’s gross credit card
receivables totaled $6.1 billion as of Oct. 29, according to
Eric Hausman, a Target spokesman.  “Given it’s been a year since Target put the division up
for sale, the inability to secure a buyer suggests that
management may be over-valuing the business,” Charles Grom, a
New York-based analyst for Deutsche Bank AG, said today in a
note to clients.  The suspension may lead to a worse deal while also reducing
the capital available to invest in adding more fresh groceries
and expanding into  Canada , said Grom, who recommends holding
Target shares.  Recouping Costs  Target was little changed at $49.87 at the close in  New
York . The shares declined 15 percent last year.  Target sold almost half its credit-card loans to JPMorgan
for $3.6 billion in 2008. The retailer said retiring the
JPMorgan financing will help it market the portfolio, and
anticipates recouping some or all of the cost of the make-whole
premium through lower expected interest expense this year and in
2013.  “Our desire to sell the portfolio on appropriate terms
remains the same today as it was when discussions began, but we
believe that now is not the time to finalize a transaction,”
Chief Financial Officer Douglas Scovanner said in the statement.  Scovanner will retire on March 31 after more than 15 years
with the company, which was named Dayton Hudson Corp. when he
joined. It’s also discouraging that a possible sale of the
credit unit won’t occur under his guidance, given his knowledge
of the business, Grom said.  Credit Driving Profits  The delay in selling the receivables might be a blessing in
disguise because it will help reduce the gross margin pressure
Target has been under, according to Michael Keara, an analyst
for Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . Gross margin, or the percentage
of sales left after costs of goods sold, has declined at Target
for six straight quarters.  “The credit card business softens the impact,” Keara said
in an interview. “Plus, it’s a better return business.”  Profit in the retailer’s credit card unit advanced 10
percent to $143 million in the third quarter as bad debt expense
fell 64 percent to $40 million. The penetration of its REDCard
rewards program that offers discounts rose to 9.5 percent of
sales from 5.5 percent, according to a statement Nov. 16.  Target’s December same-store sales rose 1.6 percent while
analysts projected a gain of 3.3 percent. The company boosted
sales last year by adding PFresh grocery sections, and offering
shoppers 5 percent off purchases made with company-issued credit
and  debit cards .  Last week, Target announced plans to buy back as much as $5
billion of its shares as the retailer forecasts it will generate
more cash than needed to invest in its stores. Target said the
pace of share repurchases will likely increase after capital
investments to introduce stores in Canada decline. The stores in
Canada are expected to open in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  