-- Harrisburg Officials Ignored Incinerator Risk, Audit Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-01-18T20:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/harrisburg-officials-ignored-incinerator-debt-risks-forensic-audit-says.html
Harrisburg (9661MF)  officials and advisers
knew there was “substantial risk” that a city incinerator
wouldn’t repay its debt and proceeded with bond deals anyway,
according to an audit of the financings that drove the
Pennsylvania capital into insolvency.  The  Harrisburg Authority (26659MF) , the agency that owns the trash-
to-energy plant, today released the forensic report on deals
that saddled the city with more than $300 million in debt, a
load five times its general-fund budget. The state placed the
community in receivership last year.  Harrisburg, with 49,500 residents, in 2003 overhauled the
plant to remedy environmental violations. The city, surrounding
Dauphin County and bond insurer Financial Security Assurance
Inc., which all guaranteed deals that year and in 2007, didn’t
heed “numerous red flags,” according to the audit. It refers
to the incinerator as the resource recovery facility, or RRF.  “They received significant guarantee fees or insurance
premiums for doing so, knowing the risks associated with
default,” the audit said. “All evidence pointed to the RRF’s
inability to service existing and contemplated debt.”  Excessive Fees  The report also flagged the use of derivative investments
known as swaps, calling them unnecessarily complex transactions
that resulted in excessive fees and higher risks.  “It appears at least some of these swaps were entered into
and terminated for short-term gains, irrespective of
additional risks or negative long-term effects of the
transactions,” the audit said. “It appears that the decision
to enter into several of the transactions may have been driven
primarily by the immediate need for money, and may not have been
permissible” under the law.  RBC Dain Rauscher, a subsidiary of  Royal Bank of Canada 
that was described as the primary architect of the financing,
received above market swaps payments from the authority, the
audit said. The authority paid the bank $6.16 million in fees,
including some which may have been handed to other underwriters,
according to the report.  “While we have not had an opportunity yet to review the
report, we stand by our work with the authority which was
confined to the 2003 transaction and its related components,”
Elisa Barsotti, an RBC spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Reed’s Role  Former Harrisburg Mayor Stephen Reed, who pushed through
the deals, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call for
comment on the audit. He served in the position from 1982
through 2009.  The auditors said that professionals who were hired by the
authority, which operates independently of the city, maintained
close ties with Reed. In at least one instance, in 2000, the
city got about $4.2 million from the authority for insuring some
bonds and used the money to help balance the municipal budget,
the audit said.  “The authority’s and the county’s independent financial
advisors do not appear to have seriously challenged the plan of
finance, suggested alternatives to the recommended swap
transactions, or expressed concerns to their clients about
management of interest-rate risk or cost relating to specific
transactions or long-term planning,” the audit said.  Disturbing Structure  Philadelphia-based law firm  Klehr Harrison Harvey Branzburg
LLC , accounting firm  ParenteBeard LLC  and New York-based  Public
Resources Advisory Group  conducted the audit.  Payments the Harrisburg Authority made to firms working on
these deals, excluding the county and city, came to almost $83.5
million, the report said. Most of that, about $60.5 million,
went to Barlow Projects Inc., the lead contractor for the
overhaul, according to the audit.  David Unkovic, Harrisburg’s state-appointed receiver, will
submit a recovery plan for the city for court approval Feb. 6.  Unkovic has called the structure of the incinerator deals
“disturbing” and said those who played a part in the debt
should participate in its solution. He has been negotiating with
Dauphin County, and bond insurer  Assured Guaranty , which bought
Financial Security Assurance in 2009. The county and insurer
covered debt payments when the city skipped them.  Amy Richards Harinath, a spokeswoman for Dauphin County,
and Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman for Assured Guaranty,
couldn’t immediately comment on the report.  Unkovic’s recovery plan must be approved by a state court.
He doesn’t need the consent of elected officials to implement
his recommendations, under the law that authorized the first
receivership in the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  