-- Asia-Pacific Growth to Weaken as Trade Slows, World Bank Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-18T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/asia-pacific-growth-to-weaken-as-trade-slows-world-bank-says.html
Developing economies in the Asia-
Pacific region will slow for a second straight year in 2012, as
a European downturn and weaker global trade restrain growth in
China and India, the  World Bank  said.  India’s gross domestic product will advance 6.5 percent
this year, down from 8.4 percent estimated in June, the bank
said in a report. China’s outlook was unchanged from a November
forecast for 8.4 percent growth after a 9.1 percent gain in
2011, leading the East Asia and Pacific region’s 7.8 percent
expansion this year, it showed.  Nations from  Thailand  to  Indonesia  to  Malaysia  have reduced
 interest rates  or left them unchanged in recent meetings to
shield their economies from the protracted European debt crisis.
A recession in the euro area, where a 0.3 percent contraction is
forecast for this year, threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in
 emerging markets , the bank said.  “For the majority of countries in the region, the health
of the global economy and high-income  Europe , in particular,
represents the strongest risk at this time,” the Washington-
based lender said. “If the situation in Europe deteriorates
sharply, global trade could fall by 5 or more percent with
serious implications for the very open East Asia region.”  The World Bank report said global trade volumes declined at
an annual pace of 8 percent during the three months ending
October, mainly reflecting a 17 percent annual decline in
European imports.  Slower Trade  World trade volumes will rise 4.7 percent this year, down
from a forecast in June for a 7.7 percent increase, according to
the bank, which was formed after World War II to combat global
poverty.  Japan ’s economy will grow 1.9 percent this year, compared
with a June prediction of 2.6 percent, after a 0.9 percent
contraction in 2011, it said.  While industrial production and exports in the East  Asia 
and Pacific region were disrupted by Japan’s March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, these “are recovering as production chains”
rebalance, the report showed.  “Despite the increasingly cloudy global environment and
the anticipated economic slowdown, growth in the East Asia and
Pacific region will remain fairly robust due to strong domestic
demand, substantial fiscal space for policy interventions,
downside flexibility in policy interest rates, and significant
reserve levels,” the World Bank said.  ‘Major Winners’  The World Bank noted that historical experience showed that
in the event of a crisis-induced commodity price slump, large
fuel- and food-importing regions benefit the most. “Major
winners in these scenarios include China, Nepal and Uruguay,”
it said.  The People’s Bank of  China  last month allowed lenders to
set aside less money as reserves for the first time in three
years to encourage lending. The move may have added 350 billion
yuan ($55 billion) to the financial system, according to UBS AG
estimates. China’s exports rose the least in two years in
December and inflation eased to a 15-month low, bolstering the
case for Premier Wen Jiabao to loosen policies.  A report yesterday showed China’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in 10 quarters as export demand moderated and a
prolonged campaign against consumer and property-price gains
cooled growth. GDP rose 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing Jan. 17.  In South Asia, the region’s largest economy is  India ’s,
which expanded 6.9 percent in the third quarter of 2011, the
least since the second quarter of 2009. The  Reserve Bank  paused
rates last month after a record 13 increases since mid-March
2010.  “India is in a much tougher place right now than China in
the midst of this weaker global economy,” said  Stephen Roach ,
non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, in a Bloomberg
Television interview on Jan. 12.  China is “very serious about engineering a shift” from an
investment- and export-led economy to consumer-driven growth,
Roach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  