-- ASML Sets Mid-2012 Deadline for EUV Technology Performance Goal
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-01-18T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/asml-forecasts-higher-chip-equipment-orders-on-gear-upgrades.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s biggest
manufacturer of semiconductor equipment, set a mid-2012 target
for achieving a 10-fold capacity increase for new technology
it’s planning to market this year.  ASML fell in Amsterdam, retreating from the highest price
in almost 11 years, after Chief Executive Officer Eric Meurice
told analysts that by the summer of 2012, its second-generation
extreme ultraviolet lithography systems, or EUV, “must show the
proof of the pudding” and process 60 silicon wafers an hour
compared with 5 to 7 wafers currently.  The Dutch company, which makes machines that produce chips
for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s mobile phones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads, has been
working on EUV since the late 1990s. ASML expects a “healthy
start” to the year, with first-quarter orders forecast to rise
from the final three months of last year Meurice said in a
statement today.  “EUV may be a slow starter, but once this new technology
moves to high volume in 2014-2015, the dominance of ASML will be
secured for another 10 years,”  Victor Bareno , an analyst at SNS
Securities in Amsterdam, said today in a report to clients.
Bareno cut his recommendation on ASML to “reduce” from
“hold,” saying the stock’s price may already reflect a
recovery in technology-industry orders.  ASML  fell  3.5 percent to 32.50 euros at the close in
Amsterdam, the biggest drop since Aug. 18. The stock, which
yesterday was at the highest price since May 23, 2001, was the
only decliner today on the  BBE European Technology Index (BETECH) , where
STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s largest semiconductor maker, led
gains.  Beating Estimates  Fourth-quarter net bookings at ASML, excluding EUV
machinery, totaled 710 million euros ($910 million), the company
said today. That beat the average estimate of 696 million euros
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income fell 30
percent from a year earlier to 284.7 million euros. Profit
exceeded the 228 million-euro average of 17 estimates. Sales
dropped 20 percent to 1.21 billion euros.  Asian markets  accounted for 71 percent of ASML’s fourth-
quarter revenue, with the U.S. contributing 24 percent,
according to an online presentation. Argon fluoride laser
machinery generated 81 percent of sales, with krypton fluoride
technology providing 14 percent. Full-year net income jumped
44 percent to 1.47 billion euros as sales rose 25 percent.  First-half revenue will amount to 2.4 billion euros, the
company said.  Business Abroad  Orders from outside  Europe  will sustain growth and make up
for any slowdown in the region amid the sovereign-debt crisis,
Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink said in an interview at
company headquarters in Veldhoven, Netherlands. An economic
decline in Europe probably won’t extend to the technology
industry, unlike the global recession and credit crunch that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “The situation today differs a lot from when Lehman
fell,” Wennink said. “Back then, people didn’t want to spend
any money for fear money at the bank would disappear.”  ASML said it’s continuing to “make progress in bringing
EUV technology to the market.” The company has won orders for
11 volume-production EUV systems costing 75 million euros a
unit, Wennink said today at a press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Veldhoven,  Netherlands , via   mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  