-- Tata Consultancy Falls to Two-Month Low on Concern Demand Growth May Slow
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-01-18T10:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/tata-consultancy-falls-to-two-month-low-on-concern-demand-growth-may-slow.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s largest software-services provider, declined to its
lowest level in almost two months on concern the company’s
banking customers may be vulnerable to an economic slowdown.  Tata Consultancy  fell  2.5 percent to 1,076.15 rupees at
close in Mumbai, the lowest level since Nov. 25. The benchmark
Sensitive Index dropped 0.1 percent.  “Discretionary spending” by customers in the U.S. may be
delayed as there will be greater due diligence, Chief Executive
Officer N. Chandrasekaran said after announcing that  net income 
rose 23 percent. The  World Bank  today cut its global growth
forecast by the most in three years, saying that a recession in
the euro region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown.  “We remain cautious on the stock given the high street
expectations built into valuations,” Ashwin Mehta and Pinku
Pappan, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to
clients after the earnings announcement. The company faces
greater risk because of its dependence on banking and financial
services clients compared with its peers, they wrote.  Nomura cut its price target for the stock to 1,200 rupees
from 1,230 rupees and reiterated their “neutral”  rating .  Profit Exceeds Estimates  Tata Consultancy’s profit rose to 28.9 billion rupees ($570
million) in the quarter ended Dec. 31 exceeding the 28.3
billion-rupee median of 35 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue (WPRO)  rose 37 percent to 132 billion rupees,
matching the median of 45 analysts’ estimates.  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based World
Bank said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent, compared with
a previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain. The U.S. growth
outlook was cut to 2.2 percent from 2.9 percent.  Worldwide spending on information technology services will
grow at a slower 3.1 percent pace after climbing 6.9 percent in
2011 to an estimated $874 billion, researcher Gartner Inc. said
on Jan. 5.  Infosys Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest software
exporter, on Jan. 12 cut its full-year sales forecast in dollar
terms for a second time because of weaker economic growth in
markets including  Europe . Its shares declined 1.9 percent.  Tata Consultancy got 43.2 percent of its revenue from its
banking, financial services and insurance practice in the
quarter, compared with 35.2 percent at smaller rival Infosys
Ltd., the nation’s second-largest software exporter.  ‘Strong Pipeline’  “We have pretty strong request-for-proposal pipeline,”
Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam said in an interview in
Mumbai today. The company doesn’t see pricing pressure, he said.  Some banks are reducing the number of jobs citing volatile
markets and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest lender, said Jan. 4 it
plans to cut about 1,580 jobs at its corporate and investment
bank, about 10 percent of the unit’s total.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
government-owned bank, said Jan. 12 it is to cut about 4,800
jobs including 3,500 at the investment bank as it jettisons
unprofitable units.  “TCS’ higher exposure to banking, financial services and
insurance, relative to peers should hurt it more if decision-
making on discretionary spend in BFSI, continues to be weak,”
Shradha Agrawal and Deepan Kapadia, analysts at B&K Securities
India Pvt. in Mumbai, wrote in a note dated Jan. 17 to clients.
They maintained their “underperformer” rating on the stock.  Adding Customers  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to clients including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Singapore
Airlines Ltd., added 40 customers during the quarter, ending
with a total of 1,003. The company won its second-biggest order
from pension provider Friends Life in November.  The company, which  derived  53.3 percent of its revenue from
companies in  North America , 15 percent from the U.K., and 10.5
percent from continental Europe in the quarter, had a 3.2
percent increase in volume in the three months ended Dec. 31
from the previous period.  Information-technology services companies define volume as
the number of man-months workers spend on projects for clients.  Volume at Infosys grew 3.1 percent over the quarter, Chief
Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said Jan. 12.  Infosys shares fell the most in nine months on Jan. 12
after the Bangalore-based software-services provider said last
week sales in the year ending March 31 will range from $7.029
billion to $7.033 billion, paring an earlier projection.  Workers left Tata Consultancy at a rate of 12.8 percent in
the quarter ended Dec. 31, down from 14.4 percent for the same
period last year. Infosys reported  employee attrition  of 15.4
percent for the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  