-- Kingfisher Air Talks to SC Lowy for Investment After Plane Order Scrapped
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-01-19T16:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/atr-scraps-kingfisher-order-for-38-planes-over-missed-payments.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier facing cash shortages, said it’s in talks with potential
investors including SC Lowy Financial Services after having a
plane order canceled because of a lack of payments.  Prakash Mirpuri, a Kingfisher spokesman, gave no further
details in a text message to Bloomberg News today. A spokesman
for Hong Kong-based investment bank Lowy declined to comment.  SC Lowy may reach an agreement on a $280 million investment
by the end of the month, the Economic Times reported today,
citing a person it didn’t identify. Kingfisher, controlled by
billionaire Vijay Mallya, is seeking new funds and restructuring
operations following 16 quarterly losses.  “Anybody putting in money in Kingfisher would be seeking
strong guarantees,” said Shumukh Ghosh, an analyst at Naman
Securities & Finance Pvt. in Mumbai. “As a business, I would be
very surprised if they survive in the current form over the next
two years.”  Avions de Transport Regional, a maker of turboprop
aircraft, said yesterday it canceled a 38-plane order from
Kingfisher after the carrier missed payments. The airline has
also grounded 12 of its existing 27 ATR planes because of a lack
of parts.  “We didn’t think the situation of Kingfisher today was
such that in a short time they’d be in a position to take
additional planes,” ATR Chief Executive Officer Filippo Bagnato
said in Paris yesterday. “There were issues with the continuity
of pre-delivery payments.”  Plane Deliveries  Airlines make pre-delivery payments between the signing of
an initial purchase contract and the actual delivery of the
plane. Kingfisher didn’t ask for the cancellations, he said.  The airline has already scrapped low-cost services and
delayed Airbus SAS A380 deliveries as part of a turnaround plan.  ATR has been negotiating with Kingfisher for about two
years over plane deliveries, according to the planemaker, a
joint venture of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  of  Italy .  The carrier also has significant orders outstanding with
Airbus, the world’s largest commercial planemaker, itself a unit
of EADS. As of Dec. 31 Kingfisher had orders pending for five
A380 superjumbos, five A350 long-range widebodies and 15 A330s,
according to Airbus backlog numbers on its website. At list
prices the aircraft would be worth about $6 billion.  Airbus Sales  Kingfisher is current on its payments for those planes,
Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy  said Jan. 17, when
asked about the planes.  “It’s up to them,” he said. “They haven’t called to
cancel them yet,” adding that he was “fully confident” the
airline would recover and be able to take aircraft.  Leahy said Airbus is seeing such strong demand for its
A330-200 model that the company is considering a move to boost
monthly production rates to 11 from 10.  Kingfisher, based in Bangalore,  rose  1.4 percent to 25.7
rupees, the highest since Nov. 28, at the close of Mumbai
trading. The benchmark Sensitive Index gained 1.2 percent. The
airline had plunged 68 percent last year.  Kingfisher also seeks new loans to pay for operating costs
after pledging assets ranging from its brand to furniture for
 loans  of 64.2 billion rupees ($1.3 billion).  Equity Infusion  Kingfisher told its lenders Jan. 17 that it may receive an
equity infusion of $250 million by March, three people familiar
with the matter said. Banks have told the unprofitable airline
they will provide short-term working capital loans after it
secures the investment, said one of the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private. The funds may come
from an Indian investor, two of them said, without elaborating.  Kingfisher has enough pilots and engineers to maintain
services and the regulator had no “significant findings or
concerns with regard to safety,” Sanjay Aggarwal, the airline’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement Jan. 5.  India ’s aviation and finance ministries have recommended
allowing foreign airlines to buy as much as 49 percent of local
operators, a move that may help the carrier access funds. 