-- Austria Said to Consider Its First Sale of 50-Year Euro Bonds
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-18T17:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/austria-said-to-consider-its-first-sale-of-50-year-euro-bonds.html
Austria , which was stripped of its
AAA rating by  Standard & Poor’s  last week, is considering its
first sale of 50-year bonds in euros.  The offering may be at least 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
in size, according to a banker involved with the transaction,
who declined to be identified because the information is
private.  Austria would join European countries including Britain,
 France  and  Italy  in selling the securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Austria’s top debt ranking was lowered
one level by Standard & Poor’s to AA+ on Jan. 13, the same day
the ratings firm downgraded nine euro-region nations including
France.  “The market has taken the ratings changes somewhat in its
stride,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist
at Rabobank International in  London . “Very long dated yields
are historically low, so from an Austrian perspective it might
make sense to lock in those low funding costs.”  The securities may be priced to yield 135 to 140 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, the banker said. That
compares with a spread of 122 basis points, or 1.22 percentage
points, on Austria’s 4.15 percent bonds due 2037, its current
longest-dated outstanding notes, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show.  Christian Schreckeis, a spokesman for Austrian’s debt
agency in Vienna, didn’t immediately return a call or answer an
e-mail seeking comment.  Average Maturity  The average maturity of Austria’s outstanding securities is
8.1 years, according to the debt agency’s website.  The sale of the 50-year bonds will depend on investor
receptiveness to the securities, according to the banker. Top-
rated  Germany  has refrained from issuing such long-dated bonds
because they offer no cost advantage, the nation’s debt agency
has said.  Austria is also selling 10-year bonds that may be priced at
a spread of 100 basis points, according to the banker. Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan
Stanley and Raiffeisen Bank International have been hired to
manage the offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  