-- Auto Plants at Capacity Buoying All Parts of U.S. Economy: Cars
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/auto-plants-at-capacity-buoying-all-parts-of-u-s-economy-cars.html
Bobbi Marsh puts her 11-year-old son
to bed each night and then heads to her job at  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s metal-stamping plant in Lordstown, Ohio. She gets home in
time to make him breakfast.  Marsh, 34, is one of thousands of auto workers in the U.S.
benefiting from the return of a third shift at factories --
often from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. -- translating to 24-hour-a-day
production at many plants for the first time since the industry
collapse in 2009. At the nadir, some plants ran only one eight-
hour shift.  The new third shifts, adding more than 4,300 jobs in four
states at GM alone, bring jobs to the economy and revenue to
governments as well as demand at odd hours for everything from
daycare and dentistry to financial services and food. U.S. auto
plants this year may operate at about 81 percent of capacity
after falling as low as 49 percent in 2009, according to
estimates from IHS Automotive in Northville,  Michigan .  “It’s been great: I can spend all evening with my son,”
said Marsh, 34, a three-year GM employee who lives near the
plant about 60 miles southeast of  Cleveland . She switched from
working evenings to the overnight shift when it was reinstated
last year and sleeps from about 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. “It does take
a different kind of person to work third shift, but I love it.”  Automakers are increasing production at the car plants
after the U.S. light-vehicle sales rose by at least 10 percent
for two straight years for the first time since 1984 and grew at
a faster rate than  China , the world’s biggest auto market, for
the first time in at least 13 years. States that were hard-hit
by the downturn, such as Michigan and Ohio, are among the
biggest beneficiaries, adding jobs at places like Ross’ Eatery &
Pub and Tony M’s.  15 Plants  GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Chrysler Group LLC, Nissan Motor Co.
and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  have either added U.S. production beyond
the traditional two shifts or announced plans to do so at 15
plants, including six in Michigan, since GM and Chrysler emerged
from bankruptcy in the middle of 2009.  “There’s no question we’re running full-out,” said Kim Rodriguez, a principal at  KPMG ’s auto-consulting business in
 Detroit . “After China, the U.S. was the market where executives
expect the most growth, which is staggering considering where we
were.”  Businesses from auto suppliers to trucking companies are
hustling to add capacity and find new workers to adapt to the
increased production, she said.  Restaurant Hours  For GM worker Marsh in  Ohio , the new job means off-hour
grocery trips to the 24-hour Giant Eagle supermarket and late-
night orders from Ross’ Eatery & Pub, which gets 75 percent
of its restaurant business from the three shifts at the
Lordstown complex that builds the  Chevrolet Cruze  sedan. The
restaurant now runs from 6 a.m. to 1 a.m. to accommodate the new
shift, expanding last year from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m.  “We had been treading water for what seemed like an
eternity -- it was just me, my mom and my aunt running the
place” during the auto crisis, said owner Earl Ross, 36. He now
employs 20, up from the three family members just a couple of
years ago, to supply the plant with fried chicken, burgers and
his signature $6.99 Philly steak sandwich.  Ohio added 79,300 jobs through November 2011 from December
2010, an improvement from a decade when only Michigan among U.S.
states lost a larger percentage of jobs, according to the
federal  Bureau of Labor Statistics . Ohio was second in the
nation to Michigan in vehicle production in 2010, according to
the state Department of Development.  Market Growing  The momentum for added production is expected to continue
this year as auto deliveries may rise about 5.6 percent to 13.5
million, the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Vehicle sales rose 11 percent in 2010 and 10 percent
last year after sales fell to a 27-year low of 10.4 million
sales in 2009.  A third shift at a Midwestern U.S. auto plant typically
requires about 1,000 direct workers and creates about 7,850
spinoff jobs ranging from police and fire workers to
construction, retail and restaurant employees, according to
estimates from the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan. About a third of the positions are within 60 miles of
the plant.  Michigan gained 63,500 jobs in 2011, according to the
 Research Seminar in Quantitative Economics  at the  University of
Michigan . It was the first job gain in the state since the turn
of the century. The group predicts a net gain of 26,000 jobs
this year, 28,500 in 2013, and 46,800 in 2014.  Tony M’s Lasagna  The overnight shift at GM’s sport-utility vehicle factory
in Delta Township, Michigan, near the state capital of Lansing,
has meant a 40 percent increase in business at Tony M’s
restaurant nearby, said Stefan Farrell, the general manager at
the eatery that specializes in pizza and lasagna.  The restaurant, which boasts a highly guarded sauce recipe,
has expanded the business hours from 7 a.m. to 2 a.m. each day,
from the 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. workday before the third shift was
added in 2010, he said.  About 15 workers who drive trucks delivering parts
overnight at the plant were eating nearby as he talked, he said.  “When GM is down, it’s a ghost town,” said Farrell, who
said last week he personally drove 15 pizzas in one batch to the
factory on a food run.  Chrysler and Ford are adding so-called third crews, which
use new workers to allow the plants to operate more hours of the
week by adding rotating crews that include both day and evening
shifts and also include Saturday and Sunday, rather than running
later into the night on a full third shift.  Weekend Output  Ford will have four plants in  Kentucky , Michigan and
 Illinois  on the three-crew system within the next year, meaning
those plants will run about 120 hours out of the 168 hours
possible, instead of the 100 hours for a two-shift run.
Chrysler’s  Jeep Grand Cherokee  plant in Detroit will add a
similar system next year.  The benefits are being felt outside the traditional
Midwestern U.S. auto heartland.  Nissan (7201)  already runs three shifts on its Altima sedan
assembly line at the Canton,  Mississippi , factory, said Bill Krueger, vice chairman of Nissan’s Americas operations. The
automaker is studying a third shift at its largest North
American plant in Smyrna,  Tennessee , as well, he said.  “It’s in our future,” Krueger said.  Suppliers’ Shifts  Auto suppliers nearby are talking about adding third shifts
in Rutherford County, Tennessee, which is home to the Nissan
plant and about a 75-minute drive from Volkswagen’s Chattanooga
factory, said Holly Sears, the vice president of economic
development for the Rutherford County Chamber of Commerce.  “Every single auto supplier we’ve talked to recently has a
positive outlook for 2012 and 2013,” she said.  West Point ,  Georgia , with about 3,500 residents, has seen
new hours at dentist offices, banks, health clubs and other
businesses since the  Kia (00270)  factory there added a third shift last
June, said  Randy Jackson , vice president of human resources at
the 3,000-employee operation.  Nellie’s Day Care in West Point has added eight to 10 kids
who spend the night, a majority from Kia employees, as the third
shift was added, said Bo Barber, 46, who took over operations
for the 24-year-old business from his mother Nellie about five
years ago. A year ago, they had none.  The children, ranging in age from three to seven, may get a
light meal before bedtime and then the staff helps them get
ready in the morning, he said. The overnight business required
an additional worker for the daycare center, which serves a
total of about 46 kids on all three shifts with six employees,
Barber said.  Investors have been talking about opening another daycare
center in the area to cater to workers on all three shifts and
several area doctors are planning to operate an urgent care
clinic with extended hours, Jackson said.  “Third shifts are beginning to sprout up in a lot of
places now,” said Jackson, who has worked at U.S. auto
factories for 31 years. “Businesses are expanding here and it’s
helping the community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 