-- Bank of New York Mellon Fourth-Quarter EPS Fails to Meet Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-01-18T21:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bank-of-new-york-mellon-fourth-quarter-eps-fails-to-meet-analyst-estimates.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the
world’s biggest custody bank, said fourth-quarter earnings
declined 26 percent on a restructuring charge and lower revenue
from businesses tied to financial markets.  Net income fell to $505 million, or 42 cents a share, from
$679 million or 54 cents, a year earlier,  BNY Mellon  said today
in a statement. Analysts had expected the New York-based company
to report a profit of 52 cents a share, according to the average
of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Custody banks have been hurt as  interest rates  near zero
reduce income from investments and lending. The bank, led by
Gerald Hassell since his predecessor, Robert P. Kelly, stepped
down at the end of August, booked a charge of $107 million, or 6
cents a share, for operational improvements designed to save as
much as $700 million before taxes by 2015.  “It was a weak quarter driven by conditions of the  capital
markets , including low interest rates,”  Gerard Cassidy , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine , said in a
telephone interview after earnings were released. Most analysts
probably didn’t include a one-time charge for restructuring in
their estimates, Cassidy said.  Cost Savings  BNY Mellon fell 4.6 percent to close at $20.30 in New York
trading. The shares have declined 37 percent over the past 12
months, compared with a 21 percent drop by the Standard & Poor’s
20-company index of asset managers and custody banks.  State Street Corp. (STT) , based in Boston and the third-largest
custody bank, saved about $80 million last year through job cuts
and investments in technology and will save an estimated $170
million this year, Robert Lee, an analyst with Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc. in New York, wrote in a Jan. 9 research note.  BNY Mellon’s assets under custody rose 3 percent to $25.8
trillion while assets under management gained 8 percent to $1.26
trillion, the bank said in its statement. Total revenue fell 6
percent to $3.5 billion as both of the bank’s main businesses,
asset servicing and asset management, reported a drop in fees.  The bank cited higher money-market fee waivers, weak
international equity markets and a seasonal dip in its
depositary receipts business for the decline in fees.  Foreign exchange revenue fell 11 percent to $183 million.  ‘Difficult Markets’  Earnings were hurt by a $23 million provision for credit
losses tied to “a broker-dealer customer that filed for
bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 2011,” the bank said in its
statement. Cassidy said the customer probably was MF Global
Holdings Ltd., which filed for  bankruptcy protection  Oct. 31.  The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to keep its main lending
rate close to zero has eroded margins on lending and forced the
bank to waive fees on money-market funds. BNY Mellon’s net
interest margin, the difference between what it pays on deposits
and receives on loans and investments, fell to 1.27 percent in
the fourth quarter from 1.54 percent a year earlier.  In the third quarter of 2011, the squeeze from rates was
exacerbated by institutional investors, nervous about the fight
over raising the debt ceiling in the U.S., depositing more cash
with the bank, Hassell said in November.  “We believe we are going to face slow growth and difficult
markets, so we have to go after the expense base,” Hassell
said. The bank said it expected its fee revenue to grow 3
percent to 5 percent per year from 2012 to 2014.  Partial Settlement  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index finished 2011 at 1257.60,
roughly where it began the year. Like other custody banks, BNY
Mellon earns fees on the assets it oversees and manages.  BNY Mellon has been sued by the attorneys general of  New
York ,  Virginia  and  Florida , who say the bank overcharged and
misled their pension funds in the pricing of foreign-exchange
transactions. The bank has defended its practices and has said
it will defend itself against the allegations.  BNY Mellon said yesterday it agreed to change its
disclosure statements for so-called standing instruction foreign
exchange transactions to partly resolve lawsuit by U.S.
prosecutors. The U.S. won’t seek a court order forcing the bank
to disclose how it prices the transactions, according to a
filing.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors. BNY Mellon and State
Street also manage investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in  Boston  at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  