-- Banks Will Boost Dividends This Year, Second Curve’s Brown Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-18T20:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/banks-will-boost-dividends-this-year-second-curve-s-brown-says-tom-keene.html
Equity investors looking for
dividend returns this year may want to look to the banking
industry, according to Second Curve Capital LLC’s  Thomas Brown .  “One of the key positives for banks in 2012, big and
small, will be significant increases in common-stock
dividends,” Brown, chief executive officer and founder of
Second Curve in New York, said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  Brown cited  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s fifth-largest lender
by deposits. The Minneapolis bank reported today a 39 percent
increase in fourth-quarter profit and said raising its 50-cent
yearly dividend is a priority.  The Federal Reserve has said it will approve dividend
increases and other capital distributions for banks that
demonstrate sufficient financial strength to operate under
stressed markets.  U.S. Bancorp and Commerce Bancshares Inc. of Kansas City,
Missouri, are the two lenders in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX) 
that climbed in 2011, with U.S. Bancorp rising 0.3 percent. U.S.
Bancorp has rallied 7.4 percent this month.  While Brown said U.S. Bancorp and  Wells Fargo & Co.  are the
best-performing large banks, he advised looking toward smaller,
regional lenders.  “I like to own the banks that had problems, that are
getting better,” said Brown, whose firm manages $200 million in
assets. “It is much easier to control the business in these
small banks.”  Mercantile Bank Corp. (MBWM)  of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and
Citizens Republic Bancorp Inc. of Flint, Michigan, are in a
“strong recovery” mode, according to Brown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  