-- Bank of Canada January Monetary Policy Report Summary (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-18T15:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bank-of-canada-january-monetary-policy-report-summary-text-.html
Following is the text of the summary
of the Bank of  Canada ’s Monetary Policy Report, released today in
Ottawa.  The outlook for the global economy has deteriorated and
uncertainty has increased since October. The sovereign debt
crisis in Europe has intensified, conditions in international
financial markets have tightened and  risk aversion  has risen. The
recession in Europe is now expected to be deeper and longer than
the Bank had anticipated. The Bank continues to assume that
European authorities will implement sufficient measures to
contain the crisis, although this assumption is clearly subject
to downside risks. In the  United States , while the rebound in
real GDP during the second half of 2011 was stronger than
anticipated, the Bank expects the recovery will proceed at a more
modest pace going forward, owing to ongoing household
deleveraging, fiscal consolidation and the spillovers from
 Europe . Chinese growth is decelerating, as expected, toward a
more sustainable pace. Commodity prices--with the exception of
oil--are expected to be below the levels anticipated in October
through 2013.  The Bank’s overall outlook for the Canadian economy is
little changed from October. While the economy had more momentum
than anticipated in the second half of 2011, the pace of growth
going forward is expected to be more modest than previously
envisaged, largely due to the external environment. Prolonged
uncertainty about the global economic and financial environment
is likely to dampen the rate of growth of business investment,
albeit to a still-solid pace. Net exports are expected to
contribute little to growth, reflecting moderate foreign demand
and ongoing competitiveness challenges, including the persistent
strength of the Canadian dollar. In contrast, very favourable
financing conditions are expected to buttress  consumer spending 
and housing activity. Household expenditures are expected to
remain high relative to GDP and the ratio of  household debt  to
income is projected to rise further.  The Bank estimates that the economy grew by 2.4 per cent in
2011 and projects that it will grow by 2.0 per cent in 2012 and
2.8 per cent in 2013. While the economy appears to be operating
with less slack than previously assumed, given the more modest
growth profile, the economy is only anticipated to return to full
capacity by the third quarter of 2013, one quarter earlier than
was expected in October.  The dynamics for inflation are similar to those anticipated
in October, although the profile for inflation is marginally
firmer. Both total and core inflation are expected to moderate in
2012 and subsequently rise, reaching 2 per cent by the third
quarter of 2013 as excess supply is slowly absorbed, labour
compensation grows modestly and inflation expectations remain
well-anchored.  Several significant upside and downside risks are present in
the inflation outlook for Canada.  The three main upside risks to inflation in Canada relate to
the possibility of stronger-than-expected inflationary pressures
in the global economy, stronger-than-expected growth in the  U.S.
economy  and stronger momentum in Canadian household spending.  The two main downside risks to inflation in Canada relate to
sovereign debt and banking concerns in Europe and the possibility
that growth in Canadian household spending could be weaker than
projected.  Overall, the Bank judges that these risks are roughly
balanced over the projection horizon.  Reflecting all of these factors, on 17 January, the Bank
maintained the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. With
the target interest rate near historic lows and the financial
system functioning well, there is considerable monetary policy
stimulus in Canada. The Bank will continue to monitor carefully
economic and financial developments in the Canadian and global
economies, together with the evolution of risks, and set monetary
policy consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target
over the medium term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  