-- U.S. Holds Military Talks With Israel on Iran as EU Readies Bank Freeze
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-20T18:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/barak-says-u-s-army-chief-won-t-press-israel-on-iran-strike-1-.html
Israeli leaders held talks with the
top U.S. military commander, General Martin Dempsey, following
the postponement of a joint exercise that was to be the biggest
ever for the two allies.  Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he
stressed common interests and the important partnership between
the U.S. and  Israel  in his meetings with Israeli counterpart
Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and
President  Shimon Peres . He was also scheduled to hold talks with
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  “We have many interests in common in the region in this
very dynamic time and the more we can continue to engage each
other, the better off we’ll all be,” said Dempsey, who is on
his first visit to Israel as the Obama administration’s top
military adviser, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Israeli Defense Ministry.  U.S. and Israeli officials have described Dempsey’s visit
as a routine consultation between allies, dismissing speculation
that it is focused on coordinating strategy against Iran. Barak
said Jan. 18 that he doesn’t think the U.S. general’s trip is
aimed at pressuring Israel against striking Iran’s nuclear
facilities.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said today that military
action against  Iran  “would not solve the problem but unleash
war and chaos.” Speaking to foreign diplomats in Paris, he said
the international community should instead impose tougher
sanctions “that include an oil import ban by all and the freeze
of central bank assets.”  Dempsey’s chief spokesman, Colonel  David Lapan , said after
the meetings in Israel that the general’s talks “served to
advance a common understanding of the regional security
environment.”  Unilateral Strike  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other U.S.
officials have repeatedly warned Israel not to take action
against Iran alone, including during the defense secretary’s
October visit to Tel Aviv. Should Israel decide to undertake a
unilateral military strike against Iran, Panetta said the first
U.S. priority would be protecting American troops in the region.  The joint military exercise was moved to the second half of
2012 for “a variety of factors” to promote “optimum
participation by all units,” Captain John Kirby, a Pentagon
spokesman, said last week in an e-mail. “We remain dedicated to
this exercise and naturally want it to be as robust and as
productive as it can be.”  Bank Sanctions  The U.S., its European allies and the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  have said that while Iran halted its nuclear
weapons program in 2003, there are indications it may still be
trying to build a nuclear weapon. They have challenged the
government in Tehran to prove that its nuclear research is
intended only for energy and medical research, as Iranian
officials maintain.  U.S. sanctions imposed last year seek to cut off dealings
with Iran’s banking system, making it difficult for consumers to
buy the country’s oil. European Union officials meet Jan. 23 to
discuss an oil embargo that may be delayed by six months to give
some members time to find alternate supplies, two EU officials
said.  Israeli Vice Prime Minister Moshe Yaalon told Israel Radio
Jan. 15 that while Congress had shown itself determined to place
tougher sanctions on Iran’s nuclear program, the Obama
administration “appears more hesitant out of fear that  oil
prices  might rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  