-- Bat Fungal-Disease Toll Advances to 6.7 Million in U.S., Canada
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-01-18T11:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bat-fungal-disease-toll-advances-to-6-7-million-in-u-s-canada.html
A fungal disease has killed 6.7
million bats in  North America , up from a prior estimate of 1
million, the  Center for Biological Diversity  said in a report,
citing biologists.  Biologists at the  Northeast Bat Working Group ’s annual
meeting last week raised the estimate of deaths caused by white-
nose syndrome, a fungal disease that attacks the mammals while
they hibernate, the center said in a report. The syndrome now
infects bat colonies in 16 U.S. states and four Canadian
provinces. The disease was first discovered in 2006 in New York
and has spread from  Nova Scotia  to  Tennessee , the center said.  The value of bug-eating bats to the U.S. agriculture
industry is about $22.9 billion a year, according to a report in
the journal Science last year. Bats’ pest-suppression value to
agriculture is about $74 an acre, according to the report
published on April 1. As the disease spreads to crop-producing
areas, pesticide costs may mount, the  Center for Biological
Diversity  said.  “The loss of so many bug-eating bats has likely had an
impact on insect populations, including those that are pests on
crops,” the center said. “Since the bat disease has only shown
up in the Midwest and South in the last couple of years, the
full effects of declining bat numbers on regions more strongly
dominated by agriculture than the Northeast may take some time
to show up.”  The U.S. government has allotted $4 million for research
and management of the disease, according to the report.
Researchers have been seeking a cause for the illness since
2006, when it was first noted in a photograph taken by a
recreational cave explorer in  New York ,  David Blehert , a
researcher at the  U.S. Geological Survey  in Madison,  Wisconsin ,
said in October.  It’s unclear where the fungus originated. The bats catch
the illness through physical contact, and it isn’t spread
through the air, scientists have said. If infected bats are
removed from hibernation, warmed and given food and water, they
can recover from white nose syndrome, Blehert said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 