-- Beach Deal Seen With Australia Shale 2% of U.S. Value: Real M&A
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-01-19T07:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/beach-deal-seen-with-australia-shale-2-of-u-s-value-real-m-a.html
Surging prices for shale gas and oil
properties in the U.S. are turning owners of deposits as far
away as Australia into potential takeover targets.  While shale assets in Texas sold at $25,000 an acre this
year and a holding in Ohio and Pennsylvania changed hands at
about $15,000 last month, shale properties owned by Australia’s
 Beach Energy Ltd.  can be bought for $406 per acre, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and DNB Markets. Energy companies are
pursuing unconventional assets such as shale after the average
price for Brent oil futures reached a record in 2011 and the
cost to find and develop oil jumped, the data show.  With explorers from  Senex Energy Ltd. (SXY)  to  Drillsearch Energy
Ltd. (DLS)  also owning pieces of an estimated 400 trillion cubic feet
of recoverable shale-gas resources, Australia is poised to
commercialize its holdings on a  “large scale,”  according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration. While the country’s
explorers are trailing their U.S. counterparts in development by
several years and face higher drilling costs, Asian demand for
natural gas may lure energy and power producers to Australia’s
shale  properties , Commonwealth Bank of Australia said.  “This could be the next big thing,” Mark Carnegie, former
head of Lazard Ltd.’s Australian private equity business, said
from Sydney. Carnegie manages a A$170 million ($177 million)
venture capital fund at M.H. Carnegie & Co., which owns about 11
percent of Perth-based shale explorer  Strike Energy Ltd. (STX)   “There’s no reason the economics shouldn’t be the same in
Australia as they are in the Eagle Ford,” shale region in Texas,
he said. “If we get anything like that we’re going to end up
with a phenomenal return.”  Fracking Technology  Advances over the past decade in the technology for
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, used to free gas and oil
trapped in dense shale-rock formations, has helped spur the
increase in prices for shale acreage. The process involves
fracturing the formation by injecting water mixed with sand and
chemicals to keep the cracks open and petroleum flowing.  Companies are also expanding into unconventional drilling
areas after Brent oil futures, the London-traded benchmark for
two-thirds of the world’s crude, jumped 26 percent to an average
of $110.91 a barrel in 2011, the highest level on record.  Japan’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  this month agreed to pay as much as
$25,000 an acre for a stake in an Eagle Ford shale oil and gas
property, a 19 percent increase from the per-acre price paid for
a nearby holding by Marathon Oil Corp. last year.  Cooper Basin   Beach Energy, Senex and Drillsearch each own resources in
the Cooper Basin, Australia’s main source of  onshore gas . The
area is already connected by pipeline to Sydney and other
eastern markets, according to an April EIA report, which found
that Australia has “geologic and industry conditions resembling
those” of the U.S. and Canada.  “The country appears poised to commercialize its gas shale
resources on a large scale,” it said.  Natural gas demand on the east coast of Australia may
triple by 2020, driven by exports to Asia and Australia’s move
to tax carbon emissions, Commonwealth Bank said in a note last
month.  BG Group Plc (BG/) , ConocoPhillips and Santos Ltd. are building
more than $50 billion of projects on the coast of Queensland
state that will convert gas extracted from coal deposits into
liquid so it can be shipped to Japan, China and  South Korea .
Arrow Energy Ltd., owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and PetroChina
Co., has said it plans a fourth venture.  Oil India  Those projects may need Cooper Basin shale-gas to underpin
expansion plans, said Lucas Huang, a Singapore-based analyst at
DNB Markets. Utilities and international  oil companies  may also
seek Cooper Basin shale gas properties, according to
Commonwealth Bank analyst Luke Smith.  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , which said this week that it plans to spend
as much as $200 million on its first shale-gas investment in the
U.S., has also asked banks to propose investments in Australia.  “We’ll see consolidation because the LNG plants, we think,
will be under-supplied with gas,” said Tim Hannon, who manages
a A$100 million hedge fund at Melbourne-based Evergreen Capital
Partners Ltd. “If you’re a large LNG player in Australia you
might want to get in first and make an acquisition.”  Beach Energy (BPT) , Senex and Drillsearch make up about 15
percent of the Evergreen fund’s holdings, and Hannon said he
plans to invest in more shares of Australian shale gas companies.
 New Standard Energy Ltd. (NSE) ,  AWE Ltd. (AWE)  and  Buru Energy Ltd. (BRU)  are
among other potential investments, he said.  Drillsearch rose 2.6 percent to A$1 in Sydney trading today,
the highest since August 2009. Beach Energy added 2.6 percent to
A$1.405, while Senex gained 1.9 percent to 81 cents.  ‘First Mover’  Beach Energy, whose 61 percent gain in the past 12 months
through yesterday was the biggest in the  S&P/ASX 200 Energy
Index , has held talks with companies that may help develop its
shale assets, Managing Director Reginald Nelson said last year.
The company had a market value of about A$1.52 billion as of
yesterday.  “We’re a first mover in shale gas,” Adelaide, South
Australia-based Beach Energy said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We’re happy to see continuing corporate momentum
surrounding shale gas assets in Australia, bringing further
attention to a significant new resource.”  Senex (SXY)  has also held discussions with international energy
producers for potential partnerships, Ian Davies, managing
director at the Brisbane-based explorer, said last year.  “You’ve seen waves of consolidation with coal-seam gas in
Queensland, and given the scale of the resource potential in the
Cooper Basin, it’s a reasonable extension you will see farm-outs
and further consolidation there,” Davies said this week.  ‘Strong Landholding’  Beach Energy in August reported an initial  2 trillion  cubic
feet of potential resources in its Cooper Basin shale gas
acreage after the drilling results from two wells exceeded
projections. The company, active in eight countries including
the U.S., Egypt and Tanzania, also plans to spend A$355 million
on development and exploration in the year through June, more
than double spending in fiscal 2011.  The Australian  oil company  this month completed its
acquisition of Adelaide Energy Ltd., gaining shale gas
exploration stakes in the Cooper Basin that Beach Energy said in
November would consolidate its  “strong landholding.”   Senex, whose market value has  more than doubled  in the 12
months through yesterday to A$733 million, may be an acquisition
target for power supplier  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , the Australian
Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column on Jan. 16,
without citing any sources. Davies and AGL declined to comment.  Drillsearch, cited as a potential acquisition target by
Commonwealth Bank, signed a partnership accord with BG Group in
July. The U.K. gas producer agreed to invest A$130 million to
search for unconventional gas in the Cooper Basin, Drillsearch
said. The Sydney-based company’s shares have risen 44 percent in
the last year, valuing it at A$298 million yesterday.  ‘Big Balance Sheets’  Brad Lingo, managing director of Drillsearch, didn’t return
a telephone message left yesterday.  Conoco,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Hess Corp. have also agreed to
fund shale gas exploration through ventures with Australian
partners. Further deals will probably follow, said  Andrew Williams , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Melbourne.  “If you have a look at what’s happening globally, these
assets are cheap, and the big international companies are cashed
up,” said Williams, who has an  “outperform”  rating on Senex.
“It’s going to take big balance sheets to exploit it.”  Beach Energy, which has about 875,000 acres of Cooper Basin
shale according to DNB data, excluding the assets of Adelaide
Energy, would be among the explorers most in demand when global
companies seek out Australian shale, Huang said. DNB values the
company’s Cooper Basin shale holdings at A$342 million, or A$391
an acre.  $15,000 an Acre  Beach Energy’s  bid for Adelaide Energy  valued the target’s
shale holdings at A$761 an acre, Huang estimates.  Total SA (FP)  on
Dec. 30 acquired a 25 percent stake in 619,000 acres in the
Utica shale for about $15,000 an acre, including drilling costs,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s more than four times the
average price from seven transactions in the Ohio and
Pennsylvania shale region from March to September 2011,
according to IHS Inc. data.  The U.S. projects still deserve higher multiples than those
in Australia because they are already producing or in a more
advanced stage of development, according to Huang. To draw
interest from global oil companies, Australian shale gas
explorers need to cut drilling expenses and boost reserves,
which may take at least three years, he said.  Drilling in Australia may cost $10 million to $15 million a
well, compared with $4 million to $6 million in parts of the
U.S., Morgan Stanley estimated in June.  ‘On the Radar’  “We are seeing signs that drilling service providers are
looking to work with shale gas operators to slowly move the
costs down,” Huang said. “They might not be takeout targets
for the large majors now, but in another three, four, five years,
they will look attractive.”  PetroChina and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , known as
Sinopec, may also seek to purchase assets, he said. Beijing-
based spokesmen for both said the companies are interested in
shale and other natural gas sources.  “PetroChina is very interested in unconventional natural
gas resources,” said spokesman  Mao Zefeng . Sinopec “will pick
the right time to acquire the right assets,” Sinopec’s  Huang Wensheng  said. Both declined to comment on speculation or
specific projects.  While Australian shale project developers must overcome
technical hurdles and demonstrate that the projects can be
commercially successful, they are “on the radar screens” of
international oil producers,  John Young , a Melbourne-based
analyst at Wilson HTM Investment Group, said.  “As they do more work, and there’s more confidence these
assets will be commercial, people will be prepared to pay more
for them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 