-- Belgian Premier Di Rupo Renews Pledge to Make Extra Budget Cuts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/belgian-premier-di-rupo-pledges-anew-to-make-extra-budget-cuts.html
Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo
reiterated a pledge to make extra budget cuts amid slower
 economic growth  while calling on the European Union to step up
efforts to bolster the region’s economy.  “We will take additional measures,” Di Rupo told
reporters yesterday in Luxembourg without elaborating. “But we
think Europe should also preoccupy itself with economic growth
and  job creation . This complements budgetary rigor.”  Di Rupo won a reprieve from speeded-up EU deficit sanctions
on Jan. 11 after freezing 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) of
spending before a budget review next month. He has pledged to
cut the deficit to less than 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year, as required by the EU.  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13 affirmed the country’s AA
long-term credit rating, noting the government’s “commitment to
its budgetary targets” and the additional cuts taken this
month, even as the ratings company downgraded nine other euro-
area nations. S&P assigned  Belgium  a negative outlook,
indicating at least a one-in-three chance that the rating will
be cut in 2012 or 2013.  The six-party Belgian coalition led by Di Rupo in November
unveiled a 2012 budget based on a growth forecast of 0.8 percent
that contained 11.3 billion euros of spending cuts and tax
increases to pare the deficit to 2.8 percent of GDP. Since then,
Budget Minister Olivier Chastel has said growth will slow to
between zero and 0.5 percent, forcing Di Rupo to cut even
deeper.  ‘Certainly Lower’  “We will have to re-look at the growth rate,” Di Rupo
said after meeting with Luxembourg Premier  Jean-Claude Juncker . The 0.8 percent growth projection will be revised to
“another rate, certainly lower.”  Juncker said the euro area must find ways to boost
economic growth while tightening government budgets because the
region risks economic stagnation. The euro region is “on the
verge of a recession, albeit a technical one,” Juncker said.  ‘‘There’s no alternative to an approach of budget
consolidation, but attention also needs to be paid in  Europe  to
a real policy of growth,” said Juncker, who also leads the group
of euro-area finance ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  