-- Billionaire Calls $70 Million Holbein Oil a Good Buy: Interview
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/billionaire-wuerth-calls-70-million-holbein-madonna-a-good-buy-interview.html
Billionaire Reinhold Wuerth, who has
collected art for more than 40 years, last year spent about $70
million for a Holbein painting of the Madonna. It was the
highest price ever paid for an artwork in  Germany .  The entrepreneur, who made his fortune transforming a
family-run screw wholesaler into a global company, is sure she’s
worth it. The 1525-8 “Madonna With the Family of Mayor Meyer”
by Hans Holbein the Younger, will go on display starting Jan. 20
in Wuerth’s  museum  for late medieval art -- a 12th-century
church in the pretty cobbled town of Schwaebisch Hall, 70
kilometers northwest of Stuttgart.  “I think it was a good buy,” he says in his spacious,
book-lined office in the headquarters of Adolf Wuerth GmbH & Co.
KG, where panorama windows offer sweeping views over the Swabian
landscape around the village of Kuenzelsau.  “The Madonna makes a deep impression -- her face emits a
wonderful radiance and she has an extremely beautiful smile,”
Wuerth says. “If you like a painting that much, of course you
think it would be nice to own it. So I bought it.”  Wuerth’s collection  encompasses 14,000 works, by artists
from Lucas Cranach the Elder to  Anselm Kiefer . The 76-year-old
pilot, who is visibly chuffed as he reports that his license was
extended for another six months at a medical the day before,
ranks 265th in Forbes magazine’s list of the world’s
billionaires.  Screw Business  Forbes estimates his wealth at $4.1 billion, a figure
Wuerth won’t comment on. The company he has owned since 1955 --
when it employed two salesmen -- has kept to its original
product, focusing on screws, screw anchors and tools. It now has
operations in 80 countries and last year grew 13 percent, with
sales of 9.7 billion euros ($12.4 billion).  Wuerth declines to reveal exactly how much he paid for the
Holbein. His art adviser Christoph Douglas, who brokered the
sale, said in July that it cost more than 50 million euros.
Commissioned by the Basel Mayor Jakob Meyer zum Hasen, it shows
him and his family sheltered under the Madonna’s cloak.  “We don’t have a fixed budget for art, like public
museums,” says Wuerth, dapper in a pinstripe suit with a pink
tie and matching silk handkerchief in his breast pocket. “We
buy when we want to, and for something special, we have a
special budget. The advantage of being an entrepreneur is that
you can make relatively free decisions -- you don’t need to rely
on the approval of committees and bosses.”  Too Expensive  Wuerth appointed an art council two years ago to advise him
on big-ticket purchases. He makes smaller acquisitions without
consultation. He says he sometimes visits art fairs himself
“but if I go, then it gets more expensive.” Acquisitions tend
to come via direct approaches, he says.  He’s unlikely to pay a price comparable to the Holbein
Madonna again, Wuerth says. He has two or three works by  Gustav Klimt  and would love a painting, yet the prices are too high.  “I am a businessman, and the business mind is still
operating in the background when I’m collecting,” he says. “If
I am offered three artworks at the same price, but one of the
artists offers more price growth potential, then I would buy
that one.”  Wuerth says he has regretted missed opportunities.  “Often in the past I neglected to buy a piece of art
because I found it too expensive,” he says. “Five years later
I have said: ‘I was such a stupid guy because I did not buy it
at that time,’ because in between, the price went up four times
or even 10 times.”  Forgery Scam  There are some acquisitions he rues, too. Last year it
emerged that Wuerth owned two forgeries -- a fake Heinrich
Campendonk, for which he paid 830,000 euros, and a forged Max Ernst work. The forger, Wolfgang Beltracchi, was sentenced to
six years in jail in October.  “We bought them from a dealer,” Wuerth says. “He was
concerned for his reputation, and took the works back and
swapped them for two or three other artworks which don’t
completely make up for it, but compensate us by about two-
thirds, so we were spared the worst.”  Wuerth’s eyes light up when he talks about flying -- enough
to suggest that it is at least as much of a passion as art. Last
year he flew his own Falcon 900EX to the Caribbean and to
Taipei, and has 7,000 hours of flying experience as captain.  His working day is still at least 14 hours long, he says.  “Today I woke up at 5 a.m. and drove to Stuttgart at
seven,” he says. “I had two events this morning, including a
conference, and I have a business dinner tonight. I will get
home about 10. I definitely have at least two full working lives
behind me, if you take the union definition of a 35-hour week.”  Tax Evasion  In 2008, Wuerth was convicted of  tax evasion  and agreed to
pay a fine to avoid trial. Soon after, he announced he would
take on Austrian citizenship though he has no plans to
relinquish his German citizenship.  “That was a reaction to this tax-evasion lawsuit I had
hanging around my neck,” he says. “Now that wound has healed.
I have a house in Salzburg, and we are there about half the
time, and half the time here, when we are not traveling.”  Wuerth opened the Johanniterkirche in 2008, to exhibit the
Fuerstenberg collection acquired in 2003. Like the Holbein, it
was sold by an aristocratic family.  Before that purchase, his collection had comprised almost
only works from the 19th and 20th century. They are on show at
the Kunsthalle Wuerth, also in Schwaebisch Hall. In the museum’s
foyer, an artistic display of the company’s products in a tower
of glass cubes reminds visitors what made all this possible --
billions and billions of screws, sold over six decades.  “I would not have bought the Holbein Madonna 15 years ago
because she wouldn’t have fitted into the collection,” Wuerth
says. “She fits in now -- as a highlight.”  Can he imagine ever selling her?  “What’s in the collection stays in the collection,” says
Wuerth, who has never sold a painting. “We will lend the
picture for special occasions. But it has found its home here in
Schwaebisch Hall. This is where it belongs now.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 