-- Bank of America Shrinking Assets Puts $2.8 Billion Hole in Moynihan Target
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-18T15:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bofa-shrinking-assets-leaves-2-8-billion-hole-in-profit-target.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s $33 billion
of asset sales last year, designed to help meet international
capital standards, may slice at least $2.8 billion from 2012
profit that the firm also needs to reach its target.  That’s probably more than the bank earned before taxes in
all of 2011, a year marred by the worst quarterly loss for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company. The amount, based on
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, reflects the loss of income
from divestments including a stake in a Chinese lender, a
Canadian credit-card unit and an insurer of foreclosed homes.  “There are consequences to downsizing the balance sheet,
and that’s lower interest income,”  David Trone , an analyst at
JMP Securities LLC, said in an interview. “Management gets into
situations where they have to make uneconomic decisions. It
reflects how intense the pressure is for them.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  boosted asset
sales at the second-biggest U.S. bank from $20 billion in 2010
to avoid issuing stock that would dilute current shareholders.
He may end up doing that anyway: With fewer unwanted assets left
to sell, Moynihan is now more  reliant  on earnings to generate
capital. Selling shares or even crucial businesses can’t be
ruled out if new mortgage losses wipe out profit.  “The risk of having to initiate core asset sales or a
partial breakup of the company is rising with the persistent
pressure on core earnings,” said  Todd Hagerman , an analyst at
Sterne Agee Group Inc. in New York, in a Dec. 21 note.  Selling Pieces  Moynihan, 52, started selling pieces of the bank as costs
from shoddy loans inherited in the 2008 acquisition of
Countrywide Financial Corp. soared to $40 billion. He faces
another $12 billion to $32 billion in such expenses, according
to a Jan. 5 note by  Keith Horowitz , an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in New York, who rates the lender a “buy.” Trone, with a
“market perform” rating, sees as much as $40 billion more.  While the lender probably can manage these charges over
time, regulators could force Bank of America to raise capital,
said a person with knowledge of the firm’s planning. The bank is
more likely to choose a stock sale than sell a core business,
particularly if  shares  rise above $10, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the process is private. The
stock rose 2.3 percent to $6.63 at 10:09 a.m. in New York.  Quarterly Results  Bank of America reports fourth-quarter results tomorrow.
The firm may post pretax profit of $3.68 billion, according to
the average of estimates by 13 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Full-year totals are likely to be much less because losses in
the first nine months were $2.66 billion.  According to analysts’ estimates, Bank of America forfeited
$1.5 billion a year in pretax earnings when it sold its non-U.S.
credit-card unit. Also gone is the bank’s stake of about 10
percent in  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , that nation’s second-
largest lender, which paid a $774 million annual dividend; the
Balboa insurance unit, which contributed $410 million, and $75
million earned from shares in asset manager BlackRock Inc.  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, confirmed
Bloomberg’s estimate of the income drop. He declined to say
whether the bank would sell core assets or offer new shares to
investors if pushed by regulators to raise more capital.  More earnings may have been sacrificed with the sale of
private-equity stakes in NPC International Inc., the biggest
U.S. Pizza Hut franchisee, and hospital operator HCA Holdings
Inc. The company didn’t provide estimates on how much profit
those holdings contributed.  ‘Growth Company’  Moynihan told investors in March that the bank had returned
to being a “growth company” and could earn $35 billion to $40
billion in pretax profit when businesses recover.  Showing how far Bank of America is from full recovery, the
company probably made just $2.6 billion in pretax income for
2011, according to Bloomberg estimates, after a record second-
quarter loss stemming from mortgage settlements. Analysts expect
pretax profit of $16.2 billion in 2012 and $22.6 billion in
2013, about half of Moynihan’s target.  Bank of America needs the money to help reach higher levels
of capital demanded by regulators as a cushion against losses
from future financial crises. Under new and more stringent rules
approved by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the firm
may have to retain more than $40 billion in earnings by 2019.
The figure could drop if the bank sells more of its riskiest
assets, which would cut the need for capital, Dubrowski said.  ‘Earnings Power’  “It’s an important question for investors -- what’s their
earnings power?” said  Jefferson Harralson , an Atlanta-based
analyst at KBW Inc. with a “market perform” rating on the
lender. “What kinds of returns can shareholders expect?”  Bank of America, which held the title of biggest U.S. bank
by assets until last year, is shrinking faster than rivals. It
pared assets by $45 billion, to $2.2 trillion, in the first nine
months of 2011.  Citigroup (C)  contracted by $22 billion, to $1.9
trillion, over the same period, selling holdings including
 student loans .  Moynihan is seeking to make Bank of America a leaner, more
focused company amid stagnant revenue and sluggish U.S. economic
growth. In the process, he’s dismantling some of the more than
$130 billion in acquisitions made by his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , who was criticized by investors for overpaying when he
bought Countrywide and Merrill Lynch & Co. as those firms were
reeling toward collapse.  ‘Hot Coals’  The divestments pushed the bank’s  Tier 1 capital  above 9
percent by the fourth quarter, more than double the level during
the 2008 financial crisis. Tier 1 capital, which includes common
stock, reserves and retained earnings, is a measure of a bank’s
financial strength and ability to absorb unexpected losses. The
lender used proceeds to trim debt, which reduces interest costs,
Dubrowski said. Long-term debt declined by $50 billion to $399
billion as of Sept. 30, the bank said in November.  “What Moynihan has been doing must be as fun as walking on
hot coals, but he keeps walking,” said Greg Donaldson, chairman
of Evansville, Indiana-based Donaldson Capital Management LLC,
which has $500 million in assets including Bank of America
shares. “There’s a grudging, arm’s-length respect for him
continuing to fight.”  Moynihan told employees at a town-hall meeting in October
that he had largely completed his plan to spin off name-brand
holdings. The company will now focus on cutting so-called risk-
weighted assets, including mortgage-servicing contracts and
credit-card loans, he said.  “We’re getting to the point where the franchise we have is
in the condition we want it in,” Moynihan said at the time.
“There are still non-core assets we’re getting rid of, but it’s
loan portfolios, things of less note, and that will take place
through the next 12 to 18 months.”  Reducing Branches  Bank of America could break up a segment of its retail-
banking business if regulators required a capital raise, said
 Thomas Brown , CEO of New York-based Second Curve Capital LLC, in
a Dec. 9 Bloomberg Television interview. In June, the bank told
the  Federal Reserve  it could reduce branches to bolster finances
in an emergency, said a person briefed on the discussions.  “There’s no question that Bank of America is worth a lot
more broken up than it is today,” said Brown, a former Wall
Street banking analyst and now a Bloomberg contributing editor.  Meanwhile,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon, 55, has
said his firm, now the biggest U.S. bank by assets, would expand
beyond its 5,508 locations to capture more deposits. Bank of
America had 5,715 retail centers as of Sept. 30.  Merrill Lynch  Bank of America could also find a buyer for its wealth-
management unit, whose 16,722 financial advisers each produce
about $890,000 in annual revenue, Mike Mayo, a New York-based
analyst at CLSA Ltd., said last week in an interview. Moynihan
has said he won’t undo any part of the Merrill Lynch takeover,
which gave the firm the opportunity to sell bank products to
brokerage clients.  The CEO made other decisions last year that boosted capital
while potentially shrinking profit for stockholders.  In August, Moynihan agreed to pay $300 million a year to
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in exchange for a $5
billion investment. That deal includes the option for Berkshire
to buy 700 million shares in the lender at $7.14, which could
make him the biggest shareholder and dilute other investors.  The bank issued 400 million shares to investors in private
exchanges for preferred securities in November and December.
While the moves are dilutive, they lower interest payments,
which benefits investors, the bank has said. The company has
more than 10 billion shares outstanding.  New Shares  The lender may issue another $15 billion in stock this year
to meet  capital requirements , Matthew O’Connor, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , said in a Jan. 4 note. Further
share exchanges may happen in amounts “not expected to be
material,” Bank of America said last month in a filing.  Moynihan risks further eroding his standing among investors
if he issues more stock, after saying in August that the bank
won’t “continue on a course of diluting our shareholders” as
it had done after government bailouts in 2009.  Concern that Bank of America will issue new shares has
plagued the stock, which sank 58 percent last year, the worst
performance in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . This month,
Bank of America has  surged  17 percent, the most of the 30
companies in the Dow index, as investors bet that an improving
U.S. economy will buoy earnings.  “All they have to do this year to have the stock rise
significantly,” said KBW’s Harralson, “is show that the
current  share  count is close to the eventual one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  