-- BP Boosts 2030 Energy-Use Estimate, Cuts 2015 Renewable Forecast
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-01-18T16:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bp-boosts-2030-energy-use-estimate-cuts-2015-renewable-forecast.html
BP Plc (BP/)  raised its estimate of global
energy demand in 2030, while cutting its forecast for renewable
power consumption in 2015 by 3.6 percent.  World energy demand will jump 39 percent in the next 20
years, with the expansion coming almost entirely from developing
nations, to 16.63 billion metric tons of oil equivalent, the
London-based company said in its  Energy Outlook 2030  report.
That’s 1.2 percent higher than last year’s estimate of 16.43
billion tons.  Oil, the world’s leading fuel today, will lose market
share, BP said. Still, demand for hydrocarbon liquids will rise
18 percent to 103 million barrels per day compared with 2010.  Renewable-energy consumption will be the equivalent of 264
million tons in 2015, a lower forecast because of reduced use
mainly in  North America , according to the BP data.  The outlook for demand shows the world needs open,
competitive markets to satisfy demand at low cost and provide
secure supplies, Bob Dudley, BP chief executive, said in a
statement. “It shows there are things we can’t change, like the
underlying drivers of energy demand, and things we can change,
like the way we satisfy that demand.”  The growth of so-called unconventional energy supply,
including U.S. shale fuel, Canadian oil sands and Brazilian
deep-water fields, will help rich nations become almost totally
energy self-sufficient by 2030, BP said. The rest of the world,
particularly  Asia , will depend increasingly on the  Middle East 
for its growing oil requirements, it said.  Emissions May Peak  “Improvements in  fuel efficiency , including hybridization
of vehicles, will partly offset continued strong growth in
vehicle sales in  emerging markets ,” the company said.  Global carbon dioxide emissions will rise by about 28
percent, slower than the 39 percent growth in energy demand,
according to the report.  A year ago, BP said emissions would advance 27 percent
through 2030. The company said increased use of renewables would
slow the pace of emissions output. “If more aggressive policies
than currently envisioned are introduced, global CO2 emissions
could begin to decline by 2030,” it said.  “One thing which is striking to me is until about three
years ago, when I would give presentations, two out of three
questions were about  climate change ,” BP’s chief economist
 Christof Ruehl  said at a presentation in London today. “Now,
almost nobody raises them anymore, which to me reflects a sense
of frustration.”  Imports to Rise  Use of renewable energy including biofuels will increase at
more than 8 percent a year in the period, outstripping the 2-
percent pace of gas, the fastest growing fossil fuel, BP said.  By 2030, nations buying energy from other countries will
need to import 40 percent more than they do today, the oil
producer said. “In North America, efforts to reduce dependence
on foreign supplies should show impressive results in the next
couple of decades,” it said.  Supply growth from biofuels as well as unconventional oil
and gas will reverse North America’s energy deficit and turn it
into a “small surplus” by 2030, it said.  In contrast,  Europe ’s energy deficit will remain at current
levels for oil and coal, but will increase by some two thirds
for natural gas, supplied by liquefied natural gas and pipelines
from the former Soviet Union, BP said.  China ’s energy deficit across all fuels will widen by more
than a factor of five and  India ’s, mainly of oil and coal, will
more than double in the period to 2030, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  