-- Brazil Signals Rate Cut Pace to Continue Amid Euro Crisis
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-01-19T13:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/brazil-cuts-interest-rate-to-10-5-to-shield-economy-from-european-crisis.html
Brazil ’s  central bank  signaled it
will keep cutting  interest rates  at the current pace after it
reduced borrowing costs by a half-point for a fourth straight
meeting.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously yesterday to reduce the benchmark rate to 10.5
percent, as forecast by all 67 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
In a statement identical to that after its two previous
meetings, policy makers said “moderate adjustments” in the key
rate will shield the world’s second-biggest emerging market from
global turbulence without compromising their goal of lowering
inflation to its 4.5 percent target this year.  Investors are today scrapping bets that the bank will slow
its easing cycle at its next meeting in March, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos. The yield on
the interest rate futures contract maturing in January 2013, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 9.990 percent at 11:07 a.m. Brazil time.
Deeper cuts will reinforce concerns that Tombini will fail to
tame inflation as the government tries to sustain 4 percent
growth, he added.  “The market is going to price in a greater concern about
inflation,” said Perfeito. “It’s obvious that they’re going to
do another half-point cut and at least one more after that,
which could be smaller.”  Perfeito today amended his forecast to include another
quarter point cut in April, from his previous call they they
would half the cycle in March.  Brazil has taken the lead among  emerging markets  in cutting
borrowing costs as the economy shrank in the third quarter for
the first time since 2009. The country’s surprise interest rate
cut in August, the first in two years, has since been followed
by policy makers in Russia,  Indonesia ,  Chile  and  Israel .  Rebound Signs  The strategy has helped bolster consumer spending as  Europe 
struggles to contain its debt crisis, reducing demand for
emerging market assets. Early signs of a rebound prompted some
economists to predict Tombini would soon shift his focus to
 inflation  that was 6.5 percent last year, the fastest year-end
reading since 2004.  Traders were split yesterday on whether the central bank
would cut the benchmark rate by 25 or 50 basis points at their
next policy meeting in March, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on interest rate futures.  Even before yesterday’s statement, analysts had expected
Tombini to fail in his pledge to bring inflation back to target
this year and in 2013. Economists forecast that the central bank
will reverse course next year and start raising rates again, as
consumer prices rise 5.3 percent this year, and 5 percent in
2013, the bank’s Jan. 13 survey shows.  Stimulating Growth  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has cut taxes and
eased restrictions on  consumer credit  to boost growth, though
expects the majority of stimulus to come from monetary policy.
Her Finance Minister,  Guido Mantega , said last month that
government will try to ensure the economy expands 4 percent this
year.  Signs that growth has picked up since the third quarter
won’t change the bank’s course of action, said  Alberto Ramos , a
senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 New York . Brazil’s  economic activity index , a proxy for gross
domestic product, expanded at its fastest pace in 19 months in
November, reversing a three-month contraction.  “The slight rebound in GDP is not strong enough for them
to adopt a slightly more hawkish stance,” said Ramos in a phone
interview. “The world is too risky and uncertain for them to
signal right now they are about to change the pace.”  Retail Sales  Consumer spending  is being fueled by 18 percent credit
growth and a record low  unemployment  rate of 5.2 percent. A
surge in investment as Brazil prepares to host the 2014  World
Cup  and the government’s decision to raise some pension payments
by 14 percent this year are also pumping cash into the economy.  Retail sales rose 1.3 percent in November, the fastest pace
in 15 months. Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar, the country’s biggest retailer, reported that same-store
sales rose 8.5 percent in the fourth quarter from the year
before, while shopping-center operator BR Malls Participacoes SA
saw same-store sales rise 8.8 percent during the same period.  The interest-rate cuts have also helped fuel a 26 percent
rally in the Bovespa stock  index  since the benchmark gauge hit a
two-year low on Aug. 8.  To be sure, analysts will need to wait the release of the
minutes to yesterday’s meeting on Jan. 26 to confirm that the
bank will stick to its current plan, said  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist in  Sao Paulo  for Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Rate Outlook  Economists in the Jan. 13 central bank survey forecast that
the Selic will fall to 9.5 percent by the end of the year.
Brazil’s inflation-adjusted interest rate of 4 percent is the
highest in the Group of 20 nations.  The bank’s leeway for further cuts also depends on
Rousseff’s ability to contain spending,  Gustavo Rangel , chief
Brazil economist for ING Financial Markets in New York, said by
phone before the rate decision.  The government is expected to announce in the coming weeks
a series of budget cuts that, if not big enough, could make it
harder to meet its goal of delivering a  budget surplus  before
interest payments equal to 3.1 percent of GDP this year.  Since Tombini’s first rate cut in August, economists have
reduced their forecast for growth this year to 3.27 percent from
3.90 percent in weekly bank surveys. The International Monetary
Fund forecasts growth of 3.6 percent this year, slower than
 Russia , China and  India , the other so-called BRIC nations. In
2010, Brazil grew 7.5 percent, its fastest pace in two decades.  Brazil’s economy shrank 0.17 percent on an annualized basis
in the third quarter, the first contraction since the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, while industrial
output has fallen for five of the last eight months.  The real appreciated 0.1 percent to 1.7658 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  