-- Brazil Said to Study Measures to Stem Rally by Real Since Start of Year
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2012-01-18T21:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/brazil-said-to-study-measures-to-stem-rally-by-real-since-start-of-year.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
administration is studying measures to stem gains by the real,
which has outperformed all major currencies since the start of
the year, a government official familiar with internal
discussions said.  The government may act at anytime to stem the excessive
currency gains, said the official, who is not authorized to
speak publicly about the issue.  Since 2010, the government has tripled a tax of foreign
purchases of domestic bonds, increased reserve requirements on
short-dollar positions and raised levies on foreign loans and
bets against the dollar in the  derivatives market  as part of an
effort to stem a rally that was hurting domestic manufactures.  The real has strengthened 5.4 percent this year, making it
the best performer among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked
by Bloomberg News. The rally this year has erased part of the
losses in the past six months that prompted the central bank in
September to reserve its strategy aimed at stemming gains. The
currency rose 1.1 percent today to 1.7671 per U.S dollar, its
strongest level since Nov. 14  “I think the government would wait for the currency to
reach near 1.60,” Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM
Capital Markets, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The
government can adopt measures that range from direct
intervention in the market by buying dollars to increasing
reserves and tax measures.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Dec. 19 that the
government would take steps to prevent “excessive” currency
gains. Mantega in 2010 accused rich nations of starting a global
“currency war” aimed at boosting their exports at the expense
of  emerging markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  