-- Bringing Brigades Home From Europe Isn’t Retreat: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bringing-two-brigades-home-from-europe-isn-t-signal-of-u-s-retreat-view.html
In planning to withdraw two of the
U.S.’s four combat brigades from  Europe , the Barack Obama
administration is drawing on an unlikely inspiration:  Donald Rumsfeld , when he was secretary of Defense under President
 George W. Bush , wanted to do the same thing (the wars in Iraq
and  Afghanistan  made the idea moot).  Not that this will make Obama immune to partisan criticism:
Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the Republican chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee,  likened  the administration’s proposed
defense cuts to those in the U.K. last year “that have reduced
its military to a shadow of its former capability.”  Leaving aside the matter of the U.K.’s military might,
let’s consider the major questions about the European troop
drawdown. First, will it reap much  budget savings ? In and of
itself, no. A central aspect of Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s
strategic review is to shrink the Army by about 70,000 troops;
the shift of 7,000 combat forces from  Germany  to the U.S. will
only create savings if that number is offset by troop cuts at
home.  In addition, housing troops in Europe may be only
marginally more expensive than in the U.S. Although there may be
some tangential benefits to the switch: The soldiers and their
families will probably be happier based at home; and the
economic benefits that now accrue to European cities near Army
bases would be transferred to U.S. communities.  Second, will the drawdown impair the U.S. Army’s ability to
project power around the globe? Not really. Although Europe is
closer than  North America  to hot spots such as the  Middle East ,
that makes little difference in terms of large-scale troop
deployments to a new war zone, as the necessary transport ships
and support equipment would mostly come from the U.S.  Eastern Concerns  Next, what effect might the drawdown have on Eastern Europe
and  Russia ? Seeing as the U.S. would still have 30,000 service
members in Europe, it would hardly be an invitation to Russian
adventurism. However, the psychological effect on former Soviet-
controlled states might be profound; if they feel abandoned,
they might well cede political ground to Moscow, and politicians
overly friendly to Russia may find new voter support.  Feeding their anxiety is the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s credibility gap on defense. The Obama
administration insists that European NATO members will step up
their defense capabilities. Yes, Europe showed initiative in the
Libya operation last year -- but that was a relatively minor
affair militarily. As of 2009, only four European NATO states
 spent more  than 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense
as required under the treaty, and the U.S. contributed 75
percent of total alliance spending. Given the state of the EU
economy, don’t look for an arms race on the continent any time
soon.  So, if the U.S. can’t force Europe to bulk up, what can it
do to reduce the effect of the drawdown? First, Obama and
Panetta can repeatedly stress the truth: This is not a retreat,
and the U.S. still has a dominant expeditionary force on the
continent. Any plans for drastic cuts in the number of tactical
nuclear weapons in Europe should be put off.  The Pentagon is smart to want to step up joint military
exercises with European partners, which is a primary goal of
Lieutenant General Mark Hertling, the commander of U.S. Army
Europe. Central and Eastern Europe need to be part of this new
emphasis, as with the Black Sea Rotational Force, a joint
operation between the U.S. Marines and more than a dozen Eastern
European nations that began in 2010.  Pulling half the U.S. combat brigades out of Europe is not
as dramatic a measure as it sounds, nor will it lead to immense
budget savings. Yet, as part of a global restructuring to shrink
the military footprint, it makes sense.  Cutting -- at a minimum -- nearly half a trillion dollars
from baseline Pentagon spending over the next decade is going to
call for trade-offs. We have urged Panetta to focus on
eliminating  individual programs  of questionable necessity rather
than trying to share the pain across the services. U.S. forces
in Europe are hardly a boondoggle. But removing two combat
brigades will not leave the U.S. military less potent globally
and, done the right way, it need not leave Europe -- or U.S.
interests there -- more vulnerable.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 