-- Bristol-Myers Hepatitis C Pills Clear Virus Without Interferon
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-18T22:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bristol-myers-s-hepatitis-c-pills-clear-virus-without-interferon-in-study.html
Two experimental pills from  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  cleared the hepatitis C virus in 36 percent of
patients who failed existing drugs, in a small study that may
lead to a new oral-therapy approach against the liver disease.  The study released today is the first to suggest that
difficult  hepatitis C  cases may be cured without using the
injected drug interferon, said Anna Lok, the lead study author
and director of hepatology at the University of Michigan in Ann
Arbor. Interferon, a mainstay of existing treatment, causes
unpleasant side effects including fatigue and flu-like symptoms.  Drug companies including Bristol-Myers,  Merck & Co. ,  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) , and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  are racing to
come up with interferon-free treatment. The new results in 21
patients show that such a therapy will be possible, Lok said.  Oral treatments with fewer side effects would vastly
increase the number of patients treated, according to an
 editorial  in the New England Journal of Medicine, where the
study was published.  “We are on the threshold of a treatment revolution that
will greatly improve the effectiveness of HCV therapy,” wrote
Raymond Chung, a gastroenterologist at  Massachusetts General
Hospital  in  Boston . He called it “a watershed moment in the
annals of HCV therapy.”  The  study  compared Bristol-Myers’s two pills in combination
with interferon to the pills alone in 21 hepatitis C patients
who weren’t helped by existing therapy. It found that 4 of 11
patients had undetectable virus 24 weeks after treatment with
Bristol’s experimental oral drugs daclatasvir and asunaprevir.  Adding injectable drugs, however, boosted the response
rate. Results showed that 9 of 10 patients who got the two oral
drugs plus interferon and a fourth drug, ribavirin, for 24 weeks
had no detectable virus 24 weeks after stopping therapy.  “The combination of drugs we picked may not be the best,
and we need to tweak it and find the best combination,” Lok
said in a telephone interview from  Ann Arbor .  Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , sponsored the clinical
trial.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  