-- California ‘On the Mend’ Needs Big Public Works, Brown Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/brown-calls-for-moving-ahead-california-s-high-speed-rail-water-projects.html
California (STOCA1) ’s future hinges on
spending billions of dollars to link its cities with bullet
trains and to bolster its water supply, Governor  Jerry Brown 
said, even as it confronts a $9.2 billion deficit.  The largest U.S. state by population is “on the mend”
after years of fiscal distress and needs the projects to keep
growing, Brown told lawmakers yesterday in Sacramento.  “Those who believe that  California  is in decline will
naturally shrink back from such a strenuous undertaking,”
Brown, 73, said of the proposed  rail network  to connect San
Francisco with Los Angeles and  San Diego . “I understand that
feeling but I don’t share it, because I know this state and the
spirit of the people who choose to live here.”  Brown, a Democrat who returned last year to the office he
occupied from 1975 to 1983, used his State of the State message
to chide “declinists” who would retreat from big-ticket
public-works projects. The  California High-Speed Rail Authority 
has estimated the passenger service’s cost at $98.5 billion,
while the Legislative Analyst’s Office said  water  improvements
may top $12 billion.  Brown will have to reconcile such projects with his call
for voters to approve a temporary sales-tax increase and higher
taxes on those with annual incomes of $250,000 or more, said
Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, senior fellow at the University of
 Southern California ’s Price School of Public Policy in  Los
Angeles .  ‘Difficult Challenges’  “One of his more difficult challenges is going to be
explaining why -- when he’s saying we’re going to need to raise
taxes to fund existing programs -- he is supporting programs
like high-speed rail and the Bay Delta project,” Jeffe said,
referring to the water proposal known as the  Bay Delta
Conservation Plan . “He’s going to have to explain to voters why
there isn’t a disconnect.”  Brown said his planned cuts to welfare and health-care
programs and tax increases would help California pay down its
debt and restore its  credit rating .  California is  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-rated state, at A-,
six levels below AAA. Moody’s Investors Service grades it A1,
four steps below the top rating, lower than any state except
 Illinois , rated A2.  The governor’s proposals may restore some of the luster to
California debt, said Scott Cottier, senior portfolio manager at
OppenheimerFunds Inc., who helps supervise $30 billion in
municipal-bond funds.  Raising Taxes  Raising taxes on top earners is “great news to California
municipal-fund investors,” he said in an interview before Brown
spoke. “The governor is holding the line on expenses. Supply is
down. It’s no longer politically savvy to issue debt. Personal
tax rates are going up.”  The cost to insure $10 million of California bonds against
default for 10 years fell to $208,500 annually yesterday from as
much as $302,190 on Jan. 6, 2011, according to market prices
compiled by London-based CMA.  California debt yields about 98 basis points more than top-
rated municipal debt, compared with a peak  yield spread  in the
past year of 1.47 percentage points in June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Brown focused his address on the proposals for bullet
trains running as fast as 220 miles (354 kilometers) an hour and
restoration of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, the
source of drinking water for much of California.  Brown asked lawmakers to complete the  Bay Delta  project,
intended to protect endangered species southeast of  San
Francisco  and to provide a new canal system for water bound for
Southern California.  ‘Enormous Project’  “This is an enormous project,” Brown said. “It will
ensure water for 25 million Californians and for millions of
acres of farmland as well as 100,000 acres of new habitat for
spawning fish and other wildlife.”  State Senator Lois Wolk, a Davis Democrat whose district
includes four of the five Delta counties, said the plan would
eliminate 100,000 acres of farmland and cost too much.  “I look forward to working with the governor and others on
developing an affordable and realistic solution that all
Californians can support,” Wolk said in a statement.  Republicans focused much of their criticism on Brown’s call
for tax increases, saying higher levies would stunt the state’s
economic recovery.  “I want to be upbeat and I want to agree that we are doing
better and the economy is doing better, so let’s not kill that
motion with taxes,” Assembly Republican leader  Connie Conway  of
Tulare, said in an interview after Brown’s speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  