-- Gas Fracking Ban Debated in Bulgaria After Chevron Loses Permit
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-01-18T11:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/bulgaria-gas-fracking-ban-debated-after-chevron-loses-exploration-permit.html
Bulgarian lawmakers started debating
a ban on hydraulic fracturing today, threatening  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s
plans to explore shale gas deposits in the Balkan country.  The government withdrew a previously granted exploration
license from Chevron yesterday after hundreds of Bulgarians
marched in central Sofia last week to protest the drilling
technique known as fracking, fearing it will pollute the water
and soil in  Bulgaria ’s most fertile farm region of Dobrudja
where Chevron was planning to drill.  Bulgaria would join France in banning the process, which
uses a mixture of water, sand and chemicals to open fissures in
shale rocks and release natural gas and oil. While fracking has
made the U.S the world’s largest natural-gas producer, it has
also raised concerns that the technique pollutes drinking water
and causes earthquakes.  “The protests show that people are not certain in the
benefits of this project,” Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said
during the Cabinet meeting yesterday. “We have to retract the
decision and start debates.”  San Ramon , California-based Chevron won a tender last May
to explore for natural gas in shale deposits in northeastern
Bulgaria, pledging to pay the government 30 million euros ($43
million). The company estimates it could extract as much as 25
billion cubic meters of gas in the region, almost six times
Bulgaria’s annual consumption.  “Chevron could provide millions in investments in Bulgaria
and create jobs,” U.S. Ambassador to Bulgaria James Warlick
said in an interview with Nova television in Sofia today.
“Chevron has no other interests in Bulgaria besides shale gas
and would be forced to leave the country if its opportunities
are curbed.”  French Ban  Bulgaria’s government also halted the process of issuing
permits to Texas-based Integrity Towers Inc. and Denver-based
oil producer Direct Petroleum Exploration Inc.  France  was the first country in the world to outlaw
hydraulic fracturing of shale rocks last July. Last year
exploration was suspended in the German state of North Rhine-
Westphalia as well as in northwest  England , where fracturing gas
wells caused two tremors.  In eastern  Europe , particularly  Poland  and the Ukraine,
fracking has been hailed as a means to reduce the countries’
dependence on Russian gas imports. Bulgaria may hold between 300
billion and 1 trillion cubic meters of shale gas, the Energy &
Economy Ministry estimated. The country consumes about 4 billion
cubic meters of gas a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  