-- Buy Canada, U.S. Stocks as Crisis Concern Ebbs, Macquarie Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-18T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/buy-canada-u-s-stocks-as-crisis-concern-ebbs-macquarie-says.html
Canadians should focus their
investments on North American equities and sell government debt
as the market becomes “desensitized” to the European debt
crisis, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report to clients today.  Australia ’s largest investment bank, which has more than
200 private-wealth advisers in  Canada , advised having 44 percent
of North American investments in Canadian stocks and 24 percent
in U.S. shares. Bonds should make up the balance of holdings,
the report said.  Canada’s  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  sank 11
percent last year as raw-material and energy stocks fell on
concern the debt crisis will limit global growth. The index
rebounded 2.3 percent this month through yesterday as stronger
U.S. economic data outweighed the European issues.  “The market incorporates information quickly and we
believe it will start becoming desensitized to European news,”
Macquarie Private Wealth’s Toronto-based strategist, Craig Basinger, wrote in the report. “With  interest rates  and labor
costs still low or contained, profit margins should continue to
remain at elevated levels. Valuations are also historically
low.”  S&P/TSX companies have reported a  profit margin  of 19.9
percent for the past year, compared with a 10-year average of
14.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P 500
profit margins have climbed to 14 percent from a 10-year average
of 12.2 percent.  Historically Inexpensive  Both indexes trade at 12.1 times analysts’  forecast
earnings  for the next 12 months, down from 14.7 a year ago for
the S&P/TSX and 13.3 for the U.S. benchmark stock index.  Macquarie recommended buying stocks most-closely tied to
economic growth, such as industrial and technology companies.
Copper producers are attractive due to “the continued global
deficit and risk of supply disruptions in 2012,” the authors of
the report said.  With Canadian and U.S.  government bonds  yielding almost the
lowest on record, investors should sell the debt securities,
Macquarie said.  “The longer bonds are simply too expensive to have any
value except in a continued deflationary scenario,” the report
said. “We believe  government bonds  will decline, and corporates
will decline less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  