-- California Prison Health Care Receiver’s Control Should End, Judge Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-01-18T02:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/california-prison-health-care-oversight-should-be-ended-u-s-judge-says.html
The court-appointed receivership of
the health-care system at  California  prisons should be ended
given the progress that has been made, a federal judge said in
an order seeking comments on how to terminate the program.  “The court encourages the parties to attempt to reach
agreement on the post-receivership phase of this case, which the
court currently contemplates will consist of a period of
oversight to ensure that defendants can, in the absence of a
receivership, sustain the progress that has been and will be
achieved,” U.S. District Judge Thelton Henderson in  San
Francisco  said in today’s decision.  Henderson appointed a receiver to oversee the state’s
prison health-care system in 2005, after it was found to violate
inmates’ constitutional protection against cruel and unusual
punishment. The prisons housed 163,000 inmates at the time and
had been criticized for its poor health care.  Donald Specter, an attorney with Prison Law Office in
Berkeley, California, brought the case in 2001. He said today in
a phone interview that progress had been made and that further
improvements were needed, including building new prison
hospitals and clinics.  “Prisoners still don’t have timely access to adequate
health care,” Specter said.  Specter said he thought the judge’s order was reasonable
because it contemplates only planning to end the receivership.  “We have been working very hard to clean up the mess in
the prisons and I appreciate the judicial recognition of our
efforts,” California Governor  Jerry Brown  said in e-mailed
statement.  The case is Plata v. Brown, 01-01351, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 