-- Calpers Is Selling One-Fifth of Its Residential Land Portfolio
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/calpers-to-sell-one-fifth-of-its-residential-land-portfolio-1-.html
The  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System is selling its interests in 28 housing
developments, about one-fifth of its residential real-estate
portfolio, as the $226.5 billion fund reduces its property
holdings, a spokesman said.  Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension, is selling 16,300
unbuilt home sites and about 5,000 acres of undeveloped land in
11 states, spokesman  Brad Pacheco  said by telephone.  “It’s one of our last, largest holdings in housing,” he
said. “It’s part of our overall restructuring in our real-
estate holdings.”  Newland Real Estate Group LLC , a closely held developer
whose projects Calpers invested in since 1994, and the North
American affiliate of Japanese homebuilder  Sekisui House Ltd. ,
purchased Calpers’s interests in the 28 projects, said Bob
McLeod, chief executive officer of San Diego-based Newland.
Sekisui is the lead financial partner and Newland will run the
development operations, he said.  “Calpers was a great partner,” McLeod said in a telephone
interview. “All Sekisui and Newland did is form a partnership
to buy out Calpers. We had to put some money into the new deal.
Sekisui was the largest investor.”  The Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified sources, said
the two companies were paying between $500 million and $600
million. MacLeod and Pacheco said they couldn’t confirm the
price due to confidentiality agreements.  As of Sept. 30, real estate accounted for 8.7 percent of
Calpers’ total holdings, according to a fact sheet on the
system’s website.  Calpers Benchmarks  Last August, Calpers’s investment committee lowered the
fund’s goal for real estate as a proportion of assets to 8
percent from 10 percent.  Calpers had fallen short of its real-estate benchmarks
because its holdings suffered “significant writedowns” during
the housing bubble, according to a staff report at the time.  The value of U.S. land sold for development has fallen more
than 70 percent from its peak in 2006, said  John Burns ,
president of John Burns Real Estate Consulting Inc. in  Irvine ,
California. Newland is the developer of six of the 25 largest
masterplanned communities in the U.S. The largest is  Cinco Ranch 
outside Houston, where 862 new homes sold last year, according
to Burns.  The deal is part of a trend of Asian investors seeking U.S.
real estate for development because they see the potential for
growth, a housing recovery and a safe haven from economic
instability, Burns said in a telephone interview.  “This is a huge deal for the industry,” Burns said. “It
gives the largest developer in the country a new capital
partner, which will make it easier to provide more lots to the
‘thirsty’ homebuilders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  