-- Canadian Economy to Be Hurt by Europe, U.S. in ’12, Roubini Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-01-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/canadian-economy-to-be-hurt-by-europe-u-s-in-12-roubini-says.html
Europe ’s credit crisis and the
unwinding of consumer and government debt in the U.S. will limit
Canadian economic growth in 2012, according to  Nouriel Roubini ,
the economist who predicted the 2008 recession..  Budget deficits and bank losses in Europe and lower U.S.
spending by individuals and governments will outweigh Canada’s
domestic strengths, said Roubini, co-founder of Roubini Global
Economics LLC in a speech in Toronto yesterday. In a visit to
the city in April 2009, Roubini said the  U.S. economy  would
contract throughout that year. U.S. gross domestic product has
been growing since the third quarter of 2009.  “Even Canada, which has had much better financial
fundamentals, cannot fully decouple from Europe and the U.S.,”
said Roubini, a professor at  New York University . “Canadian
economic growth will be below potential because of economic
headwinds from Europe and America.”  Canada’s economy is growing at 3 percent a year, twice the
average pace of Group of Seven and euro-area nations, due in
part to the strength of its energy and raw-materials industries.
The country had no bank failures during the financial crisis,
and the  World Economic Forum  has named Canada’s lenders the
world’s soundest four years in a row. Canada has a top
sovereign-debt ranking from the major credit-rating companies.  The intensification of Europe’s banking and fiscal crises
will hamper growth globally, Roubini said. If the countries of
the euro region cannot agree on closer union, “serial
defaults” will likely result, he said.  ‘We Don’t Know’  “We don’t know how many of these countries are insolvent,
how many countries are going to leave the  euro zone ,” he told
the audience at the Grano Speaker Series, named for the
restaurant where it’s held. “Of all the risks to the global
economy, the ones coming from the euro zone are the most
severe,” he reiterated.  In the U.S., which accounted for  75 percent  of Canadian
exports in 2010 according to  Statistics Canada , reduction in
consumer and government leverage will hamper economic expansion,
Roubini said. Unemployment remains at 8.5 percent, compared with
an average 5.7 percent between 1984 and 2008. A strong dollar
limits the country’s ability to boost its economy through trade,
he said. The Dollar  Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against
other major currencies, remains near a 16-month high reached
Jan. 13.  Although the risk of a new recession in the U.S. has
declined with recently improved data, “economic growth this
year will surprise on the downside,” Roubini said.  China , the world’s largest user of industrial metals and
second-biggest oil consumer, will be unable to sustain economic
growth of  8 percent a year , although it will avoid a so-called
hard landing this year, he said.  “Every episode of overinvestment has ended up in a hard
landing,” he said. “The consequence for commodity exporters
will be very severe.”  Roubini said he’s optimistic about the long-term prospects
for the global economy, due in part to growth trends in  emerging
markets , strong corporate balance sheets in developed countries
and technological development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  