-- Canada Pledges to Sell Oil to Asia After Obama Keystone Denial
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-01-18T23:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/canada-pledges-to-sell-oil-to-asia-after-obama-rejects-keystone-pipeline.html
Canadian policy makers reacted to
President Barack Obama’s decision to deny a pipeline permit to
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  by pledging to rely less on the U.S. for
energy sales and export more oil to Asian markets.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , in a telephone call today,
told Obama “that Canada will continue to work to diversify its
energy exports,” according to details of the call provided by
Harper’s office. Canadian Natural Resource Minister Joe Oliver
said relying less on the U.S. would help bolster the country’s
“financial security.”  The “decision by the Obama administration underlines the
importance of diversifying and expanding our markets, including
the growing Asian market,” Oliver told reporters in Ottawa.  Currently, 99 percent of Canada’s crude exports go to the
U.S., a figure that Harper wants to reduce in his bid to make
 Canada  a “superpower” in global oil markets.  Canada accounts for more than 90 percent of all proven
reserves outside of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, according to data compiled in the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy. Most of Canada’s crude is produced from
oil sands deposits in the landlocked province of  Alberta , where
output is expected to double over the next eight years,
according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Harper “expressed his profound disappointment with the
news,” according to the statement, which added that Obama told
Harper the rejection was not based on the project’s merit and
that the company is free to reapply.  Enbridge Pipeline  Canada this month began hearings on a proposed pipeline by
Enbridge Inc. to move crude from Alberta’s  oil sands  to the
British Columbia coast, where it could be shipped to Asian
markets.  Environmentalists and Canadian opposition lawmakers
welcomed the Obama administration’s decision. Megan Leslie, a
lawmaker for the opposition  New Democratic Party , said the
Keystone pipeline project was harmful to Canada’s energy
security.  “What I’m opposed to is continuing the unchecked expansion
of the oil sands,” Leslie said by telephone.  The denial came before a Feb. 21 deadline set by Congress
after Obama postponed a decision in November. TransCanada said
the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer)  project  would carry 700,000
barrels of crude a day from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on
the U.S. Gulf coast, crossing six U.S. states and creating
20,000 jobs.  “I’m disappointed that Republicans in Congress forced this
decision, but it does not change my administration’s commitment
to American-made energy,” Obama said today in a statement. “We
will continue to look for new ways to partner with the oil-and-
gas industry to increase our  energy security .”  May Hurt Relations  The decision may hurt relations between the two countries,
according to David Pumphrey of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington .  “It certainly introduces new uncertainties into the
economic relationship,” said Pumphrey, deputy director of the
energy and national security program at the CSIS. “This is a
cornerstone of economic development for the country.”  Canadian policy makers said they remain optimistic
TransCanada will eventually be able to proceed.  Alberta Premier Alison Redford said in a press conference
in  Edmonton  that it is still “entirely possible” the pipeline
will be built, and said it was good news that TransCanada
planned to apply again.  Canada will continue to support TransCanada Corp.’s plans
to build the Keystone XL pipeline, Canadian Foreign Minister
 John Baird  said, adding that it is in the best interests of both
Canada and the  United States .  “We strongly believe that Keystone’s in the best interests
of both countries,” he said. “We’ll continue to be an active
supporter of the project.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  