-- Carlyle Seeks to Ban Shareholder Lawsuits Before Public Offering
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/carlyle-seeks-to-ban-shareholder-lawsuits-before-initial-public-offering.html
Carlyle Group LP, the Washington-
based buyout company that’s preparing to go public, is seeking
to bar its future shareholders from filing individual and class-
action lawsuits.  The firm revised its governing documents last week to say
that investors who purchase company shares must settle any
subsequent claims against Carlyle through arbitration in
Wilmington, Delaware. That could limit the ability of
stockholders to win big awards for securities-law violations
such as fraud, several attorneys said.  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  has issued a series of rulings in
recent years upholding the right of companies to require the use
of arbitration to resolve disputes with consumers. Carlyle is
seeking to extend this principle to public shareholders, a move
that could run up against a bedrock of U.S. securities law, the
ability of investors to seek redress in federal court.  “What we are talking about is legally uncharted
territory,” said Donald Langevoort, a law professor at
 Georgetown University  in Washington who previously worked for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “I would be
surprised if the courts allow any company to entirely foreclose
shareholder rights to sue under federal securities laws.”  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.  At issue are provisions of U.S. securities laws that bar
investors from waiving their rights to seek damages.  Enforcement Questions  After the Supreme Court ruled in the late 1980s that this
language applied only to substantive rights and not to
procedural ones, brokerages began including mandatory-
arbitration clauses in their customer contracts, according to a
2006 report by the independent Committee on Capital Markets
Regulation. The committee said the court had yet to rule on
whether securities litigation against a public company can be
brought to arbitration.  “If you really could enforce it, you would see every
publicly traded company having that, and you don’t,” said Kevin LaCroix, an executive vice president at OakBridge Insurance
Services LLC, a Bloomfield, Connecticut, firm that helps
corporations obtain officers’ and directors’ liability
insurance. Arbitration clauses have primarily been used in
bilateral contracts between companies and their customers,
LaCroix said.  The capital markets committee, in a November 2006 report
requested by then-U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson ,
recommended that public companies be allowed to hold shareholder
votes on the use of arbitration to resolve  securities law  and
other claims. The threat of class-action suits was discouraging
private as well as foreign companies from going public in the
U.S., the committee said.  ‘Powerful Reasons’  “Carlyle would be highly sensitive to this question
because they have looked at it over and over again in the
context of whether to take private companies public,”   Hal Scott , a professor at Harvard Law School in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts  and the committee’s director, said in a telephone
interview. “There are powerful reasons to do what Carlyle is
trying to do.”  The SEC must approve Carlyle’s registration statement
before the private-equity firm can sell shares to the public.
The agency has historically refused to permit a public offering
by a company whose charter mandates arbitration and precludes
class actions,  John Coffee , a professor at  Columbia Law School 
in  New York , said in an e-mail response to questions.  Carlyle may be considered different because it’s a limited
partnership rather than a corporation, Coffee said.  ‘Difficult Precedent’  “It will be a difficult precedent to contain if the SEC
permits this,” he said.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  Carlyle, co-founded by  David Rubenstein ,  William Conway  and
 Daniel D’Aniello , is at least the fifth buyout firm to go public
since  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  held an initial public
offering in February 2007, followed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  KKR (KKR) 
& Co., and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) . Carlyle would be the
first to impose an arbitration requirement, according to copies
of the limited-partnership agreements the companies have on
their websites or in SEC filings.  Blackstone was named in six 2008 lawsuits that were later
consolidated into a class-action complaint alleging that the
prospectus for the company’s IPO was false and misleading, in
part because it overstated the value of the firm’s private-
equity and real estate investments. The plaintiffs seek damages
and costs, as well as other relief, Blackstone said in its
latest quarterly report, adding that the case is “totally
without merit” and that the firm intends to “vigorously”
defend itself. Blackstone shares trade at about half the
company’s June 2007 IPO price of $31 each.  Carlyle Capital Suits  From 2009 through 2011, Carlyle was targeted in lawsuits
tied to  Carlyle Capital Corp (CCC) . Ltd., a publicly traded bond fund
the buyout firm shuttered at a cost of more than $152 million
after its assets plummeted in value. The plaintiffs include
Carlyle Capital’s liquidators, who sought $1 billion in damages
through four complaints filed in July 2010 in  Delaware , New
York, the  District of Columbia  and Guernsey, two of which have
since been dismissed.  When Carlyle initially filed for the stock sale in
September, the firm said its limited-partnership agreement would
require any shareholder lawsuits be filed in Delaware Chancery
court, which is known for its expertise in adjudicating such
claims. Carlyle revamped the agreement, according to an amended
registration filed Jan. 10, to say that arbitration would be the
“exclusive manner” for the resolution of any claims, suits,
actions or proceedings, including those made under federal
securities laws.  Arbitration Provision  Investors won’t be able to bring claims in federal or state
court, or file or participate in class-action suits, even
through arbitration, Carlyle said in the IPO filing. All
proceedings and awards will be confidential, according to the
document. Investors who buy Carlyle shares will have
automatically agreed to the provision, the filing said.  Requiring the arbitration of individual claims in lieu of
class-action lawsuits makes it more expensive for plaintiffs to
pursue damages and more difficult to win big awards, said  James
Hill , who runs the private-equity practice for the Cleveland law
firm Benesch LLP. That’s partly because attorneys are limited in
their ability to take depositions from senior executives and to
demand internal documents that can provide facts to support
larger claims, he said.  S&L Rejected  “If you are on the moneyed side, you would like to put an
arbitration clause in every contract,” Hill said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a far more limited opportunity for the
plaintiff.”  The SEC blocked a 1990 IPO by a Philadelphia savings and
loan that had included a shareholder-arbitration clause in its
corporate charter, according to Carl Schneider, a former
securities attorney who represented the thrift. The SEC said the
provision seriously impaired the “deterrent function” of
shareholder lawsuits and acted as a “collective waiver of
rights” without giving adequate notice to investors who bought
shares in the secondary market, according to an article he wrote
that year in InSights magazine.  “The commission went ballistic,” Schneider said in a
telephone interview. “They refused to let the offering go
public” until the clause was removed, said Schneider, who was a
partner at the onetime Philadelphia law firm Wolf, Block, Schorr
& Solis-Cohen and is now retired.  Court Decisions  The business environment has changed since 1990, with the
 Supreme Court  issuing a number of decisions during the past
several years favoring arbitration as a means of resolving
disputes, according to Schneider. The court ruled in April that
an AT&T Inc. unit could bar wireless customers from bringing
class-action claims under mandatory-arbitration clauses in their
cell-phone contracts.  “It’s the class issue that was important,” said Harvard’s
Scott. “Class arbitration is even worse than class litigation”
because certain rights, such as the ability to appeal, are more
limited, he said.  Publicly traded limited partnerships have also been granted
more leeway than corporations in restricting the ability of
investors to make claims, said John Olson, a securities attorney
in the Washington office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. While
these limited partnerships have primarily been in the energy and
mineral resources businesses, Olson said buyout firms should be
eligible for similar treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in  Washington  at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  