-- Checketts Named CEO of Goldman-Yankees Legends Sports Concessions Venture
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-01-18T16:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/checketts-named-ceo-of-goldman-yankees-legends-sports-concessions-venture.html
Dave Checketts, former Madison
Square Garden president and St. Louis Blues owner, was named
chairman and chief executive officer of  Legends Hospitality
Management LLC , the concessions, merchandising and management-
services company owned by the  New York Yankees ,  Dallas Cowboys 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Checketts succeeds Michael Rawlings, who in June was
elected mayor of Dallas and is a partner of CIC Partners, whose
stake in Legends Checketts will acquire, the company said in a
statement.  Bloomberg News reported in December that a group led by
Checketts, 56, was in talks with Legends to take about a 16
percent stake in the company, which was created in 2008.  “I have always looked to associate myself with strong
brands and successful businesses,” Checketts said in the
statement. “In fact, between Goldman Sachs, the Dallas Cowboys
and New York Yankees, I’m sure you cannot get any better.”  Newark, New Jersey-based Legends supplies concessions to
Yankee Stadium and Cowboys Stadium. The Yankees are  Major League
Baseball ’s most valuable team and the Cowboys are the National
Football League’s most valuable club according to annual
rankings by Forbes. Each own 34 percent of Legends.  Rangers, Knicks  Checketts, who is selling the National Hockey League’s
Blues, ran MSG from 1994 to 2001, putting him in charge of the
New York Rangers and Knicks. The Knicks reached the National
Basketball Association Finals in both 1994 and 1999.  He also led New York when the team traded Hall of Fame
center Patrick Ewing to the  Seattle SuperSonics  in 2000, leading
to a decade in which New York had a .399 winning percentage.  Checketts takes over a company whose sales and marketing
clients include the NFL’s San Francisco 49ers and Tampa Bay
Buccaneers; NBA’s Charlotte Bobcats, Indiana Pacers, Oklahoma
City Thunder and Phoenix Suns; baseball’s San Diego Padres; and
college football’s Rose Bowl, according to the company’s
website.  “He has proved himself an astute manager, entrepreneur and
investor over the course of a long career built on a very solid
sports and entertainment foundation,” Yankees co-owner  Hal Steinbrenner  said in the statement. “That operational skill,
coupled with a strong business sense, will serve Legend’s well
as it expands and grows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 