-- China Reduced Treasury Holdings for Second Straight Month as Yields Fell
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-01-18T20:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-reduced-treasury-holdings-for-second-straight-month-as-yields-fell.html
China , the largest foreign lender to
the U.S., reduced its  holdings  of Treasuries in November for a
second month as yields on the debt approached lows of the year
and total foreign demand accelerated.  China’s U.S. government securities ownership shrank by 0.1
percent, or $1.5 billion, in November to $1.13 trillion,
according to Treasury data released yesterday. The Communist
nation’s bill holdings fell 12 percent to $2.3 billion.  Holdings of Treasuries by  U.K. buyers , who are often seen
as a proxy for Chinese investors operating away from the
mainland, rose to a record after declining in October for the
first time since June 2010. The Treasury’s initial reports on
international purchases are based on the location where the
transaction occurs. Revisions are based on location of the
beneficial owner.  “The monthly TIC data flows likely mask net purchases” by
Chinese investors, said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The bottom line is they
have dollars to invest.”  Holdings in the U.K. jumped 4.4 percent to $429.4 billion,
Treasury data show. Investors in the U.K. have increased their
holdings 59 percent this year.  Japan  boosted its holdings by  $59.9 billion  to a record
$1.04 trillion as finance officials sold yen to arrest the
appreciation of the currency and bought dollars.  Foreign Ownership Rises  Total foreign holdings rose 1.7 percent in November to
$4.75 trillion, U.S. government data show. Foreigners held 48
percent of the $9.88 trillion of outstanding public Treasury
debt, up from 47.8 percent the month before.  Foreign holdings of U.S. Treasuries have risen 7.1 percent
this year through November, the smallest increase since 2006.
International ownership of  U.S. government debt  rose 20 percent
annually in the prior two years, and at a compound rate of 17
percent since 2001, or as far back as the data are available.  Treasuries returned 0.73 percent in November after losing
0.76 percent in October, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Treasury Master Index.  Yields on benchmark 10-
year notes were 1.9 percent, down from 2.07 percent on Nov. 30.  Holdings Revisions  China’s holdings of  U.S. debt  have fallen 2.4 percent this
year through November to $1.13 trillion, the least since July
2010, when they totaled $1.12 trillion, from $1.16 trillion at
the end of 2010, Treasury data show.  The data are expected to be revised in 2012. On Feb. 28,
2011, the U.S. updated earlier estimates, showing China’s
Treasury investments in October 2010 were a record $1.18
trillion, 30 percent more than the initial estimate of $906.8
billion.  When the data is revised in February “all of a sudden you
see this big revision and China shows up with all these
purchases nobody knew about,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-
rate strategist at primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York. “Similarly the U.K. purchases that tend to be pretty
steady and strong get knocked back down.”  A decline in China’s currency reserves may be a sign that
China’s economy isn’t going to be as reliant on buying U.S. debt
to make its exports more attractive, said  Michael Cheah , who
oversees $2 billion in bonds at SunAmerica Asset Management in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  China’s  reserves  totaled $3.18 trillion as of Jan. 13, or
2.5 percent below the Aug. 31 high of $3.26 trillion, according
to China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  Currency Controls  China’s  currency , the yuan, rose 5 percent against the
dollar last year, the biggest yearly increase since a 7 percent
gain in 2008.  The growth in China’s Treasury holdings has historically
been the result of efforts “to prevent the renminbi from
strengthening, that is, to protect the exporters,” Cheah said.
“The drop in Treasury holdings reflects a drop in China’s total
reserves. They’re not intervening as aggressively as before.”  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in 10 quarters
as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed export demand and the  property
market  weakened. Gross domestic product rose 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
in Beijing Jan. 17.  China is prepared for a slowdown in economic growth and a
mild moderation is “desirable,”  Ma Jiantang , head of the
statistics bureau, said at a briefing Jan. 17. The government
has set a target of 7 percent annual expansion for the current
five-year plan that runs through 2015 and will focus more on the
quality of growth, he said.  ‘Manage Their Absence’  A slackening of demand from China doesn’t now pose a threat
to the U.S. in the form of higher rates, as the domestic demand
based has broadened, said Cheah, who worked at the Singapore
Monetary Authority from 1982 through 1999, and now teaches
finance classes at  New York  University and at Chinese
universities. “We are able to manage their absence with bigger
than otherwise  domestic demand  that helps underpin our
economy.”  The Fed holds $2.67 trillion of Treasuries in custodial
accounts, the fewest since April 20. They have declined 3.2
percent since Aug. 24 when they reached a high of $2.76 trillion.  “If you look at the Fed’s custody holdings, you do see
weakness,” Credit Suisse’s Sherman said. At the same time, he
said the European debt crisis has also helped support prices for
Treasuries by broadening demand among international investors.  “There are a lot of private investors who are buying
Treasuries because Europe is not a safe asset anymore,” Sherman
said. “The population of risk-free assets is smaller and that’s
making Treasuries in higher demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  