-- China Life Leads Gains in N.Y. Index on Lending: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-18T21:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-life-leads-most-stocks-higher-on-bank-lending-boost-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in the U.S. advanced,
led by  China Life (LFC)  Insurance Co., on the prospect policy makers
will allow banks to boost lending to help avert a slowdown in
Asia’s fastest growing economy.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent to a two-month high of
101.22 yesterday in  New York .  China  Life, the nation’s biggest
insurer, rose to a one-month high as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
named it a “long-term winner.”  New Oriental Education &
Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  rebounded from yesterday’s 11 percent
slump on speculation the drop was excessive.  China’s central bank will let the nation’s five biggest
banks increase first-quarter lending by as much as 5 percent
from a year earlier, according to two people at state banks with
knowledge of the matter, declining to be named because the move
hasn’t been announced. Economic growth decelerated to the
slowest pace in 10 quarters in the three months to Dec. 31 as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbed export demand.  “Even small policy moves in China would be interpreted
very positively” by investors, said Jeff Papp, a senior analyst
in Lisle,  Illinois  at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which
helps invest $700 million in China. “More and more data this
year confirms that they have the ability now to make some moves,
so you’ve probably seen some people try to front run those
moves.”  The People’s Bank of China reduced the amount banks must
set aside as reserves by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage
point, in December to 21 percent and hasn’t moved the nation’s
lending rate since July, when it was lifted to 6.56 percent amid
quickening inflation.  IMF Plans  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.4 percent to
2,266.38 yesterday, after climbing the most since October 2009
on Jan. 17. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gained 1.1 percent
to 1,308.04 after the  International Monetary Fund  said that it
plans to raise as much as $500 billion in lending to insulate
the global economy against a worsening of Europe’s woes and a
worldwide slowdown.  China’s “small easing steps are going to continue,” Tian Hou, chief executive officer of T.H. Capital LLC in Beijing,
said in an interview with  Bloomberg Radio  yesterday. “From the
trend point of view, the stock market will go up this year.”  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based China Life
climbed 4.8 percent to $41.51, the highest level since Dec. 7.
Goldman Sachs analyst Nick Hartley said the company was one of
33 “long-term winners” among global equities that offer
attractive entry points. The stock has risen 12 percent this
year after a 40 percent slump in 2011.  Chinese ETF Climbs  Three analysts maintained “buy” or “hold”
recommendations on China Life yesterday, while Credit Suisse
Group AG downgraded the company to “neutral.” The insurer’s
income from premiums in 2011 was 318.3 billion  yuan  ($50.4
billion), according to a regulatory filing on Jan. 17, compared
with 318.2 billion yuan in 2010.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index  Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 1.9 percent to
$38.32, the highest level since Nov. 8. The yuan was little
changed at 6.3120 per dollar yesterday, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  New Oriental, China’s largest private education service
provider, jumped 7.7 percent to $24.09. The company’s U.S.-
traded stock slid to the lowest level since October on Jan. 17
as a sales forecast for the quarter ended in February 2012
missed analysts’ estimates.  ‘A Bit Overdone’  Four strategists  reiterated  their “buy” or “outperform”
recommendations on New Oriental stock yesterday while two
maintained “hold” or “neutral” ratings.  The decline in the share price after the earnings report
“is a bit overdone,” C. Ming Zhao, an equity analyst at
Susquehanna International Group LLP in  Boston , wrote in a Jan.
17 research note.  ADRs of Aluminum Corp. of China, the nation’s biggest maker
of the metal, traded 2.3 percent higher than the share price in
 Hong Kong , the biggest premium since Dec. 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock rose 1.6 percent to $12.52 in
New York, taking the advance over the last six trading days to
16 percent.  “Further central bank coordination could ultimately
alleviate concerns about economic failure in Europe,” which is
bullish for metals, a report by Bloomberg Industries said
yesterday. Additional monetary policy easing in China may also
help boost business confidence and visibility, the report said.  Solar Support  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the biggest solar-panel maker,
surged 15 percent to a four-month high of $3.70.  Chinese solar-module makers enjoy “offensive, unlimited
state financing,”  Germany ’s Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said yesterday at a conference in Berlin. That support
may be designed to “drive out German companies as competitors
to reach a technology leadership or even a technology
monopoly.”  China plans to develop three gigawatts of solar capacity
this year, double its existing capacity, the National Energy
Administration said on Jan. 11. on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien in New York on 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  