-- China Unicom Adds Record 3G Customers Undercutting IPhone: Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-19T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-unicom-adds-record-3g-subscribers-undercutting-iphone-by-80-tech.html
China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. (762) , the
nation’s No. 2 carrier, is adding a record number of high-speed
wireless subscribers and gaining market share by pushing
smartphones that cost 80 percent less than  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  China Unicom started winning customers from market leader
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)  after it switched focus from high-end users of
the iPhone to those who can’t afford the device. China Unicom
started selling handsets from local manufacturers Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  that cost less than 1,000 yuan
($158), or about half a month’s salary for an urban worker.  The strategy helped make China Unicom the best-performing
stock on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  last year with a 47
percent increase. It also accelerated the shift to high-speed
networks in  China , putting the nation on course to surpass the
U.S. in smartphone users and enabling Huawei and ZTE to compete
against Apple in their home market.  “People aspire to own an iPhone, but they can’t afford
it,” said Teck Zhung Wong, a Beijing-based analyst at IDC
China. “If a vendor offers a phone that can do most of the
things a high-end device can do, there’s no reason people won’t
bite.”  IPhones continue to be popular among those who have the
money. China Unicom, the only carrier offering the device with a
service contract, is down 11 percent this year after customers
frustrated by not being able to buy the new iPhone 4S pelted
Apple’s main Beijing store with eggs, prompting the handset
maker to pull all phones from its store shelves.  Two Months’ Wages  Apple also said its application for a phone to work on
 China Telecom (728) ’s network was moving through the approval process.  China introduced third-generation wireless networks in
2009, six years after the U.S. Adoption of the high-speed
service was hampered by handset prices in a nation where monthly
 urban disposable income  was 1,811 yuan per capita through the
first nine months of last year, according to the national
statistics bureau.  A 16-gigabyte iPhone 4S costs 4,988 yuan at Apple’s  online 
store, or more than two months’ wages.  Last year’s introduction of cheaper models from Huawei and
ZTE spurred a 44 percent jump in monthly 3G subscriber sign-ups
in June compared with January. The top three carriers -- China
Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom Corp., respectively --
added a record 8.34 million subscribers in September.  Apple Focus  China Unicom initially was on target to miss its forecast
for adding 25 million 3G subscribers last year, signing up
between 1.21 million and 1.86 million users a month through May,
according to government statistics. That’s because the carrier
focused on high-end users with the Apple device, said Tucker Grinnan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd.  The carrier started selling 1,000-yuan smartphones in May,
said Sophia Tso, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman. By August, it
was adding more than 2 million 3G subscribers a month,
culminating in a record 3.49 million in December.  China Unicom added 26 million 3G users last year, according
to data it released yesterday.  “Low-cost smartphones will enter a period of rapid
development as a decisive factor in the popularity of 3G,” Zhou
Youmeng, president of sales, said in a  statement  on the
carrier’s website.  China Unicom subscribers can still get a free  iPhone  4S by
signing a three-year contract for as little as 286 yuan a month.  Taking Share  The number of subscribers to 3G mobile networks in China
will almost double to 229 million this year, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That
compares with 200 million in the U.S., according to the median
estimate of five analysts surveyed.  “People are underestimating the growth,” said Jim Tang,
an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai  who
doesn’t cover the U.S. market. “The number is going to be
huge.”  As the market expands, more subscribers are going to China
Unicom and China Telecom at the expense of China Mobile. China
Unicom’s market share will rise to 32 percent this year from 30
percent at the end of 2010, and China Telecom will boost its
share to 28 percent from 26 percent, according to the median of
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China Mobile’s share will drop to 38 percent from 44
percent in 2010, according to the survey. Rainie Lei, a Hong
Kong-based spokeswoman for China Mobile, declined to comment on
the company’s 3G strategy.  ‘Like Hotcakes’  Investors back China Unicom because its 3G customers use an
average of about twice as much data as China Mobile’s, said Paul Wuh, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in  Hong Kong . China
Mobile shares are down 3.4 percent in Hong Kong in the past 12
months.  “Unicom’s subscribers are going there with the specific
purpose of buying smartphones and using data,” Wuh said.
“That’s why people are more excited about Unicom versus China
Mobile.”  Between the first and third quarters last year, ZTE’s sales
in China almost quintupled and Huawei’s almost tripled,
according to data compiled by research company  Gartner Inc. 
Huawei sold 4.47 million handsets there through the first nine
months, and ZTE sold 3.03 million.  Cupertino, California-based Apple sold 5.6 million iPhones
during the same period as its market share dropped to 10.4
percent in the third quarter from 13.3 percent the quarter
before, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner.  Closely held Huawei passed Apple in smartphone market share
with 11 percent. ZTE more than doubled its share to 8.4 percent,
cutting Apple’s lead to 2 percentage points from almost 7 in the
first quarter, according to Gartner.  Huawei’s best-selling smartphone in the 1,000-yuan category
is the C8650, Huawei spokesman Ross Gan said in an e-mail. The
Android-based smartphone sold 1 million units within two months
of its introduction in July.  ZTE’s top handset is the 1,000-yuan Blade, with 6 million
sold, said Rena Qin, a spokeswoman for the Shenzhen-based
company. ZTE since has introduced four more smartphones in that
 price range , she said.  “Low-end smartphones are selling like hotcakes, and there
is nothing in the market trends that suggests this is not going
to continue,” Wuh said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  