-- Chinese Officials Said to Weigh Easing Constraints on Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-19T09:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-said-to-allow-banks-to-increase-first-quarter-lending-by-5-over-11.html
China  is allowing the nation’s five
biggest banks to increase first-quarter lending and weighing a
plan to relax  capital requirements  as economic growth cools.  The central bank will let the  larger lenders  increase new
loans by a maximum of about 5 percent from a year earlier,
according to two people at state lenders who have knowledge of
the matter. The banking regulator is delaying implementing the
most stringent capital adequacy ratios and may lower risk
weightings for loans to small businessmen and companies, four
people said separately.  Chinese policy makers are under pressure to ease credit
after  growth  in the world’s second-biggest economy moderated to
the slowest pace in 10 quarters as  Europe ’s debt crisis capped
export demand and home sales slipped. Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to
sustain the expansion without re-inflating property-price
bubbles or driving up consumer prices.  The steps are “policy easing and fine-tuning and both
measures aim to support the real sector of the economy,” said
Liu Li-Gang, an economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd . in  Hong Kong , who previously worked at the  World
Bank . “This year, credit conditions will be more relaxed than
last year.”  The Shanghai Composite Index closed 1.3 percent higher.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,  the world’s largest
lender by market value, rose 1.9 percent in Hong Kong, while
China Construction Bank Corp. gained 2.5 percent.  China’s growth cooled to 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
the statistics bureau said this week. Reports yesterday showed
foreign direct investment and home prices slid in December.  ‘Major Task’  “The government’s major task will be maintaining stable
economic growth this year,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager at
Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “We should be seeing more
pro-growth measures going forward and easing restrictions on
lending is a good start.”  The guidance from the People’s Bank of China to the big
lenders on first-quarter new loans amounts to “modest”
loosening, said Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Hong Kong who has formerly worked for the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority and the World Bank. ICBC,  Construction Bank (939) , Bank of
China Ltd., Agricultural Bank and Bank of Communications Co. are
the nation’s five biggest lenders.  The central bank also said that 30 percent of full-year
lending should be in the first quarter, with the same amount in
the second and 20 percent in each of the final two quarters, the
people said. The PBOC won’t comment on anything related to
credit quotas, a press official said in Beijing yesterday.  Risk Buffers  The China Banking Regulatory Commission may allow banks to
increase the excess  bad-loan reserves  used in calculating risk
buffers, the four people said. A press official for the CBRC,
who refused to be named due to the agency’s rules, declined to
immediately comment.  The risk weighting on personal operating loans given to
small businessmen may be cut to 75 percent from the current 100
percent, while the ratio on loans to small and micro-sized firms
would be lowered to 50 percent from 75 percent, two of the
people said. The banks had 14.6 trillion yuan ($2.3 trillion) of
such loans outstanding in August, accounting for 27 percent of
total advances, according to the CBRC.  The regulator is yet to complete setting how  capital
requirements  will be calculated, and hasn’t told banks how long
the implementation may be delayed, the people said this week.  Resisting Local Demand  Separately, the CBRC has told lenders to contain risks tied
to local government debt, a person with knowledge of the matter
said this week.  China warned its banks to resist demand for credit from
local governments as new officials in cities, towns and villages
pursue projects that bolster growth, the person said.  The banking commission told lenders this month to be on
watch for loan applications for new programs disguised as
funding requests for unfinished ones, said the person, declining
to be identified as the order isn’t public.  Requests may increase as local leaders appointed in a
nationwide shuffle seek funds to help create jobs in their
regions, the person said. A press official at the banking
regulator, who declined to be identified because of the agency’s
rules, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  China’s lending peaked in 2009 as officials allowed a
credit boom to counter the effects of the global financial
crisis. New local currency loans fell year-on-year in the first
quarters of 2011 and 2010. In the first three months of last
year, the amount was about 2.26 trillion yuan ($360 billion),
Bloomberg data shows.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  