-- China Developers Slow Home Sales as They Face Their Worst Year Since 2008
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-19T07:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-developers-slow-home-sales-as-they-face-their-worst-year-since-2008.html
China ’s biggest developers slowed
home sales toward the end of 2011, bracing for the worst
 property market  in three years as the government vows to keep
real-estate curbs.  Contract sales, or sales booked before apartments are
completed, dropped 30 percent last month at  China Vanke Co. (000002) , as
the country’s biggest developer by market value offered fewer
homes from November.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , the
second-biggest Chinese developer by revenue, said sales in
November and December were the lowest for the year.  Developers are looking for ways to preserve record sales
last year as the impact of purchase limits and tighter mortgage
requirements imposed by the government spreads. China’s home
transactions will fall 10 percent this year, according to Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets, while UBS AG says the curbs may
boost supply to the highest in a decade.  “If the government doesn’t relax the enforcement on the
house purchase restrictions and mortgages by the summer, then we
could have a crash in the housing market by the end of the
year,” said Andy Rothman, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets’ China
macro strategist in an interview in  Shanghai .  China’s home prices had their worst performance in 2011 in
December, with only two of the 70 cities tracked by the
government posting gains, according to data from the National
Statistics Bureau yesterday.  Less Willing  About 16 percent of respondents in China said in a 2011
survey they plan to buy a property in the next two years, down
from 22 percent in 2010, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.
That makes China the only of seven  developing countries  in its
poll that saw declining willingness for home purchases.  The government has reiterated it won’t back away from real-
estate industry curbs, while the financial center of Shanghai
and Beijing are among Chinese cities that have said they will
continue to impose home purchase restrictions this year.  Evergrande “adjusted the sales rhythm” in November to
have a “reasonable base data” for 2012 after beating its sales
target, said Chief Executive Officer Xia Haijun last month. It
set its contracted sales target for 2012 at 80 billion yuan
($12.7 billion), lower than the 80.4 billion yuan it achieved
last year, according to a Jan. 16 statement.   China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , the biggest Chinese
developer listed in  Hong Kong , stopped efforts to “actively
promote and launch projects in November and will set prices that
will factor in the government’s policies and market conditions
this year,” said Yang Haisong, the state-owned company’s Hong
Kong-based head of investors relations.  ‘Not Confident’  Developers “intentionally” slowing down sales at the end
of the year “shows that they are actually not confident of
their sales this year,” said Peter Bai, a Beijing-based
property analyst at China International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank.  Developers may be facing one of their toughest years in
2012, said Chen Li, head of China equity strategy at UBS. Their
 cash flow  may be “exhausted to zero” by the end of the year as
some companies struggle to get financing for projects, said Chen.  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , the biggest builder of the
eastern Zhejiang province, is in discussion to sell more of its
projects to raise cash, Chief Financial Officer Simon Fung said
in a phone interview last month after it sold its stake in a
site on Shanghai’s historic Bund for 1.04 billion yuan. Its
contracted sales fell 38 percent to 35.3 billion yuan last year.  Trust Loans  Tighter credit conditions led some developers to seek out
more expensive forms of financing, including offshore bonds and
onshore trust companies last year.  Trust loans are usually debt that’s repackaged into
investment products and sold to retail investors, and the loans
are typically funded by banks or the investors themselves. The
 interest rates  can vary from 10 percent to 30 percent, according
to Samsung Securities ( Asia ) Ltd.  “The worst time will be the end of the first quarter or
the second quarter because some non-listed developers will be
forced to cut prices to get capital quickly,” said Eva Lee, a
property analyst at UBS.  Smaller developers such as  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) ,
trying to meet sales targets at the end of 2011, rushed to sell
projects and cut prices to achieve their forecasts, said Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based analyst for Mizuho Securities Asia. Agile,
in which JPMorgan Chase & Co. has a 4.75 percent stake, reported
December  sales  almost doubled from November.  Falling Prices  Prices are sliding as the government curbs begin to be felt
in less affluent cities. In the eastern city of Wenzhou, where a
credit squeeze on smaller businesses prompted a visit and pledge
of financial aid from Premier  Wen Jiabao  in October, prices fell
1.9 percent in December from the previous month and 6.9 percent
from a year earlier, according to the data yesterday.  Home sales last year rose 10 percent, the slowest pace
since 2008, according to data released on Jan. 17. In 2008,
China’s home sales retreated for the first time since the 1998
privatization of the housing market, dropping 17 percent.  The government may ease the property curbs as early as the
middle of the year as an oversupply may be a “disaster” for
developers, said UBS’s Chen. Supply will peak at 1.5 times to
1.6 times demand, Chen said.  “I don’t see the physical market recovering before the
first quarter,” said Kenny Wu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JI-
Asia Research Ltd. “Developers are watching the direction of
the government policies, and may put more properties on the
market after seeing signs of easing.”  Not Bad  Still, China’s developers have so far withstood the
government’s efforts to prevent an asset bubble. Sales rose an
average 16 percent at the country’s top 20 developers from 2010,
according to Macquarie Securities Ltd. Vanke’s sales climbed 12
percent last year and exceeded 100 billion yuan for a second
consecutive year.  The  measure  tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.7 percent at the close to a one-month
high, while the benchmark gauge advanced 1.3 percent gain.  “The market was not bad last year,” said Jeffrey Gao, a
Shanghai-based property analyst at Macquarie Securities, who
said he expects policies to be loosened “marginally.”  “The
real test will be this year, especially the first half will be
even tougher.”  The biggest developers have yet to set official sales
targets for 2012, with most indicating transactions will be
little changed or grow as much as 20 percent, according to BNP
Paribas Securities SA. UBS said it expects developers to set
sales targets 10 percent to 15 percent higher than last year.  “I’m sure developers will cut prices pretty aggressively
this year,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Samsung Securities, in a phone interview. “It’s not
about margin any more but how do you generate cash to sustain
yourself.” He said he expects China home prices to drop 15
percent this year with bigger declines in affluent or so-called
tier-one cities.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  