-- Clijsters, Wozniacki, Nadal Advance at Australia Open; No. 8 Fish Goes Out
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-18T14:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-s-li-advances-at-australian-open-as-federer-moves-off-center-stage.html
Defending champion  Kim Clijsters  and
top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  took contrasting paths into the
third round of the Australian Open. No. 8 Mardy Fish became the
highest-ranked man to lose at the year’s first Grand Slam event.  Second-seeded Rafael Nadal yesterday beat Tommy Haas of
Germany 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 at Melbourne Park, while No. 3  Roger Federer  of Switzerland advanced when his second-round opponent,
German Andreas Beck, withdrew with a lower back injury.  Nadal needed 2 1/2 hours to get past Haas, a three-time
semifinalist in Melbourne. The Spaniard, who won his lone
Australian Open title in 2009, played with his leg taped after
feeling what he said was acute pain in his right knee on the eve
of the tournament.  “The knee is improving,” Nadal said in a televised
interview. “I’m able to play without problems.”  Federer had been scheduled to follow Wozniacki onto Hisense
Arena,  Melbourne  Park’s second-biggest showcourt, before Beck
withdrew. It would have been the four-time champion’s first
match away from Rod Laver Arena since 2004.  In action today, five-time champion  Serena Williams  plays
Czech Barbora Zahlavova Strycova, while 2008 champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia  faces Jamie Hampton of the U.S. Britain’s
 Andy Murray  meets France’s Edouard Roger-Vasselin.  Clijsters routed Stephanie Foretz Gacon of France 6-0, 6-1
in 47 minutes on Rod Laver Arena to move closer to a possible
fourth-round match against French Open championLi Na, whom she
beat in the women’s final last year. Wozniacki, still seeking
her first Grand Slam title, needed an 81-minute second set to
defeat Georgia’s Anna Tatishvili 6-1, 7-6 (7-4).  “I pulled through,” said Wozniacki, who fought back from
4-1 down in the second set and had a blister on her left big toe
taped during a medical timeout. “I stepped back a little bit
and she punished me for that.”  Li, the No. 5 seed from  China , beat Australian wild-card
entrant Olivia Rogowska in the day three opener on Rod Laver
Arena to secure her best run at a major since her breakthrough
victory in Paris. She’ll next play Anabel Medina Garrigues, the
No. 26 seed from  Spain , while No. 11 seed Clijsters faces 20th-
seeded Slovakian Daniela Hantuchova.  “The score looks easy but some games I did a lot of
fighting,” Li, the first Chinese player to win a major singles
title, said after her 6-2, 6-2 victory.  Losing Seeds  Li’s countrywoman Peng Shuai, the No. 16 seed, lost to
Iveta Benesova of the  Czech Republic , while former French Open
champion Francesca Schiavone fell to fellow Italian Romina
Oprandi, who next plays No. 22 Julia Goerges of  Germany .  No. 3 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, one of four women
who can end the two-week tournament as the WTA’s No. 1-ranked
player, closed play at Rod Laver Arena with a 6-1, 6-0 win over
 Australia ’s Casey Dellacqua.  Jelena Jankovic, the No. 13 seed from Serbia, advanced to a
matchup with American teenager Christina McHale, who fought back
from a set down to beat New Zealand’s Marina Erakovic to repeat
her third-round performance at last year’s U.S. Open.  Fish, who became the No. 1 U.S. men’s player for the first
time last year, lost to 71st-ranked Alejandro Falla of Colombia
in the biggest upset on the men’s side. Fish’s 7-6 (7-4), 6-3,
7-6 (8-6) defeat marked the third straight year that he failed
to advance beyond the second round in Melbourne.  “I didn’t play great,” Fish, who had been in line to meet
Federer in the quarterfinals, told reporters. “Conditions were
about as ideal for me as I would have liked as far as the second
and third set, heat and stuff. Just didn’t work out.”  Five-Set Thriller  Fellow American  John Isner  battled through a 99-minute
fifth set to beat David Nalbandian of Argentina in four hours,
41 minutes on Margaret Court Arena.  Nalbandian called for the supervisor when the chair umpire
wouldn’t allow him to challenge the umpire’s overrule of a
linesperson who called an Isner serve out. The ace, one of 43
for Isner in the match, allowed the American to hold for a 9-8
lead and he completed the victory in the next game with a reflex
volley.  “I was hanging by a thread,” Isner, who next will play
No. 18 Feliciano Lopez of Spain, told reporters after his 4-6,
6-3, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5), 10-8 win. “I kept pulling even with my
serve and I was going for my shots. Eventually it paid off.”  A television replay showed Isner’s serve was out, and
Nalbandian criticized umpire Kader Nouni of  France  in a news
conference.  “It’s ridiculous playing this kind of tournament with this
kind of umpire,” Nalbandian said. “I mean, can you be that
stupid to do that in that moment?”  19-Set Matchup  Sam Querrey  of the U.S. took the first set before losing to
Australian teenager  Bernard Tomic  in the night session opener on
Rod Laver Arena. Tomic advanced to a third-round match against
13th-seeded Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukraine. Tomic and Dolgopolov
played a combined 19 sets in their opening two matches.  Seventh-seeded Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic beat
Olivier Rochus of Belgium to set up a third-round match with
Kevin Anderson, the 30th seed from  South Africa . No. 11 Juan Martin Del Potro, the only man other than Nadal, Federer and
top-ranked Novak Djokovic to secure one of the past 27 majors,
also won in straight sets. Nicolas Almagro, the No. 10 seed from
Spain, advanced in five sets while  Stanislas Wawrinka ,
 Switzerland ’s No. 2, beat former Australian Open finalist Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus in four sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  