-- China Said to Warn Banks as Local Officials Seek New Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-18T10:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-said-to-tell-banks-to-restrict-lending-as-local-officials-seek-funds.html
China  warned its  banks  to resist
demand for credit from local governments as new officials in
cities, towns and villages pursue projects that bolster growth,
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRZ)  told lenders
earlier this month to be on watch for loan applications for new
programs disguised as funding requests for unfinished ones, said
the person, declining to be identified as the order isn’t
public. Requests may increase as local leaders appointed in a
nationwide shuffle seek funds to help create jobs in their
regions, the person said.  The order to reinforce lending limits reflects the central
government’s intention to continue a two-year campaign to rein
in local borrowing. China’s efforts to curtail these loans on
concern defaults may mount as the  economy  slows has boosted
borrowing costs for local governments as their financing
vehicles are forced to raise funds by selling bonds.  “The central government definitely needs to keep local
officials’ expansion plans in check to prevent the situation
from deteriorating,” Shen Jianguang, the chief Greater China
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by
phone today. “The local chiefs’ promotions hinge on the
economic growth in those areas.”  A press official at the banking regulator, who declined to
be identified because of the agency’s rules, said he couldn’t
immediately comment.  Jockeying for Power  The ruling Communist Party’s local committees began the
appointment of new leadership at the provincial, county, town
and city levels in 2011 as part of a shuffle that takes place
every five years. These changes will culminate with President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  stepping down from their party
positions at a meeting scheduled for the end of this year.  New officials will probably try to push ahead on fresh
projects to create jobs in their regions and secure better
positions in the party and the government, Sun Peng, a Beijing-
based analyst at Bank of China International, said by phone.
That would increase the risk of defaults on local-government
loans as the officials may fail to make payments on existing
obligations, he said.  Local governments in China, prohibited from directly taking
bank loans or selling bonds, have set up more than 6,000
financing companies to sidestep those rules and raise funds for
building stadiums, roads and bridges, the National Audit Office
said in a June report. It also warned of repayment risks.  Economic Slowdown  China yesterday released data that showed the economy
expanded in the fourth quarter at the slowest pace in more than
two years as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed demand for exports and
the  property market  was weakened by measures to rein in  home
prices . The nation’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose
that day by the most since October 2009 on expectations the
government will ease monetary policy to ensure economic growth.  Premier Wen pledged this month to preserve growth and said
the nation wouldn’t “stand still” in the face of difficult
conditions. The central bank in December cut the reserve
requirement for banks for the first time since 2008.  China’s central bank will let the nation’s five biggest
lenders increase first-quarter lending by a maximum of about 5
percent from a year earlier, according to two people at state
lenders who have knowledge of the matter. The central bank won’t
comment on anything relating to credit quotas, a press official
said in Beijing today.  Trimming Local Debt  The banking regulator began warning lenders in 2010 to
limit credit to the financing vehicles set up by the local
governments and to seek early repayment on some outstanding
loans. As a result, total outstanding credit to the financing
vehicles, based on classifications set by the regulator, was cut
to 9.1 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) in the three months ended
Sept. 30 from 9.2 trillion yuan, the person said.  Of that total, about 2.9 trillion yuan is now being managed
as ordinary corporate loans, the person said. Banks are able to
reclassify loans to local government financing vehicles as
ordinary corporate loans when they have stable operating cash
flows, are determined by the lender to have the ability to fully
repay debt and otherwise function like a normal commercial
company, China’s State Council said in August 2010.  Illicit Guarantees  Banks were also told to reject illicit guarantees or
commitments offered to secure the financing, the person said.  The lenders were told to ensure funding for key projects
that have already been approved, the person said. Shang Fulin,
head of the banking regulator, told the official Xinhua News
Agency in an interview this month that the commission would
ensure funding demand for the construction of affordable housing
is “reasonably met.”  With their access to bank loans limited, the financing
vehicles have turned to the nation’s bond market. Such issuers
raised 61.8 billion yuan selling debt in the year to March 24, a
third more than was raised by local government financing
vehicles a year earlier, Bloomberg data shows.  Policy makers in China are testing allowing local
governments to sell bonds. The cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen,
as well as the provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong, will be able
to sell debt under a pilot program, the  Finance Ministry  said on
Oct. 20.  The market for regional authorities’ debt, which hasn’t
existed since the Communist Party took power in 1949, will
require issuers to publish annual reports. The rules will also
stipulate clearer obligations for the bond issuers than for the
companies set up by local governments to raise money for sewers,
bridges and toll roads.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  