-- China Home Prices Mark Worst Performance as Only Two Cities Posting Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-18T08:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-s-december-home-prices-posted-worst-performance-last-year-on-curbs.html
China ’s December home prices posted
their worst performance last year, with only two of the 70
cities tracked posting gains, as the government reiterated its
plans to maintain housing curbs.  Prices in 52 of 70 cities monitored by the government
declined from the previous month, the National Statistics Bureau
said in a statement on its website today. New home prices in the
nation’s four major cities of Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and
Guangzhou declined for a third month, it said.  The government said last month it won’t back away from
curbs on the real-estate industry, with the financial center of
Shanghai and the capital of Beijing among Chinese cities that
have said they will continue to impose restrictions on home
purchases this year.  “The downtrend of China  home prices  is consistent with our
expectations,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in a phone interview
today. “The government policies have achieved the intended
results. What we’ll need to watch next is if the falling home
prices will increase the risk of hard-landing in the Chinese
economy.”  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the statistics bureau said yesterday, the
slowest pace in 10 quarters as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed
export demand and the  property market  weakened.  Shares Fall  A  gauge  tracking property shares in  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.7 percent today at the close, compared with a 1.4
percent decline on the benchmark measure.  The eastern city of Wenzhou, where a credit squeeze on
smaller businesses prompted a visit and pledge of financial aid
from Premier  Wen Jiabao  in October, posted the biggest month-on-
month drop of 1.9 percent, according to the data. The western
city of Guiyang and Yinchuan in the northwest, the only two
cities that had gains in home prices, recorded increases of 0.1
percent each.  “The property market in Wenzhou was simply too speculative
with a lot private entrepreneurs investing in industries that
they don’t really know,” Liu said. “When they are short of
cash, the first thing they do is to sell off their properties to
pay back debts.”  Among the four major cities, Beijing declined 0.1 percent
while Shanghai fell 0.3 percent, according to the statement.  ‘Unambiguously Deteriorating Trends’  Today’s figures came after private data also showed signs
of cooling. China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in
December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s
biggest real estate website.  The first half will be difficult for developers and other
companies and the economic expansion may fall below 8 percent,
Wei Yao, a Hong Kong-based economist for at Societe Generale SA,
wrote in a note to clients today.  “Today’s report is consistent with the unambiguously
deteriorating trends seen in property sales, construction,
starts and investments,” Yao said. “The data just turned from
bad to worse. Contraction in sales and sharp deceleration in
investments will send shock waves along industry chain.”  Chinese developers have to pay a principle and interest of
250 billion yuan on trust loans in 2012, according to a Jan. 13
report by China International Capital Corp. Developers may cut
prices, sell projects and extend trust loans to avoid the risk
of defaults, it said.  Get Worse  “Things will get worse before they get better,”  Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.,
said in an interview in Shanghai before the release of the data,
adding that he expects the government’s policies to ease after
the National Peoples’ Congress in March. “Developers will get
bailed out to some extent, but it will be a painful process.”  China’s home transactions rose 10 percent in 2011, the
slowest pace in three years, according to government data
yesterday.  Existing home prices in Beijing fell 0.8 percent last month
from November, while those in Shanghai dropped 0.4 percent,
according to the bureau.  “China’s property measures have achieved visible effects
that speculation has been restrained,”  Ma Jiantang , the head of
the statistics bureau in Beijing, said yesterday. “We will need
to watch the challenges faced by the property, but I don’t think
they will be the biggest risks to the Chinese economy.”  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  