-- China Said to Consider Relaxing Capital Rules for Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-19T02:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-said-to-consider-relaxing-capital-requirements-for-banks.html
China’s banking regulator is
weighing a plan to relax  capital requirements  for lenders after
the world’s second-largest economy expanded at the slowest pace
in 10 quarters, four people with knowledge of the matter said.  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  is delaying
implementing the most stringent capital adequacy ratios and may
lower risk weightings for loans to small businessmen and
companies, the people said, declining to be identified as the
matter is confidential. The watchdog may also allow  banks  to
increase the excess bad-loan reserves used in calculating risk
buffers, they said.  The proposals signal that China’s policy makers are under
pressure to ease credit after  economic growth  slowed to 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter. The central bank in December cut
the reserve requirement for banks for the first time since 2008.
Relaxing the capital rules may allow banks to provide more loans
without having to raise funds from equity or bond sales.  “Apparently the regulator is concerned about slower growth
and now becomes reluctant to constrain banks’ lending capacity
by too much,” said Sheng Nan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CCB
International Securities Ltd., the investment banking unit of
the nation’s second-largest lender. “This will reduce capital
needs for banks and give them more incentive to boost loans to
cash-strapped smaller firms.”  Lower Risk Weightings  The risk weighting on personal operating loans given to
small businessmen may be cut to 75 percent from the current 100
percent, while the ratio on loans to small and micro-sized firms
would be lowered to 50 percent from 75 percent, two of the
people said. The banks had 14.6 trillion yuan ($2.3 trillion) of
such  loans outstanding  in August, accounting for 27 percent of
 total advances , according to the CBRC.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, rose 1.5 percent in  Hong Kong  as
of 10 a.m. local time.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  gained 2
percent while  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  added 1.4 percent.
 China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988) , which specializes in lending to
smaller firms, rose 3.4 percent.  The regulator is yet to complete setting how capital
requirements will be calculated, and hasn’t told banks how long
the implementation may be delayed, the people said this week.  A press official for the CBRC, who refused to be named due
to the agency’s rules, declined to immediately comment.  The regulator also warned banks this month to resist demand
for credit from local governments as new officials in cities,
towns and villages pursue projects that bolster growth, a person
with knowledge of the matter said. Such requests may rise as
local leaders appointed in a nationwide shuffle seek funds to
help create jobs in their regions, the person said.  Prepared for Slowdown  China is prepared for an economic slowdown and mild
moderation is “desirable,”  Ma Jiantang , head of the nation’s
statistics bureau, said on Jan. 17. Banks including BNP Paribas
SA, Nomura Holdings Inc. and UBS AG forecast weaker economic
expansion in China this quarter as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed
export demand and the  property market  weakened.  Chinese banks advanced 7.47 trillion yuan of new loans in
2011, a decrease of about 5 percent from the year earlier,
according to the central bank, after the government tightened
monetary policy to  cool inflation . The central bank will let the
five biggest lenders increase first-quarter lending by a maximum
of about 5 percent from a year earlier, two people at state
lenders who have knowledge of the matter said this week.  The People’s Bank of  China  last month allowed lenders to
set aside less of their deposits, cutting the reserve ratio by
50 basis points for the biggest banks to 21 percent.  New loans 
in December were also the highest since April, signs that the
government is loosening monetary policy to encourage lending.  New Chief Regulator  The proposed changes to the risk buffers also come after
China in October named securities regulator Shang Fulin to
oversee the $17 trillion banking industry, which includes four
of the world’s eight largest lenders by market value. Under
former Chairman  Liu Mingkang , CBRC tightened rules to prevent a
record $2.7 trillion of credit extended in 2009 and 2010 from
inflating asset bubbles and saddling lenders with bad loans.  The banking regulator said in August that it would require
the country’s largest or so-called systemically important
lenders to have a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 11.5 percent
by the end of 2013. Smaller banks would be required to have at
least 10.5 percent under “normal conditions” by the end of
2016, the CBRC had said.  Basel Rules  That is at least two years earlier than the date of
compliance set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
which developed a global regulatory standard on capital adequacy
and liquidity of banks. The Basel III rules give the world’s
largest lenders until 2019 to increase their core  capital ratios 
to as much as 9.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.  Chinese banks may have to raise about 860 billion yuan in
stock over six years to meet the stricter capital rules, a
person with knowledge of estimates compiled by the watchdog said
in April. Lenders will probably need an additional 1.26 trillion
yuan in supplementary capital by the end of 2016, assuming
economic growth of 8 percent a year and 15 percent credit
expansion, the person said at that time.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  