-- China Appliances Target Philips Market as Incomes Double: Retail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-18T00:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/china-appliances-targeting-royal-philips-market-as-incomes-double-retail.html
China ’s demand for cheap home
appliances is waning as the government phases out subsidies. In
response, domestic companies are entering  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA) ’s market with high-end devices, including a red
washing machine that sterilizes shoes and can cost eight months
of a family’s disposable income.  Export of the fancy appliances, including three-door
refrigerators, may follow if the products are successful and
will mean increased Chinese competition in the expensive end of
the appliance world.  Sales for white goods may drop by as much as 10 percent
this year, Capital Securities Corp. analyst James Hu estimates.
The slowdown is boosting competition in China’s $77 billion
appliance market as local brands that traditionally made cheaper
products use premium lines to bolster profits.  Manufacturers are marketing swankier offerings, including
 Qingdao Haier Co. (600690) ’s 13,999 yuan ($2,219) red washing machine, to
attract China’s increasingly affluent consumers. That may help 
them draw local shoppers, and eventually global ones, from 
overseas competitors such as Philips and  Siemens AG (SIE) .  “Some domestic brands have shown strong ability to develop
new, better products,” said Chen Jun, a Beijing-based analyst
at Boxin Capital. “It’s a perfect time to upgrade, as they’ve
made a lot of money from the favorable policies and aren’t
worried too much about cash.”  A government program that gave shoppers as much as 400 yuan
to subsidize purchases of new home appliances helped drive sales
the past two years. The incentives, part of government moves to
boost domestic consumption, ended Dec. 31.  Time to Upgrade  That has made premier products more important for Chinese
appliance makers, which traditionally focused on cheaper
offerings as foreign competitors sold more expensive items.  Chinese consumers have more to spend on discretionary
items.  Per-capita disposable income  for households in towns and
cities almost doubled to 19,109 yuan in 2010 from 2005.  Monthly disposable income of urban households in  China (CNGDPYOY) 
averaged about 1,818 yuan last year, according to data from the
National Bureau of Statistics.  “Many Chinese  consumers  who have higher purchasing power
used to prefer foreign brands because they think they’ve got
reliable quality,” said Chen. “Things have changed recently.
Some domestic brands have shown strong ability to develop new
products.”  Sales Growth  Qingdao Haier’s China sales more than doubled in the two
years through 2010 to 54 billion yuan. China sales at air-
conditioner maker  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651)  during the same
period grew 57 percent to 47 billion yuan.  China’s appliance industry is expected to grow to 862.3
billion yuan in 2016 from 485.8 billion yuan in 2011, according
to estimates by London-based researcher Euromonitor
International.  The business environment for the appliance industry “isn’t
very promising” this year, Zhang Tieyan, a spokeswoman for
Haier Group, said in a response by e-mail. The closely held
appliance maker, the biggest shareholder of Qingdao Haier, will
focus on innovation and push for market share through premium
products such as frost-free, three-door refrigerators, she said.  Qingdao Haier’s 13,999 yuan  “Casarte Duplex Front-loaded
Washer”  has a traditional washing machine and a sterilization
section below, where shoes can be disinfected. At the Shanghai
store, the red machine with a touch screen was four times
costlier than a more basic, white Siemens machine.  Bigger Ambitions  The line offers “high technology for an elegant
lifestyle,” Zhang said.  “Business is quieter for low-end products, as most people
who want to buy have done so,” said Gu Mingfei, a Haier sales
representative at a Shanghai store. “For the high end, a few
hundred yuan of subsidy doesn’t matter to buyers. They would pay
more attention to its quality, design.”  The bigger ambitions of Chinese brands will mean more
competition for foreign brands such as Philips locally and
eventually overseas.  China’s  GD Midea Holding Co. (000527)  has a 19 percent market share
in China’s consumer appliance industry and Haier Group has 8.1
percent, according to Euromonitor. Philips is third with 6
percent share.  Chinese companies export mainly low-end products, said Wang Nianchun, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guosen Securities Co Ltd..
“It will be a gradual process for them to upgrade their
offerings to foreign consumers,” she said. “It’s a direction
they will have to take.”  ‘Competitive Position’  Philips didn’t comment, saying it is in a “quiet period”
before reporting earnings.  Nicole Neuer, a spokeswoman for BSH Bosch und Siemens
Hausgeräte GmbH in Munich, said China, where it mostly sells
higher-end products, is one of its biggest markets globally. The
company is a joint venture between Siemens and  Robert Bosch GmbH 
that sells home appliances globally.  “We expect single-digit percentage revenue growth in China
this year and expect to gain further market share in the
country,” Neuer said. “Our competitive position is
excellent.”  Even as higher-end lines offer a potential boost, local
companies still face weakening economic growth. The higher
margins from more expensive products “isn’t enough to offset
declining sales,” said Chen. China’s economic growth is poised
to weaken to 8.5 percent this year from about 9.2 percent in
2011, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Slower Growth  Air-conditioner sales are expected to grow 5 percent this
year after surging about 18 percent in 2011, estimates Zhu Zheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Ping An Securities.
Refrigerator sales may be little changed after growing 14
percent last year and washing machine sales growth may slow to 4
percent from 9 percent, he said.  Qingdao Haier  shares  lost 37 percent last year, compared
with a 22 percent drop for the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index. Gree Electric lost 4.6 percent in Shanghai trading last
year.  Local brands may have an edge. “Foreign brands will find
it hard to compete with domestic brands, especially in central
and western areas, because they don’t enjoy advantages on costs
or distribution network,” said Wang.  The government is studying policies to encourage spending
on energy-saving products, online shopping and tourism, Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said Jan 5.  China could introduce new policies that favor only certain
appliance categories, such as energy-saving products, later this
year, said Hu. Some appliance sales in rural areas continue to
be subsidized.  Global and local appliance makers still have room to grow
in China. There were about 42 air conditioners and 58
refrigerators in every 100 households last year, according to
Ray Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at Euromonitor International.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  