-- Christie Quiet on How He’ll Cover Proposed 10% New Jersey Income-Tax Cut
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-18T20:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/christie-quiet-on-how-he-ll-cover-proposed-10-new-jersey-income-tax-cut.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
proposed a 10 percent income-tax cut yesterday without saying
how he’d address the gap in lost revenue that Democratic
lawmakers said might top $1.1 billion.  The reduction would begin in January 2013 and be phased in
over three years. The new rates will lead to “better lives for
our citizens and more jobs for our state,” Christie, a first-
term Republican, said in his State of the State speech.  “Let others choose tax increases,” Christie said. “We
choose responsible tax cuts.”  Christie, 49, was silent on how the cut would be financed.
The governor said the  budget  he submits next month “will be
truly balanced,” and that the state needs to continue to “hold
the line on spending.”  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, said the cost of
the income-tax cut, and how the governor would pay for it, will
be part of his budget message.  Christie also said he wants to restore an earned-income tax
credit for New Jersey’s working poor, which he said he was
forced to cut in 2010 “when growth was gone and we had no
money.” The reinstatement also would take effect in 2013.  California , New York  Christie’s budget for fiscal 2012, which ends June 30,
 forecast  income-tax collections of $11.1 billion, out of total
revenue of $29.6 billion. A 10 percent cut of that amount would
cost $1.1 billion, reducing overall revenue by 3.7 percent.  While other states, including California,  Connecticut ,  New
York  and  Illinois , are raising taxes, New Jersey has to “show a
different direction” in order to compete, Christie said.  Christie has twice vetoed measures sponsored by Democrats,
who control both houses of the Legislature, that would have
raised income taxes on residents earning $1 million or more.  If New Jersey had enacted a tax overhaul similar to the one
signed last month by New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , every
person earning less than $100,000 a year would face a tax
increase of 150 percent to 200 percent, while those earning more
than $1 million would get a tax cut, Christie said.  “Is that what we want?” Christie said. “Is that
fairness?”  Josh Vlasto , a spokesman for Cuomo, a first-term Democrat,
didn’t respond to a call and e-mail requesting comment on
Christie’s speech.  Tax Rates  New Jersey’s income-tax rate ranges from 1.4 percent for
residents earning $20,000 a year or less, to 8.97 percent for
those earning $500,000 or more,  according  to the Treasury
Department. The state had the seventh-highest state income-tax
burden in a ranking of 2010 collections per capita by the
Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Income-tax collections this fiscal year through November
totaled $3.2 billion, which is 7.6 percent above year-earlier
collections and 1 percent above projections, the state treasury
department  said  last month. New Jersey’s income-tax collections
reached a peak of $12.6 billion in 2008 before dropping to $10.3
billion in 2010.  Democratic lawmakers said Christie’s  tax cut  would favor
the wealthy. While a person making $50,000 would get an $80
break under the governor’s plan, someone earning $1 million
would save $7,200, said Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a
Democrat from  East Orange .  “This is a B.S. tax cut,” Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford, told reporters after the
speech. “This is another windfall for multimillionaires at the
expense of schools, because that’s where the money comes from
when you cut taxes.”  Whitman Tax Cut  After former Governor Christine Whitman, a Republican,
followed through on a 1993 campaign pledge to reduce income
taxes by 30 percent, lawmakers made budget cuts, and local
governments across the state raised property taxes to replace
the lost aid, Oliver said.  New Jersey  is the second-richest state in the U.S. after
 Maryland , with median household income of $70,378 in 2008. It
has the nation’s highest property taxes, averaging $7,576 in
2010, according to the state Department of Community Affairs.
The levies, the main source of funding for schools and towns,
have climbed 70 percent in the past decade.  “One of the reasons we’re in the shape we are in today is
because that much revenue was taken out of the income stream,”
Oliver said. “We can’t return to that.”  Whitman, who was governor from 1994 to 2001, said her tax
cut “was good for both citizens and the state.” During her
administration, per-capita income rose, the  unemployment rate 
declined, the budget had a surplus and state bonds were
upgraded, Whitman said in a statement e-mailed by her
spokeswoman, Heather Grizzle.  Democrats Push Back  Democrats said they will seek to protect lower and middle-
class taxpayers. Millionaires are “a protected class” under
Christie, Sweeney said.  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, saw his stature in the national party rise weeks
after taking office in January 2010. He froze $2.2 billion in
spending to close a midyear deficit, and then cut $10 billion in
projected new spending for schools, pensions and towns.  Sweeney and other Democratic leaders have vowed to fight
harder against Christie, who is halfway through his first term
with near-record approval ratings. Democrats’ 2012 priorities
are passage of a so-called millionaire’s tax, same-sex marriage
and an increase in the minimum wage, Sweeney and Oliver said.
Christie, during an interview today on 101.5 FM radio, said he
won’t agree to any tax increase.  Slim Budgets  Daniel Solender, head of municipal bonds at Lord Abbett &
Co. in  Jersey City , said he wants to know how Christie will fund
the cuts and whether he will base them on anticipated economic
growth. After paring budgets in his first two years, it remains
to be seen which programs the governor can trim in order to find
the savings he needs, Solender said.  “Tax cuts always sound positive to the people who live in
the state, but the question is how you pay for it,” said
Solender, whose firm oversees $15 billion in municipal bonds.
“At some point, there’s going to be a lot of resistance, and
it’s directly opposite of what the other party wants.”  Christie had 53 percent approval among New Jersey voters in
a Quinnipiac University poll released today and has been
campaigning for presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  after
deciding against his own White House bid last year.  2013 Election  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University polling
institute, said the differences between Christie and the
Democrats are a taste of the 2013 elections, when the governor
and the entire Legislature will be chosen. In the meantime, the
competing priorities may lead to gridlock in Trenton, he said.  “It’s not all about the 2013 gubernatorial election --it’s
probably 75 percent about the 2013 gubernatorial election,”
Murray said. “It’s not to say both sides wouldn’t like to see
these things happen, but the reason they’re being proposed right
now is all about looking ahead and trying to score a victory.”  A year ago, Christie used his first State of the State
speech to urge lawmakers to “do the big things,” which he said
were maintaining fiscal discipline, overhauling public education
and reducing the costs of pensions and benefits.  While Christie has won passage of measures to raise public
workers’ costs for pensions and benefits and put a 2 percent cap
on property-tax growth, other proposals, including an education
overhaul and an end to employee payouts for unused sick time,
have stalled.  Christie, who called 2011 “the year of education reform,”
was unable to win passage of measures to offer privately funded
vouchers to students from poor families, institute merit pay for
teachers and make it easier for administrators to fire educators
deemed to be inadequate.  The governor yesterday again urged lawmakers to pass those
proposals, saying education was a top priority for 2012.  “These are not radical reforms; they are common sense,”
Christie said. “They are not rash; they are long overdue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  