-- Cinven Agrees to Buy Patents Company CPA From Intermediate
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-01-18T15:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/cinven-agrees-to-buy-patents-company-cpa-from-intermediate.html
Cinven Ltd., the British buyout firm
that owns the  Pizza Express  restaurant chain, agreed to buy
patents company CPA Global Ltd. from  Intermediate Capital Group
Plc (ICP)  and other shareholders.  The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is expected
to be completed in the first quarter, London-based Cinven said
in an e-mailed statement today. The transaction values CPA at
about 950 million pounds ($1.5 billion), according to a person
with direct knowledge of the purchase, who declined to be
identified because the terms weren’t fully disclosed.  Cinven is investing the remainder of its 6.5 billion-euro
($8.3 billion) buyout fund while seeking 5 billion euros from
investors for another pool. Intermediate bought a minority stake
in CPA in 2010 with the company’s management and founding
shareholders, according to Intermediate’s website. CPA, based in
 Jersey , has offices across  Europe , the  United States  and  Asia ,
Cinven said. It offers corporations and law firms intellectual
property-management services and software.  Intermediate, a London-based private-equity firm,  rose  as
much as 9.7 percent in London trading after saying the sale will
generate 387 million pounds for itself and the funds it advises.
Of that, the firm will receive about 113 million pounds,
realizing a 43 million-pound gain, it said in a statement.  Cinven is seeking about 430 million pounds of financing for
its buyout of CPA Global, a person with knowledge of the
transaction said previously. It hired HSBC Holdings Plc and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to arrange the funding, which includes 310
million pounds of senior loans and 120 million pounds of
mezzanine debt, the person said.  Intermediate was up 6.7 percent to 267.6 pence as of 3:10
p.m. in London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  