-- Cnooc Targets Assets, Unconventional Energy to Boost Output
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-01-19T09:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/cnooc-aims-to-increase-production-2-7-after-meeting-2011-target.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
oil and gas producer, plans to increase output by starting new
deepwater fields, buying overseas assets and accelerating
development of unconventional energy resources.  The energy explorer will maintain its goal of boosting
production by 6 to 10 percent for the five years ending 2015,
Chief Executive Officer Li Fanrong said, after Cnooc reported
yesterday that output came in at the low end of a reduced  target 
last year. The company said it will increase capital spending by
as much as 63 percent in 2012 as it develops more fields.  Cnooc, which relies on areas off the Chinese coast for 80
percent of its production, slashed its output goal after oil
leaks shut the country’s biggest field and it failed to complete
an acquisition in  Argentina . To boost reserves, it has  bid  for
at least $7.8 billion of overseas assets in the last two years,
including shale-gas and oil-sand acreages in  North America .  “Cnooc needs to step up overseas acquisitions if it wants
to elevate its production growth toward 10 percent,” said Wu
Fei, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BOCOM International Holdings
Co. “Unconventional energy is strategic to Cnooc’s long-term
growth but may not contribute to production immediately since it
takes years for commercial output to start.”  The energy explorer prefers assets that can support long-
term growth to those that boost production in the short run,
Chief Financial Officer Zhong Hua said today. Cnooc also prefers
to join overseas projects as a developer and operator than as an
equity investor, he told reporters in  Hong Kong .  The unit of China National Offshore Oil Corp. said it aims
to produce the equivalent of 330 million to 340 million barrels
of oil in 2012, a gain of as much as 2.7 percent from last year.  Biggest Offshore Field  The shares have fallen 20 percent in Hong Kong trading in
the past year, lagging behind gains of 13 percent and 3.1
percent in rivals  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  and
 PetroChina Co. (857) , respectively. Cnooc dropped 1.9 percent to
HK$15.46 today, compared with the 1.3 percent increase in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Production was about 331 million to 332 million barrels
last year, compared with a revised target of 331 million to 341
million, Cnooc said.  China  shut Penglai 19-3 field in Bohai Bay Sept. 2, saying
operator ConocoPhillips failed to contain leaks since June. The
closure of the field, of which Cnooc owns 51 percent, led to an
output loss of 62,000 barrels a day. The field will resume
production this year, Li told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday.  Cnooc further scaled back operations when it shut two gas
blocks in the South China Sea Dec. 19 because of an undersea
pipeline leak. The stoppage idled the equivalent of about 26,700
barrels of oil a day. The pipeline has been repaired and
production has resumed, said Li, who became CEO in November.  Capital Spending  Capital spending  may rise to $9.3 billion to $11 billion
this year as Cnooc accelerates development of deepwater wells
and unconventional energy, the company said.  “We see the higher capex spend as a positive signal for
production in 2013,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report. “Cnooc
underinvested in 2011 with $6.7 billion versus a target of $8.8
billion, which has led to weak production in 2012.”  The energy explorer expects to start production this year
at Weizhou 6-9/6-10, Yacheng 13-4, Panyu 4-2/5-1 and Liuhua 4-1,
all of which are in the South China Sea, according to
presentation slides posted on its  website  yesterday. Cnooc said
it plans to drill three deepwater exploration wells in the area
and acquire more seismic data.  The company has also started exploring its first shale-gas
site in China, joining rivals including PetroChina in the search
for the unconventional fuel, Cnooc’s parent said Jan. 11.  Shale Gas  Cnooc completed the purchase of oil-sands producer Opti
Canada Inc. Nov. 28. for $2.4 billion. That followed the
acquisition of stakes in U.S. shale-gas acreage from  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  for a total of $1.65 billion in February 2011 and
November 2010.  “What we learned from Chesapeake is very useful, but we
cannot copy everything and apply them in China as the geology is
different,” Cnooc’s Zhong said. The company plans to hire
field-services contractors to help tap the fuel when its
domestic shale-gas projects begin operation, he said.  Not all of Cnooc’s overseas bids have been successful.
Bridas Corp., a venture co-owned by Cnooc, canceled a deal to
buy BP Plc’s stake in Pan American Energy LLC Nov. 5 after
Argentina ordered  oil companies  to repatriate future export
revenue. Cnooc’s Yang Hua resigned as CEO that month.  The $1.47 billion acquisition of Tullow Oil Plc’s Uganda
prospects is still pending, with local lawmakers delaying
approval of the sale since last year.  “It has become harder and harder to acquire good overseas
assets, but this applies to every  oil company ,” Zhong said.
“From that perspective, it’s still a fair game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 