-- Connecticut to Review Northeast Utilities Takeover of Nstar
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-18T21:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/connecticut-to-review-northeast-utilities-takeover-of-nstar-1-.html
Northeast Utilities (NU)  needs
 Connecticut ’s approval to complete its $4.64 billion takeover of
Nstar, which would create New England’s largest utility owner,
the state regulator said.  The Connecticut Public Utilities Regulatory Authority
affirmed a Jan. 4 draft decision, promising to “expeditiously”
review the transaction in an e-mailed statement today. The
merger agreement is scheduled to expire April 16 unless extended
by the companies.  Northeast Utilities, based in Springfield, Massachusetts,
and run from Hartford, Connecticut, must apply for approval
before the authority can set a procedural schedule, Dennis
Schain, a spokesman for the state agency, said today in an
interview.  “We do expect to file and it may happen this week,” Al
Lara, Northeast Utilities spokesman, said today in an interview.
“This is is a possibility we were prepared for.”  Northeast and Boston-based  Nstar (NST)  announced the transaction
Oct. 18, 2010, forecasting they would get regulatory approvals
within a year. It’s too early to determine whether the deadline
for their agreement needs to be extended, he said.  The Connecticut commission had twice determined that the
transaction wasn’t subject to approval under state law because
it involves a merger of holding companies, Northeast said in a
Dec. 23 filing.  Blackouts in Connecticut following a snowstorm in October
and  Hurricane Irene  in August raised new issues, the authority
said Jan. 4.  Connecticut Blackouts  About 861,000 Connecticut customers were left in the dark
and some went without power for a more than a week as
Northeast’s Connecticut Light & Power unit responded to the
biggest  power failure  in its history. Irene knocked out power to
730,000 customers, CL&P said Nov. 5.  Concessions that may be granted to gain approval by
Massachusetts also may affect Connecticut customers, the
authority said in today’s statement.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  has called
for a five-year rate freeze in that state or a refund of $314
million to customers, Lisa Capone, a spokeswoman for the
Massachusetts Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, said
in an e-mail.  Northeast fell less than 1 percent to $34.12 today in New
York. Nstar fell less than 1 percent to $43.95. The difference
between Nstar’s price and the value of Northeast’s all-stock
offer widened 9.7 percent to 82 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  