-- Connecticut Revenue Comes Up Short Following Historic Income-Tax Increase
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-01-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/connecticut-revenue-comes-up-short-following-historic-income-tax-increase.html
Connecticut (STOCT1)  Governor Dannel Malloy,
who balanced the state’s budget by raising income taxes the most
in state history last year, said receipts haven’t met estimates,
leading to a $94.9 million revenue miss in fiscal 2012.  The lower-than-expected tax collections mirrors a trend in
other states with high-wage earners including New York,  New
Jersey  and  Massachusetts , Malloy said yesterday in a statement.
Based on official estimates, fiscal 2013 revenue is projected to
trail forecasts by $139 million, according to the statement.  The shortfall is “most likely” a result of taxpayers
shifting  capital gains  and income as a result of uncertainty on
U.S. tax policy and whether federal levy cuts enacted under
former President  George W. Bush  would be extended, according to
the statement. Declines in financial-service industry bonuses
were also cited as a reason.  “Last year at this time, we were staggering under the
weight of a $3.5 billion deficit,” Malloy said. “Let there be
no confusion -- we will end the current fiscal year in the
black, and in a more stable fashion than this state has seen in
many years.”  The governor asked Ben Barnes, the head of his policy and
management office, to prepare possible spending cuts, in a
letter he sent yesterday.  Malloy in May signed a $40.1 billion two-year spending plan
that raised taxes by $2.6 billion, the biggest increase since
the state began taxing income. The  budget  boosted levies on
individual income of more than $50,000 a year, with the biggest
increases on those earning between $100,000 and $500,000.  The budget also raised the retail-sales tax to 6.35 percent
from 6 percent while broadening it to cover previously exempt
goods and services. The rate became 7 percent on “luxury”
items such as $1,000-plus clothing and boats that cost more than
$100,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 