-- Conservatives Fake to Santorum, Nod to Romney: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/conservatives-will-find-the-way-to-romney-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
The Christian right has been
peculiarly inept this campaign. There’s little for them to like
about the Republican front-runner,  Mitt Romney .  In Massachusetts, he governed as a Northeast moderate. DNA
tests reveal he’s the father of the evil spawn Obamacare.
Although he now claims to support “ personhood ” amendments
decreeing that life begins at conception, the authenticity of
his anti-abortion fervor is suspect. And he’s a Mormon.  Yet Christian conservative leaders passed up the
opportunity to rally behind a Romney alternative before the Iowa
caucuses, where surely a little divine intervention could have
provided former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  with the
two fistfuls of votes he needed to  defeat  Romney.  By standing down, Christian conservatives allowed Romney to
win. After another win the next week in  New Hampshire ,  polls 
showed he arrived in  South Carolina  with a lead. Now that former
Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  has dropped out, and everyone else is
staying in, Romney looks like he’ll triumph once again over a
fractured field. South Carolina, which has voted for the
eventual Republican nominee in every election since 1980, is the
last firewall. If Christian conservatives don’t stop Romney
there, he’s off to collect the prize at the Republican National
Convention in Tampa,  Florida .  Eat, Pray, Lurch  Yet politics doesn’t preclude second chances. So last
weekend, luminaries of the religious right gathered outside
Houston to eat, pray and lurch their way to a collective
endorsement. Emissaries arrived from every campaign, save the
now defunct Huntsman ranks, which never played the social
conservative game. Over barbecue and delegate counts, the group
tabled its divisions -- or tried to. It took three ballots
before they finally gave a nod, if not a collective hug, to
Santorum.  The group’s spokesman, Tony Perkins, president of the
Family Research Council, called Santorum “reliable” with a
“record of stability.”  The tepid endorsement was not
accompanied by a promise of support; it was left to each
attendee to determine how and whether Santorum would be
assisted.  Newt Gingrich ’s supporters wasted no time undercutting
the entire project.  Watching Monday night’s Republican debate in Myrtle Beach,
South Carolina, you could understand the dilemma facing
Christian conservatives -- and why 58 percent of Republicans
 polled  this month by  CBS News  said they were unhappy with their
presidential choices. Texas Governor  Rick Perry  had briefly
seemed like the perfect choice. Having proudly headlined an
August prayer rally at Reliant Stadium in Houston, he entered
the game like  Tim Tebow  -- and left like him, too. As soon as
Perry joined the Republican debates, voters discovered he was
too disoriented to find the end zone. In Myrtle Beach, Perry did
everything but beat up a hippie on stage to prove his manly bona
fides, but his candidacy is too far gone to be saved. Perkins
said the Houston group passed over the Texas governor because
he’d simply had too many “stumbles.”  Gingrich seemed to win the hearts of the 3,000 Republicans
in the debate crowd, calling President  Barack Obama  the “food-
stamps president” in a racially loaded attack that presages a
general election battle between the party of the old and white
against the party of the young and brown. Gingrich is a non-
compassionate conservative and a wily debater, managing to make
his suggestion that children take over janitorial duties at
their schools seem reasonable while simultaneously blasting
unions and “elites.”  Gingrich at Tiffany’s  But how could Christian conservatives credibly endorse the
much-married Gingrich, who dwells happily among Washington
insiders,  makes money  hand over fist as an influence peddler and
spends unseemly amounts at Tiffany’s on his third wife? In the
end, they couldn’t.  As for  Ron Paul , he is too authentically unconventional to
have ever been in the running for the group’s endorsement.
Romney likewise never had a prayer. That left Santorum as the
only option. With his sweater vest, pickup truck and rich
history of earmarks, the former senator does not generate
excitement. But he was the best they could do under trying
circumstances.  By making the endorsement late, the Christian conservatives
gave themselves an excuse if Romney bursts through the South
Carolina firewall on his way to claim the nomination. By making
it with obvious ambivalence, they preserved a bridge to the
probable nominee.  The haphazard process, which seems certain to end with
their eventual acquiescence to the nomination of a Mormon from
 Massachusetts , exposes how weak the old “religious right” truly
is. It’s been years since Republican candidates were required to
kiss the ring of preachers like Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson.
The thunder of Christian conservatives has been stolen by the
 Tea Party , which gave Republicans a new creed (“We’re against
it”) and new life in 2010.  This year, Obama is a greater unifying force in Republican
politics than the Almighty. If it takes a formerly moderate
technocrat to defeat Obama, so be it. Heaven can wait.
Meanwhile, blessed be the pragmatists, for they shall inherit
the Oval Office.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 