-- Orange Juice Rallies as Texas Finds Citrus Disease; Cotton Drops
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-18T20:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/cotton-falls-as-supplies-seen-ample-supplies-orange-juice-gains.html
Orange-juice  futures rose the most
in a week on mounting concern that production will decline in
the U.S. while a government probe slows imports. Cotton prices
dropped.  Texas, the third-biggest orange grower in the U.S., today
confirmed a case of citrus greening, a disease that has caused
damage to groves in Florida. Last week, the Food and Drug
Administration began examining imports for carbendazim, a
fungicide used on fruit in Brazil, which is banned in the U.S.
On Jan. 12, the Department of Agriculture trimmed its forecast
of the crop in Florida.  The finding in Texas “is bullish” for prices, Sterling Smith, an analyst with Country Hedging in St. Paul,  Minnesota ,
said in an e-mail. “These things are nasty and can cause lot of
trouble.”  Orange juice climbed 3.7 percent to settle at $1.912 a
pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest
increase since Jan. 10. The commodity posted the biggest gain
among the 19 raw materials tracked by the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  The price is up 27 percent since the end of September,
increasing costs for companies including Purchase, New York-
based  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the maker of Tropicana, and Atlanta-based
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which sells Minute Maid.  The FDA said it will hold imports through July while more
samples are tested.  ‘Elevated Prices’  Citrus greening in  Texas , lower output in Florida and the
fungicide probe will “keep prices elevated throughout most of
the next few months,” Michael Smith, the president of T&K
Futures and Options, Inc. in Port St. Lucie, Florida, said in an
e-mail.  The Texas Department of Agriculture said a case of citrus
greening, transmitted by an insect called psyllid, was confirmed
in a commercial orange grove in  San Juan . A portion of Hidalgo
County was under temporary emergency quarantine, it said.  Brazil is the world’s top orange grower, followed by
Florida.  Cotton futures for March delivery declined 0.7 percent to
close at 97.53 cents a pound on ICE. The fiber has climbed 6.2
percent this month.  Farmers in Argentina, Paraguay and  Brazil  will lose cotton
output after a prolonged dry spell damaged some crops, according
to Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MDA Information Systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  