-- Cow Corpse Embodies Carrion Crisis in Alabama’s Bankrupt Jefferson County
-- B y   G i g i   D o u b a n
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/cow-corpse-embodies-carrion-crisis-in-alabama-s-bankrupt-jefferson-county.html
The call about the dead cow came in
about 4 p.m., followed by an e-mailed photo of the unfortunate
bovine on a roadside near Mulga, a town of 836 in bankrupt
 Jefferson County (3681MF) ,  Alabama .  Wayne Sullivan, director of roads and transportation,
wanted County Manager Tony Petelos to tell him what to do.
Residents had been complaining for days. Still, it was late on
Dec. 9, a Friday, and cow removal would cost overtime, Sullivan
told Petelos. So Petelos decided, “What’s another weekend?”  Such is life since the state’s most populous county began
scrapping services to fill a $40 million budget hole, the result
of a record U.S. municipal bankruptcy. Jefferson County filed
after officials and holders of $3.2 billion in sewer-
rehabilitation debt failed to agree to cut the obligation by
about $1 billion, increase rates and obligate the Alabama
Legislature to bolster the county’s finances.  As a federal court sorts out the collapse, services and
citizens suffer -- even as the county that encompasses
Birmingham has spent $22.1 million on lawyers.  The jail is overcrowded and lacks toilet paper, linens and
clothing. The Sheriff’s Department faces “dramatic” cuts, said
Petelos, 58, who since October has been the county’s first
professional manager. There have been leg-numbing lines to renew
car license plates, the closing of satellite courthouses in the
1,124-square mile (2,911-square-kilometer) jurisdiction and now
the burgeoning carrion crisis.  Help From Buzzards  When county residents call about roadkill, they’re told the
same thing: We’re not picking up dead animals anymore.  “We used to do that all the time,” said Sullivan. “Every
time we got a call, we responded.”  That was before Sullivan’s department went from 650
employees to fewer than 200.  Animals on the roadbed aren’t a hazard, Sullivan said:
“Just because it smells and is in the ditch, that’s not
something we’re going to focus on.”  The cow was different.  “It was huge,” Petelos said. “It looked like a horse.”
And it was decomposing. “It had gotten to the point where it
was a health hazard.”  From now on, small animals such as raccoons, opossums,
armadillos and dogs will be left to lie.  “We have to let nature take its course,” Petelos said.
“After they’re run over two and three times, the buzzards will
come in and take over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gigi Douban in Birmingham at  gigidouban@gmail.com . 