-- Crowded Republican Senate Primary Field Poses Hazards for Party
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-18T16:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/crowded-republican-u-s-senate-primary-field-raises-some-hazards-for-party.html
Republicans aiming to seize control
of the  U.S. Senate  face a challenge in their crowded field of
primary candidates in some states. It’s a hazard of the party’s
own making.  Two years after the Tea Party movement cast aside the
party’s anointed choices in primaries in Delaware, Florida and
Nevada, the Republican establishment has taken a hands-off
posture in 2012. The result is a cluster of Senate races in
competitive states where Republican primary victors are tough to
predict.  The outcomes in those states will help determine whether
Republicans win the four seats needed to take control of the
Senate if President Barack Obama retains the presidency. In at
least a half-dozen states, Democrats have no primary opponent
while Republicans will fight it out in a “survival of the
fittest” contest, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the
nonpartisan  Cook Political Report .  “Republicans can’t afford to have primaries produce too
many candidates who don’t appeal to a broader electorate,
especially in a presidential election year,” Duffy said.  States with competitive primaries include Wisconsin,
Missouri, Florida and Pennsylvania. In Indiana, where the party
is backing incumbent Republican Senator  Richard Lugar ’s bid for
a seventh term, there also will be a fight for the party
nomination.  Democrats face contested Senate primaries in states
including New Mexico and Hawaii, and will have to overcome
Obama’s mediocre approval ratings and a tough economy.  ‘Viable’ Primary Candidates  Rob Jesmer, executive director of the National Republican
Senatorial Committee, said all of the Republicans running in key
contested primaries are “viable” and none have the problems
associated with Christine O’Donnell and Sharron Angle --
unseasoned Tea Party-backed candidates whose 2010 primary wins
sealed Democratic gains in Delaware and  Nevada .  “I have yet to find a race where if a certain candidate
wins, we can’t win,” Jesmer said.  Independent analysts including Duffy are giving Republicans
an edge in the Senate. Democrats now hold 23 of the 33 seats on
the ballot this year and seven of their incumbents have
announced their retirement. Barring a dramatic economic
turnaround, Democrats won’t be able to rely on Obama for the
boost he provided in the 2008 election, when Democrats expanded
their House and Senate majorities.  Patty Murray  of  Washington , chairman of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee, said the contested Republican
primaries increase her party’s chances of keeping control of the
chamber.  Conservative Credentials  “In a lot of the states we are seeing Republican primaries
that are focused on Republican contenders confirming their own
conservative credentials,” she said. “They won’t be viable if
they get past their state primary.”  Many of the intra-party Republican battles center on issues
of how far to curb government regulations on the environment and
financial services, and whether lawmakers should approve home-
district projects, known as earmarks.  Democrats are scoping out opportunities as Republicans
emphasize early positions on the right. In Michigan, where
Republicans are eyeing the seat of Democratic Senator  Debbie Stabenow , former Representative Pete Hoekstra is taking heat
from conservatives for his past support of the financial bailout
and is highlighting his call for repeal of the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory overhaul. Democrats plan to use that issue
against him if he wins a primary against at least five other
challengers.  Tea Party Express  Conservative groups including the Tea Party Express,
created during the 2010 election cycle, and the long-standing
small-government group Club for Growth are starting to weigh in
with endorsements of conservative primary contenders.  “We can marshal some advertising, but more importantly
we’ll get people focused and engaged,” said Sal Russo, chief
strategist of the Tea Party Express. His group has backed
conservative Republican Senate candidates vying for an open seat
in Nebraska and in Indiana, where Lugar is challenged from the
right by the state’s treasurer. Eight other endorsements that he
declined to disclose will come soon.  Such outside support is a factor in the  Wisconsin 
Republican primary, where candidates to replace retiring
Democratic Senator Herb Kohl include former Governor Tommy Thompson, former U.S. Representative Mark Neumann and state
House Speaker Jeff Fitzgerald. Neumann has backing from the Club
for Growth and the leadership PAC run by Senator  Jim DeMint , a
South Carolina Republican who helped propel Tea Party candidates
in 2010.  Name Recognition  U.S. Representative Tammy Baldwin is unchallenged for the
Democratic Senate nomination in Wisconsin. Thompson hasn’t been
on a ballot since 1998, though he has statewide name
recognition, a centrist record and would probably appeal best in
a general election, said  Charles Franklin , visiting professor of
law and public policy at Marquette University Law School in
Milwaukee. Neumann would have a tougher challenge than Thompson,
he said, and so might Fitzgerald, whose agenda is tied to that
of Governor  Scott Walker , who faces a possible recall election
this year.  Either “would make it a competitive race, and who knows
what the outcome would be under those circumstances,” Franklin
said.  In  Missouri , the party has no clear favorite to run against
incumbent Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill , who won her first
term with 49.6 percent of the vote.  ‘Terrible Fundraiser’  Former Missouri state Treasurer Sarah Steelman is the only
Republican candidate who has run statewide before. Duffy said
she has proven to be a “terrible fundraiser,” trailing U.S.
Representative Todd Akin. He raised $1.2 million through the end
of the third quarter, while Steelman brought in $666,608 and
loaned her campaign another $400,000.  Akin, from a Republican-dominated district near  St. Louis ,
has a 100 percent voting rating from the American Conservative
Union and may not appeal as strongly as Steelman to swing
voters, Duffy said. A third Republican candidate, businessman
John Brunner, may emerge as a “dark horse,” she said.  In  Florida , Representative  Connie Mack  is a late entry into
the race for the Republican nomination to take on Democratic
Senator  Bill Nelson . Among the other half-dozen candidates are
former Republican Senator  George LeMieux  and former state House
Majority Leader Adam Hasner.  Expensive State  Analysts say Mack would be the strongest general election
candidate because he can draw on statewide name recognition in
part because his father, Connie Mack III, served in the U.S.
Senate. He entered relatively late, on Nov. 28, and must catch
up in an expensive state for campaigns, said  Nathan Gonzales ,
political editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.  LeMieux is running aggressive attacks over issues that
include Mack’s past support of spending projects for his
district.  A Jan. 4-8 Quinnipiac University poll out Jan. 11 found
that a race between Mack and Nelson would be a dead heat, with
41 percent of 1,400 registered voters surveyed saying they would
vote for Nelson and 40 percent for Mack.  For the Republicans, winning the seat may hinge on whether
Mack emerges, said Hastings Wyman, founder of the nonpartisan
Southern Political Report. “He’s the only one at this point who
is competitive with Nelson,” he said.  In Indiana, Lugar is coming under fire from Republican
challenger Richard Mourdock for support of the 2008 financial
bailout, legislation allowing a pathway to citizenship for some
children of illegal immigrants, and both of Obama’s Supreme
Court nominees.  Dozens of Endorsements  Mourdock, the Indiana state treasurer, has Tea Party
support and endorsements from dozens of Republican Party county
chairmen. Still, his fundraising lags well behind Lugar: By the
end of September, he raised $904,084 to Lugar’s $4.17 million.
Brian Howey, editor and publisher of Howey Politics Indiana,
said in a general election Lugar would likely beat Democrat Joe Donnelly, who is running unopposed for his party’s nomination.
Mourdock’s more conservative profile would mean a tougher fight.  “If Mourdock were to win, we would be looking at a seat
that would be very competitive,” Howey said.  In Pennsylvania the crop of Republican candidates is so
vast and dotted with first-time candidates that Democratic
Senator  Bob Casey  is viewed as likely to win re-election. That’s
two years after Republicans seized the other Senate seat from a
Democrat in the centrist state. Candidates in a field of almost
a dozen include businessman Steve Welch, Scranton Tea Party
director Laureen Cummings and Marc Scaringi, a one-time aide to
former Senator Rick Santorum.  “There are people who can give a good race, but there’s no
standout to me,” Duffy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  