-- Cuomo’s NY Budget Faces Union Fight on Pensions, Teachers
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-01-18T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/cuomo-s-new-york-budget-faces-union-opposition-on-pensions-teacher-grades.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
proposed a $132.5 billion budget that links an increase in
education spending to a new teacher-evaluation system and raises
the  retirement age  for future workers, a move already drawing
opposition from unions.  Cuomo’s spending plan for fiscal 2013 closes a $2 billion
deficit with no new taxes in part by finding $1.14 billion in
savings from consolidating purchasing and human resources, he
said yesterday in Albany, the capital. A tax deal reached last
month that raised rates on those earning $2 million or more
added $1.5 billion in revenue.  The proposal follows through on Cuomo’s pledge to raise
spending on Medicaid and education by about 4 percent. The boost
in school aid will be tied to compliance with a new statewide
teacher-evaluation system, a plan similar to one proposed last
week by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . The governor suggested
he expects opposition from the teachers’ unions.  “There is a reform movement all across this nation that is
shifting the focus onto the student rather than the industry,”
Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, said to an audience that included
legislative leaders and Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . “We have
to change our thinking from process to results, from the system
to the individual, from salaries and pensions for people who
work in the system, to the graduation rates and test results
from the students.”  Funds at Risk  In 2010, New York made a commitment to President Barack Obama’s Race to the Top program that it would put in place a
teacher-evaluation system. School districts haven’t adopted a
program the state designed, and the $700 million in federal
funding the  New York  received is in danger of being recalled,
Cuomo said.  Cuomo’s plan requires school districts to put in place the
new evaluation system by Jan. 17, 2013, or lose their share of
the 4 percent increase in state spending, the governor said.
Lawmakers approved the extra spending as part of last year’s
budget, bringing the total to $20.3 billion for fiscal 2013, or
about $800 million more than in 2012. Federal officials have
assured Cuomo that the Race to the Top grant can be saved if the
state’s more than 700 districts commit to evaluations, he said.  The first-term governor’s pension plan, called Tier VI,
would raise the retirement age for new workers and give them a
choice of a state-backed pension or a 401(k) plan. The changes
would save public employers in the state, including New York
City, $79 billion over the next 30 years, he said. Cuomo
proposed a similar bill last year that didn’t include an option
for a 401(k) plan. The Legislature didn’t act on it.  No Gimmicks  “The governor’s message will resonate with the business
community, because it contains no political gimmicks and
provides a clear road map to fiscal stability,”  Kathryn Wylde ,
president of the Partnership for New York City, a civic group
composed of corporate chief executives, said in a e-mail.  Cuomo’s budget is $225 million less than last year’s,
including federal funding. Spending cuts started in the 2012
fiscal year, and proposed to extend through 2013, would leave
New York with a projected $715 million deficit for fiscal 2014,
the lowest such projection in two decades, according to budget
documents. The state’s fiscal year begins April 1.  New York’s $133.8 billion pension, the third-largest in the
U.S., was 101.5 percent funded in 2010, better than any other
state, according to an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings.  'Cheap Shot'  “The proposal for a new public employee pension tier is an
assault on the middle class and a cheap shot at public
employees,” Danny Donohue, president of the Civil Service
Employees Association, the state’s largest public-workers union,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It will provide no short-term
savings and will mean people will have to work longer, pay more
and gain less benefit.”  DiNapoli, the Democratic comptroller who oversees the
retirement fund, said that having a 401(k) would be “less
secure” than a public pension.  “We’ve been pretty clear that if you want to provide
retirement security for older  New Yorkers  or older Americans,
defined-benefit plans are a smarter way to go,” DiNapoli said
in an interview yesterday.  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, and
Republican Senate Majority Leader  Dean Skelos  both said they
believed the pension proposals could win approval in the
Legislature this year. They said the same for Cuomo’s plan to
reduce county payments to Medicaid, the joint federal-state
health-care program for the poor. Cuomo wants the state to
absorb increases in local Medicaid costs by 2015 as the state
takes over the cost of administering the program.  Bloomberg Support  Cuomo’s proposals may save  New York City  billions of
dollars over several years, Bloomberg said in an e-mailed
statement. He backed the governor’s plan to resolve an impasse
between the state Education Department and teachers’ unions over
“rigorous teacher evaluations,” which the mayor said would
help identify and remove ineffective teachers from classrooms.  “He has my strong support,” Bloomberg said.  “The
governor’s priorities are the right priorities for the state,
and I will be working with him to move his agenda forward.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Cuomo is riding record-high approval ratings at 73 percent,
according to a  poll  released Jan. 16 by Siena College in
Loudonville, New York.  In 2010, his first year in office, Cuomo erased a $10
billion deficit, got New York’s two biggest government-worker
unions to agree to pay freezes and furloughs, instituted a
property-tax cap and pushed through a bill legalizing same-sex
marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  