-- Denmark’s AAA to Survive World’s Biggest Private Debt Load, Fitch, S&P Say
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-18T08:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/denmark-s-aaa-to-survive-fitch-s-p-say.html
Denmark , home to the world’s biggest
household debt burden, won’t lose its top  credit rating  any time
soon as stable public finances and a current account surplus
offset the risks,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “Denmark is not a country we are particularly worried
about,” Fitch Managing Director  Edward Parker  said in an
interview in  Stockholm  yesterday. “We are not expecting over
the near term to be taking negative action on Denmark.”  Denmark, which is struggling to emerge from a burst housing
bubble and regional banking crisis, is lagging behind its
Scandinavian neighbors on economic growth and budget deficit
reduction. Still, bond investors are rewarding the government
for a public debt burden that’s half the euro area’s average and
snapping up Denmark’s debt. The Nordic country pays about 10
basis points less than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years.  Investors haven’t been swayed by Denmark’s record private
debt burden, which at 310 percent of disposable incomes in 2010
is the world’s biggest, Exane BNP Paribas estimates. Instead,
markets have focused on public debt in their hunt for havens.  “Household debt is not a ratings driver, per se,” Per Tornqvist, an analyst at S&P based in Stockholm, said yesterday
in an interview. “Denmark is still a manageable situation,
particularly if you consider that this is a country that is
exporting capital. A country that exports capital is not the
country with the biggest challenges in today’s world.”  The yield on Denmark’s 10-year government bond eased two
basis points to 1.67 percent as of 9:32 a.m. in Copenhagen,
outperforming moves in Swedish and Norwegian debt markets, where
10-year yields rose.  AAA Club  Denmark is one of only 12 nations in the world that still
has an AAA rating at S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
after  France  and  Austria  were cut at S&P last week. Prime
Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt, whose Social Democratic
government won power in September, has said the Nordic country
can’t save its way out of the crisis and has moved forward
investments worth 18.8 billion kroner ($3.19 billion) for this
year and next.  The $300 billion economy will grow 1 percent this year and
in 2013, according to Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest
lender. The economy shrank 0.5 percent in the third quarter. The
budget deficit will swell to 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 4 percent last year, the government
estimates. The current account surplus  surged to a record  12.6
billion kroner ($2.2 billion) in November.  Krone Peg  Denmark, which has opted out of the euro though it pegs the
krone to  Europe ’s single currency, will have government debt of
45 percent of GDP this year, compared with a euro-area average
of 90 percent, the European Commission said Nov. 10.  Still, continued spending will undermine Denmark’s public
finances and leave the ratings companies with little alternative
but to cut, according to Claus Caroe, a  fund manager  at
Sparinvest A/S.  “If no action is taken, it’s likely Denmark will lose its
AAA and foreign investors will need to look elsewhere for
security,” Caroe said.  Bond investors should already be pricing in the risks, said
 Andreas Hakansson , an analyst at BNP.  “The base case is that Denmark remains AAA, but there’s a
higher risk that Denmark gets downgraded than  Sweden  or
 Norway ,” he said in an interview in Copenhagen. He sees the
biggest risks to the economy stemming from the housing market.  ‘Big Squeeze’  “If  house prices  started to go up, it would be positive.
If they don’t, it could make the problem even worse,” Hakansson
said. “We’re talking about a big squeeze. I think people are
going to look at it this year.”  It costs 92 percent more to insure against a Danish default
than it does to guard against a  credit event  in Sweden, default
swap contracts show. Credit default swaps on Danish debt have
surged more than 200 percent since the end of June.  Property prices may fall a further 10 percent until 2013,
bringing aggregate losses in the housing market to 25 percent
since just before the crisis hit, the government-backed Economic
Council said in November.  “There are problems in Denmark and they can’t be left
unattended,” said Tornqvist at S&P. “But in a global
comparison, Denmark is still doing comparatively well. We would
expect the Danish economy to be doing a sideways movement in the
coming year, with growth slightly above zero, and if growth is
between zero and 1 percent, that is boring from all sorts of
aspects, but it’s not a disaster.”  Mortgage Risks  Moody’s has warned that Denmark’s $480 billion mortgage-
 bond market  may harbor imbalances as the proportion of
adjustable-rate loans swells to make up about half of the total.
The rating company in June lowered the so-called timely payment
indicator on a number of mortgage bonds to respond to higher
refinancing risks, it said.  “If  interest rates  go up quickly, Danish households would
be in much more trouble now compared with previous crises, when
basically all loans were at fixed interest rates,” Martin Lundholm, an fixed income analyst at Spar Nord Bank A/S, said.  Denmark’s household debt in 2010 doubled from 158 percent
of incomes a decade earlier, according to BNP. While the debt is
backed by savings including pensions, those assets are largely
illiquid and may be difficult to tap in a credit crunch.  AA ‘New Normal’  “Denmark should not take its AAA for granted as the economy
faces some real challenges,” said Jes Asmussen, chief economist
at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen. “It will be a tough
task for the government to meet its pledge of limiting the
 budget deficit  to less than 3 percent by 2013. And at the same
time, Denmark is stuck in a low-growth scenario.”  History suggests the fallout from ratings downgrades may be
limited. JPMorgan Chase & Co research shows that 10-year yields
for the nine sovereigns that lost their AAA status between 1998
and last year’s U.S. downgrade rose an average of only two basis
points the next week.  The upshot may be that investors place less emphasis on
sovereign ratings in future, Sparinvest’s Caroe said.  “It looks like AA will be the new normal for countries,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  