-- Lotus’s Incoming Malaysian Owner Says It’s Open to Selling Sports Carmaker
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-01-18T09:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/drb-open-to-selling-sports-carmaker-lotus.html
Malaysian billionaire Syed Mokhtar
Al-Bulkhary’s DRB-Hicom Bhd. said it’s open to selling
unprofitable sports-carmaker Lotus Group International Ltd.
after taking over parent  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH)   “We need to sit down with Lotus management, looking at
their plans before arriving at a definitive decision,” Managing
Director Mohd Khamil Jamil told reporters today in Selangor,
outside of Kuala Lumpur. “We can’t do due diligence on Lotus
earlier so will need time.”  Khazanah Nasional Bhd (KNBZ) ., the Malaysian government’s
investment arm, this week agreed to sell its controlling 42.7
percent stake in Proton to DRB-Hicom for 1.29 billion ringgit
($414 million). DRB also accumulated an additional 7.7 percent
stake in the open market, according to an exchange filing
yesterday, taking its total holding beyond the 50 percent
threshold before its mandatory general offer.  “They should relook at all the businesses,” said Choo Swee Kee, who manages about 700 million ringgit as chief
investment officer of TA Investment Management Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “They may have to restructure Lotus before you can sell
it at a good price.”  Proton, which makes sedans and taxis, hasn’t made any
profit from Lotus since acquiring the sports carmaker in 1996.
The British manufacturer, which has struggled to compete against
 Porsche AG (PAH3)  and Ferrari SpA in  Europe , has hung on to relevance
in the  auto industry  partly because of its decades-long
expertise in designing lightweight frames.  DRB is “open to options,” Mohd Khamil said. “It has been
there for years and has done some good things.”  Sale Speculation  Lotus’s sale has been the subject of speculation.  Shanghai
Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIZ)  last month denied an Edge newspaper
report that said  China ’s largest carmaker is interested in Lotus.
Three months ago, Proton denied a report by the Star newspaper
that it was selling its Lotus stake to Luxembourg-based Genii
Capital.  DRB-Hicom (DRB)  rose as much as 3.3 percent to 2.17 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur trading today. It pared gains to close at 2.11
ringgit, while the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (KLCI)  fell
0.1 percent. Proton dropped 0.2 percent to 5.40 ringgit, shy of
DRB’s 5.50 ringgit-a-share takeover offer.  DRB-Hicom plans to make Proton a subsidiary and delist the
company after completing a general offer, Mohd Khamil said. DRB
doesn’t plan to sell any stake in Proton to partners, though the
company is open to collaboration with global car manufacturers
like  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , he said.  DRB is holding talks with General Motors, Proton Chairman
Mohd Nadzmi Mohd Salleh said on Jan. 6, while DRB already
assembles vehicles for Volkswagen.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  will arrange loans to finance the
purchase, Mohd Khamil said. DRB-Hicom’s financial position is
“very healthy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho in Tokyo at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  