-- The Real SOPA Battle: Innovators vs. Goliath
-- B y   J a m e s   A l l w o r t h   a n d   M a x w e l l   W e s s e l
-- 2012-01-18T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/the-real-sopa-battle-innovators-vs-goliath.html
     Looking around the web today, you're going to see a few
things that are a bit different. Wikipedia is going dark.
WordPress is too. Google has its logo blocked out. Twitter is
absolutely abuzz. It all relates to legislation known as SOPA
in front of the US House of Representatives, and PIPA in front
of the US Senate. If you'd like to understand what the
legislation would actually mean for the Internet, you can see
HBR's earlier coverage about the bill from before it was
renamed. But the purpose of this article isn't to explain what
SOPA and PIPA will do. Instead, it's about explaining what's
brought them about: SOPA and PIPA are prime examples of big
companies trying to do everything they can to stop new
competitors from innovating. They're also examples of how
lobbying in the  United States  has become one of the most
effective ways of limiting this sort of competition.  The argument over this legislation has essentially been
characterized in the press as having two sides. The first
side, which is generally represented by big content, is that
piracy (and any new technology that facilitates it) is an
existential threat to any business based on intellectual
property. That's actually a line that has been used a few
times before — most famously by Jack Valenti, head of the
MPAA, when he testified in front of congress that the VCR was
to the  movie industry  what the Boston Strangler was to women.  And on the other side of the argument? Well, they have
been mostly characterized as the "technology industries."
They've been making the case that SOPA and PIPA will chill
innovation and threaten free speech.  But "content" vs "technology" doesn't do justice to
describing the two sides. Tim O'Reilly, the CEO of O'Reilly
Media — a very well-known publishing and media company that
derives a large portion of its revenue from the sale of books
— has been one of the most ardent critics of SOPA and PIPA. On
the other hand, GoDaddy.com, the largest of the web's domain
name registrars, was very much in favor of SOPA — at least
until a boycott caused them to back down. Similarly, there are
plenty of other technology firms that have supported SOPA.  So if "content" vs "technology" doesn't capture what's
going on in this fight, what does? Well, SOPA makes much more
sense if you look at the debate as big companies unwilling to
accept change versus the innovative companies and startups
that embrace change. And if we accept that startups are
created to find new ways to create value for consumers, the
debate is actually between the financial interests of "big
content" shareholders versus consumer interests at large.  If you take a look at many of the largest backers of SOPA
and PIPA— the Business of Software
Alliance, Comcast, Electronic
Arts, Ford, L'Oreal, Scholastic, Sony, Disney — you'll see
that they represent a wide range of businesses. Some are
technology companies, some are content companies, some are
historic innovators, and some are not. But one characteristic
is the same across all of SOPA's supporters — they all have an
interest in preserving the status quo. If there is meaningful
innovation by startups in content creation and delivery, the
supporters of SOPA and PIPA are poised to lose.  Even for those SOPA supporters that are historic
innovators, their organizations focus on improving products in
the pursuit of profit. They innovate to increase prices and
limit production cost. Even when new models and technologies
give rise to huge businesses, these incumbent firms reject
meaningful innovation.  On the other side of the debate, you'll see a few the
most successful companies in recent history. Wikipedia.
Google. Twitter. Zynga. What these firms have in common is
they have upended entire industries — and many are still in
the process of doing so. Each of these businesses has roots in
embracing new technologies and building models to deliver
value to customers at the lowest cost. They're fighting this
legislation because they're aware it will tip the finely tuned
balance of creative destruction against startups and very much
in favor of companies unwilling to embrace change. For
example, Viacom has been locked in a legal fight with YouTube—
so far, unsuccessfully. If SOPA were to become
law, however, Viacom would be able to entirely shut down
YouTube's revenue stream while the case was in court. Balance
tipped.  To be fair to the big companies supporting SOPA and
PIPA, they're acting rationally. From their
perspective, investing in lobbying instead of business model
innovation is a sensible investment.  Jack Abramoff  has
recently detailed how a 22,000% ROI isn't unusual for firms
hiring lobbyists.  But even if it makes sense for these companies to support
SOPA and PIPA, do we want to censor the Internet and limit
innovation? Should our legislative process be used to protect
the business interests of firms unwilling to embrace change? A
recent exchange on Twitter between Jack Dorsey, co-Founder of
Twitter, and  Steve Case , the Co-Founder of AOL, summed it up
nicely:  Jack: Startups collaborate & redefine. As companies and
organizations grow, they naturally tend to defend &
react, both internally and externally.  Steve: Agree! Think of it as attackers vs defenders.
Entrepreneurs attack/disrupt to maximize upside. Corp execs
defend to protect downside.  SOPA is a legislative attempt by big companies with
vested interests to protect their downside. And
unfortunately, these companies have conscripted Congress to
help them. What's worse is that even though limiting start-up
innovation might help big content in the short run, it's not
going to do them in favors in the long run. Nor is going to do
America any favors. In the midst of one of the worst
recessions in living memory, passage of legislation like this
is just going to result in innovators moving to geographies
where the regulatory environment is more favorable. Start-ups
will be less competitive in the United States and we'll have
effectively disabled one of the few remaining growth engines
of the economy.  James Allworth and Maxwell Wessel are members of
the Forum for Growth and Innovation, a  Harvard Business School 
think tank developing and refining theory around disruptive
innovation. Follow them on Twitter at @jamesallworth
and @maxwellelliot. 