-- EBay Beats Fourth-Quarter Estimates on Holiday Sales, PayPal Unit’s Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-01-19T16:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ebay-revenue-beats-estimates-on-paypal.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the largest Internet
marketplace, reported sales and profit that topped analysts’
estimates, buoyed by a campaign to promote its expanded retail
offerings and broader use of the PayPal online-payments service.  Fourth-quarter revenue rose 35 percent to $3.38 billion,
EBay said yesterday in a statement. That compares with the
average analyst  estimate  of $3.32 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding certain items was 60
cents a share, compared with the average prediction of 57 cents.  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe, eager to propel a
stock price that’s little changed since he took over in 2008,
boosted marketing spending 25 percent last year and upgraded
EBay’s technology to lure back users who defected to rivals such
as  Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc. EBay is also getting a lift as PayPal
challenges traditional payment systems by persuading a larger
pool of shoppers to use it more often and for bigger purchases.  “EBay right now has very consistent results,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York , said in an
interview. “PayPal is still adding over a million users a
month, marketplaces is doing fine, and they continue to position
well for mobile.”  EBay rose 4.4 percent to $31.66 at 10:58 a.m. in New York.
Shares of the  San Jose , California-based company had gained 3
percent in the 12 months before today.  The company benefited from a 15 percent gain in total
holiday  e-commerce spending , which rose to a record $37.2
billion, according to research firm  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , based in
Reston, Virginia.  Fastest-Growing Division  At PayPal, EBay’s fastest-growing division last quarter,
revenue rose 28 percent and registered users jumped to 106.3
million. The unit is expanding its roster of merchant partners,
taking aim at  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s credit card-
swiping customers. PayPal’s mobile payment volume will rise to
$7 billion this year from $4 billion last year, EBay executives
said on a conference call.  PayPal is working with  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  to let shoppers use
the payment system at checkout, and the companies this week will
extend a trial of the service to 51 stores, primarily in the San
Francisco area, Donahoe said on a conference call yesterday.  Retailer Ties  EBay has been bolstering ties with big retailers, seeking
to offer goods from more stores through its June  acquisition  of
GSI Commerce Inc. for $1.9 billion.  “The experience that EBay and PayPal have in the virtual
world with online payments and the addition of GSI Commerce --it
gives them a line of logic and a set of disciplines that are
easy to carry into an in-store experience,” said Bill Smead,
who holds EBay shares as part of $175 million in assets at Smead
Capital Management Inc., said in an interview.  Payment volume from in-store terminals will be
“immaterial” to the company’s 2013 projections, Chief
Financial Officer Bob Swan said on the call. EBay expects to
profit from in-store payments over the next three to five years,
said Donahoe, who is serving as interim president of the PayPal
unit after  Scott Thompson  left earlier this month to become CEO
of Yahoo! Inc.  “What we’re doing with PayPal point-of-sale, it’s very
analogous to what we did with the merchant-services business
five years ago,” Donahoe said in an interview. “Year one was
planning and building the product. Year two, which is this year
for point-of-sale, is trial and learn. Year three is scale it.”  Net Income  Fourth-quarter net income was $1.98 billion, or $1.51 a
share, compared with $559.2 million, or 42 cents, a year
earlier, EBay said. The recent period’s results included a gain
from the sale of the company’s investment in Skype Technologies
SA. Microsoft Corp. acquired Skype last year for $8.5 billion.  Revenue in the first quarter will be $3.05 billion to $3.15
billion, EBay said. Excluding some costs, profit will be 50
cents to 51 cents a share. Analysts on average had  projected 
sales of $3.16 billion and profit of 54 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  EBay is reaping the benefit of money spent to begin
overhauling its brand, which consumers have historically
associated with online auctions, BGC’s Gillis said. A portion of
that investment has been used to spur purchases on its website
through mobile applications. The retailer projects it will reach
$8 billion in sales volume through mobile apps this year,
compared with $5 billion in 2011.  Marketing Expenses  “They’ve put a lot of technology investment into the
marketplaces platform,” Gillis said. “They’ve got to get users
to re-engage. They need to do a brand makeover. It’s not your
collectible site.”  Operating margin  narrowed to 22.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with 23.7 percent in the same period last
year. The decrease came primarily because of four acquisitions
the company completed in 2011, EBay said. Marketing expenses
rose to $2.44 billion in 2011.  EBay is touting itself as a buy-it-now retailer akin to
Amazon, whose stock has more than doubled since March 2008,
dwarfing EBay’s growth since Donahoe became CEO. Still, the
market could benefit from two e-commerce giants, Gillis said.  “If you want something that’s last season or something
that has been refurbished or used, EBay gives you that range of
pricing options,” he said. “It’s the difference between the
mall and the outlet mall. Is there room for both? Of course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  