-- Egypt Homebuilder Medinet Nasr Sees Contracts Rise Amid Turmoil
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-01-18T03:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/egypt-homebuilder-medinet-nasr-sees-contracts-rise-amid-turmoil.html
Medinet Nasr for Housing , the
Egyptian developer of middle- to low-income homes, said sales
contracts increased in 2011 even as country was roiled by
political turmoil.  The Cairo-based builder reached agreements to sell homes
valued at as much as 250 million Egyptian pounds ($41 million),
Vice Chairman Hisham Akram said in an interview. The company
collects 30 percent of a home’s value when a sales agreement is
signed and the rest is paid in installments with a final payment
when the property is delivered to the buyer.  The fourth quarter of 2011 “will be the strongest quarter
yet because we handed over properties worth around 100 million
pounds during the period,” Akram said by phone from the
Egyptian capital.  Medinet Nasr (MNHD)  was one of the few Egyptian  developers  that
avoided legal challenges over land purchases made before
President  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown in February last year.
Full-year sales rose, with a surge in November after successful
parliamentary elections gave buyers more certainty about the
country’s future, Akram said.  “Last year, our contracts were higher than 2010 even
though that was a year of revolution,” Akram said. “We have
sold around 300 homes in Al Waha and 150 homes in the Six of
October project.”  The company earlier this month said it ended a partnership
with  Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN)  to develop a 3.5 million
square-meter (37.7 million square-foot) luxury-housing project
at Tigan in Cairo. Instead, Medinet Nasr plans to start work on
250,000 square meters of the land that won approval for
development earlier, Akram said.  “Due to the ongoing events in Egypt, we have not been able
to get government approvals for the new plan,” he said.  New Project  The project at Tigan will include 1,100 apartments to be
completed 36 months after the start of construction. The homes
will be sold for 790,000 pounds to 1.5 million pounds, Akram
said.  Medinet Nasr, 31 percent owned by  Beltone Financial Holding
SAE (BTFH) , is seeking government approval for a housing development
near its Km 45 development in Cairo and plans to start
construction in the fourth quarter of this year, he said.
Egypt’s government owns 15 percent of the company through the
National Co. for Development & Building.  Not all the company’s projects have fared well since the
revolution. Medinet Nasr’s National Housing project is on hold
after only 250 of the 700 homes were sold. Sales stalled after
Egyptian Housing Minister Mohamed Fathy El-Baradei, announced
that the government would develop 1 million homes for low-income
families. The prices announced by the minister are close to the
cost of construction, causing many buyers to cancel purchases
with Medinet Nasr, Akram said.  Competition With State  “We are still continuing with the project’s construction
but the sales have stopped,” he said. “The land disputes have
led the ministry of housing to exclude private developers from
work on national housing projects, even though this model has
worked best in many countries.”  Egypt ’s government has never been able to build more than
70,000 low-income homes a year in partnership with private
companies, he said.  “I don’t expect the government will be able to uphold its
promise,” Akram said. “The decision to exclude the private
sector will be reversed but only once a new government is in
place and after realizing that populist policies won’t solve the
housing shortage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  