-- Egypt May Sell Foreign-Currency Sukuk, Deposit Certificates
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-01-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/egypt-may-sell-foreign-currency-sukuk-deposit-certificates.html
Egypt  may issue an Islamic bond or
alternatively certificates of deposit in foreign currency for
Egyptians abroad, the finance minister said.  “We are studying issuing sukuk,” or Islamic bonds, Mumtaz
el-Saeed said by telephone in Cairo. “We are comparing the
benefits of issuing certificates of deposit with those of sukuk
for Egyptians abroad,” adding that his preference is for the
certificates. The government hopes to issue one or the other
during the current fiscal year ending June 30, he said.  Egypt is struggling to recover from a year of unrest in the
wake of the uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  last
February. The economy grew 1.8 percent in the last fiscal year,
the slowest pace in at least a decade, as income from tourism
and foreign investment dried up. Tourist arrivals fell 33
percent in 2011, while international reserves are at the lowest
level since March 2005.  The government formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from
the  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16. An agreement is
expected “within weeks,” Fayza Aboulnaga, minister of planning
and international cooperation, told reporters.  Egypt turned down a similar arrangement with the fund in
June, with officials saying they didn’t want to burden future
governments with debt.  Foreign currency reserves  dropped 32
percent in the following six months while yields on all
treasury-bill maturities rose this quarter to the highest since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006.  ‘Sound Fundamentals’  The economy “despite its solid and sound fundamentals,”
faces challenges that have to be addressed by an economic
program that safeguards stability and “creates conditions for a
strong recovery,” the IMF’s mission said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  A program drafted by the Egyptian authorities is being
discussed “with emerging political parties to ensure broad
political support,” the IMF said. The mission met with the
economic committee of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party, and also talked to members of other parties and
with the civilian body advising the ruling military council, it
said.  The Brotherhood’s party gained the most votes in elections
for the lower house of parliament, which is due to convene on
Jan. 23, two days before the anniversary of the start of the
uprising that led to the ouster of Mubarak. It is still unclear
what authority the assembly may have. Activists have called for
mass rallies on Jan. 25 to call on the country’s ruling generals
to hand over power to civilians immediately.  ‘Historic Transition’  The IMF’s meetings this week “provided us with a cross-
section of views about Egypt’s current economic and political
situation, and possible avenues to address the challenges facing
the economy,” the fund said. “It also gave us an opportunity
to explain the role the IMF could play in support of Egypt’s
historic transition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  