-- Egypt Revolt Loses Legitimacy as Brotherhood Ignores Women Abuse
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/egypt-revolt-losing-legitimacy-as-brotherhood-fails-to-rescue-abused-women.html
A group of men gathered around Amira
El Bakry in  Tahrir Square  as she brandished a newspaper photo
that shocked many Egyptians. It showed troops dragging a female
protester along the street, her robe ripped open to reveal a
blue bra and bare midriff.  “Is this OK by you?” the 25-year-old El Bakry, her voice
shaking with anger, asked the men, as they squinted at the
picture and one suggested the protester was trying to cause a
scene. Later, El Bakry marched through Tahrir with thousands of
women to condemn the brutality and demand that Egypt’s military
rulers step down. Some at the Dec. 20 rally wore tight jeans
tucked in boots, others were in flowing robes and full-face
veils. “The women of  Egypt  are a red line,” they chanted.  The scene recalled the mass protests of a year ago, also
joined by women of all ages and backgrounds. El Bakry supported
those efforts to topple  Hosni Mubarak , yet she’s worried about
the new political order too. Mubarak-era army chiefs are running
the country, and Islamist parties with traditional notions of
women and their rights are poised to win elections that end this
week. “That could be a lose-lose situation for us,” she said.
“But we have a role to play, and we’ll have to keep fighting
for it.”  Arab women took the fight onto squares and streets across
the region last year. From Tunisia, where revolts began, to
Egypt and  Libya , women rallied alongside men to bring down
autocratic rulers. Now, they’re fighting not to be pushed aside
by the change they helped create, as elections revive the
fortunes of Islamic political groups that were suppressed under
the old regimes.  ‘Seize the Square’  “So many people created coalitions, in the ‘seize-the-
square’ moment,” said Margot Badran, author of “Feminism in
Islam: Secular and Religious Convergences” and a senior scholar
at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center. “Now, with the
Islamists’ vast parliamentary victories, many fear the old
division between secularism and religion may reassert itself. I
do not see this as a foregone conclusion.”  The rebellions of Arab women have challenged social
barriers and patriarchal cultures as well as dictators. In  Saudi
Arabia , largely spared public protests, women stepped up a
campaign to take to the streets in their cars -- an act of civil
disobedience in the only country in the world that bars women
from driving. Saudi women didn’t overturn the ban, or gain the
right to vote in this year’s municipal elections, though  King Abdullah  said they can participate in 2015.  Nobel Peace Prize  Yemen’s Tawakkul Karman, who won the Nobel peace prize last
year, spent most nights for eight months camped out with
protesters demanding the departure of Ali Abdullah Saleh, who
agreed in November to step down as president. Now, she’s leading
opposition to a plan granting him immunity from prosecution.  Expanding the role of women can boost the region’s economy
as well as strengthening emergent democracies, according to  the
World Bank . It says that that 26.8 percent of women in the
 Middle East  and North Africa were in the  labor force  in 2009,
about half the global average. Per-capita incomes could have
grown substantially more if the region’s women had more economic
opportunity, the bank said.  For women’s groups in Egypt, the initial target has been
the military rulers who took over from Mubarak and are accused
by activists of using similarly violent tactics -- as in the
Tahrir beating that enraged El Bakry.  Hillary Clinton , the U.S.
secretary of state, called that incident “a disgrace.”  Women say they also face abuse and sexual harassment from
the public and other protesters when they join rallies. Fatma
Emam, a 29-year-old research associate at the non-government
group Nazra for Feminist Studies, joined a celebration of
international women’s day in March last year and recalls a
volley of insults. “I felt that day how little the street cares
for women’s issues,” she said.  No Female Faces  Some women perceive another threat from the first elections
since Mubarak’s ouster. Seven weeks of voting end today and
results are due in the next two days. The Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party is set to win about 45 percent of
seats, according to its latest estimates. In second place is a
bloc of Salafi Muslims, followers of an austere interpretation
of Islam. While all parties were required by law to have women
on their candidate lists, there may be fewer than 10 women among
the 498 elected members, according to provisional results.  The main Salafi alliance kept the faces of its female
candidates off most of its publicity material. Salafi candidate
Abdel Monem el-Shahat, who failed to win a seat in parliament,
told a private television channel that he would like Egypt’s
women to wear the niqab, or full-face veil -- though he added
that it shouldn’t be mandatory.  ‘Iranian Model’  “We’re faced with difficult choices, caught between the
military council and the Islamists,” said Nehad Abul Komsan,
head of the Egyptian Center for Women’s Rights in Cairo. “I am
worried about the future of freedom of expression. I worry about
the Iranian model.”  Islamists also won  Tunisia ’s first election after the
overthrow of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. The Ennahdha party took
more than 40 percent of seats in the October vote, and heads a
coalition with two of the biggest secular parties. Women took
three ministries and 49 of 217 seats in parliament.  Under Ben Ali, Tunisia ranked highest among Arab countries
in rights for women, according to the Washington-based   Freedom
House . Ennahdha says it will keep the family code dating from
the 1950s which put women on equal footing with men in divorce,
work and education.  In its election campaign, the party vowed to get rid of a
ban on the niqab at universities and state offices. That would
end discrimination and mark an expansion of women’s rights, said
Ali Laarayedh, head of the party’s constitutional committee.
Ennahdha’s leader, Rashid Ghannouchi, said women have the right
to choose how they dress and the niqab is “not an obligation.”  ‘Suburb of  Afghanistan ’  Islamists students blocked classes at the Manouba
University of Arts in Tunis for more than a month, according to
professors there, staging a sit-in to demand the right to wear
the veil during exams. Slogans hung on doors calling for the
implementation of an “Islamic Caliphate” and sexual
segregation in classrooms.  The episode felt “as if we were in a suburb of
Afghanistan,” said Abdel Kader Jedidi, a professor at the
Institute of Press and Information Sciences. Still, he said,
“bad things can be good things” because such demands will
unite most Tunisians in opposition, and “civil society will not
let these people toy with the values of the revolution.”  Libya, the third North African country to overthrow a
longtime leader in 2011, is behind most of the others in terms
of women’s rights. Under  Muammar Qaddafi , forced from office in
August and killed by rebels in October, the country ranked near
the bottom of the Freedom House survey.  Polygamy Laws  Libyan women were part of the protests against Qaddafi and
the armed revolt that followed, nursing wounded rebels and
helping raise cash for weapons. After the fighting eased, women
such as Laila and Salwa Bugaighis said they noticed a change.  Salwa, a lawyer from the eastern city of Benghazi, quit her
position on the National Transitional Council saying women were
being sidelined. The issues she raised were the same as those
being debated across the region: electoral representation and
the place of religion in family law.  When he declared the country liberated after Qaddafi’s
death, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the head of the transitional
government until elections scheduled for June, said a Qaddafi
law that limited polygamy was un-Islamic and would be revoked.
He backtracked a week later, saying the Libyan people would
decide such matters and Libya would be a moderate Muslim nation.  ‘Increase the Volume’  A draft election law announced this month guarantees women
20 of 200 parliament seats, less than the 40 percent quota they
had sought. Unless compelled by law, “no tribe will nominate a
woman,” Salwa Bugaighis said.  Her cousin Laila is a gynecologist in Benghazi and head of
a committee to care for survivors of the violence. She says it’s
hard for women in Libya to make their demands heard, citing the
country’s social conservatism and lack of traditions of activism
and democracy.  “We plan to increase the volume gradually and steadily,
until it reaches the ears,” Laila Bugaighis said in an e-mail.
“The fact that our voices as women activists are being heard
for the first time, that we are talking about politics,  gender
equality , elections, health-care reform, violence and democracy,
is a breakthrough.”  Egyptian women engaged in the protests before and after
Mubarak’s fall cite a similar sense of new horizons.  ‘In Their Faces’  El Bakry says that forcing people to confront the image of
the battered woman protester in Tahrir helps push the argument
forward. “The photo is very painful to see,” she said. “When
you go and put it in their faces, and tell them, ‘see what has
happened to your women,’ that makes them see how wrong this is.
It shows that new lines are being crossed every day.”  Last month, Samira Ibrahim, a young woman from conservative
southern Egypt, successfully sued military authorities who she
said subjected her to a virginity test. A court last month
ordered that such tests should be halted.  Key to the prospect of expanding such victories will be the
line taken by Islamist parties.  The Brotherhood, like Ennahdha, promises consensus. The
Nour party, the main Salafi bloc, is less accommodating in
public. The difference was on display when Egypt’s Christian
minority celebrated Coptic Christmas this month. The Brotherhood
issued a statement congratulating the community, and sent top
officials to attend Christmas Eve mass at Cairo’s Orthodox
Cathedral. Nour officials said it’s not permitted for Muslims to
share in Christian religious celebrations.  ‘Stay at Home’  When Azza el-Garf, who won a parliament seat for the
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, discusses the prejudice
she has encountered on the campaign trail, her language recalls
the secular activists.  “As I got up on stage, I sometimes saw sarcastic looks in
the eyes of some of the men,” she said. “It was as if they
were saying: ‘What could this woman possibly have to tell us?’”
She said it was worse under Mubarak, when the Brotherhood was
banned and she was blocked from registering as a candidate in
the 2010 election. She said a security official told her:
“People like you should stay at home and peel onions.”  In other areas, their views conflict. El-Garf attacks
“Suzan’s laws,” a reference to Suzan Mubarak, wife of the
ousted president, who many Egyptians say was an influence on
legislation raising the marriage age and making it easier for
women to get divorced. “Too easy,” El-Garf said.  Islamist politicians may moderate their views as they move
into positions of responsibility, said el-Ashry, the women’s
rights activist.  “If not, we then tell them, ‘Thank you, we’ll try someone
else’,” she said. “Whether in the name of religion or in the
name of the military council, I am betting that Egyptians will
not let go of their freedom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 