-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Bullish on U.S. ‘Cheap Stocks’
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-01-18T18:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/einhorn-s-greenlight-bullish-on-u-s-cheap-stocks-bought-dell.html
Greenlight Capital Inc., the hedge
fund run by  David Einhorn , bought shares of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Xerox
Corp. (XRX)  in the fourth quarter as part of a bet on undervalued U.S.
stocks, according to a letter to investors.  “Our current strategy is to own cheap stocks of good
businesses, largely in the United States,” Greenlight said in a
letter dated Jan. 17, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. “We are more net long equities than we have been in some
time, as we believe that many stocks have reached a point where
they are simply cheap enough to own even if some trouble awaits
us.”  Dell, the third-largest personal-computer maker, has
broadened its products beyond computers and is undervalued, the
New York-based hedge fund said in the letter. Greenlight bought
Dell at an average price of $15.53. Shares of the  Round Rock ,
Texas-based company gained 2 percent to $16.40 at 1:17 p.m. in
New York trading.  Einhorn, whose fund can bet on rising and falling prices,
is best known for shorting Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before
it collapsed in September 2008. Greenlight gained 2.9 percent
last year, according to the letter.  Xerox, Travelers  Greenlight also purchased shares of Xerox because the firm
remains bullish on the Norwalk, Connecticut-based firm’s
acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services Inc. in 2010.
Einhorn’s fund initially bought Xerox after the takeover but
sold amid concerns that the provider of printers and business
services faced potential losses from the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan . Greenlight originally bought Xerox at around
$9.35 and repurchased the stock at $7.61, according to the
letter.  Greenlight sold its stake in Travelers Cos. because recent
losses due to U.S. catastrophes, including tornadoes and
 Hurricane Irene , have hampered the New York-based insurer’s
share-buyback program, the firm said in the letter. Travelers
Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman said last month that the
company expected to repurchase $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion of
shares in the fourth quarter of 2011. That compares with $1.6
billion in the year-earlier period.  Greenlight owned about 1 percent of outstanding shares of
Travelers at the end of the third quarter, according to a
regulatory filing, and posted a “double-digit return” after
selling its entire stake, according to the letter.  Greenlight also exited Becton, Dickinson & Co.,  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Employers Holdings Inc. (EIG)  The firm covered a
bet that the price of  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  shares would decline, one
of “the most profitable shorts in the history of the
Partnership,” according to the letter, and also closed its
short position on Diamond Foods Inc.  Short selling is when a manager borrows a share and sells
it in hopes of buying it back later at a lower price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  