-- Embrapa Will Charge Less Than Monsanto for Modified Sugar Cane
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-01-18T21:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/embrapa-will-charge-less-than-monsanto-for-modified-sugar-cane.html
Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa
Agropecuaria ,  Brazil ’s state-owned agricultural research agency,
plans to charge less than major seed companies including
 Monsanto Co. (MON) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  when it begins selling
sugar cane that’s genetically engineered to resist drought.  The agency expects to field-test the crop in two years and
may have it certified for commercial use by the National
Biosafety Technical Commission in five years, Eduardo Romano,
the Embrapa researcher coordinating the project, said today in a
telephone interview from Brasilia.  Monsanto, the world’s largest seed supplier, and other
large agriculture companies are also developing genetically
modified cane, Romano said. Embrapa plans to sell the
engineered, or transgenic, plant at lower prices than commercial
providers to ensure the technology remains affordable for small
farmers, he said.  “It’s the same model they used in  China  for cotton,” he
said. “The government developed their own transgenic strains,
cut prices and multinationals were forced to follow suit.”  Cane growers in Brazil must contend with frequent droughts
that may wipe out as much as 50 percent of yields, and often
resort to costly irrigation techniques to maintain productivity,
Romano said.  Farmers in Brazil already plant genetically modified corn,
soybean, cotton and canola, the most after the U.S., Romano
said. He expects the commercial seed companies to introduce a
transgenic sugar-cane plant in about four years.  “Increased global demand for biofuels has meant sugar cane
is growing in importance,” he said. The plant is processed into
both sugar and ethanol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  