-- Emerging Stocks Head for Two-Month High
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-18T22:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-amid-greece-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
two-month high on speculation Greece is nearing a deal to
renegotiate its debt.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.9 percent to
980.93 at the close of trading in New York, the highest since
Nov. 8. The  Shanghai Composite index  lost 1.4 percent after
rallying the most since October 2009 yesterday. Hungary’s  BUX
Index (BUX)  advanced for a fifth day, the longest streak of gains in a
year. Brazil’s Bovespa added 1.8 percent.  The Greek government may reach a deal with private
creditors to write down some of its debt by the end of this
week, a Finance Ministry official who asked not to be identified
told reporters in  Athens . The  International Monetary Fund  is
proposing to raise its lending capacity by $500 billion to
insulate the global economy against any worsening of  Europe ’s
debt crisis, according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  “We are suspicious of the current unabated rally in risk
appetites since the start of the week, fed off better data and
some hope of progress in Greece,” analysts at BNP Paribas SA
including Bartosz Pawlowski in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note
to clients. “We saw some profit taking in Asian stocks today,
with the general mood heading into Chinese New Year one of
lingering caution.”  Emerging-market stocks have gained 7 percent this year,
beating the 3.3 percent advance for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-market shares. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index trades
at 9.5 times projected earnings, trailing the 11.9 ratio of the
developed-nation index.  Greece  Deal  Greece is nearing an accord with private creditors that
would give them cash and securities worth about 32 cents per
euro of government debt, said Bruce Richards, who is on the
committee negotiating a debt deal with the government. Richards
is also chief executive officer of Marathon Asset Management LP
in New York.  A gauge of confidence among American homebuilders rose in
January to the highest level in more than four years as sales
and buyer traffic improved. U.S. industrial production expanded
0.4 percent in December, after falling the previous month. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.1 percent, the most in two
weeks.  The BUX Index jumped 3.1 percent in Budapest and the forint
strengthened 1.3 percent against the euro on speculation the
government will accept conditions imposed by the European Union
and the IMF in return for a bailout.  Brazil  Stocks  The Bovespa advanced, as consumer-goods maker  Hypermarcas
SA (HYPE3)  led gains by companies that depend on domestic demand.
Hypermarcas rose 4.2 percent.  Indonesia ’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  rose 0.6 percent after
Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the nation’s sovereign debt
rating to investment grade.  The rupiah appreciated 0.7 percent against the dollar after
Moody’s increased Indonesia’s foreign- and local-currency rating
to Baa3 from Ba1. The move returned the country to investment
level for the first time in 14 years.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 432, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  