-- Environmentalists Send EPA Intent-to-Sue Notice on Coal Ash
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-18T18:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/environmentalists-send-epa-intent-to-sue-notice-on-coal-ash-1-.html
Earthjustice and 11 environmental
groups notified the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency today
that they intend to sue the agency to force it to issue
regulations for the disposal of coal ash.  The groups said that three years after 1 billion gallons
(3.79 billion liters) of the power-plant waste spilled from a
disposal pond in  Kentucky , the agency hasn’t followed through on
its pledge to issue new regulations.  “A major disaster has occurred, and it’s past time to
act,” Lisa Evans, an attorney for Earthjustice, said on a
conference call with reporters. The groups plan to sue the
agency in 60 days to force the EPA to set a “date certain” for
issuing its rules, she said.  The EPA said in 2000 it wouldn’t regulate coal ash as
hazardous. The agency began re-examining that decision after a
2008 spill from a  Tennessee  Valley Authority sludge pond in
Kingston, Tennessee, which flooded 300 acres (121 hectares),
destroying homes and contaminating waterways.  In 2010, the EPA proposed two ways to handle disposal of
coal ash: classifying it with hazardous materials, giving the
agency direct authority over permits and enforcement, and
requiring liners for sludge ponds; or establishing standards,
while leaving enforcement to the states.  Call for Regulations  The environmental groups say the intent-to-sue notice is
only seeking to get the EPA to issue the regulations, and
doesn’t call for either of the two approaches.  While the EPA has pledged to issue its rules this year,
“these timetables can slip,” Evans said. Alisha Johnson, a
spokeswoman for the EPA, didn’t return e-mail and telephone
messages asking for comment.  Coal-burning  power plants  generated 136 million tons of ash
in 2008, up from 118 million tons in 2001. The ash can be
disposed of as a liquid in large ponds or as a solid in
landfills. It can also be recycled. Industry groups say that
labeling it a hazardous waste will mean the end of the recycling
opportunities.  The U.S. House of Representatives voted last year to block
the EPA from regulating coal ash, and asked states to take
charge of preventing disasters.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  