-- Ethiopia Says Eritrea-Backed ‘Terrorists’ Killed Five European Tourists
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-18T14:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ethiopia-says-gunmen-from-eritrea-behind-killing-of-five-european-tourists.html
Ethiopia  accused neighboring Eritrea
of backing gunmen who killed five European tourists yesterday in
the northeastern region of Afar. Eritrea’s ambassador to the
 African Union  rejected the accusation as an “absolute lie.”  Two Germans, two Hungarians and an Austrian were killed,
while an Italian and a Hungarian were injured, Ethiopian
Communications Minister Bereket Simon said in a phone interview
today from Bahir Dar, 320 kilometers (199 miles) northwest of
Addis Ababa, the capital. They were attacked while exploring
volcanic sites in the Erta Ale area, about 25 kilometers from
the Eritrean border. Two German tourists and two Ethiopians were
kidnapped in the incident, he said.  “The terrorist group from Eritrea crossed the border and
attacked, killing five,” Bereket said. “The perpetrators have
gone back to Eritrea.” Earlier, he said those killed included a
German, a Belgian, a Hungarian, an Italian and an Austrian.  Eritrea and Ethiopia fought a border war from 1998 to 2000
that killed 70,000 people, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group . The border dispute that caused the
war has not been resolved and troops from both sides are still a
heavy presence on parts of the divide.  In April, Ethiopia said it would increase support for
Eritrean rebels seeking to overthrow the government of Eritrean
President Isaias Afewerki, and accused the state of
destabilizing the region. Eritrea criticized Ethiopia’s stance
as a declaration of war.  Eritrean Denial  “Anything that happens they say it’s Eritrea,” Girma Asmerom, the Eritrean ambassador to the AU, said in a phone
interview today from Addis Ababa. “It is pathetic and
disgusting.”  Ethiopia said it foiled an attempt by the Eritrean-backed
Oromo Liberation Front rebel group to bomb an AU summit in  Addis
Ababa  in January 2011.  Two unidentified foreigners were injured in yesterday’s
attack, while an Ethiopian policemen and an Ethiopian driver
were abducted, Bereket said in a mobile text message today.  Ethiopia will take “appropriate measures” to protect its
national security, he said.  “It also calls on the international community, especially
the  United Nations , to be more stringent on sanctioning the
Eritrean government,” Bereket said. “The leniency has been the
reason why this government is emboldened.”  Eritrea has been under UN sanctions since December 2009 for
its alleged support of militants fighting to topple the UN-
backed government of Somalia. Eritrea’s Foreign Ministry says
the sanctions are “unjustifiable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  