-- European Crisis May Expose Latin American Weaknesses, World Bank Says
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-18T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/europe-s-crisis-may-expose-latin-american-flaws-world-bank-says.html
An escalation of the European
sovereign-debt crisis may expose weaknesses in Latin American
financial systems and fiscal policies, the  World Bank  said.  “Should conditions in  Europe  deteriorate sharply,” Latin
America may reveal “vulnerabilities that have so far remained
latent,” the Washington-based lender said today. “Countries in
the region may need to identify new drivers of growth and to
address structural problems that negatively affect
competitiveness.”  Regional economic growth will slow to 3.6 percent this year
from 4.2 percent in 2011 as consumer spending and exports
weaken, the bank said in its Global Economic Prospects report.
The region’s fiscal deficit may expand to 2.7 percent of  gross
domestic product  from 2.6 percent in 2011 and 0.9 percent in
2008, the year before the global recession.  Wider deficits will make it harder for Latin American
governments to boost spending to stimulate growth if demand
declines for  raw materials  that account for more than half of
exports. Central banks also may have to keep  interest rates  high
after inflation threatened or exceeded targets in countries such
as  Brazil  and  Chile  last year, the bank said.  The two countries are the only major rate-setting nations
in Latin America to reduce borrowing costs in their latest
meetings. At 11 percent and 5 percent respectively, Brazil and
Chile have the highest key rates among countries in the region
tracked by Bloomberg.  Banking Vulnerability  Reduced capital controls and an increase in foreign
ownership of Latin American financial institutions make the
region’s economy vulnerable if European banks decide to
liquidate assets, the World Bank said. Euro area banks account
for a quarter of banking assets in major Latin American
countries, according to International Monetary Fund figures.  European banks “could be forced to sell off assets in
 Latin America  with potentially significant impacts on equity
valuations -- which in turn could affect capital adequacy of
regional banks,” the World Bank said. That could spark “a
credit crunch even among otherwise healthy local banks.”  Peru will lead growth among major countries in the region
this year with 5.1 percent, compared with an estimated 6.3
percent in 2011, according to the World Bank. Expansion in
Brazil, the region’s largest economy, will accelerate to 3.4
percent from 2.9 percent, while  Mexico ’s growth will slow to 3.2
percent from 4 percent.  Growth in the global economy will slow to 2.5 percent this
year from 2.7 percent in 2011, according to the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 