-- Most European Stocks Advance as IMF Seeks Boost to Resources
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-01-18T17:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/european-stock-index-futures-erase-earlier-decline-asian-shares-advance.html
Most  European stocks  rose as the
 International Monetary Fund  said it plans to raise as much as
$500 billion to expand its lending resources and Greece neared a
debt deal with its private creditors.  Accor SA advanced 4.3 percent as the French hotelier said
sales increased in 2011 and confirmed its profit forecast.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  declined 1.7 percent as Moody’s Investors
Services lowered the financial-strength rating of  Germany ’s
second-biggest lender.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained less than 0.1 percent to
253.48 at the close of trading, extending a five-month high.
More than three shares climbed for every two that dropped. The
benchmark gauge has  increased 3.7 percent  so far this year.  “The rumors from the IMF about an increase in lending may
have helped to spur markets,” said Chris Beauchamp, a market
analyst at IG Index in  London . “It is only a proposal, not a
concrete decision.”  The IMF aims to increase its resources to safeguard the
global economy after identifying a potential need for $1
trillion in financing in coming years, an IMF spokesman said in
a statement. The IMF will not comment further until it has
consulted its members, the fund said.  Greek Talks  Greece  is close to a deal with private creditors that would
give them cash and securities with a market value of about 32
cents per euro of government debt, according to Bruce Richards,
who is on the creditors’ committee and chief executive officer
for Marathon Asset Management LP.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.2 percent,
Germany’s DAX Index advanced 0.3 percent and France’s CAC 40
Index slipped 0.2 percent.  The World Bank cut its  global growth forecast  by the most
in three years today, saying that a recession in the euro region
threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets  such as
India and  Mexico .  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based
institution said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain. The
 World Bank  cut its outlook for U.S. growth to 2.2 percent from
2.9 percent.  The German government trimmed its forecast for 2012 growth
in  Europe ’s biggest economy to 0.7 percent from a previous 1
percent estimate.  German, Portuguese Sales  Germany sold two-year notes at a record-low yield today
after euro-area ratings downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan.
13.  Portugal  auctioned its targeted amount of 2.5 billion euros
($3.2 billion) of securities at a sale of three-, six- and 11-
month treasury bills.  In the U.S., a report showed industrial production rose 0.4
percent in December. That still missed the median estimate for
an increase of 0.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Accor SA (AC)  advanced 4.3 percent to 21.97 euros. The French
hotelier, which generated  73 percent of its sales from Europe  in
2010, said revenue rose 2.5 percent in 2011 and reiterated its
forecast for full-year earnings before interest and taxes.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  jumped 6.8 percent to 114.4 pence. The
world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund said it will reduce
pay and eliminate jobs in a plan to reduce costs by about 10
percent as market turmoil prompted clients to withdraw money.  Intermediate Capital  Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP) , a debt provider for
leveraged buyouts, soared 6.1 percent to 266 pence. Cinven Ltd.,
the British buyout firm that owns the Pizza Express restaurant
chain, agreed to buy Intermediate Capital’s patents business CPA
Global Ltd. for 950 million pounds ($1.5 billion).  Commerzbank (CBK)  fell 1.7 percent to 1.41 euros as Moody’s cut
Commerzbank’s financial-strength rating to D+ from C-. The
rating represents Moody’s opinion of a lender’s intrinsic safety
and soundness and doesn’t address the probability of timely
repayment of debt, according to the company’s definitions.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  declined 4.2 percent to 1,394 pence, its
biggest retreat since Nov. 9. The London-based oil explorer with
the highest number of licenses in  Africa  dropped after delaying
full production from its Jubilee field in  Ghana  by at least a
year.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  slipped 1.6 percent to 19.98 euros. Reuters
reported that Germany’s biggest steelmaker affirmed its first-
quarter outlook and denied speculation it may cut its earnings
forecast, citing a spokesman.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  sank 5.5 percent to 8.14 euros and
Suez Environnement SA dropped 2.6 percent to 9.14 euros. The
utilities face a formal probe by European Union antitrust
regulators into possible collusion to fix the price of water and
waste water services in  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  