-- Euro Strengthens After IMF Said to Be Seeking $500 Billion Resource Boost
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-01-18T12:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/euro-strengthens-after-imf-said-to-be-seeking-500-billion-resource-boost.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show IMF lending capacity
increased by $500 billion, not $1 trillion.)  The euro advanced for a second day
against the dollar and the yen as the  International Monetary
Fund  was said to seek a $500 billion expansion of its lending
resources to safeguard the global economy.  The 17-nation currency strengthened against all except two
of its 16 major counterparts before Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  resumes negotiations with bondholders over proposed
losses today. The dollar weakened before U.S. reports that
economists said will show industrial production and confidence
among homebuilders increased, damping demand for the safety of
the greenback. The pound fell against the euro as a report
showed the British  unemployment rate  rose to a 16-year high.  “The news that the IMF will probably get more money and
could increase its lending capacity is one factor supporting the
euro,” said You-Na Park, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Short-term risk sentiment seems
to be improving.”  The euro advanced 0.7 percent to $1.2829 at 10:56 a.m.
London time, after rising 0.5 percent yesterday.  Europe ’s shared
currency climbed 0.6 percent to 98.48 yen. The dollar was little
changed at 76.77 yen.  The Washington-based IMF currently has $385 billion
available and wants to lift that to $885 billion after
identifying the potential for a $1 trillion global financing gap
in the next two years, according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  IMF Boost  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday her
staff are studying options to increase the fund’s war chest.
While euro-region nations have already pledged to contribute 150
billion euros, the U.S. has said it has no plans to make new
bilateral loans and G-20 leaders ended last year at odds over
the issue.  Greece  will resume talks today with the  Institute of
International Finance , which represents private creditors. The
 Washington  based IIF broke off negotiations last week after
failing to agree with the government about how much money
investors will lose by swapping their bonds.  The Greek government is nearing a deal with bondholders
that would give them cash and securities with a market value of
about 32 cents per euro of debt, according to Bruce Richards,
chief executive officer of New York-based Marathon Asset
Management LP, who is on the committee of 32 creditors.  “I’m highly confident the deal will get done,” Richards
said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Businessweek.  The euro has weakened 3.9 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
rose 8.1 percent, the best performer among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by the gauges. The dollar strengthened
6.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  