-- Tevez, Torres Are PSG Striker Targets, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-01-18T10:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/tevez-torres-are-psg-striker-targets-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tevez, Torres  Manchester City’s  Carlos Tevez  and Chelsea’s Fernando Torres have been offered to new Paris Saint-Germain manager
 Carlo Ancelotti ,  the Daily Mail said .  Tevez, who hasn’t played for City since leaving the U.K.
without permission last year, and Torres, who hasn’t scored for
Chelsea since October, are among strikers being made available
to the French league leader, the newspaper said.  Inter Milan  and AC Milan have failed in attempts to sign
Tevez, and PSG, funded by the Qatar Investment Authority, is
looking for players to help improve the club, the newspaper
said.  Arshavin Off?  Lazio may offer 6 million pounds ($9 million) for Arsenal
forward Andrey Arshavin, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  isn’t planning to extend the
Russian’s contract beyond 2013 and will look to sell him, the
newspaper said.  The north London club bought Arshavin three years ago for
12 million pounds, and the arrival of Gervinho and the return of
Thierry Henry have kept him on the bench, the newspaper said.  Arshavin’s former club, Zenit  St. Petersburg , is also
interested in signing him, the newspaper said.  Fergie Tips Solskjaer  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  believes former
player Ole Gunnar Solskjaer could handle the pressure of being
his potential successor at Old Trafford, the  Manchester Evening
News  reported.  Ferguson, who has said he’ll be in charge for three more
years, praised the Solskjaer for his willingness to learn and
ability to pick up things from training sessions and matches.  Solskjear, United’s former reserve manager, led Molde to
its first Norwegian league title in his first year in charge.  “If you go to a club in   Norway  that have never won the
league ever in their history and you win the league you have to
have something about you to do that,” Ferguson said.  Saudi Interest in Jones  Saudi club Al Hilal may offer as much as 5 million pounds
for Stoke striker  Kenwyne Jones , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Jones, who joined Stoke 18 months ago for 8 million pounds,
has struggled to make the first team since Peter Crouch was
signed in the summer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  