-- Putin Former Ally Says It’s Time for Prime Minister’s 12-Year Rule to End
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ex-putin-ally-paratrooper-vows-to-end-premier-s-12-year-rule.html
Sergei Mironov, the ousted speaker
of Russia’s upper house of parliament who’s challenging his
long-time ally  Vladimir Putin  for the Kremlin, said it’s time
for the prime minister to relinquish his 12-year rule.  “Putin must go,” said Mironov, who leads the Just Russia
opposition party and plans to join a protesters’ march for the
first time in downtown Moscow on Feb. 4. “I don’t see any
willingness by Putin to change the political system. He believes
monopoly of power is good.”  Speaking in an interview in his office in the State Duma,
where he leads the party’s parliamentary faction, the former
paratrooper pledged to put up a “very serious fight” in the
March 4 presidential election.  Putin, 59, is facing the biggest challenge to his rule
since he replaced the ailing President  Boris Yeltsin  on Dec. 31,
1999. Major challengers in the presidential race are backing
demands for new parliamentary elections after allegations of
fraud in Dec. 4 legislative polls sparked mass protests in
Russian cities.  Russian stocks gained for the first time in four days
yesterday, with the Micex Index adding 0.1 percent to 1,464.42
in Moscow. Stocks fell during the previous session after  Fitch
Ratings  cut its outlook on Russia’s BBB credit grade to stable
from positive, citing an increase in “political uncertainty.”  St. Petersburg  Ally  Mironov, 58, is an associate of Putin from their home town
of St. Petersburg and ran for president in 2004 while supporting
Putin’s candidacy in the same race. Four years ago, he urged
then-President Putin to sidestep a constitutional ban on three
consecutive terms and seek to extend his tenure in the Kremlin.
Putin ended up handing the presidency to his protégé,  Dmitry Medvedev , for four years.  Mironov is now publicly critical of Putin, who he says will
drive the country into decline if he stays in office by
perpetuating a tightly-controlled political system and reliance
on oil and gas exports.  “In 10 years this will be a dumb country that works on
assembled products and producing oil,” Mironov said. “All
thinking people will work in Silicon Valley,  India ,  China  or
elsewhere and we’ll end up with a country that’s been completely
emptied.”  After Mironov was removed as speaker of the Federation
Council last year, his Just Russia party almost doubled its
share of the vote in the Duma elections to 13.3 percent from 7.7
percent in 2007.  Putin’s Popularity Ebbs  Putin, whose popularity has been declining for several
years, has close to the 50 percent backing needed to win the
presidential vote in the first round, according to the latest
poll published by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study
of  Public Opinion .  The prime minister would get 48 percent, compared with 10
percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , 9 percent for
 Vladimir Zhirinovsky  of the nationalist Liberal Democrats and 5
percent for Mironov, according to the Jan. 7-8 survey of 1,600
Russians. The margin of error was 3.4 percentage points.  Opposition politicians including Zyuganov and political
analysts such as Gleb Pavlovsky, a former Kremlin adviser, say
Putin doesn’t have enough support to win an outright victory and
that ballot-rigging to ensure success will stoke wider unrest.  Putin’s United Russia party inflated its share of last
month’s Duma vote to about 50 percent from 30 percent and even
“major fraud” can’t bring about a first-round victory,
Zyuganov said Jan. 11.  Not ‘Most Dangerous’  Mironov said he poses the greatest threat to Putin and is
confident of overtaking Zyuganov for a place in the second
round. Unlike the Communist leader, he’d be able to rally
support from “90 percent” of other candidates’ supporters, he
added.  If there’s no initial winner, a second round will be held
within 21 days. Putin’s spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said yesterday
he doesn’t see Mironov as the “most dangerous” challenger,
adding that Putin has every chance to win without a runoff.  The Just  Russia  leader, whose party campaigns for social
justice, has pledged to halt further privatization of major
state-controlled companies and replace the 13 percent flat rate
of income tax with a progressive scale. He also wants to
introduce a 20 percent levy on all capital outflows as a “cold
shower for offshore lovers.” Russia’s net outflow of capital
more than doubled last year to $84.2 billion.  New Parliamentary Vote  On Jan. 16, Mironov reached out to the middle-class urban
Russians who have formed the backbone of the election protests
by promising to step down as president by the end of 2013 and
allow new elections under more democratic rules. He also
promised to hold a new parliamentary vote in December and
introduce a maximum of two presidential terms.  In December, Medvedev proposed legislation to make it
easier to register parties and run for president, changes that
wouldn’t take full effect until 2016 and 2018, when the next
parliamentary and presidential elections are scheduled.  “Russia’s growth over the next decades means expanding
freedoms for each of us,” Putin said in a Jan. 16 article in
the Izvestia newspaper and posted on his website.  While Mironov and another challenger, billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , are in the presidential race with Putin’s blessing,
their campaigns are loosening the premier’s grip, said Boris Makarenko of the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow.  Prokhorov has also pledged another parliamentary vote in
December and to serve only four years as president. Both he and
Mironov have called for the release of jailed Yukos Oil Co.
owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who accuses Putin of political
persecution. Prokhorov said yesterday he’d name Khodorkovsky
prime minister if he’s elected.  “It’s about an imitation of pluralism in the presidential
election but if Putin tries to stifle competition this will be
damaging for him above all,” said Makarenko. “Society is ready
for more pluralism and the political system is lagging behind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net  