-- Texas Instruments, Altera Rally After Linear Sales Forecast
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-01-18T21:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/texas-instruments-rises-in-chipmaker-rally-after-linear-forecast.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ,  Altera (ALTR)  Corp.
and other semiconductor stocks rallied after  Linear Technology
Corp. (LLTC)  said orders for analog chips are improving.  Linear gained the most in almost five years after saying
late yesterday that sales for the quarter ending in March would
beat analysts’ estimates as orders in December were better than
expected. Texas Instruments, the largest maker of analog chips,
rose the most since 2008, while Altera and  Freescale
Semiconductor Holdings I Ltd. (FSL)  had their best days since October.  Earnings from makers of analog chips, which go into
everything from household appliances to space hardware, are used
by analysts and investors as an indicator of demand for
electronics. Milpitas, California-based Linear is among the
first of the U.S. semiconductor manufacturers scheduled to
report quarterly results in the next two weeks.  “Although we are in a difficult business environment, we
believe our business will improve in the upcoming March
quarter,” Linear Chief Financial Officer Paul Coghlan told
investors and analysts on a conference call today.  Linear said fiscal third-quarter revenue will rise 4
percent to 8 percent from second-quarter sales of $294.3
million. Based on calculations, sales would be $306.1 million to
$317.8 million, higher than the $303.3 million that was the
average of analysts’ revenue  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Linear  rose  11.6 percent to $33.32 at the close of trading
in  New York , its biggest gain since April 18, 2007. The shares
had tumbled 17 percent in the 12 months ended yesterday.  Texas Instruments, which is scheduled to report results on
Jan. 23, rose 8.6 percent to $33.72.  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI)  climbed
5.7 percent and  Freescale Semiconductor Holdings (FSL)  jumped 9.2
percent. Altera, which makes programmable chips used in mobile-
phone base stations, rose 9.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in New York at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  