-- Texas Rangers Urge Pitcher Yu Darvish Not to Dwell on $51.7 Million Bid
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-19T15:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/texas-rangers-japan-s-yu-darvish-agree-to-six-year-mlb-pitching-contract.html
Yu Darvish should focus on his
pitching and not think about his new six-year contract or the
record $51.7 million fee Texas will pay his Japanese club,
Rangers President and Hall of Famer  Nolan Ryan  said.  “What you hope is that he comes to spring training and
that he’s comfortable and that he fits into the routine and
doesn’t put a lot of pressure on himself to try to prove that
he’s worthy of the consideration that he got,” Ryan said at a
news conference announcing the team’s deal with Darvish. “We’re
not going into spring training with these great expectations
that he’s going to shine over everybody else.”  The Rangers didn’t disclose terms of the 25-year-old’s
contract, which  MLB.com said  is worth approximately $60 million.
Darvish has gone 93-38 with a 1.99 earned run average in seven
seasons with the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters.  Nippon Meat Packers (2282) , the parent company of the Fighters,
said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange that it would
receive the posting fee from the Rangers by Jan. 26. If the two
sides had been unable to reach a deal by 5 p.m. Eastern time
yesterday, Darvish would have returned to pitch in Japan and the
Rangers would have gotten the money back.  The Rangers, who lost in the World Series the past two
seasons, had 30 days to negotiate with Darvish and his agents
after submitting the winning bid to negotiate on Dec. 19. The
team’s offer surpassed the highest previous  Major League
Baseball  posting fee for a Japanese player, the $51.1 million
the  Boston   Red Sox  bid in 2007 for pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka.  Rangers executives said they don’t want to put too much
pressure on the 6-foot-5 (2-meter) right-hander, who will be
formally introduced by the team tomorrow.  Not Seeking Savior  “We’re not looking for a savior,” General Manager Jon Daniels told reporters in the news conference at Rangers
Ballpark in Arlington, Texas. “Just by the nature of this
process -- by the international side of it, the attention that’s
going to be on it -- there are some expectations that come with
that, but we’re certainly not going to add to it.”  Darvish, who went 18-6 with a 1.44 ERA in 28 games for
Nippon Ham last season, would join a rotation that includes
 Colby Lewis , Matt Harrison,  Derek Holland  and Alexi Ogando.
Former reliever  Neftali Feliz  is being shifted into a starting
role, a move that could lead Ogando to be used out of the
bullpen next season.  The roster also includes Yoshinori Tateyama, a former
Hokkaido teammate of Darvish. The pair pitched in the same game
for the Fighters on 23 occasions from 2005 to 2010, the Rangers
said in a statement on their website yesterday.  The Rangers begin spring training next month and open the
season on April 6 at home against the  Chicago White Sox .  Loss of Wilson  The addition of Darvish may help the Rangers offset the
loss of their top starting pitcher, C.J. Wilson, who joined the
 Los Angeles Angels  as a free agent last month.  “This is a major investment in a player that we think can
help us get back to the  World Series  and can ultimately win
it,” Daniels said.  Darvish led Japan’s Pacific League by striking out 276
batters in 232 innings last season. He throws nine types of
pitches and has a fastball that usually reaches around 95 mph
(153 kph), scouts said.  “He is a polished kid who can pound the strike zone and
command the breaking ball,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington 
said. “He’s got a great body and a great work ethic.”  Darvish’s stature, durability and feel for the baseball
were some of the things that stood out about him, said Ryan, who
pitched a major-league record seven no-hitters.  ‘Very Special Talents’  “He’s as comfortable throwing his breaking ball as his
fastball,” Ryan said. “He has several really quality pitches.
When I think you look at him, you realize that he’s pretty
special. He does possess very special talents.”  Darvish, whose father is Iranian, visited the Dallas-Fort
Worth area for the first time this month. He toured Rangers
Ballpark while meeting with Ryan and players including  Josh Hamilton  and  Ian Kinsler .  “He comes from an international background, which gives
him an advantage to probably blend in faster than other Japanese
players,” Daniels said. “And he’s been here a couple of times,
so I think it’s natural that he’ll blend in.”  Darvish didn’t play enough seasons in  Japan  to become a
free agent and sign with the U.S. team of his choice. Instead,
he went through a blind-bidding process that has yielded mixed
results for pitchers.  Mixed Records  The Red Sox and  New York Yankees  both signed Japanese
pitchers through the posting system in 2007. After paying a
record amount for the rights to Matsuzaka, Boston gave him a $52
million contract over six years. The Yankees spent $26 million
to be able to negotiate with Kei Igawa, signing him to a $20
million, five-year deal.  Matsuzaka went 15-12 with a 4.40 ERA in his first season in
Boston as the Red Sox won a World Series title. He followed that
with an 18-3 campaign and a 2.90 ERA. He’s struggled since and
is recovering from June elbow surgery.  Igawa lasted two seasons with the Yankees, going 5-9 with a
6.66 ERA.  Daniels watched Darvish pitch while making a trip to Japan
last season, and the Rangers had scouted him for several years.
That interest, plus failed attempts to win the World Series in
2010 and 2011, persuaded Darvish that  Texas  was the right club
for him, his agent,  Arn Tellem , said at the news conference.  “It’s a great team that’s been on the doorstep and
hopefully with Yu coming here they’ll finally reach the goal of
winning a World Series,” Tellem said. “Yu is excited about
helping a team that has not won achieve that goal. That’s a
great challenge to him.”  Texas won the American League championship the past two
seasons before losing in the World Series to the  San Francisco
Giants  in 2010 and the  St. Louis Cardinals  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  