-- MF Global Commodity Customers Must Be Paid First, CFTC Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-18T23:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/mf-global-commodity-customers-must-be-paid-first-cftc-says-1-.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  commodity customers
must be paid before all other claimants, including the bankrupt
parent company, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Court papers by the trustee for MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
 Louis Freeh , contain “errors and misstatements of law” in
arguing that commodity laws, which require that customers be
“made whole” first, don’t apply to brokerage liquidations, the
regulator said in a court filing today. Freeh, representing the
parent company creditors, has said money due to them shouldn’t
be “diverted” to customers.  If Freeh was right, “the senseless result would be to
render inapplicable the key regulations of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission in the largest commodity broker bankruptcy in
U.S. history,” the CFTC said. The result would “strip”
customers of a remedy, after they entrusted their assets to the
brokerage relying on rules for segregating customer money, it
said.  Judge’s Instructions  The CFTC was responding to a judge’s instructions to
regulators and the trustee to file briefs on the rules governing
the brokerage’s distribution of assets. Creditors of the parent
company also have been clashing with brokerage customers as each
side seeks more money for itself.  The quest for more assets intensified after brokerage
trustee James Giddens said customers may be missing $1.2 billion
or more from their accounts. Giddens, who is liquidating the
brokerage, has returned about 72 percent of customers’ assets,
or around $3.8 billion.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 