-- Failure to Verify Job Goals for Handouts Common in U.S. States, Study Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-18T21:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/failure-to-verify-job-goals-for-handouts-common-in-u-s-states-study-says.html
More than a quarter of subsidy
programs by U.S. states targeting job creation don’t require
verification that recipients meet their goals, according to a
group that is critical of the development incentives.  While 90 percent of the initiatives examined get reports on
outcomes from recipients, almost a third of those don’t check
the results independently,  Good Jobs First , a nonprofit
organization in  Washington , said in a report released today.  States and cities commit about $47 billion annually to
attract employers with offers that often pit communities against
each other, according to Kenneth Thomas, a University of
Missouri at St. Louis professor who has written three books on
such incentives. Republican governors, including Rick Perry of
Texas and Nikki Haley of  South Carolina , have cited the programs
as essential to stay competitive with other states.  “If states are giving money based on promised performance
and then companies don’t perform, that’s a big deal,” Thomas
said by telephone. “This is an area where breaching a contract
has less consequences than in normal, everyday business.”  Alaska  had the worst rating, followed by the Dakotas,
 Wyoming , New York and New Mexico, in terms of enforcing the
requirements of subsidies, according to the report. Good Jobs
First promotes “corporate and government accountability in
economic development and smart growth for working families,”
according to its website.  Top Scorers  Vermont, North Carolina, Nevada and  Maryland  scored best,
followed by Iowa and Virginia in fifth place. Texas was 16th,
just above  New Jersey , while South Carolina tied with  Idaho  for
38th place.  Good Jobs First measured the incentive programs by how they
enforced requirements for creating jobs and investment, and
studied provisions for recovering subsidies when pledges fall
through. States that impose penalties on companies that didn’t
produce promised results and that make public enforcement data
scored higher, the organization said.  Out of 238 programs examined, 215 require reports on  job
creation  or other outcomes, according to the report. Governments
don’t independently verify the results in 67 of the latter
group, according to the study.  South Carolina doesn’t require job-creation reports from
any recipients helped under five major subsidies, according to
the report. South Carolina Commerce Department spokeswoman Amy
Love disputed the assertion, saying the agency requires approved
companies in its Job Development Credits program to submit
payroll records to help verify commitments.  Corporate ‘Handouts’  “We’re convinced that a lot that goes under the rubric of
economic development is just handouts to companies,” said
Philip Mattera, research director of the group and the report’s
main author. “The states might say that the reporting part is a
burden or they might say we have to trust the companies.”  A  New York  initiative criticized in the report, the Empire
Zone program, is being phased out. It “was not creating a
sufficient amount of new economic activity in the form of new
jobs to justify its costs,”  Austin Shafran , vice president of
public affairs for Empire State Development, the agency that
oversees the initiative, said by e-mail.  New York’s newer Excelsior Jobs program requires businesses
to submit performance reports showing how well they have met
their goals, Shafran said.  Like South Carolina, the  District of Columbia  doesn’t
verify performance of aid recipients, according to the report,
which scored the district lower than Alaska. The district’s
Employment Services Department uses an electronic database to
check companies’ compliance with programs that encourage hiring
of city residents, said Doxie McCoy, a spokeswoman for
Washington Mayor Vincent Gray.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas , at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  