-- Fed Officials Open to Additional Easing as They Monitor Risks to Economy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-18T17:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/fed-officials-open-to-additional-easing-as-they-monitor-risks-to-economy.html
Federal Reserve officials are
staying open to further monetary easing this year as they
monitor risks that threaten to move the economy further away
from their mandate for stable prices and full employment.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters Jan. 9
that he hadn’t closed out “the option” for more stimulus,
while New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in a Jan. 6
speech that it’s “appropriate” to evaluate whether the Fed
could do more to boost growth. Both are voting members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee .  Among the possible triggers for action, according to  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economic research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York: a slump in U.S. gross domestic
product caused by a European recession, a more rapid slide in
U.S. inflation than anticipated, and deteriorating U.S. payroll
growth.  “The labor market has a special role,” said Harris, who
doesn’t expect the Fed to move at next week’s meeting. “They
are looking for a real healing process there” because job
growth “helps drive the housing market, it helps drive the
banking system with its bad debt issues, and, obviously, it
helps the consumer.”  Latest Forecasts  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers
will publish their latest economic forecasts after their meeting
on Jan. 24-25. For the first time, they will reveal their own
predictions for the benchmark federal funds rate, as well as
“qualitative information” regarding their expectations for the
$2.9 trillion Fed balance sheet that could provide hints on
further easing.  Wholesale prices in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in
December, the Labor Department reported today. The  producer
price index  fell 0.1 percent. The core measure, excluding food
and energy, rose 0.3 percent as the cost of light trucks
climbed. Manufacturing rose 0.9 percent last month, the biggest
gain since December 2010, according to the Fed’s report on
industrial production.  Bernanke will hold a press conference after the meeting and
may indicate that a third round of large-scale asset purchases,
also known as quantitative easing, is still on the table even as
recent reports point to an acceleration of the two-year
expansion.  ‘Deflationary Fears’  “It doesn’t require a whole lot of disappointment on
either the growth or inflation side to get quantitative easing
going again,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “If you get enough deflationary fears, and
inflation expectations move down, I don’t think they would see a
lot of costs” to purchasing more bonds.  Minutes of the December FOMC meeting said “a number” of
members indicated economic conditions “could well warrant
additional policy accommodation.” Feroli said JPMorgan isn’t
expecting more bond purchases this year, though “it’s a close
call.”  “Under their baseline outlook, unemployment is still too
high, inflation is moderating and housing still needs special
attention,” said Michael Gapen, a senior economist at  Barclays
Capital  in New York and former staff member of the Fed Board’s
Division of Monetary Affairs. “After they roll out their
communications strategy this month, you could have a vocal
component of the FOMC making the case for more bond-buying to
support the housing market.”  Won’t Ease Further  Barclays forecasts that the Fed won’t ease further if U.S.
economic growth stays at a 2 percent annual rate or more because
inflation will probably remain firm.  A government report this month showed improvement in the
job market. Payrolls rose by 200,000 in December, double the
previous month’s gain, while hours worked and earnings climbed.
The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 8.5 percent from 8.7
percent.  Still, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News in January say
unemployment won’t fall below 8.4 percent this year, while
inflation could stay at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, according to their median forecasts. The personal
consumption expenditures price index, minus food and energy, has
slowed to a 1 percent three-month annualized rate from 2.1
percent in September.  Support Housing  Harris and Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics
at IHS Global in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said the Fed in any
asset purchases will probably focus on mortgage-backed
securities to support housing markets.  “Our baseline case is that the recovery endures, but it is
going to be a weak one,” said Edelstein, a former  New York  Fed
staff economist. “We think the Fed will most likely pull the
trigger on quantitative easing three.”  Harris said that  additional easing  will probably come after
June, when the Fed is scheduled to complete “Operation Twist,”
a program announced last September that involves shifting its
portfolio into longer-dated assets.  “The next quantitative easing is going to have to involve
significant mortgage buying,” said Harris, who estimates that
the U.S. central bank could purchase $800 billion in bonds later
this year, including about $500 billion in housing-related debt.
“The Fed isn’t trying to change the borrowing costs of the U.S.
government. They are trying to change the borrowing costs of the
private sector.”  Policy makers dissented in half the FOMC’s meetings last
year. That’s partly a reflection of the disagreements policy
makers have about the effectiveness of unconventional policy and
how quickly they can exit a balance sheet that has swollen to
nearly $3 trillion.  ‘Compelling Case’  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
told reporters last week that he didn’t see “a compelling
case” for more stimulus.  “The fear is that because they have never done this, it
increases the risk of a policy mistake,” said Antulio Bomfim,
senior managing director at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in
 Washington . For that reason, Bomfim predicts the FOMC will try
to reduce longer-term rates by revealing more about policy
making rather than by purchasing more bonds.  “If there is one thing that really strikes fear in the
heart of any policy maker, it is the notion of disrupting stable
long-term inflation expectations,” Bomfim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net  and  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  