-- Fidelity’s Bolton Says China Hard Landing Unlikely as Shares Have Value
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-01-18T07:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/fidelity-s-bolton-says-china-hard-landing-unlikely-sees-value-in-stocks.html
China ’s slowing economy is unlikely
to have a hard landing and cheap stock valuations may pave the
way for “a big move” in Chinese markets, said  Anthony Bolton ,
who manages the  Fidelity China Special Situations Fund. (FCSS)   Economic growth in China may slow to between 7 percent and
8 percent this year, Bolton, president of investments at
Fidelity Worldwide Investment, which manages or administers $208
billion of assets, told reporters in Hong Kong today. Fidelity
is now favoring companies that will benefit from discretionary
 consumer spending , Raymond Ma, manager of Fidelity’s China
Consumer Fund, said at the same briefing.  Annual growth of 7 percent this year would surpass the
 World Bank ’s estimate for the global economy to expand 2.5
percent. Data yesterday showed  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent
in the fourth quarter, the slowest pace since 2009, though
faster than the 8.7 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 26 economists.  “What I see is very attractive valuations today in China
against history,” Fidelity’s Bolton said. “It will become
apparent in the next 12 months that the house of cards view of
China that some international investors have is going to be
wrong. That will lead to quite a reassessment of the
international views on China.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 22 percent last year
as China’s central bank raised  interest rates  and banks’ reserve
ratios to curb inflation. The index  trades  at 9.3 times
estimated earnings, near the record low of 8.8 times reached on
Jan. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Relatively Difficult’  Full-year economic growth slowed to 9.2 percent last year
from 10.4 percent in 2010, the statistics bureau reported
yesterday. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said earlier this month that
monetary policy will be fine-tuned to help businesses as they
face a “relatively difficult” first quarter of 2012. The
People’s Bank of China cut lenders’ reserve requirements in
December for the first time since 2008.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  jumped 4.2 percent yesterday, the
most since October 2009, as the economic data boosted
expectations for further monetary easing and speculation grew
the government will support equities. The gauge was the worst
performer among the world’s 15 biggest markets in the two years
through 2011 with a 33 percent drop.  Chinese authorities may further ease credit tightening
after inflation, particularly food price increases, slowed
recently, said Stephen Ma, manager of Fidelity’s China
Opportunities Fund and Taiwan Fund. Companies in China still
plan to raise salaries for workers amid slowing growth, which
will boost consumption, according to Raymond Ma.  Special Situations  Bolton’s Fidelity China Special Situations Plc tumbled 38
percent last year, compared with a 20 percent decline by the
MSCI China Index.  The China fund’s performance was hurt by its focus on
small- and medium-capitalization stocks that tend to experience
sharper falls in a market downturn, said Bolton. Stock swings
were more extreme and the challenges faced by some companies
more serious than he had expected, he said.  During the 28 years he managed as much as $12 billion
running the U.K.-focused Fidelity Special Situations fund,
Bolton delivered average annual returns of 19.5 percent,
transforming a 10,000 pound ($15,338) investment in 1979 into
1,494,118 pounds in 2007, according to Morningstar Inc.  The Financial Times reported in August that Bolton had
suggested he may not stay as the manager of the China special
situations fund after April 2013. Bolton said today he may make
a decision in the first half of this year about whether to stay
on beyond that date as manager of the fund.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  