-- FIFA Inspires Change in Swiss Corruption Legislation After Bribery Scandal
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-01-18T10:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/fifa-inspires-swiss-corruption-law-changes-after-bribery-scandal.html
FIFA, soccer’s governing body, is
inspiring new anti-corruption laws that its home country
 Switzerland  could implement following several bribery scandals
and graft accusations at the association.  Carlo Sommaruga, a Geneva-based lawmaker and member of the
Swiss Socialist Party, scheduled a proposal to make the bribery
of individuals a criminal offense, he said today in a telephone
interview from Geneva.  FIFA, which moved to Zurich in 1932, has appointed a
governance committee to advise the association on how to
reorganize and implement anti-corruption controls. The
organization suffered as several executives were found guilty or
were accused of wrongdoing during the selection process for the
World Cup and FIFA’s presidency.  “I took FIFA as an example for my initiative to change the
corruption laws after the corruption allegations centered around
awarding the  World Cup  to Russia and Qatar,” Sommaruga said.
Russia won the hosting rights for 2018, defeating campaigns from
England, and joint efforts from Spain and Portugal as well as
the Netherlands and Belgium. Qatar clinched the 2022 World Cup
as  Australia ,  Japan ,  South Korea  and the U.S. were disappointed.  In a Dec. 12 session 14 of 25 members of the Swiss
legislative commission that votes on law questions supported the
Sommaruga’s initiative. To move the proposal forward, the same
commission in the upper house of parliament will have to vote on
whether the action is needed.  No Provisions  Currently there are no legal provisions for public
prosecutors to investigate bribery at sports bodies like FIFA,
which in Switzerland have the status of tax-privileged
associations.  The Council of  Europe ’s Group of States Against Corruption,
called Greco, published a report on Dec. 2 advising Switzerland
to boost the effectiveness of its criminal law concerning
bribery of foreign public and private-sector officials to adopt
legislation on political funding.  “I would not only welcome this initiative, I also support
it fully,” FIFA president,  Sepp Blatter , 75, was quoted as
saying in an interview with Zurich-based newspaper Tages-
Anzeiger today. Blatter was backed on June 1 for a fourth term
by 92 percent of FIFA delegates in a vote overshadowed by the
suspension of his opponent for alleged bribery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  