-- Fitch Appoints Paul Taylor as Chief Executive to Replace Joynt in April
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-01-18T17:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/fitch-group-appoints-taylor-as-chief-executive-to-replace-joynt.html
Fitch Group Inc., the credit ratings
and financial data company majority-owned by Fimalac SA,
appointed  Paul Taylor  as chief executive officer.  Taylor, 49, the president of Fitch’s ratings unit, will
replace Stephen Joynt starting April 2, the company said today
in a statement. Joynt, 60, who has been CEO for 10 years, will
remain on Fitch’s board and become a senior adviser to the firm.  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission blamed Fitch, along
with its competitors  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service, for helping to fuel the mortgage bubble by assigning
top grades to bonds that plummeted. S&P hired Douglas Peterson
to replace Deven Sharma as president last year, while  Raymond McDaniel  has remained head of Moody’s Corp. since 2005.  The three credit-rating companies were “key enablers” of
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, the
inquiry commission said in its  report  last year. Joynt defended
Fitch before Congress in October 2008, telling a House panel
that the company “did not foresee the magnitude or the velocity
of the decline in the U.S. housing market.”  Joynt helped Fitch increase its “institutional acceptance,
market presence and global reach,” Marc Ladreit de Lacharriere,
 Fimalac (FIM) ’s chief executive officer, said in the statement. Fitch
had been developing a  succession plan  since Taylor took over as
head of the ratings business in 2010, Dan Noonan, a spokesman
for the firm in New York, said by e-mail.  Fimalac’s  revenue  from credit ratings decreased to
$408.4 million in 2010 from $639.5 million in 2007 as banks
created fewer mortgage-backed securities, cutting demand for
ratings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fimalac, based
in Paris, owns 60 percent of Fitch.  Taylor joined Fitch in 2000 after it acquired Duff & Phelps
Credit Rating, where he was executive vice president, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  