-- China’s Foreign Direct Investment Declines for Second Consecutive Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-18T02:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/foreign-direct-investment-in-china-declines-for-second-consecutive-month.html
Foreign direct investment  in  China 
fell for the second straight month in December as global
financial turmoil dimmed companies’ appetite for spending.  Investment from overseas fell 12.73 percent to $12.24
billion last month from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce
said in a statement in Beijing today. For the full year,
spending rose 9.72 percent to a record $116 billion, the data
showed. Investment fell 9.8 percent in November, the first
decline since 2009.  China announced amendments to policies to attract foreign
funds last month, changes that may weigh on spending in some
industries this year.  Europe ’s debt crisis and anticipated
weaker growth in the U.S. this year may also limit investment,
with central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan warning this month a
global downturn could lead to “large” capital withdrawals from
the country.  “Foreign investment faces challenges and won’t grow very
fast this year,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Greater China
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Some
industries are facing overcapacity” and it will “take time for
investment to pick up” in services and renewable energy
industries that the government wants to encourage, he said.  The Ministry of Commerce said on Dec. 30 that the outlook
for foreign investment this year is “not optimistic.”  Approval Difficulties  China will stop encouraging foreign investment in
industries including automobile manufacturing and polysilicon, a
material used to make solar panels, according to an updated
catalog issued last month by the  National Development and Reform
Commission , the nation’s top economic planning agency.  The change means overseas carmakers will probably have
difficulty getting state approval to build future plants in the
country, according to research firm LMC Automotive. Even so,
General Motors Co., the biggest overseas automaker in China,
said last month it expects the new guidelines will have
“minimal negative impact” on its plans.  The nation’s auto sales slowed last year, trailing growth
in the U.S. for the first time in at least 14 years, after the
government ended stimulus measures and economic expansion eased.  Gross domestic product rose 9.2 percent last year, slowing
from 10.4 percent in 2010, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  --Victoria Ruan. Editor: Nerys Avery, Cherian Thomas  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  