-- Forint Gains, Stocks Climb to Four-Month High on Bet Hungary to Get Aid
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-18T16:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/forint-advances-second-day-as-bonds-rise-on-hungary-aid-prospect-optimism.html
The forint rallied and Hungarian
stocks rose to the highest in four months on speculation the
government will accept conditions imposed by the European Union
and International Monetary Fund for a bailout.  Hungary ’s currency appreciated as much as 1.5 percent and
traded 1.1 percent higher at 305.9 per euro by 5:13 p.m. in
Budapest, the strongest on a closing basis since Dec. 21 and
compares with a record low of 324.24 reached on Jan. 5. The
benchmark BUX  index  rose 3.1 percent to the highest level since
Sep. 8. Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s largest refiner, gained 4.2 percent
and  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the biggest lender, advanced 2.5 percent.  The EU yesterday threatened a lawsuit against Hungary for
encroaching on the central bank’s independence, pressing Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  to resolve a dispute that halted talks on
international aid for the country. The disagreements can be
solved in an “easy, simple and quick” way, Orban told European
lawmakers today in Strasbourg,  France .  “The rally is because we’ve seen signs of a softening up
from Orban on the central bank issue,”  John Hardy , London-based
head of foreign-exchange strategy at Saxo Bank A/S, said in an
interview in Budapest today, adding that investors were looking
for “concrete” steps from Orban on the issue.  Orban is willing to cooperate to resolve the conflict over
the central-bank law, European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said today, citing a letter from Orban. Orban confirmed he sent
a letter to Barroso, adding that he expected “swift” results
from a meeting between the two next week.  ‘Bow to Power’  The cost of insuring against a default on Hungary’s bonds
with credit-default swaps fell to 670 basis points from 693
basis points yesterday. The government’s benchmark 10-year bonds
rallied for the first time in four days, sending the yield 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, lower to 9.582 percent.  Most European stocks rose today as the  International
Monetary Fund  said it wants to raise as much as $500 billion to
expand its lending resources.  Hungary is ready to comply with EU demands over the central
bank, Bild reported earlier, citing an interview with Orban.  “We will bow to power, not to the arguments,” Orban told
Bild in the interview.  The EU commission’s concerns about Hungary’s central-bank
independence stem partly from the country’s Magyar Nemzeti Bank
law, which includes provisions that allow ministerial
participation in meetings of the monetary council, requires
agendas to be sent to the government in advance and obliges
council members to take an oath of fidelity to the nation. The
commission also expressed doubts about Hungary’s rules for
dismissing the president of the central bank and monetary
council members.  Forint Run  Hungary risks a “run” on the forint unless the government
obtains an international bailout, said Bernd Berg, a currency
strategist at Credit Suisse in Zurich.  “Based on the weak fundamentals and unpredictable
policies, our base case is that the forint will fall further,”
Berg said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg.
“We would not rule out a run on the currency with very negative
implications on households and corporations. Only a deal with
the IMF/EU will avoid a run, further devaluation of the currency
in our view.”  Orban had shunned the IMF since taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures. They included the effective nationalization of $13
billion of private pension-fund assets, extraordinary industry
taxes to raise revenue for the budget,  Europe ’s highest bank
levy and forcing lenders to accept exchange-rate losses on
foreign-currency mortgages.  ‘Simple’  “There is pressure on all fronts on this government not to
persist with these reforms,” Saxo Bank’s Hardy said.  The EU also threatened legal action yesterday against
measures that may curb the independence of Hungary’s judiciary
and data-protection authority.  The forint may weaken to a record low against the euro,
Societe Generale SA said this week, citing the risk that Hungary
will drop its pursuit of the aid deal.  “The process is simple: either the prime minister accepts
that changes are required and the market can breathe a sigh of
relief, or the premier tries to negotiate,”  Benoit Anne  and
Guillaume Salomon, London-based emerging-market strategists at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in a research report today. “The
latter would be very bad news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  