-- French Borrowing Costs Decline at First Debt Sale Since Losing AAA Rating
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-19T10:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/france-to-sell-up-to-eu9-5-billion-in-debt.html
France  sold 7.97 billion euros
($10.3 billion) of debt today with borrowing costs falling 
in its  first sale of medium and long-term securities after 
it lost the top  credit rating  at  Standard & Poor’s .  The sale included 2.961 billion euros of benchmark two-year
notes, 1.575 billion euros of three-year securities and 3.43
billion euros of four-year debt. It had targeted a maximum of 8
billion euros in notes. The country later today will sell
between 1 billion euros and 1.5 billion euros of inflation-
linked bonds maturing between 2016 and 2040.  “The result is perfectly in line with the sentiment we’ve
see over the past couple of weeks which has been relative
constructive,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed markets
debt at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam.  The Jan. 13 S&P downgrade to AA+ from AAA, which was
flagged as a possibility by the New York-based rating company
more than a month ago, didn’t affect a French bill sale this
week or trigger a sell-off of existing bonds. The sale today
represents a tougher test of investor appetite for French debt
at a time when  Europe ’s second-largest economy may have entered
a recession and the region’s debt crisis is far from over.  France’s benchmark 10-year bonds yielded 3.09 percent, down
from 3.13 percent on Dec. 5, when S&P warned of a rating cut.
Borrowing costs fell on Jan. 16 at the sale of 8.59 billion
euros in bills, the first after the downgrade.  Spain  today sold 6.61 billion euros of bonds maturing in
2016, 2019 and 2022, compared with a maximum target for the sale
of 4.5 billion euros. The yield on the 2022 debt fell to 5.403
percent from 6.975 percent when the securities were auctioned in
November and the 2019 yields also declined.  ECB Funding  The European Financial Stability Facility, the euro area
bailout fund which also lost its AAA rating, sold 1.5 billion
euros of six-month debt two days ago at its first sale at that
maturity. Investors bid for 3.1 times the amount of bills sold.  Demand is being stoked in part by the  European Central
Bank , which has injected euros into the market by offering loans
in so-called long-term refinancing operations, or LTROs. The ECB
awarded 489 billion euros of three-year loans to 523 banks on
Dec. 20, and banks in the region can use that cash to snap up
government debt, investors said.  “The LTRO, as part of the ECB’s effort to provide
liquidity to the market, continues to support short-dated
paper,”  Richard McGuire , senior fixed income strategist at
Rabobank International in London, said before the auction
results were released. “One might argue that the yields are too
low compared with France’s fundamentals, but at the moment the
liquidity seems to be the main driver of demand.”  High Quality  French national statistics office Insee judges that the
French economy shrank last quarter and will do so again in the
first three months of 2012, suggesting the nation is mired in
recession for the second time in less than three years.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday that France has
experienced a “major” drop in growth since the fourth quarter
as the European sovereign debt crisis shook confidence.  Still, Sarkozy, who may be hit politically by the downgrade
that came 100 days before French presidential elections as
opponents challenge his crisis-management credentials, said
again he’ll stay the course on cutting deficits and boosting
French competitiveness.  France may also be benefiting from its status as the euro-
area’s  third-largest debt market  at 1.3 trillion euros, and
Sarkozy’s deficit-cutting measures.  “At the end of the day, French bonds are still regarded as
high quality, and its market is liquid compared with smaller
AAAs such as  Finland  or the Netherlands,” said Mohit Kumar, the
London-based head of European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London . “Is there an incentive to sell French bonds
because of the downgrade? I would think not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  