-- FTC Commissioner Rosch Says He Will Not Seek Another Term
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-01-19T00:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ftc-commissioner-thomas-rosch-says-he-won-t-seek-another-term.html
Thomas Rosch, a Republican member of
the Federal Trade Commission who has pressed to strengthen U.S.
antitrust and consumer-protection enforcement, said he won’t
seek to be reappointed when his term expires in September.  Rosch, 72, one of four FTC commissioners, disclosed his
plans in an interview today in  Washington . He was nominated to
the commission by former Republican President George W. Bush,
confirmed by the Senate and took office in 2006. A slot for a
fifth commissioner is open.  Before serving at the FTC, Rosch distinguished himself as a
litigator for corporate clients. He said he wants to return to
 California , where he practiced law in  San Francisco .  “I have no intention at all of litigating again,” he
said. “Whether I fully retire is another matter.”  Rosch has supported the efforts of commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz, a Democrat, to use the law that established the
agency to broaden its antitrust enforcement powers. The FTC
shares responsibility for enforcing antitrust law with the
 Justice Department .  Rosch was one of four commissioners in 2010 to agree to an
FTC settlement with Intel Corp. that banned the world’s largest
computer chipmaker from using threats, retaliation or exclusive
deals to block customers from buying competitors’ products.  Rosch is known for sometimes being a maverick on the
commission. In 2010 he dissented with the agency’s decision to
challenge Laboratory Corp. of America’s acquisition of Westcliff
Medical Laboratories Inc.  After a U.S. judge denied the FTC’s request for a
preliminary injunction, the agency dropped the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 