-- U.K. Stocks Climb After IMF Plan; Man Group, Essar Energy Rally
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-18T17:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ftse-100-stocks-fall-snapping-two-day-rally-as-rio-tinto-tullow-oil-drop.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, sending the
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  to its highest in more than 10 weeks, after the
 International Monetary Fund  announced a plan to expand its
lending resources.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  gained 6.8 percent as the hedge-fund manager
announced cost cuts.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  rebounded from yesterday’s
selloff.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  paced declining
shares, tumbling more than 3 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100  rose 0.2 percent to 5,702.37 at the
close in London, after swinging between gains and losses at more
than 20 times today The FTSE All-Share Index also added 0.2
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.3 percent.  The market “couldn’t make its mind up as to whether it
should test the year’s highs or head lower,” said  Angus Campbell , head of sales at Capital Spreads. “The only news flow
that caused a bit of excitement earlier was when IMF announced
it wanted to boost its coffers. Unfortunately for the bulls, the
resultant rally was very short lived.”  The IMF proposed to increase its lending capacity by as
much as $500 billion to insulate the global economy against any
worsening of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The Washington-based lender aims to expand its resources
after identifying a potential need for $1 trillion in financing
in coming years, an IMF spokesman said in a statement. The IMF
will not comment further until it has consulted its members, the
fund said. To incorporate a cash buffer, the lender is seeking a
total $600 billion.  World Bank  Forecast  Gains were limited after the World Bank cut its global
growth forecast by the most in three years today to 2.5 percent,
saying that a recession in the euro area threatened to
exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets . That’s down from a
June estimate of 3.6 percent.  Elsewhere, Greece is close to a deal with private creditors
that would give them cash and securities with a market value of
about 32 cents per euro of government debt, according to Bruce Richards, who is on the creditors’ committee and chief executive
officer for Marathon Asset Management LP.  Man Group jumped 6.8 percent to 114.4 pence, rebounding
from yesterday’s 2.9 percent retreat. The world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund announced plans to reduce costs by
$75 million after assets under management fell 9.5 percent in
the fourth quarter.  Funds declined to $58.4 billion at the end of December from
$64.5 billion three months earlier. That met the estimate of
some analysts including Barclays Plc’s Daniel Garrod.  “Today’s leaderboard is filled with rebound stocks,” said
Will Hedden, a sales trader at IG Index in  London . “Hedge fund
Man Group, who had a torrid autumn, have rallied. Essar Energy
have regained 8 percent after being obliterated yesterday by the
sales-tax decision in  India .”  Essar Climbs  Essar rallied 7.2 percent to 136.2 pence. The shares
plunged 26 percent yesterday after India’s Supreme Court
overturned a ruling that allowed the company to defer payment of
sales tax.  Tullow Oil fell 4.2 percent to 1,394 pence after the
London-based company delayed full production at its Jubilee oil
field in Ghana by at least a year. Along with its partners
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Kosmos Energy Ltd., the company
will invest about $400 million to fix mechanical problems.  Jubilee will reach output of 120,000 barrels of oil a day
in 2013, according to Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade.  Weir, Intermediate Capital  Weir Group, a Scottish maker of pumps and equipment for
mining companies, dropped 3.6 percent to 2,025 pence. The shares
fell as U.S.-based SPX Corp., which also makes pumps, valves and
heat exchanges, forecast 2012 profit that trailed analysts’
estimates.  Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP)  jumped 6.1 percent to 266
pence after Cinven Ltd. agreed to buy ICG’s patent business CPA
Global Ltd. The transaction values CPA at about 950 million
pounds ($1.5 billion), according to a person with direct
knowledge of the purchase.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  rose 1.4 percent to 184.1 pence after UBS AG
raised its recommendation for the maker of washing-machine
controls and factory gear to “buy” from “neutral,” saying
the “market may have over over-reacted” to the company’s
announcement on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  