-- Gamesa Builds Electric-Car Unit to Wring Profit From Wind Plants
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-01-18T10:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/gamesa-builds-electric-car-unit-to-wring-profit-from-wind-plants.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , the
Spanish wind-turbine maker with factories from  China  to  Brazil ,
plans to grab a share of the market for electric-car charging as
use of the low-emission vehicles expands.  The company is using spare capacity at a turbine converter
plant in Valencia to produce car-charging stations, Business
Development Director David Mesonero said yesterday. Last month,
it bought 20 percent of Madrid-based technology company  N2S  to
gain software that monitors power use by electric vehicles.  Chief Executive Officer Jorge Calvet gave up market share
in turbine production to preserve profitability since he took
charge in 2009, eschewing the price cuts that forced larger
rival  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  to slash jobs. Spanish electric-
car sales may reach 5,000 in 2012 from less than 200 in 2011 as
rental companies and fleet managers add models, Mesonero said.  The N2S deal is part of a plan to broaden the product range
in areas where Gamesa’s technology allows it to compete, he said
in an interview in  Madrid . “Gamesa has industrial capacity we
can’t ignore. The idea is to have synergies from the first
minute.”  Profit at the manufacturer, based in Zamudio near Bilbao,
probably rose about 27 percent to 63.5 million euros ($81.2
million) last year, according to the median  estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The  stock  fell 44 percent as
Chinese competitors Sinovel Wind Group Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. expanded globally.  Vestas probably lost about 41 million euros last year,
analyst estimates show.  Churn Out Chargers  While Gamesa expects a new range of offshore turbines to
drive its growth for the next five years, it’s looking to wring
more productivity from  manufacturing lines , supply chains and
sales networks. The Valencia unit employed to make charging
stations was built to make converters for  wind turbines  that
generate as much as 4.5 megawatts of electricity.  “The high-speed charger is still 1,000 times less powerful
than the converter for our biggest turbine,” Mesonero said.
“We can churn them out like donuts.”  Mesonero heads a venture-capital fund at Gamesa that plans
to invest 50 million euros of the company’s money over five
years. The fund paid 7 million euros for minority stakes in two
U.S. companies that make mobile solar generators for use in
remote areas beyond the  power grid .  Mesonero is also looking for investments in small-scale
wind turbines and off-grid renewable power. After studying about
1,000 companies last year, he’s already negotiating with six and
expects to agree on three to five deals this year, he said.  Target Valuation  Gamesa bought the N2S stake for as much as 5 million euros,
Mesonero said. The software company, valued at about 15 million
euros in the acquisition, is targeting a valuation of 100
million euros within five years and is studying an initial
public offering, he said.  As well as monitoring vehicle power use, N2S’s software can
analyze consumption at factories and office buildings and
recommend ways to help clients cut their power bills. Gamesa is
offering the software to clients bundled with its charging-
station product.  Gamesa can afford to wait for the electric-vehicle market
to develop because it produces the charging stations using spare
capacity that’s already been amortized, Mesonero said.  “There’s going to be a very fast take-off for electric
vehicles,” he said. “The question is, when? We can afford to
wait.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 