-- Gasoline Surges to Three-Month High
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-01-18T20:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/gasoline-surges-to-three-month-high.html
Gasoline futures advanced to a four-
month high after Hovensa LLC said it will shut its St. Croix
refinery in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  because of mounting losses
and low demand.  Futures gained 2 percent. The closing of the 350,000-
barrel-a-day Hovensa  plant , which supplied 2.7 percent of U.S.
East Coast gasoline demand in October, follows the shutdown of
two  Pennsylvania  refineries by  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and ConocoPhillips.
New York Harbor is the delivery point for reformulated gasoline
blendstock, or RBOB, and heating oil futures on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  “In conjunction with the recent Sunoco and Conoco
shutdowns, RBOB supplies during the upcoming driving season
could become quite tight resulting in significant price
volatility, especially if one of the remaining Northeast
refineries should have an outage,” said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for February delivery rose 5.41 cents to $2.8254 a
gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Sept. 8.  Preliminary volume in electronic trading for gasoline was
185,607 contracts as of 2:37 p.m. in New York, 51 percent above
the three-month average. Heating oil volume was 194,200
contracts, 39 percent higher than the average.  Hovensa, a partnership of  Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , said it will shut the St. Croix plant by mid-
February and convert it into an oil storage terminal.  East Coast  The refinery supplied East Coast states with 83,000 barrels
a day of gasoline and 47,000 barrels a day of heavier fuels such
as diesel and heating oil, according to the Energy Department.  “If refineries are really unable to make any money pushing
oil into products, you will either see rising fuel prices or the
underlying crude price come down,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  U.S. gasoline  stockpiles  increased 3.6 million barrels to
223.8 million in the week ended Jan. 6, the highest level in 10
months, according to Energy Department data. Gasoline  demand 
plunged to a nine-year low, sinking 4.4 percent to 8.18 million
barrels a day.  The Energy Department will probably report tomorrow that
inventories rose 2.35 million barrels last week, the median
estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Sunoco, Conoco  Sunoco announced Dec. 1 the immediate idling of its
194,000-barrel-a-day Marcus Hook refinery in Pennsylvania.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  stopped processing  crude oil  at the 190,000-
barrel-a-day Trainer, Pennsylvania, plant on Sept. 30.  Sunoco said it plans to shut its 355,000-barrel-a-day
Philadelphia refinery by July if it can’t find a buyer.  “Futures are the first reaction, but I still think the
impact is going to be somewhat minimal,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management Institute
in New York. “We’ve been exporting a lot of gasoline and that
will stop, we’ve been running Gulf Coast refineries at lower
capacity and that will stop. We still see imports coming from
 Europe .”  East Coast refineries, in the Energy Department’s Padd 1
district,  operated  at 53.1 percent of capacity in the week ended
Jan. 6. The U.S. refinery rate was 85.6 percent.  February-delivery heating oil slipped 2.38 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $3.0134 a gallon on the exchange, the lowest
settlement since Dec. 30.  Keystone, Weather  Heating oil fell as crude weakened after a report that the
Obama administration planned to reject an application to build
the Keystone XL pipeline. TransCanada Corp.’s proposed Keystone
XL pipeline would carry crude from  Canada ’s oil sands to U.S.
Gulf Coast refineries.  “Everything is down except gasoline,” Chirichella said.
“The euro is fading a little, crude is down, one of the
secondary  ratings agencies  downgraded  Germany , we’re running out
of buyers at this level and it’s a little bit about Keystone.”  Distillate stockpiles rose 1.38 million barrels, according
to the survey.  The  National Weather Service  predicted above-normal
temperatures for much of the continental U.S. from Jan. 23 to
Jan. 31, indicating less demand for heating fuel.  “The Northeast is going to be warm up here for a couple of
days and then what do we have left of winter?” said Fred
Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New York .
“Heating oil has been the laggard because of that.”  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.3
cent to $3.378 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  