-- Gen Y Consumers Favor Hybrids, Connected Vehicles, Survey Shows
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-01-19T03:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/gen-y-consumers-favor-hybrids-connected-vehicles-survey-shows.html
Consumers born from 1980 to the
early 1990s, known as Generation Y, prefer hybrids and connected
cars, which may define the automobiles of the future, according
to a new study.  In a global survey of consumers, 57 percent of this young
cohort preferred an “electrified vehicle,” Deloitte LLP, which
conducted the study, said yesterday in a statement. Dashboard
technology was the most important part of an automobile’s
interior to 59 percent of Gen Y respondents, with 73 percent
preferring touch-screen controls, Deloitte said.  “This could be a tipping point for moving electrified
vehicles mainstream in the U.S.,” said Craig Giffi, Deloitte
vice chairman and automotive practice leader. “The motivation
is heavily based on economics, lowering their fuel costs. What’s
driving them to hybrids and electrified vehicles is not so much
saving the planet as they want to save their pocketbook.”  Automakers and other marketers are keen to crack the code
on selling to Gen Y, a group of about 80 million consumers in
the U.S. that is almost as large as the Baby Boomer generation
born after World War II. Gen Y consumers will purchase one in
four new automobiles sold in the U.S. this year and 40 percent
of the vehicles sold in the next 10 years, Deloitte said.  Winning over Gen Y consumers is challenging because they
are not as enamored with cars as their parents, said  Mark Fields ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s president of the Americas. The number
of 16 year-olds getting a driver’s license declined 16 percent
from 1978 to 2008 and young people are driving less, Fields
said.  “It’s no longer a foregone conclusion that we will be able
to sell cars to a large and emerging demographic,” Fields said
in a speech at Deloitte’s Gen Y conference in  Detroit . “If
we’re going to continue to grow as an industry and as a company,
it’s really important we reach this consumer.”  Smartphone Challenge  The smartphone has replaced the car as “the ultimate
mobile device,” Fields said. So Ford is engineering cars that
connect seamlessly to smartphones and that have dashboard
controls that function like cellphones, he said.  “This is a generation that has to be reckoned with,”
Fields said. “They’re more tech-savvy and relatively affluent
than any generation we’ve ever seen. You ignore them at your own
peril.”  For its annual Gen Y survey, Deloitte polled 1,500 Gen Y,
Gen X and Baby Boomer consumers in the U.S., 250 Gen Y consumers
in  China  and 300 Gen Y consumers in Western Europe. The study
was conducted in September and October 2011, the researcher
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  