-- Genting Almost Doubled New York Lobbying Spending Before Cuomo Queens Plan
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-01-18T22:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/genting-almost-doubled-new-york-lobbying-spending-before-cuomo-queens-plan.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , which controls  Asia ’s
second-biggest casino operator by market value, almost doubled
its spending on  New York  lobbying in the six months before
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  proposed that the company build the
largest U.S. convention center in New York City.  In the last half of 2011, Genting spent $635,000 on
lobbyists in the state, compared with $340,000 in the first half
of the year, according to disclosure reports released today in
 Albany , the capital. During his Jan. 4 State of the State
address, Cuomo announced Genting’s proposal for a 3.8 million-
square-foot complex in the borough of Queens that would replace
the Jacob Javits Convention Center on  Manhattan ’s far West Side.  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) , a unit of the Kuala Lumpur-based
gaming company, opened a casino with electronic games at
Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens on Oct. 28. Cuomo, a 54-year-old
Democrat in his first term, wants to expand legalized gambling
to include Las Vegas-style casinos with dealers, which would
require an amendment to the state constitution.  “We have a proactive agenda that includes building a
$4 billion convention center -- at no cost to taxpayers -- and
legalizing table gaming in New York,” Stefan Friedman, a
Genting spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Both of these efforts
will create tens of thousands of jobs and generate billions of
dollars in economic revenue. We think those issues are
important, and we know nothing comes without a lot of hard
work.”  Genting’s spending on lobbyists in New York didn’t
influence the governor,  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, said in
an e-mail. He declined to comment further.  ‘Worth It’  Genting plans to spend $4 billion on the project, Cuomo
said. The state may provide land owned by the  Port Authority of
New York and New Jersey  and approve more gaming machines for the
site, Cuomo said.  “If the state was going to build it with public money, we
could have an argument if it’s worth it,” Cuomo said Jan. 9 on
former Governor David Paterson’s show on WOR radio in New York
City. “If a private company wants to build it, I say God
bless.”  A Florida Senate committee this month approved a proposal
that would bring as many as three Las Vegas-style casinos to the
state. Genting Malaysia has pitched lawmakers there on a $3.8
billion casino-and-hotel complex on Miami’s Biscayne Bay.  In New York, Genting retained five lobbyists from July
through December, paying $180,000, the most, to Cordo & Co. LLC,
an Albany firm led by John Cordo, the former special counsel to
the New York Senate Majority. The firm was also hired to help
Genting win its bid to build  New York City ’s first casino at
Aqueduct, according to the firm’s  website . The gambling company
paid Cordo & Co. $375,000 last year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  