-- Germany Cuts 2012 Economic Growth Forecast as Crisis Dims Export Outlook
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-18T10:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/germany-cuts-2012-economic-growth-forecast-as-crisis-dims-export-outlook.html
The German government cut its
forecast for  economic expansion  this year as the debt crisis
dims the outlook for sustaining record exports, leaving domestic
demand as the main motor for growth.  Europe ’s biggest economy will grow 0.7 percent in 2012,
less than the 1 percent estimated in October and just above the
projected average for the euro-area, the Berlin-based Economy
Ministry said today in its annual report. Economic growth, which
reached 3 percent last year, will be weak in the first half
before growing faster later in the year, it said.  Demand from  China  and other Asian countries fueled an
export boom in  Germany  as weaker growth or economic contraction
dogged its euro-area allies. Slowing demand in Europe and other
countries buffeted by the debt crisis will cut German export
growth to 2 percent this year, a quarter of 2011’s expansion of
8.2 percent, the report said.  “Economic growth in Germany is only possible with
sustained growth in Europe,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
said in a prepared speech text. “That’s why we must make
decisive and credible steps to overcome the euro crisis.”
Expectations that Germany’s economy will grow faster from the
third quarter depends on taming the crisis, Roesler said.  Germany’s economy unexpectedly contracted by 0.25 percent
in the fourth quarter of last year, raising the specter of a
recession in 2012. While the government said it does not see
that happening, economic growth will be sustained mainly by
domestic demand in the first half, according to the report.  The  unemployment rate  will fall this year to 6.8 percent
from 7.1 percent last year, the report said. Private consumption
will grow by 1.2 percent, it said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  