-- German Stocks Rise to Five-Month High; Henkel, Infineon Technologies Gain
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-18T17:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/german-stocks-fall-from-a-two-month-high-as-commerzbank-aixtron-retreat.html
German stocks  advanced to a five-
month high as the  International Monetary Fund  proposed to extend
its lending resources to safeguard the global economy from any
worsening of the euro area’s debt crisis.  Henkel AG (HEN3) , the maker of industrial adhesives and Soft Scrub
cleaners, and  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-biggest
chipmaker, led rising shares.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest lender, retreated 1.7 percent after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its financial strength rating.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 21.64, or 0.3 percent, to 6,354.57 at
the close in Frankfurt, its highest since Aug. 4. The gauge
 tumbled 15 percent  last year as euro-area leaders struggled to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The broader HDAX
Index added 0.4 percent today.  “It’s difficult these days to forecast economic
developments in Europe,” said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader
at MWB Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Investors are focused on economic data in the U.S.”  The IMF will push  China ,  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  Japan  and
oil-exporting nations to contribute the most, according to an
official from a Group of 20 nation, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. The fund wants to
strike the agreement at the Feb. 25-26 meeting of G-20 finance
ministers and central bankers in Mexico City, the official said.  A gauge of confidence among  U.S. homebuilders  rose in
January to the highest level in more than four years as sales
and buyer traffic improved. U.S. industrial production rebounded
in December, reflecting gains in demand for business equipment,
automobiles and construction materials.  World Bank  Forecast  The World Bank cut its  global growth forecast . The world
economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2012, down from a June estimate
of 3.6 percent, as a recession in the euro area threatens to
exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets , the Washington-based
institution said.  The German government also cut its  forecast  for economic
expansion this year, saying  Europe ’s biggest economy will grow
0.7 percent in 2012. That’s less than the 1 percent that it
estimated in October.  Greece will agree a deal with private creditors that would
give them cash and securities with a market value of about 32
cents per euro of government debt, according to Bruce Richards,
the chief executive officer for Marathon Asset Management LP.
Richards sits on the committee of 32 private creditors that
formed in November to negotiate with Greece, the International
Monetary Fund and the European Union.  Germany got bids for 7.6 billion euros ($9.8 billion) of
two-year notes at an auction today, compared with a sales target
of 4 billion euros, the Bundesbank said.  Henkel, Commerzbank  Henkel (HEN3)  rose 2.4 percent to 46.31 euros as Chief Executive
Officer Kasper Rorsted said in an interview with DAF TV that the
company’s 2012 targets remain valid, adding that he doesn’t
expect a big recession.  Infineon (IFX)  gained 2.9 percent to 6.97 euros as ASML Holding
NV, Europe’s biggest semiconductor-equipment maker, said orders
from abroad will sustain growth and make up for any slowdown in
its home region amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  Commerzbank slid 1.7 percent to 1.41 euros, snapping six
days of gains. Moody’s cut Commerzbank’s financial-strength
rating to D+ from C-. The rating represents Moody’s opinion of a
lender’s intrinsic safety and soundness and doesn’t address the
probability of timely repayment of debt, according to the
company’s definitions.  Kloeckner & Co SE  slid 1.2 percent to 11.76 euros, ending
the stock’s longest winning streak in more than six months, as
the German steel trader was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at
Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  