-- Giants’ Fight to Avoid Property Tax Spurs New Jersey Town Rating Downgrade
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-01-18T20:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/giants-fight-to-avoid-property-tax-spurs-new-jersey-town-rating-downgrade.html
The  New York  Giants’ dispute with
hometown  East Rutherford , New Jersey, over whether the National
Football League team should pay property taxes on its training
center led Moody’s Investors Service to downgrade the credit
rating of the borough of about 8,900.  The ratings firm downgraded $16 million in general
obligation debt from the borough one level to A2 from A1, saying
the lawsuit between the town, the team and the state entity that
owns the land beneath the stadium has worsened financial
operations.  A2 is Moody’s sixth-highest investment grade, and the shift
may result in increased borrowing costs for the town because
investors may see it as less able to repay debts.  “The negative outlook reflects ongoing litigation related
to the Timex Performance Center’s tax status and the impact on
the budget of non-payment of a material amount of property taxes
for two years,” Moody’s said in a Jan. 13 ratings report,
noting that the facility is the borough’s second-largest
taxpayer by assessed value.  Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon declined to comment in an e-
mail, citing the lawsuit. Mayor James Cassella said the training
center constitutes private development that should be taxed.  “It’s an office building,” he said in a telephone
interview. “Why should someone who owns an office building,
built by a private company, not pay taxes?”  Old Stadium Payments  Tax payments on the training center are covered by an
arrangement that dates back to the  New Jersey  Sports &
Exposition Authority’s construction of  Giants Stadium  in the
1970s, according to John Samerjan, a spokesman for NJSEA. The
authority, which still owns the property, pays about $6 million
annually to East Rutherford in place of property taxes for the
Meadowlands complex, which also includes a horse-racing track
and the Izod Center.  “We believe the statute is clear,” Samerjan said in a
telephone interview. “The new stadium replaced the old stadium.
The Giants had a practice facility here and offices here. Now
they have a practice facility and offices. Nothing has
changed.”  The town in September 2010 sent the Giants a $745,000 bill
for taxes on the practice complex, which is built near the new
$1.6 billion MetLife Stadium, shared by the Giants and  New York
Jets . The facility includes three grass football fields and an
artificial turf field, a field indoors, a 7,500-square-foot
weight room and a football-shaped locker room.  Borrowed for Stadium  The Giants, owned by the Mara and Tisch families, and Jets,
owned by  Woody Johnson , each borrowed $650 million to help
finance construction of the shared, 82,500-seat stadium. They
also sold personal seat-licenses, one-time fees that give fans
the right to buy season tickets.  New Jersey’s average residential property tax bill rose 4.1
percent to $7,576 in 2010 from $7,281 the previous year,
 according to  the state Department of Community Affairs.  East Rutherford, 13 miles (21 kilometers) west of
 Manhattan , had a median household income of $50,163 compared
with the U.S. median of $41,994 in 2000, according to figures
posted on the U.S. Census website.  The Giants beat the defending  Super Bowl  champion Packers
37-20 at  Green Bay  last weekend to advance to the conference
championship game. New York is scheduled to play at the  San
Francisco 49ers  on Jan 22.  The stadium is scheduled to host the NFL’s title game in
2014, the first time the Super Bowl will be held outdoors in a
cold-weather city. Cassella said he’s a Giants season-ticket
holder, who paid $10,000 for the right to buy tickets when the
stadium opened. He just wants the court to order the team to pay
its fair share.  “That’s the game that I hope they lose,” Cassella said.
“I want them to win on the field, but I’m certainly not rooting
for them to beat us in court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 