-- Gingrich Paid $60,000 for Speech Praising Private Equity
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-18T21:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/gingrich-paid-40k-in-speech-praising-pe-levy.html
Newt Gingrich , the Republican
presidential candidate who has criticized rival Mitt Romney for
his role in the buyout business, was paid more than $60,000 two
years ago to deliver a speech that extolled the private-equity
industry, according to the meeting’s organizer.  “This gentleman praised private equity more fulsomely than
I could ever do it,” Paul Levy, managing director at JLL
Partners Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” today. “He was great. He gave a great evening.
Everybody had fun. He fielded a lot of questions. He gave us a
lot of time. Nobody praised private equity, risk-taking capital
more fulsomely than Newt Gingrich.”  Gingrich received $60,750 from JLL through a contract with
the  Washington  Speakers Bureau, according to a copy of the
agreement obtained by Bloomberg News. The fee included the
“cash equivalent” of two first-class plane tickets, meals and
lodging at the Mandarin Oriental, a midtown New York hotel that
boasts of its “breathtaking Central Park views.”  The contract obligated Gingrich to deliver an hour-long
presentation with a question-and-answer period and join the firm
for dinner at an upscale steakhouse. He spoke to almost 100
people including firm executives, chief executive officers of
JLL’s portfolio companies and other investors who work with the
firm.  Roils Primary Race  Levy’s revelation set off a new wave of criticism of the
former U.S. House speaker in the primary campaign in South
Carolina, where Gingrich is raising questions about front-runner
 Mitt Romney ’s term as chief executive officer of private-equity
firm Bain Capital LLC.  The Romney campaign sent a news release highlighting the
Bloomberg TV interview with Levy. In a morning conference call
with reporters, some of Gingrich’s former House colleagues
warned against his nomination, saying he is a “negative force”
whose actions and comments would deflect attention from
President Barack Obama’s record in the general election.  “When the focus is Newt, the  Republican Party  loses,”
said Susan Molinari, a former New York representative who is
backing Romney. “He has not changed and become more
disciplined.”  Former Missouri Senator Jim Talent, another Romney
supporter who also served in the House, said Gingrich has
“attacked  Bain Capital  in a way that he’s admitted was
factually inaccurate” and is “using the language of the
left.”  ‘Wrong’ Interpretation  Gingrich said in an interview that there’s no discrepancy
between his comments during the campaign and his remarks to the
JLL annual meeting in 2009. He said private-equity investors
like Levy, who see his critique of Bain as an attack against
their industry, are “interpreting it wrong.”  His campaign spokesman, R.C. Hammond, said the former
Georgia congressman takes issue with Romney’s work at Bain, not
the entire industry.  “Newt isn’t going out and attacking capitalism,” he said.
“What we’ve pointed out is the character and leadership that
Romney made as the head of a company.”  Gingrich has cast Romney as an executive more interested in
maximizing profits than creating or retaining jobs.  “What I’ve done is raised questions about the judgment and
values of one person who’s running for president,” Gingrich
told reporters in Winnsboro,  South Carolina , today. “That
should not be confused with critiquing capitalism.”  ‘Real Capitalists’  Speaking to a gathering of business leaders yesterday in
Columbia, South Carolina, he characterized the Bain business
model as “exploitive” and “not defensible.”  “I’m proud of real capitalists,” he said. “But not
particularly proud of people who go in, leverage the game,
borrow the money, leave the debt behind and walk off with all
the profits.”  In a 28-minute online film released last week, Gingrich
supporters described Romney as a financier “more ruthless than
 Wall Street .” The film highlights stories of people who say
they lost their jobs after their companies were acquired by
Bain.  A Bloomberg News review of the advertisement, called “When
Mitt Romney Came to Town,” found that it at times stretches the
truth and takes some reports out of context or selectively edits
them. The film was funded by Winning Our Future, a pro-Gingrich
political action committee.  Compared to Obama  Romney today compared Gingrich to Obama at a rally in
Spartanburg, South Carolina, saying the former House speaker’s
attacks on Romney’s record at Bain matched Obama’s hostility
toward business.  “I was disappointed over the last couple of weeks seeing
one of my opponents attacking free enterprise just like the
president was,” Romney said at Wofford College. “That’s not the
role of the Republican Party. That makes us sad.”  Gingrich has his own private-equity experience. In 1999,
upon leaving the House, Gingrich joined the advisory board of
Forstmann, Little & Co., the New York-based buyout firm.  Levy said later in an e-mail to Bloomberg News that
Gingrich’s response to his comments have “taken hypocrisy to a
new level.”  Buyout firms are trying to avoid a political taint similar
to what the oil and gas business encountered during former
President  George W. Bush ’s election campaign in 2000, when his
Democratic opponent,  Al Gore , highlighted Bush’s relationship
with the industry.  Under Attack  As Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , and Bain
continue to come under attack, the private-equity industry plans
to counter perceptions that firms profit at the expense of
workers, according to a person familiar with the plans.  The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry’s
lobbying group in Washington, will start a Web-based campaign at
the end of the month with testimonials of people who say private
equity has helped their businesses, the person said. Members of
the council include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group  and  KKR &
Co .  In the Bloomberg TV interview, Levy, who founded the
private-equity firm JLL in 1988, urged more managers in the
industry to speak out against the criticism from Gingrich and
Romney’s other opponents.  “These people, I think, should step forward and speak to
their achievements and say, by the way, not every deal goes
well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Winnsboro, South Carolina at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  