-- GM Vies to Compete With Toyota in Fast-Growing Indonesia: Cars
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-01-18T23:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/gm-vies-to-compete-with-toyota-in-fast-growing-indonesia-cars.html
Indonesia  may be the next growth
market after  China  for the automotive industry.  While the country boasts Southeast Asia’s largest economy
and population, Indonesia’s ratio of  car ownership  has been
among the lowest in the region. Now, analysts at IHS Automotive
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . say the industry is ready to blossom
because of rising incomes, urbanization and a government push to
spur demand for low-emission vehicles.  “Indonesia’s auto market is on the verge of a boom,” said
Jessada Thongpak, a senior analyst for Southeast Asia at IHS
Automotive. “The reason why automakers are looking at Indonesia
is because the potential for growth is high, and inflation and
 interest rates  are stable.”  That’s leading carmakers from Detroit-based  General Motors
Co. (GM)  to  India ’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  to gear up to challenge Japanese
producers led by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which control more than
90 percent of a market with the world’s fourth-largest
population. Vehicle sales in Indonesia are projected to rise
more than 50 percent in five years as the growing working class
demands minivans and compact cars.  Count GM, the world’s largest car company, among those
taking notice. The maker of Chevrolet, Buick and Cadillac sedans
plans to open a minivan factory in Indonesia, where it stopped
making vehicles about six years ago.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-
largest U.S. vehicle manufacturer, said it sees “great
potential” in the country.  U.S. automakers aren’t the only ones vying for a slice of
the Indonesian market. Tata Motors, for one, is gearing up to
challenge Japanese producers. Tata has an assembly plant that
builds Xenon pickups in Samutprakan, near Bangkok, according to
the company’s  website .  Incumbent’s Dominance  Indonesia’s auto market has plenty of room to grow. CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets estimates the country had 32 vehicles for
every 1,000 people in 2010, compared with 123 in  Thailand  and
300 in  Malaysia . Indonesia’s economy and population are bigger
than those two Southeast Asian neighbors combined.  U.S. carmakers still have a long way to go before catching
up or even getting close to Japanese brands. Out of the 894,180
vehicles sold in the country last year, GM accounted for less
than 1 percent, according to the nation’s auto association.  Sales in Indonesia will jump to 1.2 million units by 2016,
according to IHS Automotive. Such growth would allow Indonesia
to challenge Thailand, which saw domestic production tumble 11
percent last year after its worst floods in almost 70 years, as
the  auto industry ’s Southeast Asian hub.  Indonesia is heading toward “full-fledged motorization”
after gross domestic product per capita exceeded $3,000 in 2010,
Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts wrote in a report last month.
 Turkey , Malaysia and  South Korea  are among markets that have
seen growth in their automotive markets pick up after GDP per
capita exceeded that threshold, according to Aditya Srinath, a
Jakarta-based analyst at JPMorgan.  Fuel Subsidies  The growth of the Indonesian auto market faces risks,
however. Currently interest rates at 6 percent are “favorable”
for the auto industry said Davy Tuilan, a director at  Suzuki
Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indonesia unit. If the central bank decides to
increase those rates, “it will affect the auto industry
significantly,” he said.  Another risk is the price of fuel. The government plans to
start reducing fuel subsidies from April. That would leave only
public-transportation vehicles, motorcycles and fish-delivery
vans eligible for subsidies and almost double the price of
gasoline for other motorists, according to IHS Automotive.  “We are facing risks on how customers will react once the
government implements its plan on limiting the fuel subsidy,”
said Teddy Irawan, a vice president at Nissan Motor Co.’s
Indonesia unit.  Eco-Car  The government’s so-called Eco-car proposal to spur demand
for low-emission, compact vehicles via incentives may take
effect in 2013, according to IHS and JPMorgan. The plan, first
announced in 2009, is still being completed, Budi Darmadi, a
director general at the industry ministry, said in an interview.  Officials at  Japan ’s Suzuki and Nissan cited the future
government incentives as an impetus for growth, while South
Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  cited the improving economic
environment for its optimism in Indonesia.  “Indonesia is so hot for the auto industry because the
economy is growing significantly,” said Jongkie Sugiarto,
president director of Hyundai’s Indonesian unit.  The strength of Indonesia’s economy, lower interest rates
and government initiatives revive memories of Japan’s emergence
in the automobile industry half a century ago, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Kunihiko Shiohara wrote in a report this week.
Japanese carmakers increased production more than six-fold in
the 1960s, accounting for an estimated 18 percent of global
production by 1970 from less than 3 percent a decade earlier.  Avanza Minivan  As more global carmakers deepen their interests in
 Southeast Asia , Japanese carmakers are aiming to defend their
lead.  Toyota, which offers the nation’s best-selling Avanza
minivan, is planning 1.3 trillion rupiah ($144 million) in
investments in Indonesia to boost production, said Joko Trisanyoto, a marketing director for Toyota’s venture in the
country. The company operates two factories in the country that
can produce as many as 110,000 units a year.  Suzuki on Jan. 4 said it would invest 60 billion yen
($780 million) on increasing capacity in Indonesia, including
setting up a new factory to build engines. In 2010, Nissan said
it was investing more than $20 million at a plant in Indonesia
to double annual capacity in the country to 100,000 vehicles by
2013.  “Indonesia is seen as a sexy market,” Suzuki’s Tuilan
said. “More investors are coming to Indonesia. That may
stimulate the economy and market growth.”  Look for U.S. automakers to be at the front of the line.  Southeast Asia “is the next big one and we want to be
present in the market,” said Johan Willems, a GM spokesman in
 Shanghai . “It’s a very important market for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 