-- Goldman Sachs Spent More on 2011 Stock Buybacks Than It Earned
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-18T20:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/goldman-sachs-spent-more-on-11-stock-buybacks-than-it-earned-for-the-year.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
reported that 2011 profit fell to the lowest level since 2008,
spent more to buy back stock than it earned in the year.  The company spent $6.04 billion to repurchase 47 million
shares at an average price of $128.33, more than its $4.44
billion in net income, the New York-based bank said today. It
also paid $1.93 billion in preferred stock dividends during the
year, including $1.64 billion to redeem an investment by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  The  Federal Reserve  and other regulators around the world
have encouraged banks to boost capital to meet requirements
established by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . Under
the Fed’s  Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review , or CCAR,
U.S. lenders must prove they have enough capital to withstand a
“severe” U.S. recession before they can increase dividends or
repurchase shares.  “We put in what we want to do and the Fed tells us yes or
no,” David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer,
told analysts when asked how the bank was able to spend more on
buybacks than it earns. “I don’t think you should expect that
it will be a long-term sustainable way we do things of buying
back more than earnings.”  Viniar estimated that Goldman Sachs had so-called Tier 1
common equity equal to just under 8 percent of the bank’s risk-
weighted assets at the end of 2011 under the Basel III
requirements. Based on analysts’ current estimates for the
bank’s earnings and the maturity of some assets, Viniar said the
capital would be “a little bit below 11 percent” of assets at
the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 