-- Google Rouses Grass-Roots Opposition to Anti-Piracy Bill Backed by Murdoch
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-18T15:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/google-rallies-opposition-to-anti-piracy-bill-backed-by-murdoch.html
Internet companies led by  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  are using their online clout to stoke opposition to
Hollywood-backed anti-piracy measures in the  U.S. Congress  that
they say will encourage censorship and chill innovation.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
placed a  link on its home page  today opposing the House and
Senate bills, joining protests by Wikipedia and other websites.
Google had about 400 million daily U.S. searches in December,
according to Internet measurement firm comScore Inc., dwarfing
the 111 million viewers of last year’s  Super Bowl  game.  Public criticism led by Google, Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc. slowed an initial “smooth glide to passage” for the anti-
piracy measures supported by the entertainment industry,  Rogan Kersh , an associate dean at  New York University ’s Wagner School
who conducts research on lobbying, said in an interview.  “Google and Facebook and Twitter are part of our daily
lives in a way that most of us find very appealing,” Kersh
said. “These are sexy brands. If you’re a member of Congress,
you don’t want to be on the wrong side of the social media and
new media darlings of America.”  Google typically devotes its home page to displaying its
own services, not taking stands on legislation, and the
“Google” icon is often used to commemorate historical events.
Today, the icon is covered by a black rectangle, and the home
page links to a  website  that asks visitors to sign an online
petition urging Congress to reject the legislation.  Wikipedia Shutdown  Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia run by a nonprofit
organization where users contribute entries, is  shutting the
English version  of its website for 24 hours to protest the
measures. Today, that page is blacked out and carries a message
saying that the bills “could fatally damage the free and open
Internet.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, said
in a statement yesterday that it opposes the House measure as
currently drafted. The company said it doesn’t plan to shut down
its online services in protest.  The Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP
Act in the Senate are backed by the movie and music industries
as a means to crack down on the sale of  counterfeit goods  by
non-U.S. websites. Hollywood studios want lawmakers to ensure
that Internet companies such as Google share responsibility for
curbing the distribution of pirated material.  The so-called blackout day to protest anti-piracy
legislation is “abuse of power given the freedoms these
companies enjoy in the marketplace today,”  Christopher Dodd ,
chairman of the  Motion Picture Association  of America, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  ‘Incite Their Users’  “It’s a dangerous and troubling development when the
platforms that serve as gateways to information intentionally
skew the facts to incite their users in order to further their
corporate interests,” said Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who
served three decades in the Senate.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  called Google a “piracy
leader” in a Jan. 14 post on Twitter, saying that it streams
movies for free and sells advertisements around them. A day
later he wrote in his Twitter account that Google is a “great
company doing many exciting things. Only one complaint, and it’s
important.”  Miranda Higham, a  News Corp. (NWSA)  spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Samantha Smith, a Google spokeswoman, said the company
respects copyright. “Last year we took down 5 million
infringing Web pages from our search results,” she said in an
e-mail yesterday.  ‘Radioactive Brand’  Murdoch represents a “radioactive” brand and his comments
are “terrible timing” for supporters of the anti-piracy
legislation, Kersh of New York University said.  “As supervisor of a media empire that is best known at
present for hacking into people’s personal phone accounts, this
is not someone you want arguing for more government involvement
in the lives of the public,” Kersh said.  The Senate is scheduled to hold a procedural vote Jan. 24
to see whether there is enough support to begin debate on its
version of the legislation bill.  Representative  Lamar Smith , who heads the House Judiciary
Committee, said he expects his panel to resume consideration of
the House bill in February. The panel began debating the measure
in a December session and members offered about 60 amendments.  Smith called the protest by Wikipedia and others a
“publicity stunt” that “does a disservice to its users by
promoting fear instead of facts,” according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  ‘Oppressive Regimes’  David Drummond , Google’s chief legal officer, said the
bills “would grant new powers to  law enforcement  to filter the
Internet.”  “We know from experience that these powers are on the wish
list of oppressive regimes throughout the world,” David
Drummond said in a  blog post  today.  Facebook’s Washington page has a tab today that says the
anti-piracy legislation could “create very real problems for
Internet companies like ours that are a primary driver of
innovation, growth, and  job creation  in the 21st century
economy.” Facebook is encouraging users to share the tab with
friends and provides a way to write members of Congress.  Matt Graves , a Twitter spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Administration Objections  The administration of President  Barack Obama  cast some
doubt over the legislation’s prospects on Jan. 14, saying in a
 blog post  that it wouldn’t support measures that encourage
censorship or disrupt the structure of the Internet.  The  blog post , signed by three White House technology
officials, marked the administration’s most significant foray
into a fight between content creators and Web companies that has
been playing out in Congress.  Obama, who draws support from both Hollywood and the
Internet industry, is trying to “steer a line” between the
competing interests, Kersh said.  The president received $1.34 million in campaign donations
from employees of the computer and Internet industries since
January 2011, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks political giving. Obama
received $1.02 million from workers in the television, movie and
music industries during the same period.  Smith, the Judiciary Committee chairman, said Jan. 13 that
he would remove a provision from his bill that would require
Internet-service providers, when ordered by a court, to block
access to non-U.S. websites offering pirated content.  Senator  Patrick Leahy  , a Vermont Democrat who leads the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said Jan. 12 that he’s willing to
consider dropping a similar provision from the bill he
sponsored. Opponents say such website-blocking may harm the
stability of the Internet’s domain-name system.  The Senate measure, S. 968, cleared Leahy’s committee in
May. The House bill is H.R. 3261.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  