-- Greek Debt-Swap Talks Set for Second Day in Push for Accord
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-01-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/greek-debt-swap-talks-set-for-second-day.html
Greece ’s government heads into a
second day of talks with private creditors in a push to reach an
accord that would slash the nation’s debt and avert a collapse
of the economy.  Discussions with officials from the Institute of
International Finance, which represents bondholders, will
continue today, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told
lawmakers in Parliament, in comments televised live on state-run
Vouli TV. The plan was confirmed by  Frank Vogl , an IIF spokesman,
in an e-mail sent after a “lengthy meeting” yesterday.  “A very critical meeting at the prime minister’s office
just finished,” Venizelos said yesterday. “Talks between the
Greek government and the IIF resumed and they will continue
tomorrow.”  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is racing to tie up the
accord, key to a second financing package for the cash-strapped
country, before a March 20 bond payment that will cost 14.5
billion euros ($18.6 billion) Greece doesn’t have.  The talks broke off Jan. 13 and resumed with Papademos, 64,
and Venizelos, 55. IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara , 63,
and  Jean Lemierre , 61, a special adviser to the chairman of  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, are leading the negotiations for the creditors.
Before talks resumed yesterday, Venizelos told lawmakers the
discussions were at a “very fine point.”  Greece’s government could forge an agreement on a voluntary
debt swap with private creditors by the end of this week, one
finance ministry official told reporters in Athens before the
talks ended yesterday. The official declined to be identified.  New Proposals  A separate government official said earlier that “all
variables” are being taken into consideration and the parties
are back with new proposals.  While the interest payment on the new bonds is the most
visible aspect of the negotiations it’s not the only one, said
the official, who declined to be identified. Collective action
clauses, which would ensure creditors take part in the swap,
could be legislated if the participation rate isn’t high enough,
the official said.  An agreement reached Oct. 26 with European Union leaders
and the Washington-based IIF, a lobby group for global financial
institutions, called for private holders of just more than 200
billion euros worth of Greek  government bonds  to accept new
securities with a face value of half that amount. As part of the
deal, euro-zone members agreed to provide 30 billion euros in
unspecified support. That could take the form of buying bonds
from the private holders at 100 cents on the euro in cash,
leaving them with new bonds with a face value of 70 billion
euros.  Coupon in Question  Negotiations since then have centered on the  interest rate 
the new bonds will pay, with Germany among those insisting on a
low rate and the private creditors demanding a higher one.  A member of the investor group said they are likely to get
cash and securities with a market value of about 32 cents per
euro of government bonds.  “I’m highly confident the deal will get done,” Bruce Richards, chief executive officer of New York-based Marathon
Asset Management LP, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 17
with Bloomberg Businessweek.  Marathon, which has $10 billion under management, is on the
committee of 32 private creditors formed in November to
negotiate with Greece, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
EU. It’s not a member of the smaller steering committee directly
involved in negotiations.  Credit Default Swaps  The new bonds will probably pay annual interest of 4
percent to 5 percent and have a maturity of 20 years to 30 years,
Richards said. They may trade for about half of their face value,
he predicted. Altogether, the net present value of the deal for
the bondholders will be about 32 cents on the euro, he estimated.  Greek two-year notes dropped yesterday, pushing the yield
up 676 basis points, or 6.76 percentage points, to 171 percent.
It climbed to 184.56 percent, the most on record, on Dec. 10.
The Greek security maturing in October 2022 advanced for a
seventh day, with the yield sliding 11 basis points to 33.7
percent.  Fitch Ratings  has said the October agreement would amount
to a “default event” once implemented, while the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association has said it wouldn’t trigger
credit-default swaps bought by investors as insurance against
the country failing to meet its obligations.  The creditors’ steering committee includes representatives
from banks and insurers with the largest holdings of Greek
government bonds, including  National Bank of Greece SA , BNP
Paribas,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
 ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA. (CS)   Financial firms on the IIF’s private-creditor investor
committee, the larger group that includes the smaller steering
committee, hold more than 47 billion euros in Greek sovereign
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from company
reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net 
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling  at +44-20-7673-2841 or
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  