-- IMF Said to Make Hungary’s Flat Tax Part of Bailout Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-18T14:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/imf-said-to-make-hungary-s-flat-income-tax-part-of-bailout-negotiations.html
The  International Monetary Fund  may
require  Hungary  to change its flat personal income tax as part
of a bailout agreement, according to a person familiar with the
Washington-based lender’s preparations for the talks.  The flat tax will be an important part in any program
discussion, said the person, who declined to be identified
because official talks haven’t started. The IMF is in general
opposed to flat-tax systems and the Hungarian levy being
regressive is the main issue, the person said.  Hungary is trying to revive bailout talks with the IMF and
the European Union after negotiations broke down in December
over Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s refusal to change a central
bank law that the institutions said may undermine monetary-
policy independence.  Orban introduced the flat tax last year to simplify tax
administration, boost growth and reward higher-income earners.
The measure contributed to a decline in government revenue and
an increase in the structural  budget deficit .  The flat tax is a cornerstone of Orban’s economic policy,
which he sought to protect from future governments by including
it in the country’s new constitution, requiring a two-thirds
majority in parliament to change it.  The IMF may accept the government making the tax more
progressive through exemptions, rather than requiring Orban to
scrap it altogether, the person said.  ‘Tangible Steps’  “Before the fund can determine when and whether to start
negotiations for a stand-by arrangement, it will need to see
tangible steps that show the authorities’ strong commitment to
engage on all the policy issues that are relevant to
macroeconomic stability,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said on Jan. 12 after meeting Hungarian chief negotiator
Tamas Fellegi in  Washington .  The European Commission on Nov. 10 forecast that Hungary’s
economy will expand 0.5 percent this year, the slowest pace in
the eastern EU.  Without one-time revenue, the budget deficit was more than
double the government’s target of 2.94 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011.  Hungary didn’t take “effective action” to rein in its
budget deficit as Orban’s measures weren’t of a “sustainable
nature,” the European Commission said on Jan. 11. The
government pledged to keep the budget deficit at below 3 percent
of GDP this year and in 2013.  ‘Extremely Important’  Hungary wants to start negotiations with the IMF and the EU
“as soon as possible,” Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said at a Euromoney conference in Vienna today.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said Orban is
willing to cooperate to resolve the conflict over a new central-
bank law.  “Prime Minister Orban addressed a letter to us showing his
willingness to cooperate to find a solution,” Barroso told
reporters today in Strasbourg,  France . Afterward, he told
lawmakers at the European Parliament that the commission “will
not hesitate to take further steps if deemed appropriate.”  Orban told the same meeting of the European Parliament that
he hopes for “swift results” from a meeting with Barroso next
week.  “In the current situation, it’s extremely important for
Hungary to have a new deal with the IMF and with the European
community,” Gianni Papa, the head of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s eastern
European business, said in a Bloomberg News interview today in
Vienna. “I do hope that the Hungarian government will find a
solution and reach an agreement with those institutions.”  The European Commission regulatory arm yesterday threatened
to sue Hungary for encroaching on the central bank’s
independence and started infringement proceedings against
Orban’s government for meddling with the judiciary and the data-
protection authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  