-- Impala CEO David Brown Resigns From World’s Second-Largest Platinum Miner
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-01-18T17:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/impala-ceo-david-brown-resigns-from-world-s-second-largest-platinum-miner.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  Chief
Executive Officer  David Brown  will quit with a five-year record
of maintaining its share price amid a slump in the metal that
carved as much as two-thirds off the valuations of its rivals.  The producer of a quarter of the world’s platinum fell in
Johannesburg trading after saying today in a statement Brown,
49, would leave on June 30 “to pursue his own interests.” The
board has identified a successor and is completing preparations,
Chairman Khotso Mokhele said, without naming the replacement.  Among industry directors with experience as CEO of a mining
company is Terence Goodlace, head of copper producer  Metorex
Ltd. (MTX) , whose shares stopped trading in Johannesburg yesterday
following the company’s takeover by China’s Jinchuan Group Ltd.  Impala, which appointed Goodlace to its board in August,
was the biggest loser among the top 40 stocks by the close of
Johannesburg trading today, declining by 2.5 percent to 171.45
rand and giving the company a value of 108 billion rand ($13.5
billion).  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  rose 0.5 percent and
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest producer, gained 2 percent.  Brown has had to contend with government demands in  South
Africa  and Zimbabwe, location of the largest platinum reserves,
for control of domestic assets to be passed to local people. He
also dealt with a 39 percent slump in platinum prices in 2008 as
a six-year commodities rally ended, cutting producers’ profits.  ‘Great Loss’  “I’m sure his departure would be a great loss to the
company,” Cor Booysen, a senior research analyst at HSBC
Securities (South Africa) Pty. Ltd., said by e-mail. “He added
significant stability to Impala through some difficult times.”  Brown told Bloomberg last year that unrealistic prices for
the few assets it was interested in were curbing efforts to grow
the business. He failed in 2010 to take over  Royal Bafokeng
Platinum Ltd. (RBP)  with a bid of almost 20 billion rand.  “I have got a number of options,” he said in a telephone
interview today, adding that while he would like to remain in
the industry, there are possibilities for him in other areas.  Brown, a chartered accountant, was appointed as Impala’s
chief financial officer in 1999 and CEO on Sept. 1, 2006. Its
shares have risen 2.7 percent since then, against a 28 percent
drop in Anglo American Platinum and 64 percent slump in Lonmin.  The company, which operates the world’s largest platinum
mine at Rustenburg in South Africa’s Northwestern Province, was
also the only gainer among the top three producers of the metal
in Johannesburg trading last year. It rose 15 percent, compared
with Anglo’s 10 percent decline and Lonmin’s 12 percent slide.  Top Pick  Impala is rated as the top pick among large platinum miners
at HSBC, Macquarie First South Securities (Pty) Ltd. and SBG
Securities Ltd. Six of 16 analysts recommend buying the stock,
while two say sell it, according to surveys Bloomberg compiled.  Brown “successfully guided the group through the difficult
business environment of recent years, maintaining a strong
balance sheet while ensuring a balance between investment and
returns to shareholders,” Impala said. He was “instrumental in
the development of Implats’ Zimbabwean assets,” it said.  Impala faces challenges in boosting production in  Zimbabwe ,
which has the second-biggest platinum reserves. In addition to
requiring local control of foreign operations, the nation raised
royalties last year. It will also ban exports of unrefined
platinum, Deputy Mines Minister Gift Chimanikire said Dec. 27.  “I’ve got 5 1/2 months left and one of my priorities will
be finding an amicable solution,” Brown said in an interview
broadcast on SAFM Radio today. The CEO told Impala’s chairman
that he wanted to leave two to three months ago, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  