-- India to Urge State Coal Miner to Cap Prices, Absorb Wage Costs
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-01-18T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/india-to-urge-state-coal-miner-to-cap-prices-absorb-wage-costs.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel, will be urged to maintain prices even if
the company agrees to a wage increase next week, Coal Minister
Sriprakash Jaiswal said.  The government will ask  Coal India  to absorb costs as the
company prepares to meet unions on Jan. 27 and 28 to discuss a
25 percent increase in salaries, Jaiswal said yesterday in New
Delhi. Coal India, which decided to grade coal on the basis of
its gross calorific value starting Jan. 1, will be asked to keep
prices unchanged, he said.  “If the minister says prices will remain almost unchanged
after the new grading system, it is disappointing news,” said
 Rahul Jain , an analyst with RBS Equities India in Mumbai. “The
general feeling is that Coal India can absorb the wage increase
because there is an embedded price increase in the gross
calorific value based grading.”  India’s power companies are facing higher raw material
costs because of a local shortage of coal and rising prices of
the fuel globally. The profit margins of utilities, including
 Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)   JSW Energy Ltd. (JSW)  and  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , are
being eroded as they need to import the fuel, while charging
government-set retail power prices.  Shares of state-owned Coal India fell 3.4 percent, the most
in a month, to 339.80 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. The benchmark
Sensitive Index fell 0.1 percent.  Ensuring an Increase  “We will try to ensure Coal India will absorb the wage
increase and keep prices unchanged,” Jaiswal told reporters in
New Delhi yesterday. “We will have a meeting on Jan. 20 to see
what impact the gross calorific value-based grading system has
on prices.”  Coal India Chairman N.C. Jha and Director Personnel R. Mohan Das could not be reached yesterday on their cell phones.  Reliance Power Chairman  Anil Ambani , JSW Energy Chairman
Sajjan Jindal and Adani Power Chairman  Gautam Adani  are among
executives who sought additional coal output at a meeting with
Planning Commission member B.K. Chaturvedi in  New Delhi 
yesterday, said Ashok Khurana, director general of the
Association of Power Producers.  Coal India is close to granting a 25 percent increase in
wages to non-executive workers for a five-year period starting
July 1, 2011, Mohan Das said on Jan. 13. The company will hold a
meeting with trade unions on Jan 27 and Jan. 28 to make a final
decision.  A wage agreement would reduce the chance of Coal India’s
unions calling for strikes and disrupting production. Wages at
Coal India are revised every five years for non-executive
employees and were increased by an average 24 percent in 2006
after an agreement reached in January 2009.  Output at Coal  India  has been hindered by heavy rains and
delays in land acquisitions and environmental approvals to
develop new mines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  