-- India Central Bank May Hold Interest Rates Next Week, BofA Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-01-18T10:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/india-central-bank-may-hold-interest-rates-next-week-bofa-says.html
Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, head of India
research at Bank of America Corp., comments on the outlook for
Indian equities in an interview to Bloomberg UTV.  The BSE India Sensitive Index fell declined percent to
16,422.93 at the preliminary closing in Mumbai. It plunged 25
percent last year on concern a weak rupee, high inflation and
record interest-rate increases would compound the effects of
 Europe ’s debt crisis on earnings.  On economic outlook:  “We will still have pains going through. It’s getting
factored in, but growth may turn out to be even worse than what
people are looking at. The risk is on the downside rather than
upside.”  On earnings outlook:  “Earnings are going to disappoint quite a bit and our
Sensex earnings per share estimate for the year ending in March
2013 is 1,200 rupees. The consensus is close to 1,300 rupees. We
are way below consensus and we think earnings will grow at
single digit for this fiscal year and the next.”  On market outlook:  “From the markets point of view the worse the news gets,
the better it is in some sense. If the news is very bad that’s
where we may see government getting into action, saying things
have turned so bad that we now need to undertake reforms.  The markets will turn when we get something which gives us
an indication that the worst is behind us. Some things have
changed on the margin, which probably means that six to nine
months down the line things can improve and I think that’s going
to take the shape of rate cuts.”  On rate cuts:  “The RBI at some point during the year will change its
tone; they will start focusing more on growth rather than
inflation. We could get a series of rate cuts coming through.
That’s where it could turn out to be positive for the market.”  On the Jan. 24 policy meeting:  “They probably won’t cut rates yet. The RBI was hiking
rates until October and they took a pause just for one more
policy. May be in March or April is when we will start seeing
the cuts happen. Inflation was a 2011 story and growth is going
to be the 2012 story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  