-- Indonesia Regains Investment Grade at Moody’s After 14 Years
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-01-19T09:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/indonesia-sovereign-debt-rating-is-raised-to-investment-grade-by-moody-s.html
Indonesia won its second credit
rating upgrade in five weeks as Moody’s Investors Service
returned the country to investment level for the first time
since the Asian financial crisis.  The foreign- and local-currency rating was increased to
Baa3 from Ba1, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday. The
outlook is stable. The upgrade brings  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy to the lowest investment grade, the same level as  India ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging-market economies from  Brazil  to  Turkey  and the
 Philippines  are winning rating upgrades as governments take
steps to contain budget deficits and bolster growth, even as
 Europe ’s debt crisis prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to cut the
credit ratings of nine members of the 17-nation euro area on Jan.
13. Yesterday’s decision may aid President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s efforts to spur expansion by boosting investment.  “It’s a positive development for the economy and backs the
broader reform agenda rolled out by the government,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “This
should also benefit rupiah-denominated assets and attract more
investments into the country, thereby helping with the longer-
term infrastructure-related demands.”  Currency Recovers  The nation’s currency erased losses yesterday after the
announcement and gained 0.5 percent to 9,028 per dollar as of
3:17 p.m. in Jakarta today, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds extended gains, with the yield on
the 4.875 percent dollar notes due 2021 falling six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.93 percent, according to prices
from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Fitch Ratings  brought Indonesia back to investment grade
last month after 14 years of junk ratings. It raised the
nation’s long-term foreign and local currency rating to BBB-with
a stable outlook on Dec. 15, citing “strong and resilient”
growth and declining public-debt ratios.  S&P, which still rates  Indonesia  one level below investment
grade, will probably follow, said David Sumual, an economist at
PT Bank Central Asia in Jakarta.  Indonesia’s “credit fundamentals are generally evolving in
a positive direction,”  Agost Benard , S&P’s Singapore-based
associate director of sovereign and international public finance
ratings, said in an e-mailed statement today.  An upgrade would depend on the effects of “improvements in
the public balance sheet, reduction in external vulnerability
through rising foreign reserves, and continued progress to
develop a deeper and more liquid domestic capital market, as
well as structural and institutional reforms,” he added.  Resilient to Shocks  “Indonesia’s cyclical resilience to large external shocks
points to sustainably high trend growth over the medium term,”
Moody’s said. “A more favorable assessment of Indonesia’s
economic strength is underpinned by gains in investment spending,
improved prospects for infrastructure development following key
policy reforms, and a well-managed financial system.”  Indonesia, which needed a bailout from the  International
Monetary Fund  during the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, avoided
following the world’s largest economies and neighboring
countries into a recession during the 2009 global slump.  The country’s local-currency bonds have returned 28 percent
in the past year, the best performance among 10 Asian debt
markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. Its dollar bonds gained 9
percent in the same period, the second-best among 11 markets in
the region.  ‘Investment Climate’  “This upgrade will confirm how good Indonesia’s investment
climate is, which will make foreign direct investment flow
stronger,” said Felix Sindhunata, an economist at PT Henan
Putihrai in Jakarta. Still, a “rating upgrade will be nothing
if the government has no action” to improve infrastructure and
stem corruption.  Yudhoyono’s government forecasts a 6.5 percent expansion in
2011, and the president targets the ratio of debt to gross
domestic product to drop to 24 percent in 2012 from 25 percent
in 2011.  The nation’s parliament approved a land-acquisition bill on
Dec. 16 that will allow Yudhoyono’s administration to accelerate
road, port and airport projects. The government is also setting
up a new financial market regulator that is due to start
operating in January 2013, supervising  capital markets , insurers,
pension funds and other non-bank institutions.  Indonesia may become a safe haven country as Moody’s
upgrade helps attract investors to Indonesian stocks, bonds and
boost foreign direct investment, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor
Hartadi Sarwono said yesterday.  Investment in the three months ended Dec. 31 rose 19
percent from a year earlier to 70.2 trillion rupiah ($7.7
billion),  Gita Wirjawan , chairman of the Investment Coordinating
Board, said in Jakarta today. For 2011 as a whole, investment
gained 21 percent from a year earlier to 251.3 trillion rupiah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at   gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  