-- Factory Production in U.S. Climbed by Most in a Year Last Month: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-18T21:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/industrial-production-in-u-s-climbs-0-4-on-demand-for-business-equipment.html
Factories in the U.S. churned out
more computers, cars and construction material in December as
manufacturing remained at the center of the expansion.  Output (IPMGCHNG)  climbed 0.9 percent last month, the biggest gain
since December 2010, according to Federal Reserve data issued
today in Washington. Other reports showed homebuilder confidence
jumped and wholesale prices unexpectedly dropped.  Gains in consumer and business spending, combined with lean
inventories, may prompt factories to continue to boost payrolls
and hours, bolstering economic growth. Additionally, more demand
from  emerging markets  may help shield American industry from a
slowdown in exports to  Europe  as the region’s financial crisis
and a weaker euro threaten to restrain sales.  “Manufacturing remains an engine of growth,” said John Herrmann, a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston , who accurately forecast the
December gain. “Manufacturing has benefited from exports to
emerging markets. The more resilient those economies are, the
better it is for U.S. manufacturing.”  Stocks rose, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its
best start to a year since 1987, as semiconductor and
homebuilders gained. The  S&P 500  climbed 1.1 percent to 1,308.04
at the close in  New York . It’s up 4 percent this year.  The  World Bank  cut its forecast for global growth to 2.5
percent for this year from a June projection of 3.6 percent, the
biggest reduction in its estimates in three years. The
Washington-based institution said a recession in the euro region
threatened to exacerbate a slowdown in other parts of the world.  Unemployment in U.K.  U.K. unemployment in the three months ended in November
rose to the highest level since January 1996, deepening concerns
Britain is heading for recession, figures today showed.  The  unemployment rate  based on International Labour
Organization methods rose to 8.4 percent from 8.1 percent in the
three months through August, the  Office for National Statistics 
said in  London .  Meantime,  China  reported today that foreign direct
investment declined in December by the most since July 2009.  Total industrial production in the U.S., which includes
factories, mines and utilities, climbed 0.4 percent in December,
the Fed’s report showed. A warmer December than usual led to a
2.7 percent plunge in utility use, the biggest drop since
October 2010.  The median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecast a 0.5 percent rise in total output. Estimates
ranged from no change to a 0.8 percent increase. Manufacturing
accounts for about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy .  Builder Confidence  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in January to the
highest level in more than four years as sales and buyer traffic
improved, according to a report from the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo.  The sentiment  gauge  increased to 25 this month, exceeding
the median forecast of economists surveyed and reaching the
highest level since June 2007, the Washington-based group said.
Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents still said
conditions were poor.  Record-low borrowing costs, a growing population and
reduced prices may drive demand for homes this year even as
another round of foreclosures threatens to weigh on the market.
The confidence measure, which increased for a fourth straight
month, improved in all four regions of the country.  “Builders are seeing greater interest among potential
buyers as employment and consumer confidence slowly improve in a
growing number of markets,” NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe
said in a statement.  Wholesale Prices  Another report showed the producer-price index decreased
0.1 percent after a 0.3 percent gain the previous month,
according to the Labor Department in  Washington .  The Fed’s production report showed output of motor vehicles
and parts advanced 0.6 percent. Manufacturing excluding autos
and parts climbed 0.4 percent following a 0.2 percent November
decrease.  Production of business equipment increased 0.8 percent
after no change in November, boosted by more output of computers
and machinery. Assembly lines turned out 1 percent more
construction materials, the most in five months, showing how the
improvement in housing is rippling through the economy.  Today’s figures are in line with the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s national index of manufacturing, which rose last
month. The barometer’s measures of production and orders climbed
to the highest levels since April.  Europe Poses Risks  Manufacturing still faces risks, particularly from the
European debt crisis, of a slowdown in demand for U.S. exports.  Last year “proved to be a challenging environment, most
notably with the difficulties in the European region,” Roger Wood, president and chief executive officer at  Dana Holding
Corp. (DAN) , said Jan. 10 at an auto industry conference in  Detroit .
“Looking forward, we continue to foresee a mixed global
outlook. We expect slow growth in  North America  and much better
growth in both  Asia  and  South America . We believe that Europe
will continue to lag.”  The Maumee, Ohio-based maker of truck axles and frames,
said in a statement that adjusted profit this year will be $1.95
to $2.05 a share. The average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was $1.88.  Europe’s slowdown has already started to limit U.S.
exports, which dropped to a four-month low in November,
according to Commerce Department figures released last week.  Manufacturers added  23,000 jobs  in December, the most in
five months, Labor Department figures showed on Jan. 6. Hours by
non-supervisory factory workers climbed to 41.5 in December,
matching the highest since May 2010 and a sign manufacturers may
keeping adding to payrolls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  