-- Inspector General, Volcker Rule, Piracy, EU: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-01-18T13:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/inspector-general-volcker-rule-piracy-eu-compliance.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Inspector General H.  David Kotz  is leaving the agency
after four years to join a private investigative firm.  Kotz, who joined the agency in 2007, oversaw a range of
investigations, including a probe of the SEC’s failure to catch
Bernard Madoff’s multibillion dollar fraud and a review of the
agency’s supervision of Bear Stearns Cos. He will stay through
the end of January before becoming a managing director at
Gryphon Strategies in  Washington , the SEC said yesterday.  The resignation followed criticism of Kotz by current and
former agency officials who claimed some of his probes were
overly aggressive and lacked evidence of wrongdoing. Kotz also
came under scrutiny for giving an extensive interview to the
host of a paid radio show who posted it on a website and used it
in marketing financial services.  “I am tremendously proud of the accomplishments of my
office and the agency over the past four years,” Kotz said in a
statement yesterday. “While I will miss doing this important
work, I am gratified knowing that nearly every aspect of the SEC
has been significantly improved in the four years since I was
named Inspector General.”  In a statement yesterday, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said
Kotz “has served the agency with great distinction” during his
four-year tenure.  “His work helped us to identify areas where we needed to
improve the way we operate, bolster our resources, and upgrade
our technology,” she said.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulators to Defend Volcker Rule Ban on Proprietary Trades  U.S. House Republicans will press federal regulators on the
merits of a proposal to ban banks from trading for their own
account, as one regulator acknowledged the rule could put banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  at a
competitive disadvantage.  Acting Comptroller of the Currency John Walsh acknowledged
that banks without U.S. operations could benefit from the rule,
saying that foreign jurisdictions “have not adopted
restrictions resembling those in the Volcker rule.”  “U.S. banks competing with these foreign banks will
operate at a competitive disadvantage,” Walsh said in testimony
prepared for today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing
in response to a question from the panel’s Republican members.  Regulators have been on the defensive since the  Federal
Reserve  and three other agencies released the first draft of the
rule in October. Lawmakers, the largest banks and financial
firms and international regulators have criticized the 298-page 
proposal  as too complex and potentially damaging for financial
markets.  The proposed rule, named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , would ban banks from proprietary trading
while allowing them to continue short-term trades for hedging or
market-making. It also would limit banks’ investments in
private-equity and hedge funds. Required by the Dodd-Frank Act,
the rule must be in place by July 21.  Lawmakers included the rule in the law to cut down on the
type of trading that may put banks with access to U.S. deposit
insurance or the Fed discount window at risk. Financial firms,
in  comment letters  to regulators and in public statements, have
voiced concerns that the rule may restrict market liquidity,
specifically in corporate bonds.  For more, click here.  Google Plans Home Page Protest Against U.S. Piracy Measures  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is placing a link on its home page today
protesting anti-piracy measures in the U.S. Congress, joining
other Internet companies demonstrating against the Hollywood-
backed legislation.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
and Facebook Inc. are among companies opposing House and Senate
bills they say they will hurt the growth of the U.S. technology
industry. Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia where users
contribute entries, said it will shut the English version of its
website for 24 hours today to protest the measures.  “We oppose these bills because there are smart, targeted
ways to shut down foreign rogue websites without asking American
companies to censor the Internet,” Samantha Smith, a Google
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP
Act in the Senate are backed by the movie and music industries
as a means to crack down on the sale of counterfeit goods by
non-U.S. websites. Hollywood studios want lawmakers to ensure
that Internet companies such as Google share responsibility for
curbing the distribution of pirated material.  A legislative push led by the Washington-based  Motion
Picture Association  of America and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the nation’s largest business-lobbying group, has run into a
backlash from Web companies that say the bills would saddle them
with new liabilities and technology mandates.  Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, called the decision
to shut the website an “extraordinary” action in response to
the proposed laws, which “endanger free speech both in the
United States and abroad, and set a frightening precedent of
Internet censorship for the world.”  The so-called blackout day to protest anti-piracy
legislation is “abuse of power given the freedoms these
companies enjoy in the marketplace today,” Christopher Dodd,
chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  For more, click here.  FDIC Proposes Rules for Self-Administered Bank Stress Tests  The  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  proposed
regulations that would require banks with assets in excess of
$10 billion to conduct self-administered stress tests each year.  Under the proposal, the FDIC by mid-November each year
would provide banks with three economic scenarios for the
future. By Jan. 5, banks would send the FDIC a report on how the
institution would cope with the scenarios. The reports would be
published 90 days after that.  The rule closely tracks one proposed by the Federal Reserve
last year that outlines how Fed examiners will administer stress
tests to institutions with assets of more than $50 billion.  “Both the FDIC and the institutions being tested will
benefit from the forward-looking results that the stress tests
will provide,” acting FDIC Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg said.
“The results will assist in ensuring an institution’s financial
stability by helping to determine whether it has sufficient
capital levels to withstand a period of economic stress.”  Richard Cordray , the director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, voted for the proposal on stress tests in his
first appearance on the FDIC board.  “Not only will they help protect consumer depositors but
the system as a whole,” Cordray said at the meeting.  The FDIC will be taking public comments on the proposal for
60 days.  EU Tells Clinton It Won’t Abandon Carbon Limits for Airlines  The European Union won’t abandon its curbs on carbon
dioxide discharges by international airlines and sees the
program as an incentive toward a global solution, the bloc’s
executive told U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  The 27-nation EU is ready to discuss the exemption of
incoming flights from the U.S. from its emissions trading system
should the world’s largest economy introduce “equivalent
measures” to cut pollution by the aviation industry, according
to a letter sent by the bloc’s transport and climate
commissioners to Clinton.  The European law will also be reviewed and amended when
countries worldwide reach an agreement to limit greenhouse gas
discharges from airlines, the EU said in the letter seen by
Bloomberg News.  The inclusion of airlines in the EU cap-and-trade program
as of this year has sparked opposition from countries including
the U.S.,  China  and  Russia , which said  Europe  should let the
 United Nations ’ International Civil Aviation Organization decide
on greenhouse-gas limits for the industry. Clinton told the EU
in a letter last month that the U.S. will be compelled to take
appropriate action unless the bloc abandons its plan.  “We see the inclusion of aviation in the EU ETS as an
important contribution to, and a catalyst, towards global
action, rather than an obstacle,” according to the EU response
to Clinton dated Jan. 16. “We believe there’s now a growing
recognition of the need to move forwards in ICAO to develop a
global solution and we hope that the U.S. shares our view that
we must seize this opportunity.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Hedge Fund Employees Said to Be in Custody in Insider Probe  Two hedge-fund employees are in custody in the U.S. probe
of insider trading that has already snagged Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, and about 50 others, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  One person was arrested in  Boston  today by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and another in  New York , according to
the person, who asked not to be identified because the arrests
haven’t been made public. Two more people will also surrender to
authorities later today, the person said.  Securities fraud charges stemming from the probe will be
announced today by the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney  Preet
Bharara , the person said.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the
office, declined to comment on the arrests.  Bharara’s office has charged at least 56 people with
insider-trading and more than 50 have pleaded guilty or been
convicted after trial since 2009. They included Rajaratnam, who
was convicted in May and is serving 11 years in prison.  Last month, another person familiar with the matter said
employees of  Neuberger Berman  Group LLC, Level Global Investors
LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC could be facing
criminal charges as part of the probe.  The identities of the people arrested or expected to
surrender today haven’t been publicly disclosed.  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-based
Diamondback, declined to comment on the probe when it was
reported by the Wall Street Journal. Rich Chimberg, an outside
spokesman for Neuberger Berman, said at the time of last month’s
report that the firm was unaware of any probe involving an
employee identified by the newspaper as an analyst for the firm.  Level Global told clients last February that it was
shutting, eight years after David Ganek and Anthony Chiasson
founded the hedge fund, because of the U.S. probe. They said at
the time that Level Global wasn’t a target of the investigation
nor had it been alleged to have engaged in any misconduct.  RBS Insurance Units Fined $3.3 Million for Altering Forms  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  was fined 2.17 million
pounds ($3.3 million) after its insurance units, which the bank
is planning to sell, altered complaint forms before showing them
to the U.K.’s finance regulator.  Managers at Direct Line Insurance Plc and Churchill
Insurance Co. failed to prevent employees from changing 27 of 50
closed customer-complaint forms before they were sent to the
Financial Services Authority, which had requested them, the
regulator said in a statement today.  “This is a serious breach,” said Tracey McDermott, the
FSA’s acting head of enforcement. “The firms failed to give
clear instructions resulting in staff making inappropriate
alterations, with one individual even forging the signatures of
colleagues. The firms’ management did not know what changes had
been made or when.”  RBS, the U.K.’s biggest home and motor insurer, has been
given until the end of this year to sell its insurance business
by the European Union in return for receiving a 45.5 billion-
pound government bailout in 2008 and 2009. The division, which
is planning an initial public offering, reported a profit last
year after posting a loss in 2010 because of surging personal
injury claims.  U.K. Insurance Ltd., the general insurance underwriter of
RBS Insurance that owns Direct Line and Churchill, cooperated
with the FSA and received the regulator’s standard 30 percent
discount for settling early.  “We very much regret the findings of the FSA
investigation,” RBS Insurance Chief Executive Officer Paul
Geddes said in a statement. “Since becoming aware of this issue
well over a year ago, we have taken action to address these
issues and to ensure we avoid such breaches in the future.”  Russian Father-Son Team Accused of Online Fraud by U.S.  Federal prosecutors charged a Russian father and son from
Moscow with taking part in a scheme to gain illegal computer
access to U.S. bank accounts through bogus e-commerce websites.  Vladimir Zdorovenin and his son, Kirill, were named in an
indictment unsealed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan that
alleges they and unknown others controlled U.S.-registered
companies. The two men also operated a business that bought and
sold securities.  The defendants took unauthorized charges on customers’
credit cards, prosecutors said. They also got credit-card
numbers by either buying them from unidentified people who had
obtained them illegally or by so-called malware the defendants
surreptitiously installed on victims’ computers, the U.S.
alleged.  “Mr. Zdorovenin’s egregious behavior illustrated the true
colors of the cyber underground, as he and his son allegedly
defrauded consumers of hundreds of thousands of dollars,”
Janice K. Fedarcyk, the head of the FBI’s New York office, said
in a statement. “This should serve as a stark reminder to
anyone who believes he can commit cyber crime and hide behind
the safety and anonymity of a Russian IP address; you are not
beyond the reach of the FBI.”  Vladimir Zdorovenin was arrested last March in Zurich and
arrived in New York Monday following his extradition by Swiss
authorities, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said
in a statement.  At his arraignment yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Gabriel Gorenstein, Vladimir Zdorovenin pleaded not guilty to
the charges through his lawyer, Sabrina Shroff. She declined to
comment on the case after court. Assistant U.S. Attorney James
Pastore, who is prosecuting the case, said U.S. District Judge
Paul Gardephe scheduled a Jan. 19 conference in the case.  The case is U.S. v. Zdorovenin, 07-cr-00440, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rubin Pleads Guilty to Moving Illegal Online Poker Payments  Ira Rubin, who was accused of helping process billions of
dollars in payments for illegal online gambling businesses,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges.  Rubin, 53, was accused of illegally processing payments for
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker, the leading
online poker sites doing business with U.S. customers. Facing
nine criminal counts, he admitted yesterday to three charges of
conspiracy in Manhattan federal court.  According to a plea agreement with prosecutors, Rubin faces
a prison term of 18 to 24 months under non-binding federal
sentencing guidelines.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute worked around the
ban to continue operating in the U.S.  The government claims Rubin worked from Costa Rica, where
he lived since fleeing to avoid a U.S. arrest warrant in 2008,
helping offshore poker companies move “billions of dollars in
illegal gambling proceeds” disguised as payments to phony
Internet merchants. The shell companies Rubin created included a
fake golf store and electronics business, prosecutors said.  Rubin’s criminal record dates to the 1970s, according to
prosecutors, and includes at least 24 different crimes.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 10-CR-336, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Veto Said to Be Backed By National Agencies  National regulators in the European Union backed plans by
the region’s top antitrust official to block the merger of
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NRX) , according to a person with
knowledge of yesterday’s vote.  Representatives of national competition agencies supported
the European Commission’s proposed merger ban, said the person
who couldn’t be identified because the vote is private. The
commission isn’t obliged to follow the advice of the officials
from the 27-nation bloc.  EU regulators have told the two companies that they plan to
veto the deal to create the world’s largest exchange because it
would monopolize derivatives trading in the region, according to
two people on Dec. 31. The EU’s Competition Commissioner  Joaquin
Almunia  said the Brussels-based authority will decide on the
deal on Feb. 1. Companies can appeal a merger ban at the EU
courts.  Reuters earlier reported the result of the yesterday’s vote
among national watchdogs.  Olympus Clears KPMG in Fraud, Faults Internal Auditors  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera maker that hid $1.7
billion in losses, faulted five internal auditors for the fraud
and said KPMG Azsa LLC and Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC weren’t
responsible.  A panel the company set up to investigate the fraud
determined that five internal auditors are culpable for 8.4
billion yen ($109 million) in costs related to the cover-up of
losses, Olympus said yesterday in a statement. The company filed
a lawsuit in Tokyo District Court against the internal auditors
seeking a combined 1 billion yen in damages, Olympus said in a
separate statement yesterday.  President Shuichi Takayama is scheduled to disclose what
else the company will do in response to the panel’s findings,
Tokyo-based Olympus said. The company, also the world’s biggest
maker of endoscopes, last week sued 19 current and former
executives including Takayama over their roles in concealing
losses in a scandal that has led to a drop of about $4 billion
in Olympus’s market value.  The panel’s probe found Minoru Ota, a former internal
auditor at Olympus who headed its accounting unit until 2001,
responsible for 3.7 billion yen of fees and other costs related
to the cover-up, the largest amount among the five people,
Olympus said in the statement.  The other four auditors, Tadao Imai, Makoto Shimada, Yasuo
Nakamura and Katsuo Komatsu, didn’t fulfill their duties and
were responsible for the remaining 4.7 billion yen of cover-up
expenses, the company said.  Courts  Dart’s Fund May Get Top Court Review on Argentine Judgment  Two funds, one controlled by billionaire Kenneth Dart, may
get a  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  hearing in their legal fight to collect
at least $2 billion owed by the government of Argentina.  The justices yesterday asked the Obama administration for
advice on an appeal by Dart’s EM Ltd. and NML Capital Ltd., an
affiliate of the New York-based hedge fund Elliott Associates
LP, in a multi-pronged dispute stemming from Argentina’s 2001
default on $95 billion of bonds.  The funds, which refused to exchange their securities in a
2005 Argentine debt swap, are seeking to enforce $2 billion in
judgments they have won in U.S. court cases.  In the case acted on yesterday, EM and NML are trying to
seize $100 million in Argentine central bank assets being held
at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. A federal appeals court
said that money is shielded under the U.S. Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act.  Argentina believes the U.S. will support its position, said
an official at the country’s central bank who declined to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Dart is president of Mason, Michigan-based Dart Container
Corp., the world’s largest maker of foam cups. He gave up his
U.S. citizenship in the 1990s to avoid taxes and moved to the
Cayman Islands.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  didn’t take part in yesterday’s
order. She was involved in the litigation over Argentina’s bonds
as an appeals court judge.  The case is EM Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 11-604.  TD Bank (TD)  Aided Rothstein Fraud, Investors’ Lawyer Tells Jury  TD Bank helped Scott Rothstein, the convicted Florida
attorney, keep his $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme afloat by assuring
victims their money was safe while Rothstein depleted the
accounts, a lawyer for investors told a jury.  David Mandel, an attorney for Coquina Investments, in
closing arguments yesterday after a trial in Miami, pointed to
letters in which bank Vice President Frank Spinosa said
Rothstein’s account was locked and the money in it could be
disbursed only to Corpus Christi, Texas-based Coquina.  Coquina Investments’ Rothstein lawsuit is the first such
case against the bank to go to trial. Attorneys representing
other investors have been watching it closely.  “This case is very significant,” said William Scherer, an
attorney representing a group that lost $180 million. “This is
the canary in the coal mine for our case.”  Scherer is also suing TD Bank, a unit of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, claiming it had a direct role in the fraud.  Mandel asked for $32 million in compensatory damages and
$140 million in punitive damages.  Holly R. Skolnick, a lawyer for TD Bank, said Coquina must
have realized that investments earning almost 50 percent in a
few months were too good to be legitimate.  Rothstein told victims of his fraud that they were buying
stakes in sexual and employment discrimination settlements that
his law firm, Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA, was handling. The
settlements were fictional.  Skolnick disputed the idea that Coquina relied on the
letter Spinosa wrote, noting that it said Rothstein still
controlled the account.  “This letter took on a new meaning, became the hook after
Ponzi scheme exploded when they were looking for somebody with
deep pockets to sue,” she said.  Rothstein pleaded guilty to five counts of wire fraud,
conspiracy and racketeering and was sentenced to 50 years in
prison in 2010.  The scheme collapsed in October 2009 and Rothstein briefly
fled to Morocco before returning to the United States to turn
himself in. He is cooperating with authorities and attorneys as
they sue alleged enablers of the fraud.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-
cv-60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  Credit Suisse Judge Tosses Claims Bank Misled on  AOL (AOL)  Stock  Credit Suisse First Boston and four of its former
executives, including technology investment banker Frank
Quattrone, won dismissal of a lawsuit alleging they deceived
investors into buying AOL  Time Warner (TWX)  stock.  U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston threw out
both of the claims in the class-action complaint against the
bank and the executives after finding that a study by the
plaintiffs’ expert witness was flawed, according to a Jan. 13
ruling. The case was set to go to trial in March.  The case was brought by individuals and a pension fund that
bought stock in AOL Time Warner Inc. from the time of its merger
in January 2001 until a disclosure in July 2002 of an
investigation of its accounting practices. They claimed that 35
research reports issued by the  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  unit over
that period recommended buying the stock and set unattainable
financial projections even as the analysts knew the company
couldn’t reach those results.  The failure by the expert witness, Scott Hakala, to
“isolate the effect of defendants’ alleged fraud from other
industry- and company-specific news reported on event days
confounds his event study and renders it unreliable,” Gorton
said in his ruling.  The case is In re: Credit Suisse-AOL Securities Litigation,
02-12146, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  Amazon.com Sued by Customer Over Hackers’ Theft of Zappos Data  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  was accused in a lawsuit by a customer of
its Zappos.com unit of violating federal consumer credit laws by
failing to protect her personal information after the company
said hackers stole account numbers and other data.  Theresa Stevens, a resident of Beaumont, Texas, said that
as a result of the breach, she and other Zappos customers are
more likely to receive e-mails from spoof websites and
unknowingly give away personal information to hackers, according
to her complaint filed Jan. 16 in federal court in Louisville,
Kentucky. The customers will also incur expenses for credit
monitoring and suffer emotional distress and loss of privacy,
according to the complaint.  Stevens seeks to represent 24 million Zappos customers
whose personal information was compromised, according to the
complaint. She received an e-mail from the online shoe retailer
Jan. 16 saying her information was stolen as part of a data
breach. Hackers gained access to Zappos.com’s internal network
through unprotected computer servers located in Shepherdsville,
Kentucky, according to the complaint.  Stevens seeks unspecified damages and a court order
requiring Amazon.com to pay for credit monitoring and identity
theft insurance. Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based
Amazon, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment yesterday about the lawsuit.  The case is Stevens v. Amazon.com, 12-cv-00032, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Kentucky (Louisville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  