-- Irish Move Into Empty Offices Escalates Bust Legacy Battle
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-01-18T12:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/irish-move-into-empty-buildings-escalates-battle-for-bust-legacy.html
A new front in the battle for
Ireland’s empty properties has opened up.  Before dawn on Christmas Day, activists took  control  of an
unfinished six-story glass-fronted building in the city of Cork
called Stapleton House. Instead of using the 25,000 square feet
(2,300 square meters) for offices and stores, they plan to
create a cafe, creche, library and music school for community
groups. They already hosted a ceili, a traditional Irish dance.  “We are taking it back for the people of Cork,” Liam
Mullaney, a 35-year-old spokesman for the group of about a dozen
protesters that seized the government-controlled building, said
in an interview at the site. “It belongs to the taxpayers.”  Mullaney and his group are putting an Irish twist on the
 Occupy Wall Street  movement, which began in  New York  and has
spread to cities around the world, and highlighting Ireland’s
record number of empty properties, or so-called ghost estates
and orphan sites. About 20 percent of Ireland’s office space is
vacant, double the European average, according to estimates from
 CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   The loans that financed the building in the center of
Ireland’s second-largest city are now controlled by the National
Asset Management Agency, set up by the government in 2009 to rid
banks of toxic commercial property assets, a person familiar
with the matter said. He didn’t want to be identified because
the information on ownerships is private.  Unwanted Buildings  Ireland’s landscape is dotted with empty and unfinished
buildings, started during the decade-long real estate boom that
ground to a halt in 2008. Commercial real-estate prices have
fallen as much as 65 percent since the market peaked in 2007,
according to CBRE, deterring developers from putting more
unwanted properties on the market.  The asset management agency, known as  NAMA , has bought
11,500 real-estate loans related to 16,000 properties since it
was set up, Chairman Frank Daly told a parliamentary committee
on Sept. 9. The Dublin-based body had more than 1,000  assets 
listed for sale when Occupy Cork took over Stapleton House, one
of the most potentially valuable commercial buildings in the
city of 127,000 people.  “Walk around any town in Ireland and you can see empty
office and retail space,” said Rob Kitchin, director at the
 National Institute for Regional and Spatial Analysis  in
Maynooth, a town west of Dublin. “The maxim developed in the
U.S. is minimize the loss, maximize the profit, do as much as
social good as you can, but it’s not always that simple.
Ultimately, NAMA needs to get its money back from somebody and
somewhere.”  ‘Unique Landmark’  Padlake Ltd., a Cork-based company, was listed as the owner
of Stapleton House. According to public documents, Padlake
controlled the property and Anglo Irish Bank Corp. registered a
charge against the premises on Oct. 26, 2006. Padlake was
dissolved on Feb. 5, 2011, the documents show.  In a listing for the property, Dublin-based  DTZ Sherry
FitzGerald  describes the building as a unique landmark
development offering “one of the most modern working
environments in Cork’s commercial district.”  It would have 21,000 square feet of retail space and 4,000
square feet of offices when fitted out, according to DTZ Sherry.
Right now, the walls are bare and the concrete floors echo with
the sound of the activists readying the building for its gradual
opening. The activists say the building has been lying idle
since about 2008.  Legal Options  “In situations where the asset, which is security for a
loan, isn’t being protected, NAMA will examine all available
legal options to protect the asset,” the agency said in a
statement. A spokesman declined to comment on the Cork building.  NAMA was created to purge banks of 74.2 billion euros ($94
billion) of commercial real-estate loans, for which it paid less
than half that. The agency approved asset sales totaling 6.2
billion euros, Chief Executive Officer  Brendan McDonagh  said
last month. It’s scheduled to complete its work by 2019.  When the real-estate bubble burst, Ireland was left “with
a hell of a hangover that will take some time to resolve,” said
 Brian Hayes , a junior minister, in a speech today. “Nobody
wants a return to the excesses of the wild years -- the toxic
brew of crazy borrowing by developers, the mad and bad lending
by banks, the poor to non-existent bank regulation and worse
politics.”  ‘Can of Worms’  After obtaining a key, Mullaney’s group chose to occupy the
property on Oliver Plunkett Street to “open the can of worms”
surrounding NAMA and fuel an anti- bondholder  campaign that has
so far failed to catch fire in Ireland.  “People couldn’t relate to us sleeping in tents on the
street,” said Finbarr O’Connor, a former construction worker
who is working to open the building. “This makes more sense to
them.”  The occupation of Stapleton House is an escalation of a
campaign which has seen activists camp in the streets of Cork
and in Dublin outside the country’s central bank. Mullaney said
he wants his move to set a precedent.  The Occupy Dublin movement says it may seek to follow the
lead of their Cork colleagues, while activists in  Belfast  took
over an empty building this week that used to house a  Bank of
Ireland Plc  office in the city.  ‘Occupy Belfast’  Activists unfurled a banner reading “Occupy Belfast” and
supporters hoisted supplies to them via ropes. A police jeep sat
outside the building.  Dublin-based  Bank of Ireland  was one of six lenders saved
by the state in 2008, when the government guaranteed most of the
bank industry’s liabilities after the financial system almost
collapsed. Displayed on one of Stapleton House’s glazed windows
is a list of bank  bonds  the government has agreed to redeem.  The most potent symbol of the real-estate meltdown is in
Dublin, about 260 kilometers (160 miles) northeast of Cork.  The unfinished eight-story office block on the city’s North
Quay was meant to be the headquarters of the former  Anglo Irish (ANGL) 
before the company came close to collapse in 2008. The lender
bankrolled many of the developers that fueled the boom and was
only saved by a 30 billion-euro bailout from the government.  The site was abandoned four years ago and investors
visiting the city routinely ask cab drivers to take them by the
shell, McDonagh, the head of NAMA, told lawmakers on Oct. 26.  “The Anglo building is the most toxic image of the Celtic
Tiger years,” said Paschal Mahoney, 47, an architect in Dublin
who wants to turn the building into a so-called  vertical park .
“We have to acknowledge we have made mistakes. We don’t do that
by simply brushing them under the carpet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at  at
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 