-- IRS Called Easy on Criminal Tax Evaders in Watchdog’s Critique
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/irs-easy-on-criminal-tax-evaders-watchdog.html
Criminal tax evaders have an easier
time coming clean with the  Internal Revenue Service  than those
who didn’t intend to hide money from U.S. authorities, according
to  Nina Olson , the National Taxpayer Advocate.  U.S. citizens who purposefully stashed money offshore can
come forward, pay a set fee to the IRS and avoid criminal
prosecution. The situation is more complicated for persons who
unintentionally shielded assets from the U.S. They might learn
that they could owe the IRS less if they backed out of the so-
called voluntary disclosure program. That, in turn, could
trigger an examination that might be more strenuous than if they
participated in the disclosure initiative, Olson says.  The voluntary disclosure program is part of efforts to
close the estimated $385 billion gap between  taxes  owed by U.S.
citizens and corporations and the amount collected by the IRS.
Olson warned Congress in a Jan. 11 report that confusion over
the treatment of accidental tax evaders could hurt future
collection efforts.  The agency’s 2009 voluntary disclosure program “appears to
have been a great deal for those engaged in criminal  tax
evasion ,” Olson said in her annual report to Congress. The IRS
“is likely to have more difficulty gaining participation in any
future settlement initiatives.”  Michelle Eldridge, an IRS spokeswoman, said the agency
“strongly disagrees” with Olson’s findings.  Voluntary Disclosure  The 2009 voluntary disclosure initiative was a “highly
successful program that provided a way for taxpayers with
previously undisclosed accounts and unreported income to come
into compliance with the U.S. tax laws,” Eldridge said in a
statement.  Olson operates as an autonomous figure within the IRS,
working on behalf of taxpayers to resolve conflicts with the
agency. Her report was sent to lawmakers two days after IRS
Commissioner Doug Shulman announced that the agency would revive
the voluntary disclosure program a third time. He said the
agency collected $4.4 billion in the first two iterations of the
program and is “gaining momentum” in its fight against tax
evasion.  Meanwhile, it is fairly common for taxpayers to find that
they didn’t declare some assets or pay taxes, without intending
to evade their U.S. tax bill, said Kenneth Silverberg, a partner
at  Nixon Peabody LLP (1164L)  in Washington. He said he has clients who
are dual citizens and didn’t realize they had tax liabilities in
the U.S. Others, he said, inherit offshore accounts from
relatives that were never declared. “I continue to be surprised
at how many clients I have in these situations,” he said.  Tax Prosecutions  Beyond the disclosure initiative, the U.S. has prosecuted
clients of  UBS AG (UBS)  and  HSBC (HSBC)  Holdings Plc for tax evasion.
 Switzerland ’s Weglin & Co. said on Jan. 4 that three of its
bankers were charged with conspiring to help U.S. clients hide
more than $1.2 billion from tax authorities.  Also, the IRS and Treasury Department are working to craft
rules that would require overseas banks to identify customers
who are U.S. citizens, making it more difficult for them to
escape their tax bills.  The IRS voluntary disclosure program began in 2009 with a
promise that participants wouldn’t pay a penalty higher than
would be assessed under current law. In her report, Olson calls
this pledge the “bait” that encouraged citizens to work with
the IRS.  Cap on Penalties  The current penalty for a citizen who unintentionally fails
to disclose and pay taxes on overseas holdings is capped at
$10,000 for each instance. For some, that penalty could be much
less than what he or she would have to pay as part of the
voluntary disclosure program. In 2009, the IRS assessed
participants a penalty that was 20 percent of their most
valuable offshore assets or their largest bank accounts. That
penalty increased to 25 percent in 2011 and 27.5 percent
announced last week for 2012.  Olson’s report says IRS agents initially had discretion to
lower the penalties in voluntary disclosure cases where the
evasion wasn’t purposeful. That approach changed on March 1,
2011 when the IRS sent a  memo  to agents limiting their authority
to reduce penalties. Olson said this memo was the “switch.”  Silverberg says one of his clients unintentionally failed
to disclose income and pay the required taxes. His tax bill is
about $4,000, and the IRS wants to charge him more than $550,000
in penalties.  Even though the client’s tax bill is relatively small, his
penalty could be large because the IRS levies it against the
participant’s largest bank account or most expensive asset.  ‘Coerce People’  “The IRS is trying to coerce people,” he said.  Eldridge, the IRS spokeswoman, called the bait-and-switch
accusation “inaccurate.”  “The 2009 effort was a voluntary program that taxpayers
could choose to enter into,” she said in a statement. “If at
any time during the certification process a taxpayer disagreed
with the results provided for under the program, the taxpayer
could opt out of the program and make their case for lower
penalties.”  Opting out of the disclosure program presents its own
challenges, said Jorge Rodriguez, an attorney who has a tax
practice in Washington and  New York .  “The problem with the opt-out is the taxpayer almost
certainly faces an examination and certainly faces a skeptical
IRS agent reviewing their file,” he said.  ‘Negative’ Treatment  Guidance released by the IRS said a taxpayer shouldn’t be
“treated in a negative fashion merely because he or she chooses
to opt out.” The agency outlined several examples where it
might make sense for someone to leave the voluntary disclosure
program, including when the taxpayer doesn’t have a deficiency
even though the person didn’t report income.  Lawyers said they still aren’t willing to risk the
examination process that might be triggered if their clients
left the disclosure program. Silverberg said he is awaiting
guidance from Shulman on whether IRS agents should have more
discretion to reduce the penalties for those remaining in the
voluntary disclosure program.  “I’m stalling,” he said. “I’m hoping it won’t be
necessary to do the opt-out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  