-- Israel’s Gospel Trail Woos Pilgrims Seeking Footsteps of Jesus
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/israel-s-gospel-trail-woos-pilgrims-seeking-footsteps-of-jesus.html
We are standing on a fertile
hillside in northern  Israel . Fernando Betancourt, an Arizona
pastor, looks down at the Sea of Galilee spread before us.  “Everyone should come and have the experience,” says
Betancourt, who is leading a group of 70 of his flock on
Israel’s newly-marked “Gospel Trail.” “We are walking the
places that Jesus walked.”  Some pilgrims simply stroll along the path. Others can
choose to bike, ride on horseback, or even sail.  The 62-kilometer (38.5 mile) route traces the path that
Jesus may have taken when he left his home of Nazareth for
Capernaum, on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. Visitors can
choose which sections to do, allowing for short walks, and the
path is wheelchair-accessible in places.  Some 2.4 million Christians come to Israel each year --
about two-thirds of all visitors -- and the number is expected
to increase by another 200,000 in two years, according to the
Tourism Ministry, which has set up a desk for religious travel.
About half of Christian vacationers are on a spiritual visit or
pilgrimage.  “It’s a big help for the faith,” says Alberto Guaba, 28,
a Catholic seminarian from the  Dominican Republic  who is
spending a year in the Holy Land as part of his training. “To
see a place where Jesus walked and lived shows you it’s not just
a story. Many people study in catechism classes, but it’s
another thing to come and see for yourself.”  Mount Precipice  The trail covers sites that by tradition have been
associated with places mentioned in the Gospel, such as Mount
Precipice, said to be the place described in Luke where irate
townspeople attempted to throw Jesus off a cliff.  Visitors may also take in Tel Kinrot, which offers
panoramic views of the Sea of Galilee, including Tabgha, the
site where by tradition, the miracle of the multiplication of
loaves and fishes, described in Matthew, took place. They can
stop off at Kafr Kanna, the Arab-Christian town associated with
Cana, where Jesus performed the miracle of turning water into
wine, according to John.  “Hold the Bible in your hand, read the verses that you
choose and you have a beautiful narrative,” says Yossi Granit,
an Israeli tour guide. “For some it’s sport; for some it’s
spiritual.”  A short side trip takes hikers to Ein Nun, a spring at the
foot of the town of Migdal, or Magdala in the New Testament, by
tradition the home of Mary Magdalene. Eucalyptus and palm trees
surround the renovated spring, where travelers can sit at picnic
tables and watch the ducks swim across the clear water.  Mary’s Pilgrim  “I think a pilgrim would ask himself: did Mary Magdalene
use this spring?” Uri Sharon, a Tourism Ministry official says.  From the Mount of Beatitudes, where some Christians believe
Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount, a dirt path leads down
to the Sea of Galilee, with the  Golan Heights  looming in the
background.  Olive trees, wild grass, rocks and thistles carpet the
landscape, with only an occasional electric pylon to interrupt
the pastoral scene.  Tourism officials are hoping the trail will give a boost to
private initiatives such as hotels, restaurants, and encourage
stables and bicycle rental shops, for those who wish to travel
the route by horse or bike.  Travelers can also cruise the Sea of Galilee, where boat
operators offer sunrise and sunset journeys and a “Miracle of
Fish and Loaves” meal. Seagulls fly alongside the boat, as the
late afternoon sun leaves a pink path on water.  “You can’t feel the same experience in California, Paris
or  London ,” Tourism Minister Stas Misezhnikov says. “Here you
walk step by step after Jesus. You can see what Jesus saw.”  Information:  http://bit.ly/yfbvIJ   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 