-- Ivanhoe Mines to Scrap Rights Plan as Rio Seeks Larger Stake
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-19T01:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ivanhoe-mines-board-endorses-ending-shareholder-rights-plan.html
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (IVN)  decided to scrap
a so-called shareholder rights plan, clearing the way for Rio
Tinto Group to increase its stake and gain control of the
developer of the Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in  Mongolia .  Ivanhoe will recommend investors vote to end the rights
plan at its annual meeting on May 11, the Vancouver-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Rio has been restricted
to holding a 49 percent stake in Ivanhoe by a standstill
agreement, which was set to expire yesterday, Ivanhoe said.  At stake is control of one of the world’s largest untapped
copper and gold deposits that Rio estimates will cost about $6
billion to develop. The London-based company has advised Ivanhoe
it intends to acquire more shares to raise its  stake  above 50
percent, regardless of the rights plan, Ivanhoe said.  “Rio’s first step would be to go past 50 percent and
that’s the urgency,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about
$1 billion, including Rio shares, at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd. in Sydney. “From a shareholders point of view, you’d
prefer them not to go hostile so that there’s no risk of
overpaying, so the creep aspect is clearly better.”  Shares in Rio, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
rose 0.7 percent to A$67.06 as of 11:33 a.m. in Sydney trading
today, poised for their highest close since Nov. 17. Ivanhoe
 rose  0.1 percent to C$19.31 in Toronto yesterday.  It’s unlikely that a third party will emerge as a rival
bidder for Ivanhoe, Platypus’s Patkar said. Ivanhoe has a market
value of C$14.3 billion ($14.1 billion).  Plan Trigger  “We welcome Ivanhoe’s decision to suspend immediately the
shareholder rights plan,” Rio said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We are free to increase our shareholding as we see
fit, without triggering the plan.”  Ivanhoe owns 66 percent of Oyu Tolgoi and the Mongolian
government controls the remainder. The project will be one of
the world’s five-biggest copper mines, according to Rio, which
controls Oyu Tolgoi’s management.  “This is very good news in terms of Ivanhoe being taken
over by Rio,”, a Toronto-based analyst at Salman
Partners Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It makes it a
lot easier for Rio or anyone else.”  Arbitration Ruling  An arbitrator ruled last month that Rio would be allowed to
maintain its ownership level in Ivanhoe if Rio’s actions
triggered the rights plan. Rio had said the plan contravened a
2006 agreement between the two companies.  The so-called poison pill would have allowed Ivanhoe to
issue new shares to block an attempted takeover.  Ivanhoe’s board adopted its rights plan in April 2010 “to
protect all shareholders, while allowing takeover bids that are
made to all shareholders and that satisfy certain conditions,”
the company said last month.  Founder and Chief Executive Officer Robert Friedland
controls about 14 percent of Ivanhoe stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ivanhoe also said yesterday its board approved a $1.8
billion bridge financing that could be used to complete the
first phase of Oyu Tolgoi.  Ivanhoe and Rio are working toward arranging as much as $4
billion of financing for the project, according to the statement.
Their plan is to complete the financing in the second quarter.  Oyu Tolgoi, which is 80 kilometers (50 miles) north of
Mongolia’s border with  China , contains an estimated 81 billion
pounds of copper and 46 million ounces of gold, according to
Ivanhoe’s  website .  Construction is now more than 70 percent complete and
initial production is expected in the middle of this year,
Ivanhoe said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  