-- J&J’s Risperdal Sales May Have Violated Pact, Witness Said
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-18T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/j-j-s-risperdal-sales-may-have-violated-agreement-witness-said.html
A  Johnson & Johnson  unit’s marketing
of its Risperdal antipsychotic drug to doctors treating mentally
ill children may have violated the drugmaker’s agreement with
 Texas , a state official testified.  A push by J&J’s  Janssen  unit to increase Risperdal
prescriptions for children and adolescents before 2006 may have
broken the drugmaker’s promises to “comply with all state and
federal laws” in exchange for having the drug covered by the
Texas Medicaid program, Billy Milwee, the state Medicaid
director, told a jury today. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  didn’t approve Risperdal for any pediatric use
until 2006.  If the company pushed Risperdal for unapproved uses, “it
would be operating outside state and federal law,” Milwee
testified in the trial of the state’s lawsuit over Janssen’s
marketing of the drug.  Texas contends  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, the
world’s largest health-care products company, defrauded the
Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not approved by
U.S. regulators, including for children with psychiatric
disorders. The state joined a lawsuit filed by a whistle-blower,
 Allen Jones , a former Pennsylvania health-care fraud
investigator.  Lawyers for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  are asking
jurors in state court in Austin, Texas, to order J&J and Janssen
to pay at least $579 million in damages over the companies’
Risperdal marketing practices.  Company’s Promise  Milwee said Janssen officials promised to honor all
applicable laws in 1994 when it first applied to have Risperdal
prescriptions in the state covered by Medicare. It reiterated
the promise seven more times over the next 13 years, he added.  Texas’s Medicaid agreement requires disclosure by drug
companies if they violate state or federal laws, Milwee said.
Janssen never made any such disclosure over the unapproved
marketing of the drug to doctors who treat children suffering
from mental illnesses, he added.  The state’s Medicaid program “would not have engaged as
great a cost as it did” if Janssen officials hadn’t misled
doctors and regulators about Risperdal’s superiority to other
antipsychotics and avoided marketing the drug for unapproved
uses, Milwee added.  The state contends it paid 45 times more for Risperdal than
comparable drugs after accepting the company’s claims that it
was superior to rival medications.  Still on List  Milwee acknowledged under cross-examination that Texas
officials haven’t removed Risperdal from its list of drugs
eligible to be covered by Medicaid.  John P. McDonald, one of Jansen’s lawyers, asked if it’s
true that “a drug doesn’t have to be the safest or even the
cheapest in its class” to be on the list. Milwee agreed those
aren’t requirements.  Valerie Robinson , a child psychiatrist who serves on a
state board that evaluates the performance of drugs on the
Medicaid-approved list, testified she received “numerous
visits” from a Janssen salesperson in the mid-1990s touting the
benefits of Risperdal for her patients.  “At that time, there was no indication for its use with
children,” Robinson, based in Lubbock, Texas, told jurors in a
videotaped deposition.  Pumping Up Sales  Jurors also heard testimony from  Tone Jones , a former
Janssen executive, who said company officials pushed salespeople
to step up visits to child psychologists in hopes of pumping up
Risperdal sales.  The reason Janssen focused on children and adolescents as a
source for more Risperdal prescriptions to broaden the market
for the drug, said Jones, a former quarterback for Oklahoma
State University who graduated in 1996.  Federal regulators had only approved the drug for use in
adult schizophrenics and that amounted to about 1 percent of the
 U.S. population , Jones said.  A drug “can’t be a billion-dollar product in a 1 percent
market,” he testified in a videotaped deposition.  The case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  