-- Japan’s Currency Probably 25 Percent Overvalued, Goldman’s O’Neill Says
-- B y   E l e a n o r   W a r n o c k
-- 2012-01-18T03:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/japan-s-currency-probably-25-percent-overvalued-goldman-s-o-neill-says.html
The yen is probably 25 percent 
overvalued and Japan’s days of trade and current account 
surpluses “look to be finished,” according to  Jim O’Neill , 
the economist who coined the term BRIC a decade ago.  “Japan appears to be losing its current account surplus
capability. That, together with 1 percent bond yields and debt
to GDP of 200 percent of GDP, with a currency that’s probably
overvalued by at least 25 percent, strikes me as, for big macro
guys, very interesting,” said O’Neill, chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track” with  Erik Schatzker .  Japan’s ability to keep borrowing costs the second-lowest
in the developed world depends in part on its position as a net
holder of external assets. A strong yen cutting into company
profits and exports may push the  current-account balance  into a
deficit, pushing up bond yields and making it more expensive
for the country to borrow.  Japan’s currency reached a postwar high of 75.35 per
dollar on Oct. 31 and an 11-year high against Europe’s common
currency on Jan. 16 after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the
credit ratings of nine Euro-area countries. Japanese
authorities intervened at least three times last year to halt
the yen’s rise and keep it from eroding the economy’s recovery
from the Mar. 11 earthquake and tsunami.  The day when a short position on Japanese bonds will pay
off is “getting closer and closer,” according to O’Neill. He
says Japan is “much more interesting than the European thing
now.  Europe  was interesting 18 months ago, not so much now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Warnock in Tokyo at 
 eleanorwarnock@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  