-- Yang’s Exit From Yahoo May Remove Barrier to Asia Asset Sale
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-18T21:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/jerry-yang-s-exit-from-yahoo-seen-as-removing-obstacle-to-asia-asset-sale.html
Jerry Yang ’s exit from  Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc.
removes one of the last vestiges of a management team chided by
investors for failing to find a buyer or negotiate a sale of
stakes in Asian assets worth more than $10 billion.  Now that co-founder Yang has cut leadership ties to  Yahoo (YHOO) ,
newly appointed Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson has freer
rein to unwind the company’s part-ownership of Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. and Yahoo  Japan  Corp. Yahoo is still pursuing the
sale of the holdings, while also talking with private-equity
firms about selling a minority stake in itself, a person with
knowledge of the matter said. An Asian deal is more likely and
may be concluded in the coming weeks, the person said.  Yahoo, the most popular U.S. Web portal, said yesterday
that Yang, 43, is stepping down from the board of directors and
its management. Yang also left the boards of Yahoo Japan and
Alibaba Group, Yahoo said in a statement.  “He’s been perceived to be an impediment to change,” said
 Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in Del Ray Beach,
 Florida , who has a “hold” rating on Yahoo. “The founder has
left, so even though Thompson is new, he is more in control
today than yesterday.”  Taking On Google  Yang’s departure may also help Thompson mount a more
credible threat to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. in online
advertising, Moran said.  Additional board departures are likely, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. Four more directors will exit the
board, the technology blog AllThingsDigital  reported  yesterday.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to
comment.  After co-founding Yahoo with David Filo in 1995 when they
were doctoral students at  Stanford University , Yang helped
create the world’s most popular website, with a market
capitalization greater than $100 billion. Yahoo lost its luster
in recent years as Google snared a larger share of the search-
advertising market and Facebook captured the attention of people
who sought a more social experience on the Web.  Yang’s exit follows the ouster of CEO  Carol Bartz  in
September 2011. She was replaced by Thompson, former president
of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit.  Alibaba Clash  Bartz clashed with Alibaba Group CEO Jack Ma, while Yang
was unsuccessful in clinching a sale of the stakes in the Asian
companies. The changes could make it easier to close a
transaction, said Allen Weiner, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in
Austin,  Texas .  “By clearing out some artifacts of the past, it’s symbolic
of the company’s desire to move forward,” he said. “With Jerry
out of the way, it will perhaps make negotiations with the folks
at Alibaba easier.”  Alibaba Group CEO Jack Ma said he has “great respect” for
what Yang has built at Yahoo.  “Jerry is a longtime friend with whom I have had a strong
personal and professional relationship that has withstood some
ups and downs over the past few years,” Ma said in statement.
“We look forward to continuing our constructive relationship
with the Yahoo board and leadership.”  Yang, who had the position of “chief Yahoo,” was CEO from
June 2007 to January 2009. After the Sunnyvale, California-based
company rejected an acquisition offer from  Microsoft (MSFT)  for $47.5
billion, Yang was replaced by Bartz as CEO.  Board Criticized  Yahoo investor Third Point LLC late last year demanded two
board seats and asked for Yang to step down as a director. Third
Point CEO  Daniel Loeb  cited the “board’s inability -- or
perhaps unwillingness -- to properly solicit true strategic
alternative bids, let alone to negotiate them,” in a November
statement. Third Point already had called for Chairman Roy Bostock to step down last year.  Yahoo shares rose 3.2 percent to $15.92 at the close in  New
York . The stock declined 3 percent last year.  Born in  Taiwan  and raised in  San Jose , about 10 miles south
of Yahoo’s headquarters, Yang and Filo took Yahoo public with
CEO Timothy Koogle in 1996.  As traffic on the Web soared, so did ad revenue, helping
Yahoo’s stock value surge. Then the market collapsed during the
dot-com bust. After peaking in January 2000, Yahoo shares
plummeted 97 percent before bottoming out in September 2001.
Today, the company is valued at about $19.7 billion.  Media Efforts  Yahoo had already been through management and identity
shifts before Bartz’s reign. Terry Semel, a Warner Bros. movie
executive who knew Yang from an Allen & Co. media conference in
 Sun Valley ,  Idaho , replaced Koogle as CEO in 2001 and stepped up
efforts to make the company a media hub. While Semel presided
over five years of more than 20 percent sales growth, the
company lost its lead in Internet ads to Google.  When Yang became CEO in June 2007, he vowed to renew the
struggle against Google’s growing dominance.  “I’m ready to dig in and make sure we can take Yahoo to
the next level,” Yang said at the time.  In 2008, after Yang failed to jump-start sales growth,
Microsoft stepped forward to acquire Yahoo -- an offer that Yang
spurned. Yang tried to assuage investors through a partnership
with Google, though the effort was scuttled amid regulatory
scrutiny. The company later forged an agreement that handed
Internet-search technology to Microsoft, the world’s largest
software maker.  Icahn’s Involvement  Yang’s handling of the Microsoft negotiations rankled
investors, including billionaire  Carl Icahn , who successfully
lobbied to add new board members in 2008. Icahn, who is no
longer on the board, sold the last of his stake in 2010.  “My time at Yahoo, from its founding to the present, has
encompassed some of the most exciting and rewarding experiences
of my life,” Yang said in a letter to Bostock included in
yesterday’s statement. “However, the time has come for me to
pursue other interests outside of Yahoo.” Yang didn’t respond
to a request for an interview.  Yang still owns 46.6 million shares, or 3.8 percent of the
company’s outstanding stock, according to a Nov. 25 filing.  “We appreciate Jerry’s comments and share his enthusiasm
for the company’s prospects,” said Bostock. “With  Scott
Thompson  leading an outstanding team of Yahoos to deliver
innovative products and an engaging customer experience, Yahoo’s
future is bright.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  