-- Julius Baer Said to Win Bid to Recover $43.8 Million From Singapore Trader
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-01-18T23:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/julius-baer-said-to-win-bid-to-recover-43-8-million-from-singapore-trader.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  won a bid in
Singapore to recover 34.1 million euros ($43.8 million) from
 LonGains Investment Pte  for a trade involving credit-linked
notes, according to two people familiar with the dispute.  Switzerland ’s biggest publicly traded private bank won the
ruling at Singapore’s High Court last week, said the people, who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the decision. Minutes
from the Jan. 11 closed hearing aren’t publicly available.  LonGains, a Singapore-based commodities investor and
trader, had no money in its Euro and U.S. dollar accounts when
it placed the trade in August on notes issued by BNP Paribas SA,
and linked to  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , according to Julius Baer’s Sept.
27 lawsuit. That triggered a 34.1 million euro overdraft, the
bank said in court papers.  “We’re going to appeal the decision,” LonGains director
Magindra Raw Manian said on Jan. 18. He declined to confirm the
value of the notes.  Tresor Anne Tan, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at  Julius
Baer , declined to comment on litigation matters.  It’s a “straightforward claim for money lent and unpaid
fees,” Michael Georg Gerny, head of legal products and services
at Julius Baer, said in a Dec. 7 court filing.  Julius Baer rose 1.4 percent to 36.76 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading yesterday.  The notes are bond-like securities which use credit-default
swaps to link to the performance of a company or a country’s
underlying debt, paying a fixed rate of interest based on the
price of the derivatives.  The case is Bank Julius Baer v LonGains Investment Pte
S668/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in  Singapore  at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  