-- Keeping Strait of Hormuz Open Harder as Iran Forces Grow, Report Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-18T18:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/keeping-strait-open-to-get-tougher-within-decade-as-iran-bolsters-forces.html
The U.S. and its allies would be
able to reverse any Iranian attempt to block oil traffic through
the  Strait of Hormuz  within weeks, according to the authors of a
report on Persian Gulf strategy. Reopening the shipping lanes
may prove harder in future years, they found.  “Iran has some capabilities today, in terms of anti-ship
cruise missiles, in terms of mines and swarming boats, that can
create a significant problem for us,” said Mark Gunzinger, co-
author of the report issued yesterday by the Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in Washington. “Can we
counter that challenge today? Yes. No question about it.”  Iran’s Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation may close the Strait, the passageway for about a
fifth of globally traded oil, if the U.S. and its allies impose
stricter economic sanctions in an effort to halt his country’s
nuclear research. Reopening the narrow channels would take as
long as a month if  Iran  laid thousands of mines and fired at
U.S. vessels with shore-based anti-ship cruise missiles and
small boats, Gunzinger and colleagues said in a briefing.  “We have no current indications that Iran is trying to
impede or halt maritime transits through the Strait of Hormuz,
which is an international waterway,”  George Little , a Pentagon
spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Prospects for 2021  The report issued yesterday focused on Iran’s future
capabilities, finding that reopening the Strait will be much
more difficult by 2021 if Iran continues to improve the quantity
and precision of weapons designed to confront U.S. forces.  “We’ve got some pretty good capabilities today, but the
trend line is worrisome, and we are really going to need to
focus on the kinds of capabilities they are going to acquire,”
said Gunzinger, a retired Air Force colonel and a former deputy
assistant secretary of defense for force transformation and
resources.  European Union foreign ministers are scheduled to decide
Jan. 23 whether to impose a ban on importing Iranian oil.  France  wants the EU embargo delayed by no more than three
months while members seek alternative supplies, a French
government official, who declined to be identified citing state
rules, said on Jan. 16. A six-month delay favored by more EU
nations remains the most likely compromise, according to a
second person, an EU diplomat who also spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are confidential.  ‘Be More Wise’  Oil was little changed in  New York  today. Crude for
February delivery dropped 2 cents to $100.69 a barrel at 12:32
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Iran cautioned Saudi Arabia yesterday after that nation’s
oil minister told CNN the kingdom can make up for any loss of
crude production under sanctions on Iran.  “If this comment is the official stance of  Saudi Arabia  we
advise Saudi officials to be more wise and responsible in their
approach,” Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said,
according to the state-run Fars news agency.  Iraq’s Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi, speaking in his
capacity as current head of OPEC, said today in  Baghdad  that he
will visit Iran tomorrow to seek assurances on the protection of
Persian Gulf crude shipments and Iranian production.  Mine-Sweeping Ships  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said in a television interview that aired Jan. 8 that
Iran has the ability to block the Strait “for a period of
time,” and the U.S. would take action to reopen it.  “We’ve invested in capabilities to ensure that if that
happens, we can defeat that,” Dempsey said.  The U.S. has four Avenger-class mine-sweeping ships in the
Gulf -- the USS Ardent, USS Dextrous, USS Gladiator and USS
Scout. The U.K.’s Royal Navy has another four vessels -- the HMS
Pembroke, HMS Middleton, HMS Quorn and HMS Ramsey, according to
the U.S. 5th Fleet in Bahrain.  The U.S. and its allies are concerned about the collective
effect of Iran’s so-called asymmetric warfare tactics, combining
midget submarines, mines and small fast-attack vessels,
according to a European military official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  Iran’s routine presence in the Persian Gulf and  Arabian Sea 
also creates difficulty in discerning whether a particular move
constitutes hostile intent, heightening the risk, the official
said.  Iran has sought to demonstrate its capabilities with small
surface craft in previous exercises, demonstrating the technique
of swarming an enemy’s ship.  Pentagon Assessments  The Pentagon’s first public  assessment  of Iran’s military
power in April 2010 listed four midget subs, 80 patrol craft and
18 guided missile patrol boats under control of the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps navy.  The Guard navy since the 1990s has purchased speedboats
from Italian manufacturer Fabio Buzzi Design and has been making
them domestically, according a 2009  report  by the U.S. Office of
Naval Intelligence. It also has Chinese-built C-14 missile boats
and North Korean-made “semi-submersible” vessels that can
carry two torpedoes.  The Strait “could be mined effectively in a relatively
short period of time,” the intelligence office’s report found.  Not every mine would have to be found and cleared before
shipping could resume, Chris Dougherty, an analyst with the
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, told reporters
yesterday.  ‘Robust’ Tankers  “Tankers are remarkably robust ships,” he said. “It’s
very difficult to sink them, even with a direct mine strike.
They are designed to take a hit and keep on going. Would
insurance rates spike for a little bit? Probably.”  Mines in the Strait could prompt insurance companies to
raise rates on tankers utilizing the waterway, which in turn
could lead at least temporarily to higher  oil prices .  U.S. officials who follow Iran for the U.S. Central Command
estimated in 2008 that Iran possessed as many as 5,000 mines.
That compares with 1,000 mines in the 1980s during its conflict
with  Iraq  and the “tanker war” with the West when it attempted
to block vessels.  These include moored mines such as a variant that damaged a
frigate, the USS Samuel Roberts, in April 1988 during the
Operation Earnest Will escort of Kuwaiti and Saudi tankers.  The inventory also includes as many as 600 advanced mines
bought from  Russia , such as the MDM-3, which can be dropped from
an aircraft. These “influence mines” can be programmed to
detonate based on a ship’s acoustic signature.  Iran was assessed in 2008 to possess a substantial
inventory of mines that could be laid by the three Russian-built
Kilo-class diesel subs it bought in the 1990s, officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  