-- Kinder Morgan Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises 16% on Gas Transport Increase
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-01-18T22:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/kinder-morgan-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-gas-transport-boost.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
the pipeline company whose parent is buying  El Paso Corp. (EP)  for
$20.7 billion, said fourth-quarter profit rose 16 percent as it
transported more natural gas.  Net income rose to $475 million, or 51 cents a unit, from
$409 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, the Houston-based
company said in a statement today. Excluding certain legal and
insurance expenses, asset sales and financial contracts, the
company earned 6 cents less than the average of 15  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 4 percent to $2 billion from $1.93 billion a
year earlier. Kinder Morgan’s gas-pipeline business shipped 11
percent more compared with the same period in 2010 after a new
line opened in the Fayetteville Shale field and the company
acquired a gathering system in the Haynesville field, according
to the statement. Shipments of gasoline and other refined
products fell 2.6 percent.  Kinder Morgan  will transport more gas this year as
production increases in shale fields, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  said on a conference call. The
company will also benefit as demand rises for carbon dioxide in
oilfields and exports of coal and refined products climb.  “This is the most diverse set of opportunities at any time
in Kinder Morgan’s 15-year history,” he said. The company
reiterated its forecast for an 8 percent increase in cash
distributions this year, to $4.98 a unit from $4.61 last year.  ‘Smaller Problems’  The fourth-quarter results will likely be overshadowed by
the El Paso takeover, Brian Watson, director of research at
SteelPath Advisors in  Dallas , said in an interview before the
earnings were announced.  The size of the deal makes the performance of individual
units at Kinder Morgan “smaller problems,” said Watson, who
helps manage about $2.2 billion.  The earnings were released after the close of regular
trading on U.S. markets. Kinder Morgan fell 0.1 percent to
$85.40 at 4:42 p.m. in  New York .  Kinder Morgan’s parent, Kinder Morgan Inc., announced Oct.
16 it will buy El Paso for $20.7 billion in cash and stock. The
deal would create the biggest U.S. gas pipeline network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  