-- Nanya, Inotera Post Eighth Quarter of Losses as DRAM Chip Prices Decline
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-18T07:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/nanya-inotera-post-eighth-quarter-of-losses-as-dram-chip-prices-decline.html
Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)  and  Inotera
Memories Inc. (3474) ,  Taiwan ’s second- and third-largest memory-chip
makers, posted their eighth quarter of losses as slowing demand
for personal computers pushed down prices.  Net loss widened 8 percent to NT$10.99 billion in the
fourth quarter, from NT$10.15 billion a year earlier, Nanya said
in a statement today. Inotera’s loss increased 29 percent to
NT$6.02 billion, it said in a statement.  Shipments of computers that use the chips Nanya and Inotera
make may have fallen short of expectations in the fourth quarter
as floods in  Thailand  disrupted supplies of disk drives used in
to make them, Microsoft Corp. said Jan. 10. Prices of dynamic
random-access memory, or DRAM, the most common chip used in
computers, fell by an average of 12 percent during the quarter
from the prior three-month period, Nanya Vice President Pai Pei- Lin told reporters in Taipei today.  “The current situation makes consolidation inevitable for
the industry,” said Charles Kau, president of Inotera, a
venture between Nanya and Boise, Idaho-based  Micron Technology
Inc. (MU)   Nanya’s fourth quarter loss was wider than the NT$9.7
billion average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
while Inotera’s NT$6.03 billion deficit beat the NT$6.6 billion
loss based on the average of nine analyst estimates. Both
companies last posted profits in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Shipments of DRAM, measured in bits, climbed 7 percent at
Nanya during the period from the prior three months, Pai said.
Deliveries will probably be flat in the first quarter compared
with the three months ended Dec. 31, Pai said.  Inotera’s board approved plans on Dec. 13 to sell
as many as 1.5 billion new shares to Nanya and Numonyx Inc.,
a unit of Micron, as well as take out a $133 million short-term
loan from Numonyx.  Nanya fell 6.6 percent to NT$2.12 at the 2:30 p.m. close of
trading in Taipei. The shares plunged 86 percent last year, the
second-worst performance in the FTSE Asia-Pacific Index after
Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of a nuclear power plant
crippled by an earthquake and tsunami in March. Nanya dropped 50
percent in 2010.  Inotera jumped 5.8 percent today, the biggest advance in
three weeks, to NT$5.33.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , a Japanese DRAM maker reorganizing with
government support, seeking a capital alliance with Micron, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported today.  The Tokyo-based chipmaker told lenders it intends to boost
its share in the market for the chips jointly with Micron, the
Yomiuri reported, without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 