-- NCC Group Chief Says Attacks From Cyber Hackers Are Increasing
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-18T08:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ncc-group-chief-says-attacks-from-cyber-hackers-are-increasing.html
Cyber attacks in the U.K. are rising
and companies are struggling to keep pace with increasingly
sophisticated hackers, said Rob Cotton, chief executive officer
of  NCC Group Plc. (NCC)   “It’s an arms race and one that we are in danger of not
winning,” said Cotton in a phone interview. “We’ve gone
through a technological revolution and we haven’t kept up.”  The U.K. economy lost 27 billion pounds ($42 billion) to
hacking in 2010,  Detica Group Ltd (DCA) ., a subsidiary of defense
company BAE Systems Plc, and the Cabinet Office said in a joint
study in February last year. More than 9 billion pounds was
stolen in intellectual property and around 7.5 billion in
espionage while the government spent 2.2 billion pounds in
defending itself against attacks.  NCC Group has seen “many cases” where companies request
the return of stolen money rather than prosecuting those
responsible, in order to keep the incident from being
publicized, Cotton said. In the U.S., the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in October that companies can’t
continue to hold back details of incidents.  “In the U.K. we don’t like to talk about it,” Cotton
said. “If corporations had to disclose that they’ve been
hacked, people would stop thinking there’s a stigma, and they’d
learn from it.”  The risk is also increasing as companies allow staff to
connect their own computers to the network in an attempt to save
costs, said Cotton.  Detica Group  NCC, which has seen its revenue double in the past two
years, counts 94 FTSE 100-listed companies among its clients
with many of its customers working in the financial services
industry. NCC shares have risen 60 percent in the year to date,
giving the company a market value of 300 million pounds. The
stock gained 4 percent to 895 pence at 8:20 a.m. in London.  Detica, the cyber-security arm of  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , is also
seeing increased demand, said David Garfield, head of Cyber
Security at BAE Systems Detica in an e-mailed statement. “We
have witnessed a rise in the number of organizations we have
spoken to who are recognizing the need to look at new approaches
in this area and we anticipate that this trend will develop as
the impetus grows for companies to monitor and even report these
kinds of attack.”  NCC, which is scheduled to report results for the six
months to Nov. 30 tomorrow, is seeking acquisitions for between
$10 million and $20 million on the East coast of the U.S.,
Cotton said.  “We expect more acquisitions and we hope that at some point
it will become a takeover target,” said Alex Jarvis, an analyst
at Peel Hunt in  London . Jarvis has a “buy” recommendation on
the stock.  Manchester, England-based NCC Group said Dec. 8 that full-
year pretax profit may reach as much as 21.5 million pounds
compared with analysts forecasts centred on 19.6 million pounds.  “Many companies are reluctant to reveal the true scale of
the threat against them,” a U.K. government spokesman, who
declined to be named citing government media policy, said in an
e-mailed statement. “That it is why it is so difficult to
estimate the true cost of cyber crime to the economy. The
figures are most likely on the conservative side. If the U.K. is
to remain truly competitive in the global marketplace then it
must get a firm grip of the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  