-- Ncondezi Coal Jumps by Record on Mozambique Rail Study With Rio
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-01-18T10:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ncondezi-signs-agreement-with-rio-on-mozambique-port-rail-study.html
Ncondezi Coal Ltd. (NCCL)  jumped the most
on record in London trading after it signed an agreement with
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and Minas de Revuboe to study the construction
of a port and railways in  Mozambique .  The deal gives Ncondezi, which plans to produce coal in
Mozambique, the right to access as much as 10 million metric
tons of rail and port capacity a year, it said today in a
statement. London-based  Rio Tinto , the world’s third-largest
mining company, will lead the study, it said. Rio owns the Benga
and Zambeze projects in the country.  “This looks to be an incredible result for Ncondezi,”
Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst Dominic O’Kane said today in a note
to clients. The accord “has hugely positive implications for
Ncondezi’s valuation, reducing required future equity injections
from shareholders.”  Ncondezi advanced as much as 35 percent to 66 pence, the
biggest gain since the company’s initial public offering in June
2010. The stock was 31 percent higher at 9:43 a.m. Rio Tinto
dropped 0.7 percent to 3,668.5 pence.  “Rio Tinto has significant experience in developing rail
and port infrastructure projects around the world, and I believe
that it is best placed to lead and implement this project in
Mozambique,” Ncondezi Chief Executive Officer Graham Mascall
said in the statement.  The study will assess the construction of 25 million to 100
million tons of port and rail capacity a year, Ncondezi said.
It’s planning to begin coal production in 2015.  Ncondezi holds four exploration licenses in the Mozambique
province of Tete, adjacent to projects owned by  Brazil ’s  Vale
SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron ore-exporter, and Rio Tinto. The
cost of building the company’s namesake project is estimated at
$376 million. Ncondezi is planning on annual production of as
much as 10 million tons of power station coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  