-- New York City Opera Says It Reached Agreement With Unions
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-18T19:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/new-york-city-opera-says-it-reached-tentative-deal-with-singers-musicians.html
Rehearsals are to begin today for
 New York  City Opera’s abbreviated season, after the company
reached provisional agreements with its two principal unions.  The three-year contracts must be ratified by members of the
 American Guild of Musical Artists  -- which represents choristers
and production staff -- and  Local 802 of the American Federation
of Musicians , according to statements from the opera and unions.  On Jan. 8, after talks deadlocked, the company announced a
lockout affecting 47 musicians and a few dozen choristers, stage
managers, directors, assistant directors and soloists. The
musicians’ union resumed talks over the weekend and reached an
agreement on Monday, said K.C. Boyle, a union spokesman. The
American Guild of Musical Artists reached its deal yesterday.  “Given what  City Opera  has become, it’s a good
agreement,” said  Alan Gordon , the AGMA’s national executive
director. “Good is a relative term.”  Many chorus members may leave the company this season and
opt for severance, Gordon said. He declined to disclose details
of the severance or the contract, aside from saying that health
insurance continues through January 2013 and that all sides
agreed to creating a “labor-management committee,” addressing
planning and fundraising.  Verdi’s “La Traviata,” is scheduled to begin Feb. 21 at
the Brooklyn Academy of Music. NYCO has three other productions
planned -- at BAM, the Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay
College of Criminal Justice in  Manhattan , and  El Museo del
Barrio  on Fifth Avenue and 104th Street.  George Steel , the artistic director and general manager,
said last year that the company didn’t have the money to
continue performing at its Lincoln Center home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 