-- New Zealand’s Consumer Prices Unexpectedly Fall, Sending Currency Tumbling
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-01-18T22:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/new-zealand-s-consumer-prices-unexpectedly-fall-sending-currency-tumbling.html
New Zealand  consumer prices
unexpectedly fell in the fourth quarter, giving the central bank
scope to hold  interest rates  at a record-low until growth
accelerates. The local currency dropped.  Consumer  prices  declined 0.3 percent from the third
quarter, when they advanced 0.4 percent,  Statistics New Zealand 
said in Wellington today. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg
News survey of 15 economists was for a 0.4 percent increase.
None forecast a decline. Prices rose 1.8 percent in the year
ended Dec. 31, the slowest annual pace since September 2010.  The first quarterly drop in prices since 2009 reflects an
economy struggling to rebound from earthquakes in the past 16
months, even with a tourism boost from the  Rugby World Cup . The
inflation report sent the nation’s dollar falling from a 2 1/2-
month high as investors increased bets central bank Governor
Alan Bollard will keep the official cash rate at 2.5 percent
until the second half of 2012.  “Domestic economic momentum is starting to soften,” said
 Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs New Zealand Ltd. in
Auckland. Today’s data give the  Reserve Bank  “some flexibility
that if things deteriorate more than expected they have room to
cut rates if need be,” he said.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened to 80.23 U.S. cents as of
11:47 a.m. in Wellington compared with 80.70 cents immediately
before the report and 80.44 cents late yesterday in  New York . It
reached 80.82 cents yesterday, the highest since Nov. 1  Rate Pause  Eleven of 16 economists surveyed last month by Bloomberg
News forecast Bollard will leave the cash rate unchanged until
at least July. There is a 52 percent chance of a quarter-point
rate cut by April, according to swaps prices from  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  as of 11:02 a.m. in Wellington.  Bollard cut the cash rate in March after an earthquake
devastated the southern city of Christchurch and killed 181
people. He has said repair and reconstruction in the region may
stoke demand and require higher interest rates.  Bollard last month outlined a worst-case scenario of a
weaker global outlook in which borrowing costs would remain on
hold for longer.  “If that type of scenario is to play out, they’d have room
to cut rates now,” said Borkin, who forecasts a rate rise in
the fourth quarter.  Annual inflation slowed from 4.6 percent in the year
through September as an increase in sales taxes on Oct. 1, 2010,
that added an estimated 2.1 percentage points, is removed from
the calculation, the statistics agency said.  Bollard’s Forecast  Bollard last month forecast that consumer prices would rise
0.4 percent in the fourth quarter, and that annual inflation
would be 2.6 percent. He is required to keep inflation in a
range of 1 percent to 3 percent on average.  Annual inflation is forecast to slow to 2 percent by the
end of 2012, the central bank said on Dec. 8.  In the fourth quarter, consumer prices were led lower by a
25 percent slump in vegetable costs, today’s report showed.
Excluding vegetables, consumer prices rose 0.1 percent, the
statistics agency said.  About 133,000 rugby fans visited New Zealand from July to
October, stoking spending on everything from transportation to
hotels to souvenirs.  Bollard’s primary focus is on non-tradable inflation, a
core measure of prices that isn’t influenced by currency
fluctuations and fuel.  Non-tradable Prices  Non-tradable prices rose 0.2 percent from the third
quarter, the slowest pace in two years, today’s report showed.
The measure gained 2.5 percent from a year earlier.  Non-tradable inflation was stoked by house rentals,
property maintenance services and the cost of purchasing a new
home, which reflects construction expenses, the report showed.
Electricity prices declined and the cost of telecommunications
services dropped, reflecting lower Internet charges,
international calling rates and mobile-phone service prices, the
agency said.  Tradable prices slipped 0.9 percent from the third quarter,
led by food. The cost of appliances, and computing equipment and
furniture fell amid significant discounting by retailers, the
agency said. International airfares, gasoline and used-car
prices increased. From a year earlier, tradable prices were 1.1
percent more costly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  