-- Nigeria’s Naira Strengthens Most in Week Before Currency Auction
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-18T11:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/nigeria-s-naira-strengthens-most-in-week-before-currency-auction.html
Nigeria ’s naira strengthened the
most against the dollar in more than a week before the first
foreign-currency auction since bankers returned to work after a
general strike was suspended.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer advanced 0.7
percent to 161.71 per dollar on the  interbank market  by 12:19
p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital. That’s the biggest gain
since Jan. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Central Bank of Nigeria , based in the capital, Abuja, is
scheduled to sell dollars today at a twice-weekly auction.  The West African nation’s labor unions suspended strikes
and protests Jan. 16 after President Goodluck Jonathan limited
gasoline-price increases to 97 naira ($0.60) a liter (0.3
gallon). The strike, which sparked street protests, shut banks,
businesses and ports, began Jan. 9 after the government scrapped
subsidies, which it said cost 1.2 trillion naira last year, and
vowed to spend the savings on  power plants  and roads. Gasoline
prices had more than doubled from 65 naira a liter.  The auction today should satisfy some pent-up dollar
demand, Adedayo Idowu, an analyst at Lagos-based Vetiva Capital
Management Ltd., said by phone today. “We expect things will
stabilize” after the strikes, she said.  Nigeria  sold  $198 million at a twice-weekly foreign-
currency auction Jan. 16, less than the $200 million offered by
the central bank. The  marginal rate , which is also used as the
prevailing exchange rate, was 156.69, unchanged from the
previous auction on Jan. 11, the central bank said.  ‘Counter Productive’  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 16 that it
may be “counter productive” to raise  interest rates  in
response to a jump in fuel prices that will probably push up
inflation.  The central bank left the benchmark lending rate unchanged
at a record-high 12 percent when it last met on Nov. 21. It
increased the rate 2.75 percentage points in October after
inflation climbed above the bank’s 10 percent target.  “The CBN is committed to exchange rate stability since a
sizeable depreciation would not improve external competitiveness
and result in a spike in imported inflation,” Standard Bank
Group Ltd. strategists, led by Stephen Bailey-Smith in  London ,
wrote in a report today. “We expect dollar-naira to fluctuate
around 160 in the foreseeable future assuming the oil price
remains relatively robust.”  Ghana ’s cedi fell 0.9 percent to 1.7450 per dollar, as of
11:33 a.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  