-- No One Knows Truth About $300 Billion Bonds From Alleged Crash
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2012-01-18T15:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/no-one-knows-truth-about-300b-bonds-from-alleged-plane-crash.html
Chris Estrella, a Filipino social
worker, says he led a troop of five porters out of a Mindanao
jungle in January 2000 with a weather-beaten iron and leather
box crammed with $25 billion of U.S. government bearer bonds.  “The elders of the Umayamnon tribe told me an American
plane crashed in their river in the 1930s,” Estrella, 47, says
by mobile phone from a footpath between the tribal village and
Davao, the largest city on the Philippine island. “The river
dried up in the 1990s, and the natives went into the plane and
found 12 boxes that contained $300 billion in bonds.”  Each box, emblazoned with the Great Seal of the  United
States  and the words “Federal Reserved Bond,” held five gold
coins struck with a portrait of George Washington on one side,
Estrella says. They rested atop stacks of certificates
purporting to have been issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta in 1934 and redeemable in gold bullion. The notes bore
the signature of then Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau Jr.  Such fixed-income instruments, also known as coupon bonds,
belong to whoever holds them, rather than to a registered owner.
Vouchers representing interest payments were attached to the 30-
year bonds that were denominated in amounts of as much as $100
million. Estrella says he later brought three other similarly
filled chests out of the jungle.  Exotic Attack  What happened next led to the unraveling of what Scott
Winslow, a financial-instrument specialist, bond collector and
founder of  Professional Authentication Services & Standards Co. 
in Bedford,  New Hampshire , calls an episode of “remarkably
unique” deception. It secured Estrella’s place in what the  U.S.
Secret Service  says is one of the most sustained and exotic
attacks ever mounted against U.S. currency, and it illustrates
how even sophisticated businessmen can be duped.  “Chris brought two boxes to the Apo View Hotel in Davao,
and I gave him $46,280, above what I usually give him to buy
provisions for the Umayamnons,” says Ronaldo Quiwa, 68, a
Mindanao construction executive who serves on the board of the
insurance subsidiary of Manila-based Landbank of the Philippines
and is a member of its risk-management committee.  “Then we took them to Peping’s house,” Quiwa says.  That would be former Philippine Congressman Jose “Peping”
Cojuangco, the 77-year-old brother of former President  Corazon Aquino , who helped topple the regime of  Ferdinand Marcos , and
uncle of current President Benigno Aquino III. The Cojuangco
clan also includes Peping’s cousin, Eduardo Cojuangco, chairman
of San Miguel Corp., the country’s largest listed company, which
has interests in beer, power and telecommunications.  Manila  Closet  “We opened two trunks in my living room,” Jose Cojuangco
says by phone from his home in Manila. “I wanted to believe
what was inside because after Marcos was overthrown the governor
of Mindanao found gold bullion hidden in the jungle. During the
1990s, Manila’s hotels were filled with foreign treasure
hunters. I met people who had 40, 50 boxes of bonds, and I
looked at them. They were different from ours. What a mystery.”  Nonetheless, both men say they brought no urgency to
solving the puzzle. Quiwa says he let the loot sit in a Manila
closet for two years.  In the summer of 2002, Quiwa took the two boxes of bonds
across the Pacific to Garden Grove,  California , for review by
Kurt Schwalbe & Associates, a document-examination firm.
Schwalbe’s signed one-page report dated Aug. 18, 2002, says he
examined “250 Federal Reserve notes with 33 interest coupons
attached from box 9494” and “determined them to be genuine as
to date and origin.”  Quiwa says the analysis didn’t satisfy him.  “Schwalbe’s report was not complete enough,” he says.  The phone number on the report is no longer working, and
further efforts to locate Schwalbe proved unsuccessful.  Demon Horse  From California, the chests went to  New York , where they
were stashed in a closet in an apartment in the Rego Park
section of Queens belonging to Quiwa’s brother, a pediatrician.  “We were nervous,” Ronaldo Quiwa says, sipping sweetened
coffee in the kitchen above his brother’s clinic. “We could
never firmly establish whether the bonds were real or fake, or
if somebody was trying to set us up.”  Jose Cojuangco contacted Bloomberg News last month.  “There’s $50 billion in U.S. Treasury bearer bonds we’d
like you to take a look at,” he said. “Would you mind?”  Cojuangco said he still wanted to believe the bonds were
real. After all, they came from Mindanao, an island regularly
ravaged by typhoons and inhabited by the demon horse Tikbalang,
the vampire Aswang and armed insurgents who have made kidnapping
an industry. As Quiwa says, it’s a place where there’s nothing
extraordinary about a tropical rain forest chieftain trying to
figure out U.S. Treasury bond coupon yields.  Ponte Chiasso  It wasn’t the first time a cache of bogus U.S. bonds
emerged from the  Philippines .  “We were matching wits with the underworld on an op in
southern  Italy  when the call came in,” says U.S. Secret Service
Special Agent Robert Gombar, head of the agency’s  Rome  office.  The date was June 16, 2009, and Gombar, 65, recalls rolling
his eyes at the news delivered by Italy’s Guardia di Finanza
fiscal police via his liaison officer in Rome.  “The Guardia caught two Japanese guys secreting U.S.
Treasury bonds in the false bottom of a suitcase aboard a
freight train about to cross into  Switzerland ,” Gombar says,
twirling a pencil behind his desk inside the U.S. Embassy in
Rome. “It was suspicious, so we jumped an express north.”  What Gombar found in the border village of Ponte Chiasso
was a stack of 1934 U.S. Treasury bearer bonds with a face value
of $134 billion, making the two suspects the U.S. government’s
fourth-biggest creditor at the time, behind  Russia  with $138
billion of  U.S. debt  and ahead of the U.K. with $128 billion.  Hybrid Counterfeits  Although a local magistrate released the suspects because
of a lack of evidence of intent to sell or proof the pair was
involved in the manufacture of what turned out to be a suitcase
of sham bonds, the incident marked the sixth time Italian
authorities had called upon Gombar to authenticate a haul of
what looked to be smuggled U.S. securities. Like most of the
other cases, this one pointed to  Asia : The two Japanese suspects
had arrived in Italy from the Philippines, Gombar says.  “We call these bonds hybrid counterfeit instruments
because there’s no such thing as a $500 million Treasury bond,”
explains Gombar, who has chased global funny-money rings from
the Secret Service’s Rome outpost since 1998. “It’s like
counterfeiting a $3 bill, something that doesn’t exist.”  Although  Treasury securities  were shifted from paper to
electronic form in the 1980s and the government stopped issuing
bearer bonds in 1982, Gombar says the pre-World War II
provenance of the bogus bonds, stamped with Morgenthau’s forged
signature, remains a lure in the con artist’s tackle box.  Fictitious Instruments  “People are gullible,” Gombar says. “Even those who work
in the financial world. The $134 billion worth of 1934
Morgenthau bonds seized in Ponte Chiasso was nearly five times
more than America’s $27 billion national debt that year.”  The largest U.S. Treasury bond ever issued had a face value
of $10 million, says Gombar’s partner, Special Agent Michael
Giovanniello. Only about $105.4 million in outstanding bearer
bonds have yet to be cashed in, he says.  “Bogus bonds are officially referred to as fictitious
financial instruments,” Giovanniello, 44, says. “Counterfeit
financial instruments reflect something that actually exists.
Either way, it’s a fraudulent scheme that we’re extremely
interested in pursuing.”  The Secret Service averages about 100 cases a year related
to bonds and other fictitious instruments, resulting in about 70
arrests, says Special Agent Edwin Donovan, a spokesman for the
agency in  Washington . The average annual loss to victims is
about $11 million, he says.  ‘Great Extremes’  Gombar says his first whiff of the bond con came in 1976,
while working in the agency’s  Los Angeles  office investigating a
similar bluff involving Venezuelan government paper.  “Nowadays the bonds are almost always  U.S. Treasuries  from
the 1930s, and the forgers have grown more sophisticated,”
Gombar says. “They go to great extremes, putting them in
antiquated treasure chests stuffed with newspaper clippings from
the 1930s. It takes a great deal of time and trouble to print
these bonds and establish the con.”  Across the Atlantic, in New Hampshire, financial-instrument
specialist Winslow takes one of the gold coins from Quiwa’s
treasure chest shown to him by Bloomberg News and flips it in
the air. It falls on an oak table in his office with a clink.  “Cheap metal,” he says.  $100 Million Bond  He runs his fingers over a $100 million bond. It is
lithographed instead of engraved, as are real federal debt
issues, Winslow says. Printed on faded sepia paper is the same
portrait of  George Washington  that appears on a $1 bill. Thirty
coupons are attached, each bearing the promise: “Will pay to
bearer four thousand dollars in United States gold coin.”  “I’ve never seen forgeries like these,” says Winslow, who
for 27 years has authenticated bonds for governments, companies,
museums and private collectors.  He describes the box set of 250 Umayamnon bonds as a series
of 10 historically inaccurate and haphazardly assembled $100
million “bundled instruments,” each packet designed to
represent and lend support to an illusionary $25 billion
“United States of America Federal Reserved Bond.”  The validation documents, all printed on paper in fonts
Winslow says didn’t exist in 1934, include a Government
Insurance Certificate, Treasury Certificate, Gold Bullion
Certificate, General Bond Certificate and a Global Immunity
Certificate that promises “the redeemer will be free from
criminal offense and covered by complete immunity.”  And in case the bearer should misplace an item and need to
authenticate ownership at the bank, the chest comes with a
microfilmed “Federal Reserved Bond Inventory List.”  ‘Marvelous Deception’  “For a collector, these counterfeit bonds are awesome
because somebody spent a lot of time trying to justify their
authenticity,” Winslow says. “It’s a marvelous deception.”  Bond collector Sylvan Feldstein, 70, an analyst at Guardian
Life Insurance Co. of America in New York and co-author of “The
Handbook of Municipal Bonds,” a history of and guide to the
bond trade, also was impressed.  “The only problem might be a lingering federal criminal
issue,” says Feldstein, who declined to place a value on the
Umayamnon paper. “Counterfeiting bonds goes back to colonial
America. After the Civil War, the South Carolina legislature
authorized $4 million in general obligation bonds, but Governor
Robert Scott printed $20 million worth. He gave some to his
girlfriend, and they became known as ‘whorehouse bonds.’ There’s
always a market.”  Pulp Fiction  Moving a magnifying glass across one of Quiwa’s bonds in a
Manhattan conference room, Malcolm Barber, chief executive
officer of  Bonhams  auction house, says there are clients willing
to pay for pulp fiction with a 30-year maturity whose time ran
out in 1964.  “The market value would be determined by the story behind
the scam,” he says.  The Umayamnon bonds first appeared in the Philippine
wilderness courtesy of “tao-boung, the white men who fell from
heaven,” says Estrella, who for the past 20 years, according to
Cojuangco and Quiwa, has helped government officials tend to the
needs of the 18 indigenous and mostly Muslim clans that inhabit
the archipelago’s easternmost island, encouraging them to break
ties with the radical Islamic group Abu Sayyaf. He says the
chests were given to him by a datu, or tribal chief.  “I believe the bonds are real,” Estrella says. “A datu
does not tell lies.”  Filipino Priest  Cojuangco says he never doubted Estrella’s account of how
he obtained the bonds.  “There were allowances from the government to get
information from the areas where he works,” Cojuangco says.
Ronaldo’s role was to help develop those assets, so there was
nothing special about contributing money to Chris’s efforts.”  Gombar says the story of the plane crash is one he has
heard many times over the years and is fictitious.  “We’ve never been able to find and shut down the
manufacturing plants,” he says.  Giovanniello says agents came close in February 2001, when
a joint Secret Service and Philippine National Police unit
detained Archie Mingoc, Filipino, with $2 trillion worth of
pretend U.S. bonds in Cagayan de Oro, a city on Mindanao.  The hunt began three years earlier, Giovanniello says, when
U.S. Customs Service agents discovered billions of dollars of
fraudulent bonds in the luggage of a Filipino priest at Los
Angeles International Airport. It eventually led to a shanty
outside Cagayan de Oro, where police found two more suitcases.
One was filled with $773 billion in fake bonds. The other held
$1.38 trillion worth of bogus federal paper.  Vanished Treasure  “It’s always the same vanished-treasure story,” Gombar
says of the persuasive hustle based on the Wall Street maxim
“old debt never dies.”  “The con can work in two ways,” he says. “The holder
sells the bonds privately for pennies on the dollar or is
somehow convinced to visit a bank, attempting to use the bonds
as collateral or cash them in for full value.”  Gombar and Giovanniello, who continue to follow leads on
the gang that can’t counterfeit straight, say possession of a
fictitious fiscal instrument isn’t necessarily a crime.  “It all depends on whether you have possession with intent
to defraud,” Gombar says. “We once came across a Filipino
priest bringing them into Italy from Manila. He’d been conned.
The question is whether the guy with the bonds actually believes
them to be real and then walks into a bank to redeem them.”  Quiwa says he intends to use the $50 billion in his
brother’s kitchen closet as wrapping paper.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Friedman in New York at 
 rfriedman5@bloomberg.net  