-- NRC Vote for New Southern Reactors ’Imminent,’ Fertel Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-18T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/nrc-vote-for-new-southern-reactors-imminent-fertel-says-1-.html
A U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
vote to award  Southern (SO)  Co. the first reactor-construction permit
in more than 30 years is “imminent,” the head of a nuclear-
energy industry group said.  The commission within days may publicly vote on the permit
for Atlanta-based Southern to build and operate two reactors at
an existing plant in Georgia, Marvin Fertel, the president of
the Washington-based Nuclear Energy Institute, said today at an
event in  Washington . Fertel said he expects approval.  Southern and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce,  South Carolina , are
seeking the first reactor construction permits in the U.S. since
a 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island plant near
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . Fertel said he expects four to eight
new reactors in the U.S. by 2020, with the number nearer the
lower part of the range because of the recession and low
natural-gas prices.  The NRC’s five members have already privately voted on
Southern’s permit, according to Fertel. They must hold a public
vote to make their decision official. Agency action on the Scana
reactors “will be a little bit later in the process,” he said.  Deliberations Continue  “The commissioners continue their deliberations,” Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, said in an e-mail. When those
discussions are complete, they will give notice of a public vote
on the agency’s website, he said.  Southern plans to build its reactors at the company’s
Vogtle plant, about 26 miles (42 kilometers) southeast of
Augusta, Georgia, for a total project cost of about $14 billion.
Scana is seeking to place two reactors at its Virgil C. Summer
plant near Columbia, South Carolina. The company is assuming 55
percent of the estimated $10.2 billion cost of that project. The
companies plan for the first new units at both plants to be in
operation by 2016.  The last time the NRC issued a construction permit was in
1978, for the Shearon Harris plant, operated by  Progress Energy
Inc. (PGN) , southwest of Raleigh,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  