-- Obama Camp Said to Start Buying Swing State Ads
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-18T23:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/obama-campaign-said-to-ask-air-time-rates-for-ads-in-key-states.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign has started buying television time in battleground
states to air its first advertisements for the 2012 election
beginning tomorrow, according to a campaign official.  The move marks an effort by Obama’s team to get a jump on
the general election campaign even as Republicans are still
choosing their nominee to face him in November.  It also comes as the independent group Americans for
Prosperity, founded by billionaire David Koch, is starting a $6
million ad campaign in swing states Obama won in 2008 that
targets the president’s ties to bankrupt solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss an internal decision, said the ad would run tomorrow in
 Iowa ,  Michigan , North Carolina, Ohio,  Virginia  and  Wisconsin .
The campaign has also been considering media markets in  Arizona ,
Colorado, Florida,  Minnesota , New Hampshire, New Mexico, Nevada,
Ohio and  Pennsylvania , the official said earlier.  The president’s campaign committee and the Democratic
National Committee raised a combined $224 million last year,
including $68 million in the last three months of 2011.  Republican Fundraising  By comparison, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
who won the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary and is
the leading contender for the Republican nomination, reported
raising $56 million in 2011, the most among the Republican
candidates.  The Republican National Committee, which will support the
party’s eventual nominee, had raised almost $77 million through
November, according to a report filed with the Federal Election
Commission. Finance reports for the final quarter are due at the
end of the month.  While Obama’s official re-election campaign is just now
purchasing ad time for this campaign cycle, Priorities USA, a
super-PAC founded by former administration officials, has run
ads in several states.  The group has spent an estimated $660,640 in this cycle,
according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a
company that tracks advertising. Priorities USA has spent the
most in  Florida  -- $214,310 -- one of the swing states being
targeted by the Obama campaign.  Florida Stop  Obama will be in Florida tomorrow to announce a strategy
for promoting tourism. The state, where the  unemployment rate  is
10 percent, has 29 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the
presidency and has gone to the Democratic candidate twice and
the Republican candidate twice in the last four elections.  The Tea Party-aligned Americans for Prosperity is spending
$5.2 million to place the  ad , called “Obama Sacrifices Pawns
for Politics,” on network and cable stations as well as another
$1 million through social media forums.  It hit the airwaves today in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
where the Democrats will hold their national convention in
September. They also plan to air it in states including Ohio,
Iowa, Virginia, Wisconsin and Michigan, according to Tim
Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity. All are
battleground states that Obama won in 2008.  The Obama administration’s $535 million loan guarantee to
Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy in September, has become a
focal point for the president’s Republican critics. House
Republicans, who are investigating the bankruptcy and the
administration’s ties to the company, have said politics
influenced the Department of Energy guarantee, which the White
House and Solyndra’s backers have denied.  ‘Very Concerning Thing’  Koch and his brother, Charles, control Koch Industries
Inc., a closely held refining and chemicals company.  Obama’s advisers have said spending by independent groups
will change the landscape of this election. His chief political
strategist,  David Axelrod , said that’s among his top concerns
for the re-election effort this year.  “They’re talking upwards of half a billion in negative ads
aimed at the president from interest groups who don’t disclose
and who can raise unlimited amounts of money,” he said on Jan.
15 on CNN’s State of the Union. “That is a very, very
concerning thing to me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  