-- Keystone XL Pipeline Seen Moving Ahead on Alternative Route
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-01-19T20:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/obama-administration-is-said-to-reject-transcanada-s-keystone-xl-pipeline.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $7 billion
Keystone XL oil pipeline still will move ahead with an alternate
route after President Barack Obama’s decision to deny a permit,
investors, public officials and analysts say.  Obama blamed congressional Republicans yesterday for
imposing a deadline on his decision, which he said left no time
to approve the project. His administration invited TransCanada
to reapply, an overture the Calgary-based company promptly said
it would accept.  Denying the permit pushes a final decision on the pipeline
into 2013, safely past this year’s presidential election. John
Stephenson, who helps manage $2.7 billion for First Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto, said he bought 350,000 shares
yesterday as TransCanada fell the most in 18 months.  “This is clearly the biggest infrastructure project on the
continent, and once the election is settled, we believe it will
be approved,” Stephenson said in an interview. “All the
waffling just gives people an opportunity to trade around it.”  TransCanada today said it may build U.S.-only pipeline
segments, which don’t require federal approval, and apply later
for permission to connect the pipeline to Canadian  oil sands  and
complete Keystone XL as originally proposed.  Yesterday’s decision by the State Department was praised by
environmentalists and was decried by the U.S. oil and gas
industry and Republican presidential candidates and lawmakers,
who had pushed Obama to approve the project as a way create
jobs.  Congressional Deadline  Obama acted before a Feb. 21 deadline Congress set after he
postponed a decision to allow for a review of of a revised route
through Nebraska. TransCanada said the 1,661-mile (2,673-
kilometer) project would carry 700,000 barrels of crude a day
from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico coast, crossing six states and creating an estimated
20,000 jobs.  Obama called Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who
told the president  Canada  will seek to diversify its energy
exports after Keystone was rejected. Harper “expressed his
profound disappointment” with the Keystone  decision, according
to a statement from his office.  Currently, 99 percent of Canada’s crude exports go to the
U.S., a figure that Harper wants to reduce in his bid to make
Canada a “superpower” in global oil markets. Canada this month
began hearings on a proposed pipeline from the oil sands to the
British Columbia coast, where it could be shipped to Asian
markets.  ‘Proper Routing’  The State Department said in a report to Congress yesterday
that the pipeline would create 5,000 to 6,000 construction jobs
during the two years needed to build the project, based on labor
expenses TransCanada included in its application.  “Once we get the proper routing done, I think it’s very
appropriate that the country accept that as an oil source,”
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  CEO Jim Hackett said Wednesday at a
conference in Houston on North American energy prospects. “We
have one of the most friendly nations to our country who has
never stopped trade in my lifetime that is willing to send their
supplies down to us as if it were domestic oil.”  Congress’s deadline would have forced Obama to choose in an
election year between environmental supporters, who said the
pipeline will worsen  climate change  and endanger drinking water
supplies in Nebraska, and organized labor.  ‘Politically Motivated’  The decision to deny the permit was “politically
motivated” and will make the U.S. more dependent on foreign
nations “that don’t share our interests,” U.S. Chamber of
Commerce President  Thomas Donohue  said.  Environmental groups praised the decision, mindful that the
pipeline still is a possibility.  “We’re going to declare victory today and tomorrow we’ll
deal with the new application,” Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, director
of the international program at the Natural Resources Defense
Council, said in an interview. “I don’t think that they are
predisposed to approving the pipeline.”  U.S. House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican,
accused Obama of “selling out American jobs for politics,” and
said Congress would consider adding pipeline language to a
longer-term extension of the payroll tax cut sought by Obama,
and the reauthorization of  Federal Aviation Administration  and
surface transportation programs.  House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton, Republican
from  Michigan , said his committee has asked Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  to testify next week on the decision.  American-Made Energy  “I’m disappointed that Republicans in Congress forced this
decision, but it does not change my administration’s commitment
to American-made energy,” Obama said in a statement. “We will
continue to look for new ways to partner with the oil and gas
industry to increase our energy security.”  TransCanada applied for a U.S. permit in 2008. Canada is
the largest U.S. oil supplier at about 2.67 million barrels a
day, compared with about 970,000 barrels a day from  Venezuela ,
which ranked fourth in exports to the U.S. in the first 10
months of 2011, according to the Energy Department. Mexico and
 Saudi Arabia  ranked second and third in shipments to the U.S.  “Until this pipeline is constructed, the U.S. will
continue to import millions of barrels of conflict oil from the
 Middle East  and Venezuela,” TransCanada Chief Executive Officer
 Russ Girling  said in a statement. The company said the pipeline
might still be ready to open in 2014 if the U.S. expedites
review of its new application.  New Plans ‘Underway’  “While we are disappointed, TransCanada remains fully
committed to the construction of Keystone XL,” Girling said.
“Plans are already underway on a number of fronts to largely
maintain the construction schedule of the project.”  Nebraska  Governor Dave Heineman said today that the
decision brought to a halt the environmental-review process
underway in the state for a new pipeline route. Heineman, a
Republican, says it’s unclear if the permit process must start
over or if Nebraska can continue working on a route that takes
the pipeline away from an environmentally sensitive region.  “It certainly is a major step backwards,” Heineman said
in a telephone interview. “We need to make contact with
TransCanada. We need to review our statutes relative to what the
president did. We need to figure out if this means we have to
start all over again.”  Alternate Pipelines  The ultimate fate of the project may rest on  oil prices  and
whether alternate pipelines emerge, according  Kevin Book ,
managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based policy-analysis firm.  “We regard realization of the XL project as more likely
under a Republican Administration in 2013, but we don’t believe
the project is necessarily dead even if President Obama returns
in 2013 for another term,” Book said in a client note
yesterday.  If the U.S. rejects Keystone, two possible pipelines could
send the crude west for export to Asian markets, according to
 Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper touched
on alternate export routes when he told Obama in a telephone
call yesterday that Canada will seek to diversify its energy
exports.  “If it’s not taken to the lower 48 states, I know that it
will be developed and probably go to the Asian markets,”
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  CEO Jim Mulva said yesterday at a conference in
Houston. It would be a “significant lost opportunity for the
 United States .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  