-- Ohio Senate Race Draws Most Outside Cash as Brown Fights for Job
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ohio-senate-race-draws-most-outside-cash-as-brown-fights-for-job.html
U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown ’s bid for
re-election in Ohio, a race that may decide the nation’s balance
of power, has prompted what Democrats say is the most spending
by outside groups supporting a Republican for Senate.  Interests including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce spent
nearly $2.8 million on television ads last year, more than
against any other Democratic Senate candidate, according to the
Ohio Democratic Party. Ohio, recovering after losing more jobs
in the past decade than any state beside  Michigan , may also
decide whether President  Barack Obama  gets a second term, said
Kevin DeWine, chairman of the Ohio Republican Party.  “There’s an intersection of a battleground state for
president and battleground state for control of  U.S. Senate ,”
DeWine said in a telephone interview from Columbus. “You’re
going to see third-party groups from all across the country
spend enormous amounts of money here.”  The Senate race is expected to pit Brown, a 59-year-old
Democrat tied in the National Journal’s 2009 and 2010  rankings 
as the “most liberal senator,” against state Treasurer Josh Mandel, a 34-year-old former Marine elected in 2010 who faces
four other candidates in a March 6 primary.  Keeping Control  Brown says no senator has worked harder for the middle
class and jobs. Mandel and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce call
Brown’s votes, including his support of Obama’s health-care law,
a “job-killing” record.  Ohio’s unemployment rate dropped to 8.5 percent in November
from 9 percent in October, compared with a national 8.7 percent.
The state ranked 10th in its economic recovery in the third
quarter of 2011 compared with the previous year, according to
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States.  In 2008, Obama carried Ohio with 51.5 percent of the vote.
If he wins again this year, Republicans must pick up four Senate
seats to guarantee control because the vice president can break
a tie.  The more unsettled the race in Ohio, the nation’s seventh-
most-populous state, the worse the Democrats’ prospects, said
 Nathan Gonzales , deputy editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report.  “If Sherrod Brown loses re-election, it’s tough to see
Democrats in control of the Senate,” Gonzales said in a
telephone interview from  Washington . Rothenberg  lists  races in
Ohio,  Florida ,  New Mexico  and  Wisconsin  in the “Toss-up/Tilt
Democratic” category.  ‘Critical Priority’  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest
business-lobbying group, ran a television  ad  in November
highlighting what it called Brown’s “tax-raising, job-killing
record.” Other organizations that have advertised in Ohio
include Crossroads GPS, a group established with help from  Karl Rove , a former adviser to President  George W. Bush , said Justin
Barasky, a spokesman for the Ohio Democratic Party.  The  Ohio  race is “a critical priority,” said Rob
Engstrom, national political director for the chamber. He
declined to say how much is being spent there, calling it a
“sizable and significant investment.”  Brown had a 9 percent record on chamber voting positions in
2010, and there’s a “clear and compelling difference” between
Brown and Mandel on issues including energy and health care,
Engstrom said in a telephone interview from Washington.  Reverse Polarity  “The issues that the new Congress will deal with in 2013
will fundamentally shape what the American recovery looks
like,” Engstrom said. It’s as though Brown “looks at what the
business community’s priorities are and votes the opposite way
every time,” he said.  The state’s top employer is  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the
world’s biggest retailer, and its largest manufacturer is
 Procter & Gamble Co. , the world’s largest consumer-products
maker, according to a September  report  by the Ohio Department of
Development.  Brown, a former U.S. House member elected to the Senate in
2006, points to more than 200 roundtables he has held and
efforts to pass his Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act
to “crack down on  China ’s currency manipulation” as ways he
has tried to help companies compete and create jobs.  “Companies, particularly small manufacturers, know that
there’s no stronger voice for not just jobs, but for
manufacturing,” Brown said in an interview last week at an
event supporting his bill at Harco Manufacturing in Moraine. The
plant outside Dayton makes brake-hose assemblies and is near a
shuttered General Motors Co. complex that Brown said he is
trying to help “reindustrialize.”  Job Hopping  Brown has established himself as a populist in the mold of
Howard Metzenbaum, the former Ohio senator who championed
liberal causes, said Dale Butland, a Columbus Democratic
strategist.  Mandel is “not ready for prime time,” Butland said in a
telephone interview. He is running after taking office last year
as treasurer and serving in the Ohio House of Representatives
since 2006.  “People can look at Josh Mandel and look at the way he has
jumped from office to office in a very short period of time and
think to themselves, ‘My God, this guy was born with a filing
fee in his hand,’” Butland said.  Mandel said he’s proud of his record, which includes  Fitch
Ratings  affirming the highest grade of F1+ for about $650.7
million in adjustable-rate Ohio general-obligation bonds in
November. He called Brown “one of the most hyperpartisan 
politicians in the entire country.”  Money and Love  “Ohioans are sick of partisanship and want new leaders
with fresh ideas who can rise above party politics,” Mandel
said in a telephone interview.  Mandel raised more money than Brown in the second and third
quarters last year and had $3.26 million on hand as of Sept. 30,
compared with $4.19 million for Brown, according to Federal
Election Commission data.  Still, Brown led Mandel 49 percent to 34 percent in an Oct.
26  poll  by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University .  The senator  had  50 percent job approval compared with 43
percent for Obama and 36 percent for Republican Governor  John Kasich  in a separate Quinnipiac survey released that week.  “Republicans have not been able to make Sherrod Brown a
bad guy in the eyes of non-Republican voters,” Peter A. Brown,
assistant director of the school’s Polling Institute, said in a
telephone interview.  Brown’s fate may hinge on Obama’s -- and both Ohio races
may be critical, said  John Green , a political-science professor
at the University of Akron.  “Ohio doesn’t need any help being important, but it may be
especially important this year,” he said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  