-- U.S. Stocks Gain as S&P 500 Index Posts Best Start Since 1987; Euro Rises
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-18T21:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/oil-gains-on-economic-optimism-as-asian-stocks-decline-led-by-automakers.html
U.S. stocks advanced, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its best start to a year since 1987,
as semiconductor companies and homebuilders gained. The euro
rose as the  International Monetary Fund  proposed boosting its
lending resources by as much as $500 billion.  The  S&P 500  rose 1.1 percent to 1,308.04 at 4 p.m. New York
time, closing above 1,300 for the first time since July. It has
surged 4 percent this year. Computer-related companies  led  gains
today among 10  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index industries after  ASML Holding
NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s biggest semiconductor-equipment maker, forecast
higher first-quarter orders and  Linear Technology Corp. (LLTC) ’s sales
beat projections. Builders climbed after industry confidence
increased. The euro added 1 percent to $1.2859.  The IMF may increase its resources to help safeguard
economic growth after identifying a potential need for $1
trillion in financing in coming years. The  World Bank  cut its
growth forecast by the most in three years, saying a euro-region
recession threatens to worsen a slowdown in emerging markets
such as India and Mexico.  “Earnings momentum is slowing somewhat, but we’re still
seeing growth,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.5
billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s something that investors should be
encouraged by. The economic data points continue to be upbeat.
We’re in a mode for decent growth.”  Earnings Reports  At least 48 companies in the  S&P 500  are scheduled to
report quarterly results this week. The entire S&P 500 probably
will report a 4.6 percent increase in per-share earnings during
the September-December period, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Stocks rose today as a gauge of  confidence  among American
homebuilders rose in January to the highest level in more than
four years as sales and buyer traffic improved. U.S. industrial
production rebounded in December, reflecting gains in demand for
business equipment, automobiles and construction materials.  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based World
Bank said today. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain. The
U.S. growth outlook was cut to 2.2 percent from 2.9 percent.  Semiconductor companies and makers of chip-building
equipment rallied 3.9 percent, the most among 24 industries in
the S&P 500. Linear surged 12 percent. In Europe, ASML slumped
3.5 percent after rising as much as 3 percent.  Four-Year High  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in January to the
highest level in more than four years, driving a rally in the
group. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment  gauge  increased to 25 this month, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  PulteGroup Inc. rose 5.9 percent.  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  advanced 4.4
percent.  U.S. stock-index futures fell earlier after  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  missed
the average analyst profit projection.  Only 47.1 percent of S&P 500 companies that posted
quarterly results between Dec. 1 and yesterday exceeded the
average projection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So-
called positive surprises have surpassed 50 percent at a
comparable point in every other quarterly reporting period for
the past four years. The previous low was 51.5 percent in the
third quarter of 2008, during the global financial crisis.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  surged 6.8 percent today. The
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets beat the average analyst
earnings estimate by 50 percent as the company cut compensation
in response to falling revenue.  Some of the largest  financial  companies also climbed.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added 4.7 percent, while  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  advanced 4.9 percent.  The euro rallied against 10 of 16 major counterparts as
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  resumed negotiations with
bondholders. An official told reporters that the government
could forge an agreement with private creditors by the end of
this week.  The dollar fell against the euro on reduced demand for a
refuge as U.S. data showed industrial production increased 0.4
percent in December after contracting 0.3 percent the month
before. The pound weakened against the euro as Britain’s
unemployment rate rose to a 16-year high of 8.4 percent.  Crude oil futures declined 0.1 percent to $100.59 a barrel,
after rising as much as 1.3 percent and tumbling 0.9 percent.
Natural gas declined 0.6 percent, extending its seven-day
retreat to 19 percent.  TransCanada Corp.’s shares fell 1.1 percent after the Obama
administration denied a permit for the company’s Keystone XL oil
pipeline. The company will be allowed to file a revised route
that avoids an environmentally sensitive area in Nebraska.  Wheat futures fell to a one-month low on speculation that
global grain supplies will be ample, as rains ease drought
concerns in  South America  while output may increase in the U.S.
and Australia. Wheat futures for March delivery fell 2.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  