-- Olympic Vehicles to Boost London’s July-August Traffic by 33%, Survey Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-18T00:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/olympic-vehicles-to-boost-london-s-july-august-traffic-by-33-survey-says.html
This year’s Olympics will increase
traffic on  London ’s roads by about 33 percent as the capital
hosts millions of spectators, traffic services provider Inrix
Inc. said today in a report.  Core routes will slow to 12 miles (19 kilometers) per hour
in late July and early August, it said. The weekend of July 27
will be especially difficult as the Olympic opening ceremony
will clash with the busiest holiday getaway weekend of the
summer, Inrix said.  “There’s this shock factor effect as people get hit with
the change of circumstances,” Greg Hallsworth, the author of
the study, said in an interview in London. “In the early days
there’s going to be a lot of confused people trying to get
around London using alternatives that just don’t work for
them.”  Hour-long journeys will take at least 12 minutes longer,
rising to 20 minutes for those travelling on the 104-mile long
Olympic Route Network which gives priority to Olympic traffic in
some places. In early August, morning rush hour will start 90
minutes early, at 5:30 a.m., with the afternoon rush beginning
at 3:30 p.m.  Inrix said organizers are counting on businesses and
residents to change their commuting habits to cut traffic and
public transportation use during the Games.  Some commuters probably will go to work on foot to avoid
congestion on the roads and underground, Hallsworth said.  Walking Option  “Walking will be one of the easiest ways to cut
congestion,” he said.  Inrix, based in Kirkland,  Washington , monitors road traffic
in 30 countries worldwide for clients such as Audi AG, the
British Broadcasting Corp., and Toyota Motor Corp. It produced
the study by analyzing real-time and historical traffic
information from GPS data-mapping.  The company in August bought Manchester, England-based ITIS
Holdings, the owner of Trafficlink, which supplies traffic and
travel reports to local and national media.  On busy days there will be an additional 3 million journeys
on London’s roads and on the underground, Transport for London
said in a  report  last month. At Bank and Canada Water tube
stations, commuters should expect to wait for longer than an
hour at peak times, according to the agency.  There will be 200 extra buses available, Transport for
London said. Around 11 million spectators are expected to visit
London and 300,000 athletes, media and Olympic officials, it
said. It advised commuters to visit entertainment set up on the
South Bank, eat a meal out or have a beer with friends or
colleagues to avoid peak times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  