-- Moody’s Cuts Commerzbank Financial Rating
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-18T09:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/moody-s-cuts-commerzbank-financial-rating.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut
financial-strength ratings for  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest lender, citing the “weakening resilience and eroding
franchise” of its public-finance unit. The shares fell.  The standalone bank financial strength ratings of
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Commerzbank  Europe  (Ireland) were cut to D+
from C- and that of  Eurohypo  (EHY) to E+ from D-, Moody’s said in a
statement today. The ratings, which were kept on review for a
further downgrade, represent Moody’s opinion of a bank’s
intrinsic safety and soundness and don’t address the probability
of timely repayment of debt.  Eurohypo saddled Commerzbank with losses last year after
the bank wrote down the value of the unit’s Greek government
bonds as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened. The German
lender has said a pledge to sell the division will be hard to
deliver this year, as Eurohypo would have difficulty finding
funding without the support of its parent company.  “The deteriorating euro-area sovereign debt markets imply
that Eurohypo will likely require support for an extended
period,” Moody’s said in the statement, “Eurohypo, as a
standalone bank, could not weather a further weakening of the
yet-unresolved euro-area debt crisis.”  Commerzbank fell as much as 5.1 percent in Frankfurt
trading and was 4.5 percent lower at 1.37 euros as of 9:45 a.m.
local time. That values the company at about 7 billion euros
($8.9 billion).  Greek Losses  Commerzbank posted a 687 million-euro  third-quarter  net
loss on Nov. 4 after writing down the value of its Greek
 government bonds  by 798 million euros. A 760 million-euro
writedown on the notes almost wiped out the bank’s second-
quarter profit. Commerzbank’s net sovereign risk related to
 Greece  was 1.4 billion euros at the end of September.  The German bank may have to extend measures to raise
capital because of potential losses on Greek debt, Die Welt
reported today, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter. Commerzbank may have to raise about 6 billion euros,
more than the 5.3 billion-euro capital shortfall identified by
Europe’s top banking regulator, the German newspaper reported.  Commerzbank is scheduled to inform German financial market
regulator Bafin on Jan. 20 how it plans to meet the European
Banking Authority’s capital requirements, which are intended to
help restore confidence in the sector amid the debt crisis.
Eurohypo accounted for 4.8 billion euros of the shortfall, the
bank said in a  presentation  posted on its website this month.  Raising Capital  The lender said as recently as Jan. 9 that it will raise
capital by the end of the second quarter by selling assets,
lowering costs and retaining earnings. Commerzbank wouldn’t see
Eurohypo nationalized as part of the plan, a German government
official said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  Commerzbank’s efforts to raise capital include a temporary
suspension of new lending at Eurohypo, which also provides
commercial-property loans. Moody’s cited the underwriting freeze
as a consideration for its downgrade, and said “further
seasoning of the commercial real-estate loan portfolio might
negatively affect net interest margins and non-performing loan
ratios.”  The European Commission ordered Commerzbank to sell
Eurohypo by the end of 2014 as a condition for its rescue by the
German state following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  said in August that a
sale would be difficult because of the unit’s funding issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  