-- Look at Jobs Before Leaping on Older Retirement: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/look-at-jobs-before-leap-on-older-retirement-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html
Has the ailing economy forced older
workers to delay their retirement? The conventional wisdom
certainly suggests so. A recent front-page  story  in the
Washington Post was  headlined : “Ranks of older workers swelling:
Data show employment surged among those 55 and over since
recession.”  The reality, though, is more complicated. The financial
crisis caused more workers to want to delay retirement, but the
labor market limited their ability to do it. The net effect of
these opposing supply and demand forces has, if anything, been
to reduce the employment rate among older workers.  By the time the recent recession began, in 2008, Americans
were already well into a reversal of the 20th-century trend
toward earlier and earlier retirement. The employment rate for
older women started rising in the mid-1980s, and for older men
soon afterward. The effects were most pronounced among people 65
and older, but were noticeable for those in their early 60s as
well. In 1994, 43 percent of people ages 60 to 64 were employed;
by 2006, 51 percent were.  Social Security  data  tell a similar story. The percentage
of 62-year-olds claiming early retirement benefits began
declining in the mid-1990s, and dropped from about half of those
turning 62 in 1994 to less than 40 percent in 2006.  Rethinking Early Retirement  Then along came the recession. Housing equity -- the
biggest asset most older workers have -- plummeted, as did the
value of 401(k) plans and other financial assets. As a result,
many workers planned to delay their retirement. From 2006 to
2010, the percentage of Americans age 50 or more who expected to
retire by 65  fell  from 29 percent to 24 percent.  In this, the conventional wisdom is right: To offset the
adverse effects of the downturn, more older workers planned to
defer retirement. But the world didn’t conform to all of these
plans. A 2011  survey  by the Employee Benefit Research Institute
found that almost half (45 percent) of retirees left the
workforce earlier than they planned, almost always for negative
reasons such as health problems or losing a job. In the midst of
a very weak labor market, work may not be available for all the
older workers who want to keep working.  As a consequence of this push and pull, the share of 60- to
64-year-olds who are employed, after rising through the 1990s
and early 2000s, has in the past few years gone sideways. In
2011, 51 percent of 60- to 64-year-olds were employed, the same
share as in 2006. The employment rate among people 65 and older
continues to rise, but at a slower pace than before the
downturn.  A more rigorous  analysis  by Barry P. Bosworth and Gary Burtless of the  Brookings Institution  has found the same
limitation on older people’s, or at least older men’s,
employment prospects. “The 4.6 percentage-point increase in
prime-age unemployment between 2007 and 2009 reduced the
participation rate of 60-74-year-old men by between 0.8 and 1.7
percentage points,” they concluded. “This effect has offset the
impact of declining household wealth on old-age labor force
participation.” For women, Bosworth and Burtless found little
net effect, as the opposing forces of desire to work and reduced
job opportunities were roughly balanced.  Benefits Increase  How does this affect Social Security? If workers were able
to delay their retirement, we would expect to see the share of
those claiming benefits at age 62 decline. Yet it actually rose
significantly in 2009,  research  by economists Jason J. Fichtner
of  George Mason University  and John W.R. Phillips of the
National Institute on Aging shows. In states with relatively
high unemployment rates, the increases were larger -- suggesting
that the rise was driven by lack of work opportunities.  (The 2009 increase was partially reversed in 2010, which is
consistent with other analysis by Bosworth and Burtless
suggesting the initial blip upward from a weak labor market is
partly offset over time.)  The bottom line is that people’s retirement decisions
aren’t always entirely voluntary. In the current debate over the
 retirement age , that’s worth remembering. Just last week, the
 Congressional Budget Office   estimated  that raising the age at
which Social Security retirement benefits can first be claimed
from 62 to 64 would ultimately increase the size of the  labor
force  and the economy by a bit more than 1 percent. That sounds
pretty attractive.  But many people claimed early retirement benefits in 2009
and 2010 out of desperation. Even under more normal conditions,
some of the people who want to work longer won’t be able to.
That’s why  Peter Diamond , a Nobel Prize-winning economist at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and I have  proposed  ways
of insulating Social Security’s finances from the effects of
rising life expectancy without increasing the age at which
workers first become eligible for benefits. A future column will
discuss how to reform Social Security.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 