-- Organic Farmers’ Crop-Insurance Costs Spoil Growth of $27 Billion Market
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/organic-farmers-crop-insurance-costs-spoil-growth-of-27-billion-market.html
Consumer demand for organic foods
has helped  Uncle Matt’s Organic Inc.  grow from 5 acres of
oranges in 1999 to become Florida’s biggest organic-citrus
producer. Further expansion is being hampered by the federal
crop insurance program designed to help farmers, says the
company’s founder, Matt McLean.  Organic producers pay a surcharge on many of those
policies, and payouts often don’t reflect their higher costs,
which may inhibit farm development and contribute to shortages
of some naturally grown products, producers and industry
analysts say.  That reduced subsidy diminishes the incentive to meet
surging market demands, said McLean, 40, who sells tangerines,
grapefruit and other citrus crops grown on 1,110 acres owned by
his family and 25 fellow farmers to retailers including Whole
Foods Market Inc. and  Kroger Co. (KR)   “We just want the same tools as conventional farmers to
protect our assets,” said McLean, a fourth-generation grower
who returned to the business in Clermont, Florida, 25 miles west
of  Orlando , years after a 1983 frost wiped out his grandfather’s
trees. “It costs us more to grow.”  Nationally, organic sales of food and beverages jumped to
$26.7 billion in 2010, from $6.1 billion in 2000, according to
the Organic Trade Association. Organic farming now accounts for
 11 percent  of U.S. fruit and vegetable sales and 4 percent of
total food and beverage revenue, up from  1.2 percent  a decade
ago.  Tight Supplies  Surging consumer demand is leading to tight supplies of
popular items. Organic milk may face shortages this year because
there isn’t enough grain meeting the standard to feed dairy
cows, according to the Cornucopia Institute, a natural-foods
advocacy group.  The government spent  $2.6 billion  on more than 2 million
farmer policies in 2010, sharing profits, absorbing losses and
covering overhead costs for companies, according to the
Environmental Working Group, a Washington-based advocacy
organization that tracks  farm subsidies .  Growth in organic-farm acreage is being held back by
government programs that haven’t kept up with the shift in
agriculture, including crop-insurance policies that aren’t
tailored to organic producers the way they are for large Iowa
corn farmers, said Representative Chellie Pingree, a Maine
Democrat who serves on the House Agriculture Committee.  ‘Fundamental Issue’  “It’s just a huge, fundamental issue,” said Pingree, an
organic farmer in the 1970s who’s hoping the next farm bill,
which sets government farm policy for a five-year period, will
include a measure she introduced last year to encourage
alternative agriculture. “You need to encourage the supply, and
to get bigger you have to be able to manage your risk.”  The farm bill Congress will debate this year will need to
help keep production costs for organic food down while
encouraging increased acreage, said Pingree. Additional funds to
cover surcharges or sweeten payouts may be doable because of the
popularity of environmentally friendly crops, said Chad Hart, an
agricultural economist at  Iowa State University  in Ames.  Still, with Congress under pressure to reduce the federal
deficit, all programs are vulnerable to budget reductions.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack last week said he expects the
legislation to include at least $23 billion in reductions to
U.S. Department of Agriculture spending over 10 years, with most
of the savings coming from farm subsidies, which last year came
to about $10.6 billion.  Higher Subsidies ‘Indefensible’  Any new funds will face tough opposition, said Josh Sewell,
a policy analyst with Taxpayers for Common Sense, a Washington-
based organization.  “I don’t see anyone getting increased subsidies,” Sewell
said in a telephone interview. “It’s indefensible, including
for crop insurance.”  Some insurers started offering payouts based on organic-
price calculations last year on corn, soybeans, cotton and some
tomatoes, said Tom Zacharias, the president of National Crop
Insurance Services, the  Overland Park , Kansas-based industry
lobbying group. Farmers pay a higher premium in return for
greater loss coverage.  “Of course, producers are getting much more income
protection for the higher premium they now pay,” Zacharias
said. Bigger government reimbursements may also raise subsidies,
though the ultimate expense to the taxpayer is hard to estimate
as better data will result in increased costs for some crops and
lower expenses for others, he said.  Organic Certification  Organic foods are certified to national standards that
usually require that they be raised or processed without
synthetic fertilizers or pesticides, genetically modified
organisms or chemical food additives.  Meeting standards can be costly. Farmers must remove weeds
by hand or with labor-intensive machines, instead of simply
spraying plants, said McLean of Uncle Matt’s Organic. Natural
fertilizers include more-costly components than synthetic
varieties. Total production costs for his oranges are probably
50 percent more than if he raised them conventionally, he said.  Farmers manage their weather risk by purchasing crop
insurance, a coverage subsidized by the government and
administered by companies including Wells Fargo and Co. and  Ace
Ltd. (ACE)  Policies in 2010 insured  256 million acres  of cropland,
about  63 percent  of all land under cultivation, according to
U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  Insurance Surcharge  Only about 21 percent of the nation’s 2.66 million acres of
organic cropland was insured in 2010, according to USDA data.
Payouts on claims for those acres were bigger than those for
conventional products grown nearby:  $1.05  for every dollar of
organic, versus 59 cents for conventional, according to the
USDA’s Risk Management Agency, based on data from 2004 to 2010.  Policies for many organic crops also carry a 5 percent
surcharge because there’s not enough actuarial data to determine
risk, a fee the government is gradually lifting as better
information becomes available.  Three years of weather-related losses in the Flint Hills of
 Kansas  drove Donn Teske away from growing organic milo, soybeans
and wheat. He’s using chemicals now to grow them.  “There’s a tremendous price for organic, but I can’t take
the risk,” Teske said.  Back in  Florida , McLean is seeking more farmers to help
meet retailers’ needs. Easier access to insurance would help him
survive the next inevitable incident of crop-destroying frost.  “If you can show them that one cold night won’t devastate
them, you can help the industry grow,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net . 