-- Toronto-Dominion Loses $67 Million Jury Verdict Over Rothstein Fraud Role
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-01-18T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/toronto-dominion-bank-loses-67-million-verdict-over-rothstein-fraud-role.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  lost a
$67 million jury verdict over claims it helped Scott Rothstein,
the disbarred Florida attorney who admitted running a
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme, by telling victims their money was
safe as he depleted accounts.  A jury in federal court in Miami returned the verdict today
in a lawsuit brought by Coquina Investments, based in  Corpus
Christi ,  Texas . The panel deliberated about four hours before
reaching its verdict after a trial before U.S. District Judge
Marcia Cooke.  “It was clear cut for us,” the jury forewoman, Shonda
Smith, said after the verdict. “We were all surprised at how
much stuff they allowed to go through, all the deposits and
transfers. At any point, someone could have stopped it.”  Coquina’s lawyer David Mandel on Jan. 17 urged the jury to
award $32 million in compensatory damages and $140 million in
punitive damages.  “They didn’t lift a finger,” Mandel said of the bank in
closing arguments. “Once fraud was evident, it was their
obligation to report it and stop it.”  Today’s verdict was for $32 million in compensatory damages
and $35 million in punitive damages, the type designed to
punish.  “This  Ponzi scheme  would have been impossible if it
weren’t for TD Bank’s actions,” Mandel said after the verdict,
referring to the Miami unit.  Bank Statement  A spokeswoman, Rebecca Acevedo, said the bank is
disappointed with the verdict “and is considering all of its
options.”  “We still maintain that we were Rothstein Rosenfeldt
Adler’s bank and that it was Scott Rothstein who defrauded
investors,” she said by e-mail, referring to the confidence
man’s law firm. “We will continue to defend the bank against
claims of wrongdoing.”  In closing arguments on behalf of the bank, Holly R.
Skolnick said the Coquina investment firm must have known that
returns of 50 percent in a few months were too good to be
legitimate.  “It was obvious to Coquina that these were fraudulent
investments,” Skolnick, of the law firm Greenberg Traurig LLP,
told jurors. “It had to be obvious. These deals make no
sense.”  In its complaint, Coquina said officers of the bank
“played an active role in the scheme and facilitated its
continued existence” by meeting with victims to create the
appearance of a legitimate enterprise.  Fake Cases  While operating the fraud, Rothstein told his victims that
they were buying stakes in settlements of cases about which his
Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , law firm, Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler
PA, had amassed evidence and confronted potential defendants in
sexual and employment discrimination cases. The settlements were
fictional, as were the cases.  He used the bank to make payments to investors that
supposedly came from the settlements, and to provide documents
“to conceal the truth from the investors, to keep the investors
and encourage them to re-invest, and to attract additional
investors,” according to the complaint.  Investors regularly met with bank Vice President Frank
Spinosa, contributing to the “aura of legitimacy,” Coquina
said in the complaint.  No Testimony  Spinosa, who is no longer with the bank, refused to testify
during the trial, citing his Fifth Amendment protection against
self-incrimination.  The bank is facing three other suits by groups of investors
claiming it helped keep Rothstein’s fraud afloat by providing
Rothstein with documents that he used to convince investors
their money was safe and could be disbursed only to him, when he
actually was siphoning money out of the accounts.  Rothstein pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 50 years in
prison. He is cooperating with authorities and those seeking to
recoup losses using lawsuits against third parties.  Seven of his employees and associates have been criminally
charged. Five pleaded guilty, and two are awaiting trial.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-cv-
60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 