-- House Democrats Target Republican Seats, Vacancies in November
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-18T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/house-democrats-target-republican-seats-vacancies-in-november.html
House Democrats announced plans to
target 36 districts in the November election, aiming largely at
seats won by Republican freshmen to give their party control of
the chamber in 2010..  Democrats running against first-term Republicans Allen West
of  Florida  and Joe Walsh of  Illinois  are among those who will
receive extra help with campaign cash and get-out-the-vote
strategies, Representative Steve Israel, chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, told reporters
today. Democrats are also targeting seats held by retiring
lawmakers, including Republican Elton Gallegly of  California .  Freshman House Republicans -- many elected with backing of
the  Tea Party  -- may be vulnerable after a year of threatened
government shutdowns and partisan fights that have revealed deep
splits over whether to boost taxes for the wealthy and preserve
key programs like Medicare, said Israel, a New York Democrat.  “Those are our top-tier targets, and we’re going to hold
them responsible,” he said. Other districts the Democrats will
target will be identified later, he said.  Democrats need 25 seats to regain control of the House,
which they lost in the 2010 election that centered on voter
unrest over a worsening economy and President Barack Obama’s
health-care overhaul, economic stimulus and other policies that
expanded the government.  ‘At Their Heels’  Israel  said he is somewhat optimistic the party can make
enough inroads with independent and other voters to regain
control of the House in November as Obama seeks re-election. He
said that, if the election were held today, there probably
aren’t enough districts likely to change hands to give Democrats
control.  “I’m not saying we’ve got the 25 seats that we need in the
bank,” he said. “I’m not saying that the majority is a
guarantee. I am saying that we are nipping at their heels and
that we have the potential to overtake them over the next nine
months.”  Independent analysts are predicting Republicans will retain
control of the House while losing some seats. The nonpartisan
 Rothenberg Political Report  is projecting Democratic gains of
five to 12 seats.  Andrea Bozek, a spokeswoman for the  National Republican
Congressional Committee , said Democratic candidates will be
hampered by the public’s dislike of the health-care overhaul and
Obama’s “other job-destroying policies.”  Feeling Sorry  “You can’t help but feel sorry for the candidates that
national Democrats have recruited to run on Obama’s failed
agenda,” she said in a statement. “They are soon about to find
out that Steve Israel’s promises of getting them jobs in
Congress are as empty as the president’s promise to create jobs
for Americans.”  Israel said a poll released this month gives Democrats one
of the best signs they can retake the chamber. The Jan. 8-11
survey of 1,000 likely voters, commissioned by Democracy Corps,
found Democrats are winning independent voters by 2 percentage
points, a net 9-point shift among independents since October and
19 percentage points more than since August. Democracy Corps was
founded by Democratic consultants  James Carville  and Stan Greenberg.  Candidates who will receive extra help from the Democratic
campaign committee include  Dan Maffei , who lost his New York
congressional seat in the 2010 election to Republican Ann Marie Buerkle, and Sal Pace, running for the Colorado seat held by
first-term Republican Tim Griffin.  Christie Vilsack, a Democrat running for the Iowa seat of
Republican Representative Steve King, is also on the list of the
DCCC’s so-called “red-to-blue” campaign. King, who has served
in the House since 2003, is a favorite of the Tea Party
movement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  