-- P&G Calls Africa Next Frontier on Philanthropic Effort
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-20T20:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/p-g-s-ceo-calls-africa-next-frontier-amid-philanthropic-effort.html
(Corrects developing market revenue in third paragraph of
story originally published Jan. 19.)  Procter & Gamble Co.  Chief Executive
Officer Robert McDonald said the world’s largest consumer-
products company is increasing sales and philanthropic efforts
in regions such as  Pakistan  and parts of Africa.  “We have an amazing congruence between what other people
call corporate social responsibility and our business-building
efforts,” McDonald said yesterday in an interview in
 Washington , where  P&G (PG)  was one of two companies receiving the
13th annual Secretary of State’s Award for Corporate Excellence.  Political and military tensions haven’t stymied expansion
in Pakistan, where P&G’s business has grown fivefold in the past
decade, McDonald said. Growth there will continue at the same
pace or faster, he said. Last year, 35 percent of P&G’s $82.6
billion in revenue came from developing markets.  At yesterday’s event, where P&G’s award was presented by
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , the company was recognized
for programs including water-purification projects, mobile
health clinics in Nigeria and Pakistan, and relief work in the
latter following the extensive floods in 2010.  McDonald called Africa “the next frontier” for P&G.
Business in North  Africa  “has come back very strongly”
following revolutions in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , he said.  “It’s not like because people are rioting in the street,
you’re suddenly not going to wash your clothes,” McDonald said.
“The big issue, frankly, is water. To use our products you need
water.” He said the average woman worldwide walks 6 kilometers
(3.7 miles) a day to procure water.  Adding Products  P&G, based in Cincinnati,  rose  0.5 percent to $66.03
yesterday in  New York . The shares gained 3.7 percent last year.  P&G is working to have 5 billion customers by 2015, a
milestone it plans to achieve by adding products and categories
in markets around the world. Only seven of its 39 categories
currently sell in Pakistan.  “I don’t think that the people of the world think of
Procter & Gamble first and foremost as an American company,” he
said. “I have not seen where it’s problematic.” And people
need the company’s products, he said. P&G brands include Pampers
diapers, Tide detergent and Pantene shampoo.  Sahlman Seafoods , a company that operates a shrimp farm in
 Nicaragua , was also honored at the event.  Clinton called U.S. corporations “key actors” in
international affairs. The winners “have shown the
compassionate face of caring Americans,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  