-- Paris Hilton Scent Gets 218% in Likely Parlux Takeover: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-01-18T21:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/paris-hilton-scent-returns-218-in-parlux-takeover-seen-closing-real-m-a.html
A takeover to secure the rights to
sell Paris Hilton’s  scent  in a bottle is giving traders a chance
to triple their money betting on the industry’s most expensive
acquisition.  Parlux Fragrances Inc. (PARL) , which makes perfumes named after
celebrities including Hilton and pop-music singer Rihanna, ended
yesterday 76 cents below its offer from  Perfumania Holdings Inc. (PERF) 
While Perfumania has slumped since agreeing to pay more than
double Parlux’s market value in the costliest cosmetics deal
relative to earnings, traders can reap an annualized return of
as much as 218 percent buying Parlux shares if the company
produces enough  cash  as a condition of the deal when it reports
earnings next month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition would give Perfumania, which operates more
than 300 perfume shops across the U.S., control of its largest
 supplier , helping it lower costs and bolster revenue that fell
by the most in almost a decade last year. With Parlux retreating
11 percent from its  peak  after the agreement was announced in
December, Tullett Prebon Plc says the potential reward for
arbitragers may now make betting on the takeover worth the risk.  “It’s an attractive spread,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon,
said in a telephone interview. “The bottom line here is that if
Parlux is able to meet that cash requirement threshold, then the
deal should close. They should be in a fairly easy position” to
generate that cash, he said.  Reb’l Fleur  Today, Parlux advanced 1.1 percent to $5.36 a share and
climbed to within 70 cents of Perfumania’s offer, the narrowest
gap since the takeover was announced.  Raymond Balsys, chief financial officer at  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida-based Parlux, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
or e-mail seeking comment. A representative for Bellport, New
York-based Perfumania declined to comment.  Perfumania sells everything from perfumes to Bed Head
shampoo and Kabuki makeup brushes in its outlets nationwide and
on its website. By acquiring Parlux, Perfumania would gain the
company that makes branded fragrances such as Just Me by  Paris
Hilton , the 30-year-old hotel heiress and socialite, Rihanna’s
Reb’l Fleur and singer Jessica Simpson’s Fancy Love.  In December, Perfumania agreed to acquire Parlux for $4 a
share in cash and 0.2 of its own stock for each Parlux share
held, or about $175 million after accounting for debt and cash,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Parlux shareholders can also
opt to receive 0.53333 Perfumania shares in lieu of cash.  Smell of Money  The terms of the deal are contingent upon Parlux having at
least $15 million in cash and equivalents, according to Tullett
Prebon’s Shah. If Parlux doesn’t have enough money when it
reports earnings in February, the amount of cash that Perfumania
is offering may decrease, he said.  After surging 71 percent on Dec. 27, Parlux has retreated
as Perfumania lost almost half its value. Parlux ended at $5.30
a share yesterday, versus the cash-and-stock offer of $6.06.  Parlux has languished below the deal price because
investors are concerned it may not be able to come up with the
money needed under the current terms, according to  John Dorfman ,
chairman of Boston-based investment firm Thunderstorm Capital.
The price that Perfumania agreed to pay also made some traders
less confident the deal will be completed, he said. Dorfman
doesn’t own shares of either company.  At 42 times Parlux’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the takeover is the most
expensive for any acquisition in the cosmetics and toiletries
industry greater than $100 million. The 140 percent premium is
also the industry’s richest since 1999, the data show.  Cash Requirement  The transaction, valued at about $131 million yesterday, is
now greater than Perfumania’s own market capitalization of $92.4
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parlux is trading at “a considerable discount, so clearly
the arbitrage community thinks there’s a real risk that the deal
won’t get done,” Dorfman said in a telephone interview.
“Arbitragers are handicapping the cash provision by how much of
a discount to the offer they’re giving.”  Parlux had $12.1 million in cash and near-cash items as of
Sept. 30, meaning it needed to boost reserves by $2.9 million
last quarter to satisfy the terms of the takeover. In its fiscal
third-quarter ended December 2010, Parlux increased its cash
position by $6 million, or double the amount required, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In the same period two years ago,
the company’s reserves grew by more than $5 million.  With Parlux set to report its quarterly earnings in the
week ending Feb. 10, according to Tullett Prebon’s Shah,
arbitragers betting on the stock now can reap a profit of as
much as 218 percent on an annualized basis if Parlux says by
that date that it has enough cash, the data show.  Relative Value  If traders held onto the shares until the end of June, when
the deal is projected to close, the annualized gain would be 32
percent. That’s still be the biggest for any U.S. deal with a
completion date after February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In my experience in doing these types of deals, the
target company rarely, if ever, signs a deal when they’re not
confident that they will have the required amount of money,”
Steve Gerbel, founder and president of Chicago Capital
Management, a Chicago-based hedge fund that focuses on merger
arbitrage, said in a telephone interview. The deal “could be
attractive” versus the risk, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 