-- Possehl Buys Manroland Web Unit, Managers Step In to Run Rest
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-01-18T19:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/possehl-buys-manroland-web-unit-managers-step-in-to-run-rest.html
L. Possehl & Co. has agreed to buy
 Manroland AG (MRDCF) ’s web press unit in Augsburg while investors are
sought for the offset unit in Offenbach and assembly operations
in Plauen, insolvency administrator Werner Schneider said.  The sites in Offenbach and Plauen will initially be taken
over by management and Schneider, the administrator said in a
conference call with journalists. About 2,500 jobs will be saved
from 4,700 in  Germany , he said.  Schneider has been negotiating under “tight” time
pressure to have a solution in place before preliminary
insolvency proceedings end on Jan. 31, the manager said.
Manroland, the biggest maker of newspaper printing machines, saw
orders fall by 50 percent from 2006 to 2010 as readers switched
to online news and banks curtailed financing of machinery.  “It is a common goal to pass the company on to investors
that are interested in a long-term and independent continuation
of the company,” Schneider said on the call. “In effect, the
second round is now starting for Offenbach.”  Shanghai Electric Group Co. (601727) , which was interested in buying
all of Manroland, may still be interested in bidding for the
Offenbach plant and several companies have said they are
interested in the Plauen site, Schneider said. While  Platinum
Equity , a buyout firm based in  Los Angeles , had submitted a bid
for all units, Possehl, based in Luebeck, was faster and had
already held negotiations with worker representatives, the
administrator said.  The assembly operations in Plauen will be supported by
supply contracts from Augsburg and Possehl may be interested in
taking over that site as well, Schneider said. Talks have
already been held about the state of Hesse providing loan
guarantees to secure Offenbach’s future, the administrator said.  In Augsburg, 1,500 of 2,200 workers will be able to keep
their jobs, while in Offenbach the number will be reduced to 750
from 1,760. Plauen will keep 290 positions from 680, Schneider
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  