-- Prestige Brands Sets Rate on $620 Million Loan for Buyout
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-01-18T20:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/prestige-brands-sets-rate-on-620-million-loan-for-buyout-1-.html
Prestige Brands Holdings Inc. (PBH)  set
the  interest rate  it will pay on a $620 million  term loan  B it’s
seeking to back its purchase of 17 over-the-counter medicine
brands from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The seven-year debt will pay interest at 4.5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. Libor, the rate at which banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent floor.  Prestige Brands is proposing to sell the loan at 98 cents
on the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning Prestige would have to pay 1 cent more than
face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  The Irvington, New York-based company is also seeking a $50
million asset-based revolving line of credit due in five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of Canada are
arranging the financing for the maker of over-the-counter drugs,
household cleaning and personal-care products, said the person.
Lenders must submit commitments by Jan. 26 at 5 p.m. in  New
York .  The debt is rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service and it
graded BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , the person said.  Sominex, Beano  Prestige Brands agreed to buy products from London-based
Glaxo including digestive helpers Beano and Gaviscon,
painkillers Ecotrin and Goody’s and Sominex sleep tablets for
$660 million.  Ronald Lombardi, chief financial officer of Prestige
Brands, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  A term loan B is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  