-- President Wine-Cooler Gift to Treasury Chief May Fetch $600,000
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/president-wine-cooler-gift-to-treasury-chief-may-fetch-600-000.html
A four-bottle wine cooler whose
provenance includes the first U.S. president and his treasury
secretary could fetch as much as $600,000 this week.  The Sheffield-plate bowl, designed to the specifications of
 George Washington , is coming to the auction block on Jan. 19 as
part of  Christie’s (CHRS)  Americana week in New York.  Washington ordered four wine coolers in 1789, the year he
was sworn into office and moved into his first official
residence on Cherry Street in  Manhattan .  “They had just thrown out  England  and they had to
entertain,” said Jeanne Sloane, Christie’s deputy chairman and
head of silver. “But they didn’t want to be regal.”  The wine cooler was decorated only with lion’s masks and
ring handles on the sides. Instead of using solid silver, a
layered combination of silver and copper, known as Sheffield
plate, was chosen.  “Extravagance would not comport with my own inclination,
nor with the example which ought to be set,”  Washington  wrote
to Gouverneur Morris in a letter asking his help with supplying
the coolers.  ‘As a Token’  In 1797, as Washington left office and moved to  Mount
Vernon , he gave one of the wine coolers to  Alexander Hamilton ,
his friend and the first treasury secretary.  He writes in a letter to Hamilton that the gift is “not
for any intrinsic value the thing possesses, but as a token of
my sincere regard and friendship for you, and as a remembrance
of me.” The passage is part of a long inscription that
Hamilton’s descendants had engraved on the cooler, while the
letter itself is in the collection of the Library of Congress.  The cooler has remained until now with Hamilton’s
descendants.  Another highlight of the Americana sales is a full-size,
complete first edition of John James Audubon’s “The Birds of
America” (1827-1838). The four-volume set features 435 hand-
colored engravings. It’s offered on Jan. 20 with an estimate
range of $7 million to $10 million.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 