-- Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Rebounded
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-18T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/production-in-u-s-probably-climbed-as-companies-replenished-inventories.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
probably rebounded in December, a sign that manufacturing was
weathering a global slowdown at the end of last year, economists
said before a report today.  Production at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.5
percent after declining 0.2 percent in November, according to
the median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Confidence improved among homebuilders this month and wholesale
prices were little changed in December, other data may show.  Gains in consumer demand and business investment combined
with lean inventories are prompting factories to hire more
workers and add hours.  Europe ’s financial crisis and a weaker
euro threaten to restrain purchases of American-made goods,
limiting production growth.  “For manufacturing, it’s steady-as-she-goes at a
reasonable clip for the near term,” said  Richard DeKaser ,
deputy chief economist at the Parthenon Group Inc. in  Boston .
“The only thing that’s preventing manufacturing from taking a
lead position in the expansion is the recession in Europe, which
has hurt U.S. exports.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s production data are due at 9:15 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from no change to a
0.8 percent increase.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 75 percent of
industrial production, may keep contributing to the expansion in
the world’s largest economy even as a possible recession in
Europe weighs on global growth.  ‘Challenging Environment’  “2011 proved to be a challenging environment, most notably
with the difficulties in the European region,” Roger Wood,
president and chief executive officer at  Dana Holding Corp. (DAN) ,
said Jan. 10 at an auto industry conference in  Detroit .
“Looking forward, we continue to foresee a mixed global
outlook. We expect slow growth in  North America  and much better
growth in both  Asia  and  South America . We believe that Europe
will continue to lag.”  The Maumee, Ohio-based maker of truck axles and frames,
said in a statement that adjusted profit this year will be $1.95
to $2.05 a share. The average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was $1.88.  U.S. exports dropped to a four-month low in November,
depressed by a decline in shipments to Europe, according to
Commerce Department figures released last week.  Auto Production  At the same time, automobile production in the U.S. is
helping boost factory activity. Munich-based  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of luxury autos, will invest
about $900 million in its South Carolina factory to expand
capacity and prepare the facility to produce a new sport-utility
vehicle.  The spending, to be completed by 2014, will help increase
capacity at the plant in Spartanburg to 350,000 vehicles a year
from the 276,100 autos made there last year, the Munich-based
company said last week in a statement. BMW will make the new X4
SUV at the factory, adding to the X3, X5 and X6 models already
assembled there.  Manufacturers added 23,000 jobs in December, the most in
five months, Labor Department figures showed on Jan. 6. Hours by
non-supervisory  factory workers  climbed to 41.5 in December,
matching the highest since May 2010 and a sign manufacturers may
keeping adding to payrolls.  “Manufacturing activity generally continued to expand,
although the pace of growth has slowed for selected subsectors
such as technology products,” the Fed said in its Beige Book
anecdotal business survey released Jan. 11.  Housing Stabilizing  The housing market, meantime, is projected to show further
signs of stabilizing. A 10 a.m. report from the  National
Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo may show that its
confidence  index (S15HOME)  rose for a fourth straight month to the highest
level since May 2010, according to economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  A gain in third-quarter orders at Lennar Corp., the third-
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, has helped bolster builder
shares. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
has climbed 15 percent since Nov. 30.  Another report may show that prices paid to U.S.
wholesalers climbed at a slower pace in December. The producer-
 price index  increased 0.1 percent, compared with 0.3 percent the
previous month, economists said ahead of Labor Department
figures due at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  