-- Rand Pares Advances as Investors Trim Their Bets on Higher Interest Rates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-18T15:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/rand-strengthens-for-a-third-day-as-economic-optimism-boosts-commodities.html
The rand pared gains and bond yields
fell after manufacturing output trailed estimates and inflation
held steady last month, prompting investors to trim bets on
higher  interest rates .  South Africa ’s currency strengthened less than 0.1 percent
to 8.0450 per dollar as of 4:34 p.m. in Johannesburg, after
advancing as much as 0.8 percent to its strongest level since
Dec. 7. The yield on 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 6.67 percent, the
lowest level on a closing basis since Dec. 5.  The  purchasing managers’ index  dropped below the threshold
that indicates a contraction in manufacturing and the  inflation 
rate was unchanged at 6.1 percent, compared with an increase to
6.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. Forward rate
agreements starting in August, which traders use to speculate on
interest rates, dropped 3.5 basis points to 5.66 percent.  “At this stage the inflation rate is unlikely to pose a
significant concern for the monetary authorities,”  Kevin Lings ,
an economist at Stanlib Asset Management Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said in an e-mailed comment. “The  Reserve Bank  can simply
continue to leave interest rates unchanged for an extended
period.”  A separate report today showed retail sales unexpectedly
slowed in November.  ‘Downside Risk’  “Domestic demand remains moderate and there are downside
risks to economic growth emanating mainly from the uncertain
global outlook,” Dennis Dykes, an analyst at Nedbank Group Ltd.
In Johannesburg, said via e-mail. “Local inflation has picked
up, but demand-driven inflation remains subdued. These factors
are likely to persuade the Monetary Policy Committee to leave
interest rates unchanged until around November this year.”  South Africa’s central bank, which has an inflation target
range of 3 percent to 6 percent, will probably keep rates  on
hold  tomorrow, according to all 21 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Earlier, the rand strengthened after reports yesterday from
the U.S.,  Germany  and  China  signaled improving economic growth
and demand for commodities. South Africa’s currency breached 8
per dollar, seen as a significant resistance level to further
gains, before paring its advance after the inflation data was
released.  “Global sentiment continues to be very positive, spurred
mostly by China’s GDP data released yesterday and good secondary
figures from the U.S. and Germany.”  John Cairns , a currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-
mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  