-- Transocean, Abiomed May See Takeover Interest, Morningstar Says
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-01-18T20:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/transocean-abiomed-may-see-takeover-interest-morningstar-says.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and  Abiomed Inc. (ABMD)  are
among companies that may be acquired in 2012 because they trade
below fair value estimates, even as market uncertainty damps
dealmaking in the first half, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The Chicago-based research firm identified 20 possible
acquisition candidates in its Mergers & Acquisitions Insights
report published today. Transocean may benefit from management
changes and could be bought for a discount, while Abiomed’s
cardiac medical devices may be sought by a bigger rival, and the
company may be worth nearly 40 percent more than recent share
prices, Morningstar said.  Energy, health-care and communications companies offer
buyers the most attractive valuations, according to the report.
Consolidation among energy-services companies, a push by health-
care firms to acquire devices and communications companies
bidding for airwaves will drive M&A this year. Meanwhile,
transactions worth more than $10 billion will probably stay on
the “backburner,” according to Morningstar.  “In this type of environment, M&A is often a way to
purchase growth,” Bridget Freas, a Morningstar analyst who
contributed to the report, said in a telephone interview. “The
market is supportive of smaller acquisitions.”  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , which lacks the scale to
compete with larger wireless carriers, has spectrum that may be
valuable to Sprint Nextel Corp. or  Verizon Wireless , Morningstar
said.  Morningstar expanded the current list from 13 potential
targets in September after stock market declines made many
companies less expensive, according to the report.  “The overall pool is definitely more attractively valued
now,” Freas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  