-- TransCanada May Be ‘Dead Money’ After U.S. Spurns Keystone XL
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-01-19T22:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/transcanada-dead-money-if-keystone-xl-can-t-be-salvaged.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  may lag behind
other energy-infrastructure companies as it seeks new growth
prospects following President  Barack Obama ’s rejection of its
Keystone XL oil-sands crude pipeline.  The $7 billion project had the potential to add $10 a share
to TransCanada’s stock price in 2012 and continue the
transformation of the Calgary-based company from a gas and
nuclear utility to an oil-pipeline powerhouse,  Carl Kirst , an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets in Houston, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “If the rejection is permanent, the stock becomes dead
money for a time and the company may have to reposition for
investors,” he said. “The question would be, ‘When does
TransCanada come forward with enough projects to convince people
that yes, indeed, there is growth on the horizon?’”  Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  sought to reassure
investors in a presentation today, saying TransCanada is
evaluating about C$50 billion ($49.4 billion) in potential
projects in its main business areas: oil pipelines, gas
pipelines, power and renewable energy.  “Keystone is an important part of our business, but we’re
a large business,” he said at a conference in Whistler, British
Columbia. “We’ve got a lot of things going on right now.
Thankfully, all of those other projects are not attracting the
same level of attention as Keystone is right now. We’d never get
anything done if that were the case.”  Wind, Nuclear  The company’s new projects, which include the largest wind
farm in Canada and a long-delayed upgrade at a nuclear plant in
Ontario, are expected to boost TransCanada’s operating income by
C$2.5 billion by 2015, Girling said. About 26 percent of that
growth would come from Keystone XL if the company can win
approval and complete the pipeline, 28 percent in power and
renewable energy and 44 percent from gas pipelines in Canada and
the  United States , he said.  Girling said TransCanada will reapply for a U.S. permit to
build the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline after adjusting
the route to avoid environmentally sensitive regions in
 Nebraska . The company said the pipeline might still be ready in
2014 if the U.S. expedites review of its new application.  TransCanada may shorten Keystone XL’s initial path,
bringing oil from  Montana ’s Bakken Shale to refiners in the  Gulf
of Mexico  and removing the need for federal approval, Alex Pourbaix, president of the company’s energy and oil pipelines
division, said in a telephone interview today.  ‘Not Just Keystone’  Pourbaix said TransCanada is reviewing capital
opportunities that include ways to upgrade or build connections
into the existing Keystone pipeline that runs from  Alberta  to
refineries in  Illinois .  “This company is not just Keystone XL, we are a $60
billion company,” he said. “Keystone was such a significant
capital project that the delay actually gives us an opportunity
to advance a number of other projects.”  More delays may lead producers and refiners to abandon the
Keystone XL for competing projects, a development that might
force TransCanada to scuttle the proposal, Kirst said. Many
investors expect the U.S. to approve the pipeline before that
can happen.  TransCanada fell less than 1 percent to close at C$41.70 in
Toronto. The shares yesterday fell as much as 4.8 percent, the
most since May 2010.  Pipeline Profits  Since 2006, TransCanada has poured many of its resources
into the Keystone project because potential profits from oil
pipelines far outstrip those in its gas and power-transmission
businesses, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion
for First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  “The most compelling story in the value chain is in oil
transportation, not natural gas,” said Stephenson, whose funds
own more than 1.5 million TransCanada shares. “Unfortunately
for TransCanada, this was going to be their big push.”  New gas pipelines in  Mexico  and the Midwest helped
TransCanada boost operating income 18 percent in the third
quarter, but none of those opportunities compare to the profits
that would flow from the Keystone expansion, Stephenson said.  Keystone XL is  the second leg  of a $12.5 billion pipeline
project planned to move crude from Alberta’s oil sands to U.S.
refineries near  Chicago  and on the Texas Gulf Coast. TransCanada
began operating the first leg of the pipeline, which brings oil
from  Canada  to Illinois plants, in early 2011.  Gas Falls  Revenue from oil pipelines  made up  less than 10 percent of
TransCanada’s revenue in the third quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rest came from the company’s gas
pipelines and electricity businesses.  The  price  of gas has dropped 44 percent in the past 12
months as producers used hydraulic fracturing and horizontal
drilling to tap oil and gas locked in shale rock formations
across the country. Interest meanwhile has waned in expansions
of nuclear  power plants , in which TransCanada has invested,
after reactors in Fukushima melted down after a March 2011
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Limited Growth  As a new application awaits approval, TransCanada will face
limited growth prospects from the few projects it has pursued
alongside the Keystone XL in nuclear power and renewable energy,
said BMO’s Kirst.  TransCanada announced Dec. 20 that it would buy nine solar
power plants in Ontario for C$470 million and continues to
develop Cartier Wind, Canada’s largest wind project. Bruce Power
LP, a closely held nuclear plant which TransCanada co-owns, is
expected to bring two 750-megawatt units back into service this
year after a five-year renovation project.  Girling said the company may be able to do more than it
originally anticipated due to the Keystone delay.  “Up until this time, we didn’t have capacity for any 2012,
2013 projects,” he said. “As we look at our financial capacity
now, we perhaps have more capacity for 2012 and 2013 and
beyond.”  Opportunities in gas pipeline transmission will grow as
companies begin to phase out coal-fired power plants in favor of
natural gas, increasing demand for the commodity as well as
prices, he said.  Since the Obama administration announced Nov. 10 it would
delay a decision on granting a permit to the Keystone XL
project, TransCanada has lagged peers in the so-called midstream
business of transporting oil and gas in pipelines, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  TransCanada Lagging  Rival  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , which is building a pipeline that
would compete with the XL, as well as another to ship Canadian
crude to the country’s West Coast for export, has risen 4.3
percent since Nov. 9. TransCanada has risen 3.2 percent.  Producers and refiners, or so-called shippers, continued to
signal that they support the Keystone project after Obama’s
rejection, Pourbaix said.  “We have heard from all of our shippers,” he said. “None
of them were particularly surprised by the statements from the
State Department yesterday. At the same time, they’ve indicated
they continue to be strongly behind our efforts to permit our
entire project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  