-- Treasury Market Volatility at Lowest Since June Amid Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-18T22:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/treasury-yields-little-changed-as-u-s-wholesale-prices-unexpectedly-drop.html
Price  swings  in the Treasury market
are at the lowest level since June with investors reluctant to
sell  U.S. debt  amid concern European leaders will be unable to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Bonds fell for the first time in three days as  Greece  and
its creditors may have a deal by the end of the week, according
to a Greek finance ministry official. The Merrill Option
Volatility Estimate, or MOVE, index fell to 75.6 basis points
yesterday, the lowest since June 7. In May it touched 71.5, the
least since the financial crisis began. A report showed total
foreign holdings of Treasuries rose 1.7 percent to a record
$4.75 trillion in November.  “The economic news we’ve seen of late should be negative
for Treasuries, but we’ve been stuck with yields at these
levels, which makes investor optimism hard to come by,” said
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “Given the economic uncertainty, it really would take an
awful lot of positive news to generate any significant selling
given the lack of momentum in  Europe .”  Thirty-year bond yields rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.96 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Ten-year  yields 
increased four basis points to 1.90 percent. The yield fell to
1.80 percent on Dec. 19, the least since Oct. 4. The two-year
note yield rose one basis point to 0.23 percent. That compares
with a record 0.143 percent Sept. 20.  ‘Closer’ to Deal  “Treasuries are coming off as there is talk about getting
closer to a deal with regards to Greek debt restructuring,”
said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “As stocks rise, the
flight-to-quality bid is less aggressive. There is a thought
that maybe Europe can take care of its own problem,”  U.S. debt fluctuated earlier as the  International Monetary
Fund  proposed raising its lending capacity by $500 billion to
insulate the global economy against any worsening of Europe’s
debt crisis. Global demand for U.S. financial assets rose more
than forecast in November, boosted by investors seeking shelter
from the European debt crisis, the Treasury Department said in
Washington.  Fewer Opportunities  The reduced volatility makes it “harder to make money” as
traders have fewer opportunities to exploit movements in prices,
said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors.  Treasury market volumes remain below average. About $187
billion of Treasuries changed hands yesterday through ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest interdealer broker, below the one-year
average of $281 billion and the five-year average of $270
billion.  “We haven’t had any hints of inflation in the  United
States  in a couple months,” said  Mark Grant , a managing
director at Southwest Securities Inc. in  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida . “The U.S. will be significantly affected by the
recession in Europe -- which is already on the way -- and
consequently producer and consumer prices in the U.S. will be
noticeably less, either neutral or slightly deflationary at
least, over the next quarter or possibly two quarters.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.06
percentage points, up from 2.03 percentage points yesterday. The
average over the past decade is 2.13 percentage points.  Producer Prices  The  producer price index  fell 0.1 percent, the second
decrease in the past three months, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington (PXFECHNG) . A survey of 74 economists projected
a 0.1 percent gain, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The core measure excluding volatile food
and energy rose 0.3 percent as the cost of light trucks climbed.  Consumer prices rose 0.1 percent last month after being
unchanged in November, according to a separate survey before the
data’s release tomorrow. The U.S. jobless rate has been more
than 8 percent for almost three years.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent
after a revised 0.3 percent decline in November, figures from
the  Federal Reserve  showed today in  Washington . Economists
forecast a 0.5 percent rise for December, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Factory production,
which makes up about 75 percent of total output, climbed by the
most in a year.  The IMF is proposing a $500 billion expansion of its
lending resources to safeguard the global economy against any
worsening of Europe’s debt crisis, according to an official at a
Group of 20 nation.  ‘Bleak Outlook’  “The rates market is still pricing in a bleak outlook with
regards to the European crisis,” said Eric Van Nostrand, a New
York-based interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG,
one of the 21 primary dealers that trade debt with the Fed.
“The supply of safe assets in recent quarters has drifted
lower, which has caused a supply squeeze, which has given a bid
to Treasuries. A lot of the former safe assets are no longer
safe.”  The Washington-based lender is pushing  China ,  Brazil ,
Russia,  India ,  Japan  and oil-exporting nations to be the top
contributors, according to the official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the talks are private. The fund wants the
agreement struck at the Feb. 25-26 meeting of G-20 finance
ministers and central bankers in Mexico City, the official said.  ‘Relentless’ Buying  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13 cut the debt grades of several
euro-area nations including France, Italy, Portugal and Spain,
while affirming Germany’s AAA ranking.  Net buying of long-term U.S. equities, notes and bonds
totaled $59.8 billion compared with net purchases of $8.3
billion in October, the Treasury said today. Including short-
term securities foreigners bought a net $48.6 billion compared
with net selling of $39.6 billion the previous month.  “The buying of Treasuries has been fairly relentless,”
said  Anthony Cronin , a trader in  New York  at  Societe Generale , a
primary dealer. “People are still concerned about Europe even
though some of those financial markets are trading better. There
is so much cash out there and it’s dribbling and drabbing its
way back into the Treasury market.”  China, the largest foreign lender to the U.S., decreased
its holdings of longer-term notes and bonds by 0.1 percent or
$1.2 billion to $1.13 trillion, while also shrinking its
position in shorter-term bills by $300 million to $2.3 billion.
Its total holdings fell $1.5 billion, or 0.1 percent, to $1.13
trillion, the lowest since July 2010.  Target Rate  The Fed has said it will keep its target rate for overnight
loans between banks between zero and 0.25 percent through
mid-2013, and is now selling $400 billion of its short-term
Treasuries and reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term
government debt in a program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The Fed bought $4.646 billion of securities as part of a
program to cap borrowing costs. The central bank sold as much as
$8.74 billion of debt due from 2013 to 2014, according to the
New York Fed’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  