-- U.S. 10-Year Treasury Yields Approach 3-Month Low Before Inflation Reports
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-18T12:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/treasuries-hold-two-day-gain-before-u-s-inflation-reports-fed-purchases.html
Treasury 10-year yields fell for a
third day before reports forecast to show U.S. inflation is in
check as the economy expands.  Two-year notes maintained a two-day gain as Europe’s debt
crisis fueled demand for the relative safety of Treasuries.
Treasuries advanced even as the  International Monetary Fund  was
said to propose a $500 billion expansion of its lending
resources.  “The market will look at the economic data, which needs to
surprise to move Treasuries out of their recent trading range,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. Shorter maturity notes are being
“supported by bank buying for balance-sheet purposes and by
investors being super-defensive.”  Ten-year  yields  fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.84 percent at 7:31 a.m. New York time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent security due
November 2021 gained 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to
101 14/32. The rate fell to 1.80 percent on Dec. 19, the least
since Oct. 4.  The two-year note yield was little changed at 0.22 percent.
That compares with a record 0.143 percent reached Sept. 20.  Inflation Outlook  U.S. producer prices increased 0.1 percent in December
after a 0.3 percent gain the previous month, the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News showed before the
report today.  Consumer prices rose 0.1 percent last month after being
unchanged in November, according to a separate survey before the
data’s release tomorrow. The U.S. jobless rate has been more
than 8 percent for almost three years.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.03
percentage points. The average over the past decade is 2.13
percentage points.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Bill Gross said
yesterday that credit-rating cuts in  Europe  may lead some
investors to purge the region’s bonds from their holdings.  “There are regulatory issues in the case of structures
that are dependent on certain types of ratings and to the extent
that various countries get downgraded, then those positions have
to be reduced,” he said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  IMF Proposal  The IMF is proposing a $500 billion expansion of its
lending resources to safeguard the global economy against any
worsening of Europe’s debt crisis, according to an official at a
Group of 20 nation.  The Washington-based lender is pushing  China ,  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  India ,  Japan  and oil-exporting nations to be the top
contributors, according to the official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the talks are private. The fund wants the
agreement struck at the Feb. 25-26 meeting of G-20 finance
ministers and central bankers in Mexico City, the official said.  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13 cut the debt grades of several
euro-area nations including  France , Italy, Portugal and  Spain ,
while affirming  Germany ’s AAA ranking.  Overseas demand for U.S. assets probably increased in
November, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before a
Treasury Department report today.  Net  purchases  of long-term U.S. bonds, stocks and other
assets by investors outside the nation rose to $40 billion from
$4.8 billion in October, based on the median estimate.  Faster Growth  The appeal of Treasuries is diminishing among some
investors as the world’s biggest economy gains momentum.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.5 percent
last month after dropping 0.2 percent in November, the median
projection of economists in another poll showed before figures
from the  Federal Reserve  today.  “We’re getting good data,” said Ali Jalai, a Treasuries
trader in Singapore at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of one of the
21 primary dealers that underwrite the U.S. debt. “Yields are
low. I don’t see why people are buying them.” Ten-year rates
may rise to 2.2 percent by March 31, he said.  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, the
 World Bank  predicted, down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent.
The bank sees the euro area contracting 0.3 percent in 2012,
compared with a previous estimate of 1.8 percent growth. The U.S.
outlook was cut to an expansion of 2.2 percent from 2.9 percent,
according to a report the bank published yesterday in  Washington .  Fed Purchases  The Fed has said it will keep its target rate for overnight
loans between banks between zero and 0.25 percent through mid-
2013, and is now selling $400 billion of its short-term
Treasuries and reinvesting the proceeds into longer-term
government debt in a program traders dubbed Operation Twist.  The Fed is scheduled to buy as much as $5 billion of
securities due from 2020 to 2021 today as part of a program to
cap borrowing costs. The central bank will also sell as much as
$8.75 billion of debt due from 2013 to 2014, according to the
New York Fed’s  website .  Thirty-year bonds advanced yesterday as the Fed began four
consecutive days of purchasing debt. The yield was little
changed at 2.89 percent today.  “We are at yield levels where the downside reward in yield
terms looks limited,” Monument’s Ostwald said. “The upside for
yields, particularly at the long end, is capped as the Fed is
still conducting its twist operation.”  The next auction will be for $15 billion of 10-year TIPS
tomorrow. The U.S. is scheduled to sell two-, five- and seven-
year securities over three days starting Jan. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 