-- House Opposes U.S. Debt-Limit Rise in Symbolic Vote for Political Season
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-01-19T05:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/record-low-polling-congress-starts-session-with-fight-that-dismays-voters.html
The U.S. House voted to oppose an
increase in the nation’s debt limit, a symbolic move that
probably is the first in a series of election-year actions aimed
primarily at wooing voters in November.  Passing the House on a 239-176 tally yesterday was a
resolution rejecting President  Barack Obama ’s request to raise
the legal cap on borrowing by $1.2 trillion. The vote won’t
prevent an increase in borrowing because Congress last year gave
Obama the power to lift the debt ceiling on his own. The vote
instead gave  House Republicans  a chance to blame the
administration for the rise in government’s debt.  “How dare this president come back for another increase in
the nation’s debt,” said Representative Jeff Duncan, a South
Carolina Republican.  Democrats, as well as some Republicans, scoffed at the vote
as little more than political theater.  “Can we please drop the pious baloney?” said
Representative John Yarmuth, a Kentucky Democrat.  “What exactly are we doing here?” said Representative
 Jared Polis , a Colorado Democrat. “We could be talking about
creating jobs for the middle class. We could be talking about a
payroll-tax extension,” and “instead we’re here playing this
game of kabuki theater.”  Unpopular Vote  The measure now heads to the Senate where it will probably
be killed by Democrats who control the chamber. That will clear
the way for Obama to lift the debt cap to $16.394 trillion,
which the administration estimates would be enough to
accommodate borrowing until late this year.  Congress typically must endorse each increase in the U.S.
debt limit, among the most unpopular votes lawmakers face. As
part of an accord reached last August as the nation was on the
brink of default, lawmakers agreed to let Obama raise the
ceiling without congressional approval required for it to take
effect.  Yesterday, 233 Republicans and six Democrats  voted  to
oppose a debt-limit increase. Many of the Republicans who were
against last year’s agreement called the vote a sham.  Republican presidential contender  Ron Paul , a
representative from  Texas , interrupted his campaign to return to
the Capitol to vote against the increase. He said the vote was a
“farce” because “to allow the president to, essentially, by
himself, raise the national debt is just a cop-out” by
lawmakers.  Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican, said,
“We gave the president carte blanche and its dead wrong.”  ‘Beat Our Chests’  Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican,
said he is “bothered by the fact that we’re going to get up and
beat our chests and say that we’re voting not to raise the debt
ceiling when really we did back in August. I think people will
see through that.”  Similar battles are likely in the coming months because
many lawmakers say that tax-and-spending issues that have
bollixed Congress for more than a year will continue to elude
resolution before the November elections. So they say they will
focus instead on highlighting for voters their parties’
election-year priorities.  Next up will be Obama’s budget request, due Feb. 6, as well
as lawmakers’ own tax-and-spending plans.  An exception may be legislation needed to extend a  payroll
tax  cut set to expire at the end of February. Still, lawmakers
negotiating the issue remain far apart on how to finance its
roughly $150 billion cost.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  