-- Billionaire Ambani Said to Plan $1.5 Billion IPO of Submarine Cable Unit
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-01-18T12:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/reliance-said-to-plan-1-5b-ipo-of-cable-unit.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion
through a Singapore listing of its submarine cable assets, said
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Reliance may sell 75 percent of Reliance Globalcom’s FLAG
Telecom unit in the first half of this year in an initial public
offering and is seeking a valuation of up to $2 billion, said
the person, who declined to be identified as the process is
private. FLAG Telecom would be listed as a so-called business
trust, the person said.  Ambani is attempting to sell assets and borrow from Chinese
banks as he tries to reduce a debt load that’s dragged Reliance
Communications’ shares 33 percent lower in the past year. Ambani
last year said he was in an advanced stage to sell a mobile-
phone tower unit to buyout firms after ending talks with GTL
Infrastructure Ltd. in August 2010.  The company has been trying to raise money selling stakes
“but they have not been able to execute,” said Abbas Merchant,
an analyst at Jaypee Capital Services Ltd. “The investment
climate at this point of time is also not too buoyant.”  Reliance Communications fell 0.2 percent to 88.65 rupees at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares declined 33 percent in
dollar terms in the past 12 months making it the  worst-
performing  stock in the 28-member MSCI AC Asia Pacific,
excluding-Japan, Telecommunication Services Index.  At $1.5 billion, the FLAG Telecom IPO would be  Singapore ’s
biggest since March 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The sale would also be the first by an Indian company
in Singapore since 2008, the data shows.  Business-Trust Structure  The valuation Reliance Communications is seeking “looks
slightly ambitious,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst at MF
Global Sify Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. About $1 billion “will
be a more reasonable valuation,” for the undersea cable
business, he said.  Reliance acquired FLAG Telecom for $207 million in 2003.
The unit manages five submarine cables covering 65,000
kilometers, according to its website.  Reliance Communications, which on Jan. 17 said it would
borrow $1.8 billion from a group of Chinese banks, plans to use
proceeds from the FLAG Telecom sale to repay debt, one person
familiar with the matter said.  The business-trust structure proposed by the company would
allow it to pay dividends from  cash flow  rather than from
profit. That makes it a favored option for companies with stable
cash earnings.  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , which owns
terminals in  Hong Kong  and Shenzhen, raised $5.5 billion in a
Singapore IPO last March.  Deutsche Bank  Reliance Communications is also in talks with  Carlyle Group 
and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to invest in the tower unit, called
Reliance Infratel Ltd., people with knowledge of the matter said
in June.  Reliance Communications and GTL in 2010 failed to agree on
a deal that would have meant GTL give new shares worth as much
as $3 billion to Reliance Communications shareholders and assume
180 billion rupees of Infratel’s debt, two people familiar to
the transaction said that year.  “Reliance Communications continually works on various
options to unlock value from its unique combination of global
telecom assets,” Rohit Khanna, a spokesman for Reliance
Communications in Mumbai, said in an e-mailed statement, without
commenting on the IPO.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is arranging the Singapore sale, the
person said. Linus Chettiar, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
couldn’t immediately be reached on his mobile phone.  Indian companies raised $274 million in overseas share
sales last year, about a tenth of the amount they collected in
2010, according to Bloomberg data. Deutsche Bank ranked second
in managing offerings abroad by Indian companies, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  