-- Renewable-Energy Growth to Outpace Oil, Gas Through 2030, BP Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-01-18T12:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/renewables-to-grow-more-than-8-a-year-through-2030-bp-says.html
Wind power, solar electricity and
biofuels consumption will grow at a faster pace than demand for
fossil fuels in the next 20 years as nations seek to meet rising
energy needs without adding to  carbon emissions ,  BP Plc (BP/)  said.  Global renewables consumption will rise 8.2 percent a year
through 2030, outstripping the annual 2.1 percent gain for
natural gas, the fastest-growing  fossil fuel , BP said today in
its annual  outlook . Total energy demand for power, transport and
heating is forecast to advance 1.6 percent a year.  “The growth of global energy consumption is increasingly
being met by non-fossil fuels,” BP said. “Renewables, nuclear
and hydro together account for 34 percent of the growth; this
aggregate non-fossil contribution is, for the first time, larger
than the contribution of any single fossil fuel.”  New investment in renewable energy rose to a record $260
billion last year from $243 billion in 2010, which was the first
year that fresh money flowing into wind and solar generation
topped funds for new oil-, coal- and gas-fired output, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Governments around the world
have subsidized the expansion of cleaner power production to
satisfy energy demand while curtailing polluting emissions.  “It is in the power sector where the greatest changes in
the fuel mix are expected,” BP said. “Renewables, nuclear and
hydroelectric should account for more than half the growth in
power generation.”  Solar Exit  BP,  Europe ’s biggest oil producer after Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, told staff last year it’s withdrawing from the solar power
industry after 40 years because it’s no longer profitable. The
company’s solar division will be wound down over several months,
BP Solar Chief Executive Officer Mike Petrucci said in an
internal letter in December.  The solar exit won’t affect BP’s other renewable-energy
units, according to the company. BP has been expanding its
biofuels business, and in September said it spent $96 million on
two Brazilian sugar-cane processors.  Biofuels will account for about 7 percent of energy use for
transport in 2030, BP said today. Biofuels and other renewables
combined will make up about 6.3 percent of total energy
consumption in 2030, up from 1.8 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  