-- Roche Tamiflu’s Effectiveness Unproven Due to Hidden Data, Researchers Say
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-18T08:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/roche-tamiflu-s-effectiveness-unproven-due-to-hidden-data-researchers-say.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tamiflu antiviral
treatment may not be as safe and effective as the Swiss
drugmaker says, according to independent researchers who asked
the company to publish data withheld from public review.  While Tamiflu helps flu sufferers feel better an average of
21 hours more quickly after initial symptoms, it didn’t reduce
the number of people who went on to be hospitalized, researchers
at the non-profit  Cochrane Collaboration  said today in a report.
Though stockpiled to prevent the spread of flu, the drug hasn’t
been proven effective for that purpose, the British Medical
Journal said in an article published with the Cochrane report.  More information is needed to assess whether stockpiling
Tamiflu is a good use of government funds, BMJ  said . The drug
generated 3.2 billion Swiss francs ($3.37 billion) in sales in
2009, the height of the H1N1 flu pandemic. Basel-based Roche
said the medicine is safe and effective.  “It may be that shortening symptoms for 21 hours is a good
value for money,” Deborah Cohen, BMJ’s investigations editor,
said in a telephone interview. “I remain to be convinced. The
bottom line is that people need to have access to all the data.
They need to be able to do an independent review.”  The Cochrane report cited a “gap between evidence and
policy,” saying the official pandemic-response plans in the
U.S. and U.K. are based in part on research that hadn’t been
published.  In December 2009, after Tamiflu had established itself as
the mainstay of H1N1 treatment, Cochrane released its first
report saying the drug’s effectiveness in treating flu
complications couldn’t be proven because Roche wouldn’t supply
data from eight studies.  Roche Response  Roche said it would post full clinical study reports --
thousands of pages of information, a deluge compared to the
thousands of words in the clinical trial articles usually
published in medical journals -- on a password-protected website
for doctors and scientists to review.  Cochrane said it got 3,195 pages of study reports for 10
trials of Tamiflu, chemically known as oseltamivir.  Yet Roche only provided the first of four to five sections
of each report, the Cochrane researchers said. The team turned
to public information requests from regulators, getting 22,453
pages from the European Medicines Agency -- which included the
second section of each report. Researchers are awaiting results
from a request for the rest placed to the  Food and Drug
Administration  last year.  The review remains incomplete. The researchers said they
still can’t be sure whether Tamiflu actually reduces
complications of flu.  Side Effects  Data in the published and unpublished versions of reports
sometimes didn’t match, Cochrane said. One published trial
listed no drug-related serious side effects, while the
unpublished version listed three “possibly related to
oseltamivir.”  Roche doesn’t believe there’s a discrepancy, Silvia Dobry,
a spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. The company reviewed a proposed protocol from
Cochrane last year and believed it had already made available
enough data to answer the researchers’ questions, Dobry wrote.  “Today it is standard practice for Roche to publish all
its clinical trial data, but seven to 10 years ago (the time
period Cochrane is looking at) this was not standard policy
within industry or within Roche,” she wrote.  Little New  The company believed the published studies “reflected
accurately the benefits of the drug, and that the additional
studies provided little new information and would therefore be
unlikely to be accepted for publication by most reputable
journals,” Dobry wrote.  Tamiflu proved itself to be effective and safe during the
2009 H1N1 pandemic, she wrote. Roche rose 0.2 percent to 164.20
Swiss francs at 9:05 a.m. in Zurich.  The  World Health Organization  will keep Tamiflu on its list
of essential drugs,  Gregory Hartl , a spokesman for the Geneva-
based agency, said in a telephone interview. The WHO doesn’t
dispute the 21-hour figure, he said. However, the agency also
looks at evidence collected on the ground during outbreaks, he
said, instead of focusing on clinical trials.  “Cochrane is looking at apples, and we are looking at
apples and oranges,” he said.  Cochrane’s research was funded by the U.K. National
Institute for Health Research’s  Health Technology Assessment
program . The Cochrane Collaboration studies the effectiveness of
health treatments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in London at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  