-- Roche’s Zelboraf for Melanoma Spurs Other Skin Cancer’s Growth, Study Says
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/roche-s-zelboraf-for-melanoma-spurs-other-skin-cancer-s-growth-study-says.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s melanoma drug
Zelboraf speeds growth of another type of skin cancer,
researchers said today in a study underscoring the need to test
the medicine in combination with a second treatment.  Scientists at the  Institute of Cancer Research  analyzed DNA
in 21 tissue samples from Zelboraf patients who developed
cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma. About 60 percent of the
samples had one of two known cancer-causing gene mutations not
targeted by the drug, they said in an article published in the
 New England Journal of Medicine  today.  About 15 percent to 30 percent of melanoma patients treated
with Zelboraf and other so-called BRAF inhibitors develop non-
melanoma skin cancers, the researchers said. The drugs speeds
squamous-cell carcinoma in patients who would probably have
gotten the cancer anyway, they said.  “It’s acting as an accelerator of the inevitable in
patients that are already predisposed to the disease,” said
Richard Marais, a professor of molecular oncology at the London-
based institute.  Combining Zelboraf with a second type of drug may stem the
effect, said Marais, a co-author of the study, in a telephone
interview. Using a type of medicine known as a MEK inhibitor to
attack the same pathway that stimulates cell growth appeared to
block development of the second type of tumor in mice, the
researchers said.  Roche began testing Zelboraf, which works by blocking a
protein that fuels tumor growth in about half of patients with
advanced forms of melanoma, together with a MEK inhibitor known
as GDC-0973 in the BRIM7 patient trial last year. The Basel,
Switzerland-based drugmaker helped sponsor the institute’s
research.  U.S. regulators approved Zelboraf for sale in August. The
European Medicines Agency  recommended  the drug be approved last
month. Roche is awaiting a final decision from the European
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in London at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  