-- Romney Lead At Risk as Perry Exits Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-19T19:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/romney-under-fire-over-income-tax-records-ridicules-gingrich-s-jobs-claim.html
Mitt Romney’s path to the Republican
presidential nomination grew rougher today when  Rick Perry 
dropped out of the party’s contest to throw his support behind
 Newt Gingrich , and  Rick Santorum  was certified as first-place
finisher in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses.  The developments threatened to undermine Romney’s hopes of
winning the Jan. 21  South Carolina (BEESSC)  primary and quickly wrapping
up his party’s nomination for the White House.  Perry’s departure from the race and his endorsement of
Gingrich, who is billing himself as the “consistent
conservative” alternative to Romney, could unite Republican
base voters who have resisted the former Massachusetts
governor’s candidacy at a critical time.  “Newt is a conservative visionary who can transform our
country,” Perry said at news conference in South Carolina.
“Newt is not perfect, but who among us is?”  In a state where Republicans are courting Christian voters,
Perry said his religion teaches forgiveness. “There is
forgiveness for those who seek God,” the  Texas  governor said,
“and I believe in the power of redemption.”  Romney’s Narrative  Word that Romney wasn’t the actual winner of the Iowa
caucuses blurred a sense of inevitability that many voters in
 South Carolina (NFSESC)  have cited as a prime reason for backing him in
the hopes of defeating President  Barack Obama  in November.  “The narrative that Governor Romney and the media have
been touting of ‘inevitability’ has been destroyed,” Hogan Gidley, Santorum’s communications director, said in a statement.
“Conservatives can now see and believe they don’t have to
settle for Romney, the establishment’s moderate candidate.”  Santorum today won the backing of  James Dobson , the founder
of the  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based Focus on the Family
ministry. While other Republican candidates are worthy of
support, “Santorum is the man of the hour,” Dobson said in a
statement.  In a potential setback for Gingrich, his second wife,
Marianne, said the former House speaker asked for an “open
marriage” amid an affair with former House aide and current
wife Callista, according to an interview to be aired on ABC News
tonight.  Gingrich asked if she would share him with Callista,
Marianne Gingrich said in the interview. “And I just stared at
him and he said, ‘Callista doesn’t care what I do,’” she said.
“He wanted an open marriage and I refused.”  Moral Character  In the interview with ABC’s Brian Ross to air on
“Nightline,” Marianne Gingrich said her former husband lacks
the moral character to be president and that his campaign
positions on family values and marriage don’t line up with his
personal behavior, according to excerpts released by ABC.  At a campaign event in Beaufort,  South Carolina , Gingrich
was asked by an attendee how voters will come to terms with what
some may see as lapses in his personal judgment.  “This is a decision you have to make,” Gingrich said. “I
have been very open about my life. I’ve been very open about
mistakes I have made. I’ve been very open about needing to go to
God for forgiveness and to seek reconciliation.”  Gingrich said polls show he is the only person who can beat
Romney. “It’s very important that we not nominate a moderate,”
he said. Asked about his former wife at a news conference after
the event, he said, “I’m not going to say anything about
Marianne.”  Iowa  Results  The morning began with news the Romney camp had been
bracing for all week: the Iowa Republican Party certifying that
Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , had finished the
Iowa caucuses 34 votes ahead of Romney, who initially was
declared the winner by eight votes. With results from eight
precincts missing, the party couldn’t declare a winner.  Romney, 64, called the Iowa result a “virtual tie,”
saying in a statement that Santorum had delivered a “strong
performance.”  Further complicating Romney’s campaign, was the withdrawal
from the race of Perry, who lagged below 10 percent in primary
contest public opinion polls.  Perry has been one of several candidates, including
Gingrich, Santorum and Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, whose
campaigns have fractured the loyalties of social conservatives
in the Republican race, effectively boosting Romney because none
could emerge as his prime challenger.  Wooing Perry Supporters  Gingrich, who was House speaker for four years in the
1990s, followed Perry’s endorsement by appealing to his backers.  “I ask the supporters of Governor Perry to look at my
record of balancing the budget, cutting spending, reforming
welfare, and enacting pro-growth policies to create millions of
new jobs and humbly ask for their vote,” Gingrich said in a
statement.  Ray Sullivan , a spokesman for Perry, said the governor is
open to running in 2016 if Obama wins. Asked whether Perry would
seek re-election in  Texas (BEESTX) , Sullivan said, “That’s certainly a
strong option, as is maybe doing this again in four years.”  Romney, whose lead over Gingrich in polling has dwindled
before the first Southern primary, began a concerted attack on
his rival yesterday to blunt a surge that could hinder his
momentum toward seizing the nomination.  Ridiculing Gingrich  Romney ridiculed Gingrich for claiming credit for jobs
created while he served in Congress. He also compared the former
speaker to Obama, saying Gingrich’s criticism of Romney’s
business record is an attack on capitalism unbecoming of a
Republican.  “Him taking credit for the jobs created in America during
the Reagan years is a bit like  Al Gore  saying he created the
Internet,” Romney said of Gingrich last night in Irmo, South
Carolina.  That was a reference to Gingrich’s claim during a Jan. 16
televised Republican presidential debate that he helped create
16 million jobs as a young congressman working with then-
President  Ronald Reagan  in the 1980s and 11 million more with
then-President  Bill Clinton  as speaker in the 1990s. Gore,
Clinton’s vice president, was frequently criticized during his
2000 presidential run for having said in a 1999 interview that
he “took the initiative in creating the Internet”  Pressure on Taxes  The focus on Gingrich is a departure for Romney, who has
mostly refrained from targeting his rivals. The broadsides came
as Romney, a multimillionaire who has made his business
experience a central argument for his candidacy at a time of
high unemployment, faces increasing questions about his refusal
to release tax records that would explain his financial affairs.  A CNN/Time/ORC International  poll  conducted Jan. 13-17
showed Gingrich gaining on Romney in  South Carolina (STTLSC)  before a
televised debate in North Charleston tonight. It found Romney
had a 10 percentage point lead over Gingrich in the state, a
drop from the 19-point advantage he held over him in a survey
taken less than two weeks before.  The CNN poll, released yesterday, showed Romney drawing
support from 33 percent of likely voters in South Carolina’s
primary, followed by Gingrich at 23 percent, Santorum at 16
percent, Paul at 13 percent and Perry at 6 percent. A similar
poll Jan. 4-5 showed Romney with 37 percent, followed by
Santorum at 19 percent and Gingrich at 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Charleston, South Carolina at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Bluffton, South Carolina at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  