-- Romney as Multimillionaire Gets Break for Taxes
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-18T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/romney-as-multimillionaire-gets-break-for-taxes.html
Under pressure from his Republican
opponents, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney yesterday
abandoned months of resistance and said he would make his 2011
tax return public in April.  The hesitation to disclose is understandable given that 
Romney, one of the richest men to seek the presidency, probably
benefits from a controversial tax break that allows him to pay
a lower rate than do millions of American wage-earners whose 
votes he’ll need to capture the White House.  That’s because private equity executives, as Romney was for
15 years when he ran Boston-based  Bain Capital  LLC, receive much
of their compensation in what is known as carried interest. That
enables them to treat what would be ordinary income for other
service providers, taxed at rates as high as 35 percent, as 
capital gains taxed at 15 percent.  The Republican front-runner said yesterday in Florence,
South Carolina, that his effective tax rate was “probably”
close to 15 percent because his income “comes overwhelmingly
from investments made in the past.”  Yet those investments were largely made by Romney’s former
partners with other investors’ money, not his personal funds.
The vast majority of the resulting gains represent compensation
for Bain’s work acquiring, sprucing up and selling individual
companies, critics say.  ‘Labor Income’  “This is labor income for them, not a return on capital
invested,” said Victor Fleischer, an associate law professor at
the  University of Colorado  whose 2007  paper  on the topic helped
spark a move in Congress to try to change the law. “It’s a
method of converting one’s labor into capital gains in a way
that’s unusual outside the investment management industry.
Ordinary people wouldn’t be able to do this.”  Though he retired from Bain in February 1999, Romney, 64,
continues to benefit from the firm’s profitable private equity
funds and to invest alongside them in so-called “co-
investment” vehicles, both of which generate income taxed at
the 15 percent rate.  This preferential tax treatment has been castigated by 
Peter G. Peterson, co-founder of the Blackstone Group, another
private equity firm, many tax-policy specialists, and billionaire
 Warren Buffett . Buffett says it unfairly allows many wealthy
investors to pay a lower tax rate than their employees. Even House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, has shown a
willingness to scrap the tax provision as part of a deficit-
reduction plan that wouldn’t increase the government’s tax take.  Paid Taxes Owed  For months, Romney -- who pays about half the 31 percent
rate President Barack Obama paid over the past three years --
had refused to unveil his tax details. “I don’t have any plans
right now to release tax returns,” he told reporters Jan. 11.
“I paid the taxes required under the law.”  As Romney seeks to lock down the Republican nomination in
the Jan. 21  South Carolina  primary, that stance crumbled under
an assault from fellow Republicans. Onetime U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , Texas Governor  Rick Perry , former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman, and former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin all called
on Romney to disclose the information.  Gingrich said yesterday that Romney’s planned April
release, presumably after he would have clinched the Republican
nomination, was “nonsensical.” Instead, Romney should make the
information public before the South Carolina vote, he said.  “Either there is nothing there -- so why isn’t he
releasing it? -- or there is something there -- so why is he
hiding it?” Gingrich said in Florence.  Lavish Compensation  The  tax code ’s treatment of income from partnerships in
private equity,  hedge funds  and real estate development means
that some of the richest people in the country are taxed as if
they were bus drivers or health aides. Private equity
compensation can be lavish: Three founders of the Washington-
based  Carlyle Group  last year each made $134 million in
distributions from their funds against just $275,000 in salary,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Amid public concern over rising income inequality,
questions about his taxes may be a political vulnerability for
Romney in the general election, even though they haven’t kept
him from winning in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire  and leading in South
Carolina public opinion polls.  Obama campaign officials see the tax issue as a Romney
weakness. John Podesta, who ran Obama’s transition in 2008 and
retains close ties to the White House, signaled the Democratic
line of attack. “He’s probably paying lower taxes than a lot of
those people who got let go or fired at those companies that he
took over,” Podesta said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  ‘Unfair Advantage’  Mark McKinnon , a Republican political strategist who
advised former President  George W. Bush , said in an e-mail the
“risk is that he gets more favorable tax treatment than most
Americans, and voters would view him as an elitist who gets an
unfair advantage.”  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney’s campaign, declined
to comment for this story.  No law requires presidential candidates to disclose their
returns, though most have done so since passage of the post-
Watergate campaign-finance laws. As a Senate candidate in 1994,
Romney unsuccessfully challenged the incumbent, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, to release his tax information. In 1968, Romney’s
father, then-Michigan Governor George Romney, released his
returns during an abortive presidential bid.  In 2000, Bush and running mate Dick Cheney released partial
returns before disclosing complete returns four years later. In
2008, Obama and Republican presidential candidate  John McCain 
provided theirs.  Bigger Challenge  Romney, whose campaign estimates his fortune at between
$190 million and $250 million, may face a bigger political
challenge than most previous candidates because of the nature of
the private equity business.  Executives in the industry gather large sums from pension
funds, universities and wealthy individuals and typically use
the money to acquire privately held companies or subpar units of
public companies. After improving the companies’ performance,
often while working in hands-on management roles or serving on
the board of directors, they sell the companies to other
investors or take them public.  The executives receive most of their compensation as
carried interest, a share of profits made on the fund’s
underlying investments. The tax code treats those gains as if
the private equity partners were risking their own money -- like
average Americans who invest in mutual funds -- rather than
being paid to run or advise the companies they acquire. In most
cases, the private equity firms put up only a sliver of the
fund’s capital.  ‘Fund VIII’  Individual partners like Romney aren’t taxed when they’re
given the right to share in a fund’s future profits, even though
that right is clearly valuable, said Lee Sheppard, a tax lawyer
and contributing editor at the non-profit Tax Analysts of Falls
Church, Virginia. “A comparable executive of a corporation
would have been taxed at ordinary rates on the award of a
valuable equity interest in his employer,” she added.  In May 2004, Bain circulated to investors a private
placement memorandum for “Bain Capital Fund VIII.” Marked
confidential, the document boasted that Bain (“one of the
leading private equity investment firms in the world”) had
completed more than 200 deals as of March 2004. The firm’s first
six funds had realized an 82 percent return, according to the
document.  Cayman Islands  Two hundred and seventy four investors signed on, including
Romney and his wife, Ann, and pension funds for Texas teachers
and Pennsylvania state employees.  Bain Capital Fund VIII, registered in the Cayman Islands,
illustrates the special tax provisions that allowed Romney to
accumulate wealth both while running Bain and in the 13 years
since he left the firm.  Romney and his wife received more than $1 million from the
$3.5 billion Bain fund in 2010, according to his most recent
financial-disclosure form. Though Bain put up just 0.1 percent
of the fund’s capital, it’s slated to draw 30 percent of the
profits once investors are repaid their initial investment,
better than the industry standard 20 percent and a reflection of
the firm’s stellar track record.  Success Stories  The fund’s investment successes included the parent company
of  Dunkin’ Donuts (DUNK) , which paid investors a $500 million dividend
after a successful November 2010 refinancing. A month later, the
initial public offering of Fleetcor Technologies in Norcross,
 Georgia , brought the fund an additional $61 million.  The Bain fund derives more than 99.9 percent of its income
from investment gains or dividends, according to copies of Fund
VIII’s 2010 and 2011 financial statements obtained by Bloomberg
News. Under current tax law, those gains and dividends are
regarded as the partner’s share of the profits, or carried
interest.  Bain Fund VIII had just $13,056 in interest income in 2010
compared with $249.8 million in dividends and $665.1 million in
realized investment gains, according to the fund’s confidential
financial results. In the first nine months of 2011, the fund
had just $6,539 in interest; $111.9 million in dividends; and,
$445.1 million in  capital gains .  The Romneys likely paid tax of 15 percent on the vast
majority of the $1 million-plus they received from the fund,
according to Joann Weiner, a tax analyst with Bloomberg
Government and former senior economist with the Treasury
Department’s Office of Tax Analysis.  $200,000 Savings  Measured against the 35 percent tax on ordinary income,
that means the Romneys may have saved in taxes on this single
investment at least $200,000 -- an amount equal to four times
the  median annual income  of the typical American household.  And Bain Capital Fund VIII is just one of 31 Bain-related
funds that, under a deal Romney struck upon leaving the company
in 1999, generated income last year either for Ann Romney’s
blind trust or her husband’s individual retirement account.
Combined, those investments in 2010 provided the Romneys between
$5.5 million and $21.5 million in income, according to the
disclosure form.  The percentage of a fund’s payout that is carried interest
varies as investments are made, ripen and realized. In a fund’s
early years, it pays out mostly interest and dividends. Later,
as the fund’s holdings are taken public or sold off, it realizes
large capital gains with specific results depending upon
performance.  Mostly Carried Interest  “For the funds that do extremely well, it’s almost all
carried interest,” said Andrew Metrick, a professor at Yale
University’s School of Management who has researched industry
compensation practices.  It’s impossible to say precisely how much Romney saved in
taxes without knowing the details of the agreement he reached
with Bain when he left the company, and his tax returns.  As an illustration, however, if half of the Romneys’ Bain-
related income represented carried interest, they would have
paid between $550,000 and $2.2 million less in taxes than if
that income had been taxed at ordinary tax rates.  Joseph Bankman, a professor of law and business at  Stanford
Law School  and an expert on  tax policy , said Romney probably
benefited greatly from the tax code’s treatment of carried
interest.  Big Benefit  “It would be odd if he just made a lot of money from Bain
Capital and he didn’t benefit a lot from it,” Bankman said.
“You’d expect a partner in private equity to benefit enormously
from this provision.”  In September, the Obama administration proposed raising $18
billion over the next decade by taxing carried interest at the
higher ordinary income rates. The move reprises a 2007
Democratic bid that failed in the Senate amid a lobbying
campaign by private equity, hedge fund and real estate
partnerships.  Earlier this month, Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
confirmed that he was willing to see the carried interest tax
break eliminated as part of a  deficit-reduction  package that
didn’t increase the government’s total tax take. Romney’s tax
plan, which appears on the campaign’s website, is silent on the
treatment of carried interest.  The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, an industry
group, says carried interest is “fundamentally different in
character” from regular wages. Current tax provisions are
needed to reward entrepreneurial risk-taking, it says. If such
income were taxed at regular rates, private equity investment
could decline by $7.7 billion to $27 billion a year, according
to a 2010  council study .  ‘Causing More Concern’  “Whenever there’s more scrutiny, there’s more of a chance
that the carried tax will be revisited,” said  David Jones , an
attorney with Proskauer Rose LLP who represents private equity
firms. “It’s fair to say it’s causing more concern.”  For the Romneys, the tax savings on their Fund VIII income
could be even larger than the above analysis suggests. Many of
their Bain funds, including Fund VIII and a companion vehicle in
which Romney was allowed to invest his own money, are held in
Ann Romney’s blind trust, according to the financial disclosure
form.  Federal election law doesn’t require candidates’ spouses to
specify income streams above $1 million. If the funds were in
Mitt Romney’s name, he would be required to say whether the
amount was between $1 million and $5 million or greater than $5
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net . 