-- Ron Paul Presidential Campaign Sues Anti-Huntsman YouTube Video’s Makers
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/ron-paul-campaign-sues-makers-of-video-deriding-gop-ex-canidate-huntsman.html
Presidential candidate  Ron Paul ’s
campaign committee sued the unidentified makers of a video
attacking ex-Republican rival  Jon Huntsman  claiming it falsely
implies it was made or endorsed by the Texas congressman.  A video uploaded from a Twitter account to YouTube on Jan.
4 called “Jon Huntsman’s Values” questions the ex-governor’s
religious faith, refers to him as “China Jon” and ends with a
fictitious depiction of Huntsman in a Mao Zedong uniform and the
text “American Values and Liberty -- Vote for Ron Paul,”
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in San
Francisco.  The makers use the pseudonym NHLiberty4Paul, “which
further implies that plaintiff created endorsed or is affiliated
in some way with the video and its contents,” the Paul
campaign’s lawyers said in the complaint.  Press coverage of the video has been “scathingly
negative” toward Paul because of the assumption that he was
behind it, the lawyers said. Ex-Utah Governor Huntsman, a former
ambassador to  China , announced Jan. 16 that he would drop out of
the Republican presidential race and endorse former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  “This is a classic case of dirty politics resulting from
the unlawful use in commerce of an underhanded and deceptive
advertisement designed to tarnish plaintiff’s reputation,”
according to the complaint. The identities of the videos
creators are unknown, according to the lawsuit.  The complaint for false designation, false advertising and
defamation seeks unspecified punitive damages and a court order
barring use of Paul’s name and trademarks and requiring the
video to be taken down and destroyed.  The case is Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign Committee
Inc. v.  John Does , 12-cv-00240, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  