-- Rosemary Harris Plays Cape Town Hermit in ‘Mecca’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/rosemary-harris-plays-cape-town-hermit-in-mecca-jeremy-gerard.html
Sunshine and candle flame, refracted
through ground-up  beer bottles  and bouncing off mirrors, suffuse
 “The Road to Mecca,”  animating an isolated desert home with
glinting light.  Light is key in this play about illumination, aging and,
above all, the dangerous calling of making art.  The stubborn, lone resident of this home, Miss Helen
(played by the incomparable Rosemary Harris) turns the crude
materials of broken glass, wire and concrete into unearthly
sculptures, her unwanted gift to a town that has shunned her
since her husband’s death 15 years earlier.  Outside (and unseen by the audience), camels, owls, wise
men and more fantastical creatures have replaced a barren
garden, their imposing forms made light in both senses of the
word.  Inside, smaller works turn Helen’s modest dwelling in the
Karoo desert north of  Cape Town  into a refulgent sanctum.  “This is my world and I have banished darkness from it,”
she says, in this most personal play from Athol Fugard, better
known for works (“The Blood Knot,” “Master Harold...and the
Boys”) that confronted apartheid with unsparing rue.  Her Brilliant Career  Helen is the first of the three characters we meet in
“Mecca,” presented off-Broadway in 1988 and now on Broadway by
the Roundabout.  Harris, still luminous at 84 years old, caps a brilliant
career with a deeply felt performance. It’s late afternoon and
Helen’s friend Elsa (Carla Gugino) has driven 800 miles to visit
after receiving an unsettling letter from her.  The instigator of that missive doesn’t appear until the end
of a long, expository first act that lays out in rather
lumbering exchanges the circumstances that have brought them all
to a crossroads.  Marius ( Jim Dale ), the local minister, is determined to
move Helen to a home for the aged. He worries about her mental
health and increasing forgetfulness. Like the rest of Helen’s
former friends, Marius regards her statues as frightening and
blasphemous, the work of an antichrist.  After Elsa exposes Marius’s motives, Helen’s meekness peels
away as she explains her apostasy -- her new religion, whose
icons face east, where light begins with every sunrise.  Jim Dale  Gordon Edelstein has staged “Mecca,” which has slow-going
moments, with keen sensitivity to its rhythms.  Dale, too long absent from the stage, is a wonderful
Marius, his eyebrows registering every emotional bump on this
long evening. He also gets the accent better than his two
colleagues, though Gugino is affecting as a young woman
challenged by her own disappointments.  Harris floats about Michael Yeargan’s cluttered desert-hued
set, a winsome apparition. Like one of Miss Helen’s own
creations, though, the lightness of being is crafted of much
sterner stuff.  Through March 4 at 227 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-719-
1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org/Shows-Events/Road-to -
Mecca.aspx.  Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 