-- Russia Insists U.S., Allies Discussing Military Option in Syria
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-18T12:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/russia-insists-u-s-allies-discussing-military-option-in-syria.html
Russia  dismissed denials by NATO and
three alliance members about plans for military intervention in
 Syria , saying it has information that a no-fly zone and
humanitarian corridors are under discussion.  “Our partners in the West are in fact discussing a no-fly
zone,” Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told reporters in Moscow
today. “There are other ideas being realized, including
humanitarian convoys, in the hope they could provoke a response
from government forces, border guards.”  Members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and some
Persian Gulf countries are considering a repeat of the campaign
in Libya, Nikolai Patrushev, the head of the Russian Security
Council, said Jan. 12.  Turkey , a NATO member, may play a key
role and is working with the U.S. on a no-fly zone to protect
Syrian rebels, he said. The U.K.,  France  and Turkey, denied the
same day that military intervention in Syria was an option.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  in November suggested
setting up humanitarian corridors to deliver aid in Syria
protected by military forces. Qatar last week said Arab troops
should be dispatched to Syria to halt violence after Arab League
observers failed to deter a crackdown on protests.  Russia will use its veto-wielding power to prevent the
 United Nations  Security Council from approving any attempted
military intervention in Syria, Lavrov said.  ‘Their Own Initiative’  “If somebody decides to use force at any cost, I doubt we
can stop them, but it will happen at their own initiative and
let it be on their conscience,” he said. “They won’t get any
mandate from the UN Security Council.”  Russia, which has Soviet-era ties with Syria, argues that
UN-sanctioned bombing of  Libya  by NATO to protect civilians was
used to bring about regime change and that western governments
are trying to repeat that scenario in Syria.  Lavrov today also rejected U.S. criticism over a Russian
arms shipment to Syria, saying it’s not violating international
law by supplying weapons to the Middle Eastern country.  The U.S. and European Union have both imposed an arms
embargo against Syria, where more than 5,000 people have died in
a crackdown that began in March, according to the United
Nations. Russia has blocked UN sanctions against Syria.  The U.S. has “very grave concern” about arms reaching
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, U.S. ambassador to
the United Nations,  Susan Rice , said yesterday after news
reports that a Russian shipment of ammunition arrived in Syria
via Cyprus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  