-- Sabic Eyes Sales in BASF’s German Homeland After Widening Offer
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-01-18T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/sabic-eyes-sales-in-basf-s-german-homeland-after-widening-offer.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
largest chemical maker by market value, plans to take advantage
of gaps left in the German market by dominant local  BASF SE (BAS)  by
offering customers a fuller range of plastics and chemicals.  Sabic is marketing itself as a one-stop shop for makers of
materials used in goods from cars to medical-gear, Konrad
Hellmann, head of the Riyadh-based company’s German operation,
said in an interview. Sales volumes in  Europe ’s biggest economy
increased about 10 percent last year.  The Saudi company bought  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s plastics
unit in 2007 and is building up its polymers operation. By
contrast, BASF sold its Basell plastics venture in 2005 and
shifted styrene operations into a venture last year. Sabic has
an opportunity to battle rivals in  Germany  that can’t supply a
full array of plastics, Hellmann said.  “Most global companies don’t want 100 suppliers, instead
they want just one supplier that can provide a wide range of
products,” Hellmann said. “We can offer the customer
everything from a high-performance polymer down to polyethylene
and everything in between. Only a few others can do that.”  Sabic, which runs its European operations from Sittard in
the Netherlands, in September appointed country leaders across
Europe to coordinate polymer, thermoplastic and chemical sales.
Customers of one business unit are being introduced to products
from other units, Hellmann said yesterday.  Broad Reach  “At the big companies, the original equipment
manufacturers, the decisions on which plastics should be used in
a product are made in Germany,” Hellmann said. “It’s an
advantage when you have a big portfolio and a solution for every
materials problem.”  Sabic, which was founded in 1976 to find a use for flare
gas burned off during oil extraction, yesterday reported fourth-
quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates. As well as
Germany, Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady is driving
expansion in the faster-growing markets of  Asia  and  Latin
America , he said.  Growth may come from acquisitions, as well as internal
investment and innovations, Hellmann said. Sabic, which is 70
percent state owned, looks at potential targets that come on the
market and wants to expand in specialty chemicals, he said.  Sabic bought  Huntsman Corp. (HUN) ’s U.K. polymer and chemical
units in 2006 for $810 million, adding plants that make ethylene
and polyethylene plastics as well as benzene-related chemicals
for the European market. A year later it followed with the
purchase of GE’s plastics unit for $11.6 billion, gaining
operations in the U.S., Asia and Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  