-- Santorum Tax Cuts to Boost Deficit by $1.3 Trillion, Study Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/santorum-tax-plan-adds-1-3-trillion-to-deficit-study-says.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum ’s plan to cut taxes for many individuals and
corporations would expand the  U.S. budget deficit  by $1.3
trillion in 2015, an analysis released yesterday found.  The  study  by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in
Washington compares the revenue that would be generated under
Santorum’s plan with the amount that the U.S. projects to
collect under current law, which assumes several income tax cuts
will expire at the end of 2012. The analysis doesn’t consider
the $1.2 trillion in spending cuts mandated to begin in 2013 or
the $5 trillion in cuts that Santorum has pledged over five
years.  Still, the Tax Policy Center’s analysis serves as a
benchmark of how Santorum’s policy positions would affect
federal revenue compared with the plans of his rivals for the
Republican presidential nomination. Previous studies by the  Tax
Policy Center  found that former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s proposals also would expand the deficit by $1.3
trillion. The budget shortfall would grow by $995 billion under
Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s plan and by $600 billion in former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s tax proposal.  “I was surprised at how large the revenue losses were,”
said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the Tax Policy
Center. “It’s a lot of rate cuts and doesn’t get rid of
anything to help pay for that.”  Alternative to Romney  The study was released in advance of  South Carolina ’s Jan.
21 primary, in which Santorum hopes to solidify his status as an
alternative to Romney. Representatives for his campaign didn’t
respond to requests for comment on the study’s findings.  For individuals, Santorum would condense the six income  tax 
brackets that now range from 10 percent to 35 percent into two
with rates of 10 percent and 28 percent. The  tax rate  for
 capital gains  and dividends, which is 15 percent through 2012,
would drop to 12 percent.  Santorum’s tax proposal reflects his emphasis on what he
calls family-friendly policies. He would triple the deduction
that could be claimed for each child. His plan would retain
deductions for charitable giving, home mortgage interest, health
care and retirement savings.  Keeping those provisions in place makes it more difficult
to lower tax rates without creating a revenue shortfall.  Paying for It  “If you cut the rate, you have to pay for it somehow,”
Williams said. “You have to go after these big meat-and-
potatoes things.”  The top tax rate for corporations would be cut in half from
35 percent now to 17.5 percent. Manufacturers wouldn’t pay any
income tax.  Santorum’s plan also wouldn’t tax offshore income that
corporations return to the U.S. and invest in manufacturing.
Other repatriated income would be subject to a 5.25 percent tax.  Businesses would be able to write off the entire cost of
capital investments and take advantage of an expanded research
and development tax credit, which would become permanent in
Santorum’s plan.  The study found that Santorum’s plan would reduce tax bills
for 81 percent of U.S. taxpayers by an average of about $9,700.
Those benefits would be concentrated in the higher-income
brackets. For instance, about 97 percent of taxpayers with
annual cash income of between $40,000 and $50,000 would receive
a tax cut averaging $2,090. Meanwhile, 100 percent of taxpayers
with cash income exceeding $1 million a year would receive a tax
cut averaging $590,394.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  