-- Sarkozy Promises $550 Million to Fight ‘Worsening’ French Unemployment
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-18T14:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/sarkozy-promises-550-million-to-fight-worsening-french-unemployment.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
unveiled 430 million euros ($550 million) of measures to promote
 job creation  and said he’ll make more structural proposals later
this month.  The measures announced after a so-called “Crisis Summit”
with unions and business leaders today include more retraining,
reduced charges for small companies hiring young workers and
1,000 new employees for job centers.  The proposals, to be presented in a televised speech before
the end of January, may include shifting some employee costs to
value-added taxes from labor charges, overhauling retraining for
the unemployed and creating a new partnership between the state
and banks to finance industry, Sarkozy said after the meeting.  “We all agreed that in a serious economic situation and a
worryingly worsening job market, we need strong and rapid
responses,” said Sarkozy, who faces re-election in three months
and is trailing in polls. He said the money promised today will
be redeployed from elsewhere in the state’s budget, and won’t
add to the deficit.  Unions welcomed the measures announced today, while saying
they’re still opposed to Sarkozy’s key proposal of shifting
social charges to value-added taxes as they don’t agree that
high labor costs explain French unemployment.  Today’s meeting, which came just days after Standard &
Poor’s cut  France ’s AAA credit rating by one level, was
scheduled last month by Sarkozy to seek ways to boost employment
by making French labor cheaper and more flexible.  Rising Costs  “In a world that’s so completely global, we can’t put such
a load on labor charges and exclude making imports pay their
share,” Sarkozy said in the text of a speech handed out by his
office. He said the cost of labor has risen faster in France
than  Germany  and “a large part of the difference comes from the
charges that weigh on salaries.”  Sarkozy didn’t make specific proposals today on how much of
the labor charges he plans to shift, nor say whether it would
come from the portion paid by employees or employers.  Polls show that most French people are hostile to the so-
called “Social VAT” and unions say they won’t accept it,
arguing that it will make  consumer goods  more expensive and
blaming the government’s austerity measures for lost jobs.  “Around the table we all agreed that the job situation in
France is getting worse,”  Bernard Thibault , head of the CGT
Union, said as he left the meeting. “But we didn’t agree on the
diagnosis. The President is convinced that it’s explained by
labor costs being higher in this country. We don’t agree.”  Elections  A BVA poll for BFM TV on Jan. 12 showed 55 percent of the
French are opposed to shifting labor charges to sales taxes,
while 43 percent favor it. A CSA poll on Jan. 4 for communist
newspaper l’Humanite said that 64 percent are against it and 33
percent are in favor.  Today’s meeting was attended by seven cabinet members,
leaders of five unions, and three business organizations.  The measures announced would allow companies facing falling
orders to keep workers at lower pay and shorter hours, with the
government picking up a part of the cost.  “France must stop shedding its industrial blood,” Sarkozy
said in Berlin on Jan. 9. “That’s why we must find ways to cut
the cost of labor to remain a major manufacturing nation. From
this point of view, what our German friends have done with their
industry is unquestionably an example” to follow.  The German government, in a series of measures last decade,
cut labor charges, raised sales taxes, and gave companies more
ability to adopt their own labor contracts. The result was a
“stealth devaluation” within the confines of the euro that
Sarkozy would like to replicate, said  Eric Chaney , chief
economist at Axa Group in Paris.  Exports Rise  Between 2000 and 2010, German manufactured exports rose 126
percent, according to data from the  World Trade Organization ,
while France’s 50 percent increase in exports was even below
 Italy ’s 72 percent rise.  With  French unemployment  at almost 10 percent, compared
with 6.8 percent in Germany, Sarkozy needs new ways to create
jobs and pay for the welfare state.  In his speech, he said unit labor costs rose 20 percent in
France between 2000 and 2009, compared with 7 percent in
Germany. For a gross salary of 2,500 euros a month, a French
employer pays 40 percent in social charges and a German employer
20 percent, he said.  “The charges on production in this country penalize
everyone, from the companies that want to invest to the
employees themselves,” Laurence Parisot, head of the Medef,
France’s main business lobby, said after the meeting. “We
should discuss how to shift some of these costs to other taxes.
A subject that was once taboo is now being talked about.”  Hollande’s Lead  Sarkozy trails his Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande 
in the polls ahead of April and May’s two-round presidential
elections.  Hollande, in a visit to a steel factory yesterday, said it
was an “illusion” to think that playing with tax rates would
make France more competitive.  “I’d prefer that we seek competitiveness from a higher
ground, by investing in the future and in training,” he said.  Sarkozy said today he’s “never thought for one second that
the competitiveness of a company or economy depends solely on
compressing the cost of labor: innovation, training, mobility of
labor, quality of products, and productivity also contribute to
competitiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  