-- Saudi Arabia’s November Oil Output, Exports Rise to 30-Year High
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-01-18T15:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/saudi-arabia-s-november-oil-output-exports-rise-to-30-year-high.html
Saudi Arabia (OPCRSAUD) , OPEC’s largest crude
producer, increased output and exports in November to the
highest levels in more than 30 years, according to the Joint
Organization Data Initiative.  The country pumped 10.047 million barrels a day of crude,
up from 9.36 million in October, statistics posted today on
JODI’s  website  show. The kingdom’s exports increased by 721,000
barrels a day, more than 10 percent, to 7.8 million barrels a
day, according to the figures, which include condensates and
exclude natural-gas liquids.  Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said at last month’s meeting of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna that
Saudi output increased because there was no excess supply in
world crude markets and that his nation had been adjusting
output to match fluctuating demand of recent months.  JODI’s production figure corroborates comments made by al-
Naimi on Dec. 6, when he said in an interview in Durban,  South
Africa , that November output exceeded 10 million barrels a day,
more than most independent estimates at the time.  In its  Short-Term Energy Outlook  published the same day,
the U.S. Energy Department had put the kingdom’s November
production at 9.4 million barrels a day, little changed from
September and October.  JODI is supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy
Forum and compiles data provided by member governments. The IEF
is a group of nations accounting for more than 90 percent of
global oil and gas supply and demand, established as a forum for
producing and consuming countries to discuss international
 energy security .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar,  Saudi Arabia  at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  