-- BNY Mellon, Credit Suisse, UBS, Apple, TD Bank in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-18T12:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/sec-sipa-suit-apple-samsung-russian-oligarch-td-in-court-news.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  agreed
to change its disclosure statements for so-called standing
instruction foreign exchange transactions to partly resolve a
lawsuit by U.S. prosecutors.  The bank won’t use the phrase “best execution” in
describing its standing instruction service to clients or say
that it’s free, according to the agreement approved yesterday by
U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in  New York . The U.S. won’t
seek a court order forcing the bank to disclose how it prices
the transactions, according to the filing.  The lawsuit by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  is
one of several brought against the bank, alleging it defrauded
clients in foreign currency trades.  The U.S. attorney in an Oct. 4 complaint claimed that BNY
Mellon defrauded clients that used its standing instruction
foreign exchange service, under which the bank automatically
provides currency exchange when the client buys or sells foreign
securities. The phrase “best execution” suggests that clients
will be getting the best available exchange rate at the time of
the transaction, according to the complaint.  “While we are confident that we have provided our clients
and their investment managers with the information needed to
make informed trading decisions, this agreement addresses
disclosure questions raised by the U.S. attorney and is
consistent with our ongoing commitment to implement enhancements
that will benefit our clients,” the bank said in a statement
yesterday.  Under the partial settlement, BNY Mellon must disclose how
transactions executed through its standing instruction service
are priced and must make certain pricing data available to
custodial clients, Bharara said in a statement yesterday.  The parties will continue to litigate the remaining claim
in the lawsuit for civil penalties, according to the partial
settlement agreement. The U.S. seeks “hundreds of millions” in
penalties, Bharara said.  The case is U.S. v. Bank of New York Mellon Corporation,
11-6969, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Credit Suisse Wins Dismissal of Claims Bank Misled on  AOL (AOL)  Stock  A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  unit and four of its former
executives, including technology investment banker  Frank
Quattrone , won dismissal of a lawsuit alleging they deceived
investors into buying AOL  Time Warner (TWX)  stock.  U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston threw out
both of the claims in the class-action complaint against the
bank and the executives after finding that a study by the
plaintiffs’ expert witness was flawed, according to a Jan. 13
ruling. The case was set to go to trial in March.  The case was brought by individuals and a pension fund that
bought stock in AOL Time Warner Inc. from the time of its merger
in January 2001 until a disclosure in July 2002 of an
investigation of its accounting practices. They claimed that 35
research reports issued by the unit, then known as Credit Suisse
First Boston, over that period recommended buying the stock and
set unattainable financial projections even as the analysts knew
the company couldn’t reach those results.  The failure by the expert witness, Scott Hakala, to
“isolate the effect of defendants’ alleged fraud from other
industry- and company-specific news reported on event days
confounds his event study and renders it unreliable,” Gorton
said in his ruling.  Frederic Fox, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, declined to
comment on the ruling yesterday.  “Credit Suisse’s approach is to fight cases that we
believe are meritless,” Steven Vames, a spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We fought this case for 10 years and are
gratified by the outcome.”  “We’re pleased with the court’s opinion and are happy to
put this flawed case behind us,” Kenneth Hausman, a lawyer for
Quattrone, said in a telephone interview.  The case is In re Credit Suisse-AOL Securities Litigation,
02-12146, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more, click here.  Highland Crusader Asks Court to Reject UBS $686 Million Suit  Highland Crusader Holding Corp. asked a New York state
court to dismiss a lawsuit filed by  UBS AG (UBSN)  seeking damages of
more than $686 million for alleged fraudulent conveyances and
tortious interference.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest lender, sued Highland Crusader
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan in September,
claiming the hedge fund “fraudulently induced” the bank to
restructure a collateralized debt obligation transaction in
2008.  Most of the lawsuit is a “rote regurgitation” of claims
that have been raised in the past against the fund’s parent,
Highland Capital Management LP, and dismissed, Highland Crusader
said in court documents filed Jan. 16.  “Here we go again,” Highland Crusader said in the filing.
The company called the Zurich-based bank’s complaint “yet
another fatally flawed attempt to impose contractual liability
on a Highland Capital Management LP managed third party based on
flimsy allegations and dismissed claims.”  Highland Capital, founded by James Dondero and Mark Okada
in Dallas in 1993, announced plans in October 2008 to close its
flagship Crusader Fund and the Highland Credit Strategies Fund
over a three-year period after suffering losses on high-yield,
high-risk loans and other types of debt.  The UBS communications office didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the filing.  The case is UBS Securities LLC v. Highland Crusader
Holding Corp., 652646/2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Fate of 7,000 Stanford Ponzi Investors Hangs on Rare SEC Lawsuit  For 40 years, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and the congressionally chartered group that protects against
broker theft have worked in tandem to reimburse people whose
accounts are pilfered, Bloomberg News’ Robert Schmidt and Joshua
Gallu report.  Now the SEC and the  Securities Investor Protection Corp. ,
or SIPC, are about to face off in a bitter court fight that may
determine how future fraud victims are covered, raise broker
fees that support SIPC and cast doubt on the SEC’s political
independence.  The dispute centers on whether more than 7,000 brokerage
customers who invested in the alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme
run by R. Allen Stanford are entitled to have their losses
covered by SIPC.  SIPC, a nonprofit corporation funded by the brokerage
industry, says the Stanford investments don’t fit into the
confines of the federal law that governs who’s eligible for the
payouts. Investors and their advocates in Congress say SIPC is
deliberately taking a narrow view of the law to protect brokers
from higher assessments.  The SEC’s commissioners, who have oversight of SIPC,
ultimately sided with the investors. In June, the agency ordered
SIPC to start a process that could grant as much as $500,000 per
client -- the same maximum amount it offers in any case. After
SIPC balked, the SEC for the first time sued the group in
federal court in  Washington .  As the two prepare for a Jan. 24 court date, SIPC has come
out swinging, hiring two prominent law firms and an ex-federal
judge who’s been on the short list for a Republican Supreme
Court nomination. In legal briefs, it accuses the SEC of ceding
to pressure from Congress to flout the letter of the law, and
argues that the agency’s position jeopardizes investor payouts
in other cases, including for clients of  Bernard Madoff  and  MF
Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) .  “The dollars are such and the principles are such that we
have to take it seriously,” said  Stephen Harbeck , who has
worked at SIPC for 36 years and is now its president.  Harbeck has said that SIPC shouldn’t get involved because
investors received actual CDs after the brokerage passed their
money to a bank. What happened after that isn’t under SIPC’s
purview because the Stanford account holders have possession of
their securities, he told a court-appointed receiver in 2009.
SIPC covers theft but not fraud, he said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  said SIPC’s accusation that the
agency was responding to pressure from Congress was
“inaccurate” and said “the commission’s decision was based on
the facts and the law.”  For more, click here.  Areva Ex-Chief Lauvergeon Says She Was ‘Slandered, Spied Upon’  Anne Lauvergeon defended her record as chief executive
officer of  Areva SA (AREVA)  and said the nuclear-fuel manufacturer spied
on her and didn’t pay what they owed her after not renewing her
contract seven months ago.  Lauvergeon filed a criminal complaint in Paris against
unidentified persons in December after seeing a report by
private investigators of her and her husband’s movements and
communications. She filed a suit on Jan. 11 against Areva,
asking the Paris commercial court to order the state-controlled
company to honor a 1.06 million-euro ($1.35 million) departure
payment and 440,000 euros for a non-compete clause.  Lauvergeon was denied a third term weeks before her
contract expired in June, when the government replaced her with
Luc Oursel, Areva’s head of marketing. French authorities are
investigating Areva’s $2.5 billion purchase of Canadian uranium
mining company UraMin in 2007 after the Paris-based manufacturer
forecast an operating loss for 2011 in December because of asset
writedowns on mining projects and plant closures in response to
the nuclear accident in  Japan  last year.  Areva’s board “decided to suspend the payment as it hadn’t
yet received the report of three independent auditors” looking
into the UraMin deal, Patricia Marie, a spokeswoman for Areva,
said yesterday. That report is expected by the end of February,
she said. Areva is cooperating with the investigation into the
spying claims, Marie said.  The French company, the world’s biggest supplier of nuclear
fuel and services, paid a “normal” price for  UraMin (AREVA) ,
Lauvergeon said Jan. 16. Areva had been searching since 2005 for
a company to buy to secure access to uranium.  The acquisition was reviewed by law firms, auditors and the
government undertook “a very significant analysis” of the
decision as well, Lauvergeon said.  A hearing on Lauvergeon’s complaint regarding her pay is
scheduled for Feb. 3.  Applebee’s Restaurants Rebuffed by Top U.S. Court in Wage Case  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to halt a lawsuit that
accuses the Applebee’s restaurant chain of underpaying more than
5,500 servers and bartenders in violation of federal labor law.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal by Applebee’s,
operated by  DineEquity Inc. (DIN) , leaving intact a federal appeals
court ruling that let the suit proceed.  The appeal turned on the Labor Department’s interpretation
of part of the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act. The disputed
provision lets employers pay as little as $2.13 an hour to
workers who receive tips, as long as their combined pay reaches
the $7.25 hourly minimum wage.  The Labor Department says the provision doesn’t fully apply
when employees spend more than 20 percent of their time
performing duties that don’t directly result in tips. The
department says that in those cases the employer may have to pay
higher wages for the part of the job that doesn’t lead to tips.  In Applebee’s case, the bartenders and servers say they
spend much of their time cleaning, taking inventory, stocking
serving areas and preparing silverware.  The rebuff is a setback to the National Restaurant
Association and U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which supported the
Applebee’s appeal.  The case is Applebee’s v. Fast, 11-425, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  Finra’s Legal Immunity Won’t Be Questioned by U.S. High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to question the legal
immunity of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and
other private organizations that oversee the country’s financial
markets.  The justices yesterday rejected an appeal from a securities
firm that accused Finra, as the brokerage-industry oversight
body is known, of misleading members about the potential cost to
them of its 2007 merger with the New York Stock Exchange’s
oversight unit.  The suit by Standard Investment Chartered Inc. also named
current and former Finra officers, including  Mary Schapiro , now
the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The suit centered on the proxy solicitation Finra issued in
2006 to change its bylaws to match those of the NYSE. Finra was
known as the National Association of Securities Dealers at the
time.  Standard Investment argued in its appeal that so-called
self-regulatory organizations are entitled to immunity only when
they are directly performing a duty on behalf of the government.
In throwing out the suit, a federal appeals court in New York
said those organizations also are immune for actions they take
“incident to” their regulatory functions.  Finra is one of more than 30 self-regulatory organizations
registered with the SEC. Standard Investment is based in Costa
Mesa,  California .  The case is Standard Investment Chartered v. National
Association of Securities Dealers, 11-381.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Amazon.com Sued by Customer Over Hackers’ Theft of Zappos Data  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  was accused in a lawsuit by a customer of
its Zappos.com unit of violating federal consumer credit laws by
failing to protect her personal information after the company
said hackers stole account numbers and other data.  Theresa Stevens, a resident of Beaumont, Texas, said that
as a result of the breach, she and other Zappos customers are
more likely to receive e-mails from spoof websites and
unknowingly give away personal information to hackers, according
to her complaint filed Jan. 16 in federal court in Louisville,
Kentucky. The customers also will incur expenses for credit
monitoring and suffer emotional distress and loss of privacy,
according to the complaint.  Stevens seeks to represent 24 million Zappos customers
whose personal information was compromised, according to the
complaint. She received an e-mail from the online shoe retailer
Jan. 16 saying her information was stolen as part of a data
breach. Hackers gained access to Zappos.com’s internal network
through unprotected computer servers located in Shepherdsville,
Kentucky, according to the complaint.  Stevens seeks unspecified damages and a court order
requiring Amazon.com to pay for credit monitoring and identity
theft insurance. Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based
Amazon, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment yesterday about the lawsuit.  The case is Stevens v. Amazon.com, 12-cv-00032, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Kentucky (Louisville).  Apple Files German Design Suit Against 10 Samsung Smartphones  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed another suit in Germany, seeking to ban
sales of  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s smartphone models, including
the Galaxy S Plus and the S II.  The suit targeting 10 smartphones was filed in the
Dusseldorf Regional Court and is based on Apple design rights
Apple in  Europe , court spokesman Peter Schuetz said via phone
yesterday. Apple also started a separate suit against five
Samsung tablet computer models related to a September ruling
banning the Galaxy 10.1., he said.  Last month, the Dusseldorf court said it is unlikely to
grant an injunction against the Galaxy 10.1N and an appeals
court also voiced doubts about the reach of Apple’s European
Union design right that won the company the injunction against
the Galaxy 10.1. The new suits aren’t filed under emergency
proceedings and allow Apple a new procedure against both models.  After making headlines by initially winning the September
injunction, the Cupertino, California-based Apple has faced
setbacks in its battle against its closest rival in tablet
computers. In addition to the German litigation, the iPad maker
failed to convince an Australian court on Dec. 9 to reinstate a
ban in that country. Both companies also filed patent suits
against each other in several European countries.  A spokesman for Samsung, who declined to be identified,
said the company had received both suits.  The Galaxy 10.1N is a modified version introduced after
sales of the original 10.1 tablet were blocked.  The new cases are LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 293/11 and 14c O
294/11.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  J&J Pushed Risperdal for Kids Without Approval, Memo Shows  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit marketed its Risperdal drug in
2004 to doctors working with troubled children even though
regulators hadn’t approved the drug for those patients, company
records show.  Officials of J&J’s  Janssen  unit pushed salespeople in Texas
to “flood clinics with Risperdal stuff” as part of a 2004
campaign to increase prescriptions for the anti-psychotic drug
written for children and adolescents, according to an internal
memo put into evidence yesterday in state court in Austin,
Texas. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration didn’t approve
Risperdal for any pediatric use until 2006.  Texas officials contend New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
J&J, the world’s largest health-care products company, defrauded
the state Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not
approved by U.S. regulators, including for children with
psychiatric disorders. The state joined a lawsuit filed by a
whistle-blower, Allen Jones, a former Pennsylvania health-care
fraud investigator.  Lawyers for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott are asking
jurors to award the state at least $579 million from J&J and
Janssen in damages over the companies’ marketing program for the
anti-psychotic medicine.  Shane Scott, a former Janssen sales manager in Texas,
testified he got a memo from his superiors in the summer of 2004
calling for a push to market Risperdal to treat attention-
deficit syndrome in kids at the beginning of a new school year.  The campaign’s goal was to position Risperdal to compete
with rival anti-psychotic drugs, such as  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Seroquel and  Eli Lilly & Co. ’s Zyprexa, Scott said.  “When kids are back in school, they are more likely to
take their ADD meds,” Scott testified during a videotaped
deposition that was played for jurors.  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  Text, Lies and ‘Dr. Evil’ at Issue in Russian Oligarch Trial  Claims that Boris Berezovsky went to meetings in a bathrobe
and signed text messages as “Dr. Evil” were invented by Roman
Abramovich and his friends, Berezovsky’s lawyers argued as a
lawsuit between the men drew to a close.  Both sides have accused each other of dishonesty and greed
during the three-month trial in  London . Over the next two days,
Berezovsky’s lawyers have a last chance to discredit Chelsea
Football Club owner Abramovich, 45, as they sum up the $6.8
billion claim against him to judge Elizabeth Gloster.  “The cynical manipulation of evidence and indeed of the
trial process,” by Abramovich is one of the factors Gloster
should consider, Berezovsky lawyer Laurence Rabinowitz said
yesterday. Their “smears and innuendo” cast doubt on
Abramovich’s case, he argued.  Berezovsky, now living in exile in London, claims
Abramovich used Kremlin connections to intimidate him into
selling stakes in Russian oil and metal companies for far below
their real value 10 years ago. The trial ends this week after
hundreds of hours of court time, millions of pounds in legal
fees and witnesses ranging from kitchen staff to billionaires
such as  United Co. Rusal Plc (486)  founder Oleg Deripaska.  Berezovsky, 65, who built Russia’s largest car dealership
in the 1990s, fled the country in 2000 after falling out of
favor with then-President Vladimir Putin.  During more than 30 hours of cross-examination in October,
Berezovsky said Abramovich wasn’t smart enough to succeed in
Russia without him. He maintains he helped Abramovich build up
stakes in oil company OAO Sibneft and aluminum assets which
eventually became part of Rusal in return for a share of the
companies, and that Abramovich forced him to sell by saying the
Russian state would seize his shares unless he did. Berezovsky
claims he lost about $6.8 billion on the sales.  Abramovich said he gave Berezovsky and an associate, Badri
Patarkatsishvili, hundreds of millions of dollars for physical
and political protection before paying them $1.3 billion to
break off the arrangement in 2001 and 2002.  Rabinowitz said the judge needs to determine whether
Abramovich “provided a plausible explanation for the enormous
and indeed admitted payments made to Mr. Berezovsky?”  He made the payments “because they related to ownership
interests in Sibneft and Rusal and that, we say, explains their
size,” Rabinowitz said.  For more, click here.  TD Bank (TD)  Aided Rothstein Fraud, Investors’ Lawyer Tells Jury  TD Bank helped Scott Rothstein, the convicted and disbarred
Florida attorney, keep his $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme afloat by
assuring victims their money was safe while Rothstein depleted
the accounts, a lawyer for investors told a jury.  David Mandel, an attorney for Coquina Investments, in
closing arguments yesterday after a trial in Miami, pointed to
letters in which bank Vice President Frank Spinosa said
Rothstein’s account was locked and the money in it could be
disbursed only to Corpus Christi, Texas-based Coquina.  Coquina Investments’ Rothstein lawsuit is the first such
case against the bank to go to trial. Attorneys representing
other investors have been watching it closely.  “This case is very significant,” said William Scherer, an
attorney representing a group that lost $180 million. “This is
the canary in the coal mine for our case.”  Scherer is also suing TD Bank, a unit of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, claiming it had a direct role in the fraud.  Mandel asked for $32 million in compensatory damages and
$140 million in punitive damages.  Spinosa took the stand during the trial before U.S.
District Judge Marcia Cooke and refused to testify, citing his
Fifth Amendment right not to be forced to incriminate himself.  “For all intents and purposes, Frank is the bank” where
Rothstein is concerned, Mandel told the jury, referring to
Spinosa, who is no longer with the bank.  Mandel said other bank officials failed to act when unusual
activity in Rothstein’s accounts triggered money-laundering
alerts in the bank’s internal system.  Holly R. Skolnick, a lawyer for TD Bank, said Coquina must
have realized that investments earning almost 50 percent in a
few months were too good to be legitimate.  “It was obvious to Coquina that these were fraudulent
investments,” Skolnick told jurors. “It had to be obvious.
These deals make no sense.”  Rothstein pleaded guilty to five counts of wire fraud,
conspiracy and racketeering and was sentenced to 50 years in
prison in 2010. Victims of his fraud believed they were buying
stakes in sexual and employment discrimination settlements that
Rothstein’s law firm, Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA, was
handling. The settlements were fictional.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-
cv-60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For more, click here.  Dart’s Fund May Get Top Court Review on Argentine Judgment  Two funds, one controlled by billionaire Kenneth Dart, may
get a  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  hearing in their legal fight to collect
at least $2 billion owed by the government of Argentina.  The justices yesterday asked the Obama administration for
advice on an appeal by Dart’s EM Ltd. and NML Capital Ltd., an
affiliate of the New York-based hedge fund Elliott Associates
LP, in a multipronged dispute stemming from Argentina’s 2001
default on $95 billion of bonds.  The funds, which refused to exchange their securities in a
2005 Argentine debt swap, are seeking to enforce $2 billion in
judgments they have won in U.S. court cases.  In the case acted on yesterday, EM and NML are trying to
seize $100 million in Argentine central bank assets being held
at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. A federal appeals court
said that money is shielded under the U.S. Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act.  Dart is president of Mason, Michigan-based Dart Container
Corp., the world’s largest maker of foam cups. He gave up his
U.S. citizenship in the 1990s to avoid taxes and moved to the
Cayman Islands.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  didn’t take part in yesterday’s
order. She was involved in the litigation over Argentina’s bonds
as an appeals court judge.  The case is EM Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 11-604, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.For the latest
verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Jefferson County Paid Lawyers $22.1 Million in Fees Over Debt  Alabama’s  Jefferson County (3681MF) , which filed the biggest
municipal bankruptcy in November, has paid lawyers $22.1 million
to handle legal troubles caused by its debt crisis, according to
county records.  Most of the legal fees are related to a default on more
than $3 billion in sewer warrants, County Attorney Jeffrey
Sewell said. After the crisis started in 2008, the county hired
law firms to negotiate with warrant holders, defend against
lawsuits in New York and Alabama, and unsuccessfully fight a tax
ruling that cut revenue by $70 million a year, Sewell said.  Jefferson County, home to the city of Birmingham, filed for
Chapter 9 bankruptcy after local and state officials and
bondholders failed to implement an agreement that would have
required the sewer debt to be cut by about $1 billion, rates to
increase and the Alabama Legislature to enact new laws to
benefit the county’s finances.  Jefferson County’s local bankruptcy firm, Birmingham-based
Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP, was paid $9.6 million since
2008, the most of any firm hired by the county, according to
county records. The county’s main bankruptcy firm, Los Angeles-
based Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, was paid $911,000
since it was hired in 2011.  The county’s bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing
tainted by political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
agreed to a $722 million settlement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to
people tied to county politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 