-- Serbia to Make Businesses Pay Dues on Time, Set 60-Day Deadline
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-01-18T14:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/serbia-to-make-businesses-pay-dues-on-time-set-60-day-deadline.html
Serbia plans to limit the payment
deadline between businesses to 60 days and increase penalties in
order to improve liquidity in the economy, ease price pressures
and prevent “undeserved” bankruptcies.  Upgrading and expanding the scope of a related government
decree adopted in October, the state will make both the private
and the public sector “fully responsible and punishable” if
they don’t make their contractual payments on time, Economy
Minister Nebojsa Ciric said while presenting the draft law in
Belgrade today.  “This is not interventionism. The market simply failed to
function normally on its own and we had to respond to demands to
bring more order into the system,” Ciric said. The parliament
may adopt the bill by end-March.  Aspiring to become a candidate for European Union
membership and to fight the effects of the global economic
crisis, Serbia has sought to improve its economic environment by
tightening business regulations.  “Thousands of contractors have gone under because they
weren’t paid on time for goods and services delivered,” Ciric
said. “A consequence has been that many began increasing their
prices to factor in the delays that have became widespread.”  The delays became longer with the onset of the crisis in
2008, averaging 130 days in 2011, Ciric said. The October decree
imposed the 60-day deadline for payments by state bodies to
private businesses and the new legislation will cover all except
contracts among “small businesses because these have not been
the source of the problem.”  The penalties will include “automatic court orders to
enact payment” if it hasn’t been within 60 days of invoicing
and punitive  interest rates  on overdue amounts may be levied,
Ciric said. He gave no estimate of late payments accumulated so
far, saying only “it became quite alarming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  