-- Hedge Fund Insider-Trading Suspects Charged in Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-01T21:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/seven-charged-in-insider-trading-investigation.html
(Corrects Horvath’s employment status in 14th paragraph of
story published Jan. 18.)  Seven people were charged in
Manhattan federal court with  securities fraud  and conspiracy as
part of a five-year investigation of insider trading at hedge
funds by the FBI and the  Justice Department .  Prosecutors said the alleged scheme, which involved trades
in  Dell Inc. (DELL) , netted $61.8 million in illegal profits. Among
those charged are Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, who along with three other suspects was taken into
custody today, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Todd Newman , formerly of Diamondback Capital Management
LLC, was arrested in the Boston area by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , and Jon Horvath was detained in  New York ,
according to one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Chiasson
turned himself in, the second person said.  Also charged today was Danny Kuo, who was arrested in
Southern  California . Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, Jesse Tortora
and Sandeep Goyal have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with
the probe, according to a person familiar with their cases.  Goyal, a former junior technology analyst at  Neuberger
Berman , admitted to passing material nonpublic information to a
hedge fund, according to  Alexander Samuelson , a company
spokesman. Goyal left the firm this month.  Lawyers Contacted  Justine Harris, a lawyer for Adondakis; Gregory Morvillo,
who represents Chiasson; Jessica Margolis, who represents Goyal;
Alfred Pavlis, who represents Newman; and Ralph Caccia, who
represents Tortora, didn’t immediately return phone messages
seeking comment. Steven Peikin, who represents Horvath, declined
to comment. A lawyer for Kuo couldn’t be immediately determined.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said today at a press
conference in New York that the defendants formed a “criminal
club” that reaped almost as much in illegal profits as the
central figure of the nationwide probe of  hedge funds ,
technology companies and so-called expert networking firms.  The five-year insider-trading probe has resulted in charges
against at least 56 people. More than 50 have pleaded guilty or
been convicted after trial since 2009, including Galleon Group
LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was found guilty in May and
is serving 11 years in prison, the longest ever for insider
trading. The U.S. said he earned $72 million in illegal gains.  Technology Trades  From 2008 to 2009, Horvath, Kuo, Tortora and Adondakis
exchanged inside information about publicly traded technology
companies, prosecutors said. According to the allegations, an
unnamed Dell insider passed inside financial information to
Goyal, who in turn tipped Tortora. Tortora shared the
information with Horvath, Kuo and Adondakis, according to a
criminal complaint by FBI Special Agent David Makol.  Tortora passed inside information on Dell to Newman before
the computer maker announced its first- and second-quarter 2008
earnings, according to Makol. Newman made $3.8 million in
illegal profits for his hedge fund from trading on the
information, according to the complaint.  Chiasson was tipped about Dell by Adondakis, according to
Makol. Chiasson and others at the hedge fund allegedly traded on
the tips for $57 million in illegal profits.  Goyal worked for Dell at its corporate headquarters in
 Round Rock ,  Texas , from 2003 until the summer of 2006,
prosecutors said.  Arrests Made  In November 2010, FBI agents from New York and  Boston 
executed search warrants at the offices of Level Global and
Diamondback, hedge funds founded by former employees of SAC
Capital Advisors LP.  Horvath works at Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. A
representative of SAC Capital couldn’t be immediately reached
for comment.  Level Global told clients last February that it was
shutting down -- eight years after David Ganek and Chiasson
founded the hedge fund -- because of the U.S. probe.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for New York-based Level
Global, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the arrests.
 Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Stamford-based Diamondback,
declined to comment immediately.  The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed a civil
insider-trading complaint in  Manhattan  federal court against the
seven men, Diamondback Capital and Level Global.  Peter Neiman, of Wilmer Hale, a lawyer for Diamondback
Capital, declined to comment on the SEC lawsuit. MaryJeanette
Dee, a lawyer for Level Global, didn’t immediately return a
voice mail left at her office seeking comment on the suit.  Fleishman Trial  During the trial last year of James Fleishman, a former
executive at Primary Global Research LLC, witnesses testified
that he helped employees of technology companies pass nonpublic
information to his firm’s fund manager clients. Fleishman was
convicted of conspiracy charges related to insider trading.  A witness at Fleishman’s trial, Mark Anthony Longoria, a
former Advanced Micro Devices Inc. employee, described on the
stand how he passed secret tips and other information about his
company to fund managers. One of those he identified as a
recipient was Adondakis.  Bob Nguyen, a former Primary Global analyst who pleaded
guilty and agreed to cooperate with the U.S., testified at
Fleishman’s trial that Tortora was a client of Fleishman’s who
got nonpublic information about technology companies through the
 Mountain View , California-based research firm.  Dell Supply Manager  Daniel Devore, a former global supply manager of Dell,
pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S.  insider-trading 
investigation.  The criminal complaint against Kuo says he worked at a hedge
fund in South Pasadena, California. Whittier Trust Co. lists on
its website a Danny Kuo as a vice president and fund manager in
the firm’s South Pasadena offices, and says he joined the firm
in 2008.  When FBI agents this morning sought to arrest Chiasson at
his Manhattan home, they discovered that he had already left,
said one of the people familiar with the matter. FBI agents
encountered Wall Street Journal reporters at the building, the
person said. Adrienne Senatore, a spokeswoman for the FBI’s New
York office, declined to comment on the arrests or Chiasson’s
absence from his home.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment
on the attempted arrest. Ashley Huston, a spokeswoman for  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co., publisher of the Wall Street Journal,
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  and;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  