-- Shale-Gas Boom Spurs Chilean Methanol Plant’s Move to U.S.
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-18T22:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/shale-gas-boom-spurs-methanex-to-relocate-idled-chilean-plant-to-louisiana.html
Methanex Corp. (MX) , the world’s biggest
methanol maker, plans to dismantle an idled Chilean factory and
ship it to Louisiana where it will be reassembled to capitalize
on the lowest U.S. natural- gas prices  in almost a decade.  Engineering at the new site in Geismar has begun and the
plant should be operational in the second half of 2014, the
Vancouver-based company said yesterday in a statement. Methanex
is developing cost estimates for the project and will make a
final  investment decision  in the third quarter, Jason Chesko, a
spokesman for Methanex, said today by telephone.  Relocation is cheaper and faster than building a new
factory, Chief Executive Officer Bruce Aitken said in the
statement. Gas futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
closed today at their lowest since March 2002. Producers are
using hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling to tap
deposits in shale rock from the U.S. northeast as far west as
the Rocky Mountains to supply the Gulf region.  “The outlook for low North American natural-gas prices
makes Louisiana an attractive location,” Aitken said.  Reassembling the plant will employ more than 1,000 people
in Louisiana, and as many as 200 skilled workers will be needed
to operate the factory, Chesko said. Methanex expects
“substantial savings” compared with the $700 million cost of a
new plant, he said. The factory would generate about $400
million in annual sales at current methanol prices, Chesko said.  Cracker Construction  Methanex turns methane, a gas component, into methanol, an
ingredient in formaldehyde, polyester and plastic bottles. It’s
among more than a dozen chemical makers expanding in the U.S. to
take advantage of gas prices.  Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. plans to spend about $5
billion to build an ethane cracker in  Texas , while  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  and  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  each plan to spend as much as $4.5 billion on
crackers in Louisiana. Crackers are plants that turn ethane,
another component of gas, into ethylene, a plastics ingredient.  Methanex probably is preparing the Geismar site to
accommodate a second plant from  Chile , Charles Neivert, an
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York who rates the shares
“buy,” said today in a note.  Chesko said Methanex’s site near Punta Arenas in southern
Chile has four methanol plants and “there is potential later”
for another unit to be moved to the U.S. The plant that will be
shipped was built in 1996 and can make 1 million tons of
methanol a year, the spokesman said.  New Zealand  Restart  The Chilean factories were idled after the company lost its
gas supply from Argentina in 2007, Chesko said.  Methanex also is restarting a second methanol plant in New
Zealand, with production to begin midyear, the company said in a
separate statement. Earnings from the relocated Chilean plant
and the New Zealand restart may add about $18.50 to Methanex’s
share price,  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic
Global Advisors who rates the shares “overweight,” said in a
note today.  Methanex rose 3.5 percent to C$27.80 in Toronto. The shares
have gained 19 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  