-- U.S. Lawmakers Abandon Anti-Piracy Bills as Google Launches Online Protest
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-01-18T20:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/six-u-s-lawmakers-abandon-anti-piracy-bill-support-as-google-protests.html
Eight U.S. lawmakers dropped their
support for Hollywood-backed anti-piracy legislation as  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and other websites protested the measures.  Co-sponsors who say they can no longer support the Senate
legislation include Republicans Marco Rubio of  Florida ,  Roy Blunt  of Missouri and  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, as well as Democrat
 Ben Cardin  of  Maryland . Republican Representatives Ben Quayle of
 Arizona , Lee Terry of Nebraska and  Dennis Ross  of Florida, and
Democratic Representative Tim Holden of Pennsylvania said they
would withdraw their backing of the House measure.  The House and Senate bills are backed by the movie and
music industries as a means to crack down on the sale of
 counterfeit goods  by non-U.S. websites. Google and Facebook are
among Internet companies that object to the legislation, saying
it will spur online censorship and slow U.S. economic growth.  “This unprecedented effort has turned the tide,”
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who opposes
the measures, said in an e-mailed statement.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
covered the “Google” icon on its home page today with a black
box and linked to a website that urged visitors to sign an
online petition asking Congress to reject the legislation.  Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia run by the nonprofit
 Wikimedia Foundation Inc. , shut the English version of its
website for 24 hours to protest the bills. The home page of the
English website gives visitors information about how to call
their elected representatives.  Zuckerberg’s Argument  Google and Facebook, the most popular social-networking
service with more than 800 million users worldwide, have led
Web-industry opposition to the anti-piracy bills, saying the
measures may saddle Web companies with new mandates and
liabilities and hamper innovation.  “The Internet is the most powerful tool we have for
creating a more open and connected world,” Facebook Chief
Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said in a post on the social
network today. “We can’t let poorly thought out laws get in the
way of the Internet’s development.”  Zuckerberg’s  post  links to a Facebook page that outlines
the company’s opposition to the bills and provides a link for
people to contact members of Congress.  Craigslist Inc., operator of the online classified ad
website, steered users to a  page  with a black background and a
message in white letters asking visitors to “imagine a world
without craigslist, Google, Wikipedia.” The website provided
visitors with a link to a page offering ways to contact
lawmakers and voice opposition to the legislation.  Legislators’ Reversals  Rubio said he switched his position on the Senate measure,
the Protect IP Act, after examining opponents’ contention that
it would present a “potentially unreasonable expansion of the
federal government’s power to impact the Internet,” according
to a posting today on Facebook. Blunt said in a statement today
he is withdrawing as a co-sponsor of the Senate bill.  Hatch, one of the Senate bill’s original co-sponsors, and
Ross said they would withdraw support for the legislation in
separate Twitter posts today. Staff members for Quayle, Terry
and Holden said the lawmakers would no longer back the House
measure. Cardin said he couldn’t vote for the Senate bill in its
current form, according to a statement Jan. 13.  Hollywood studios want lawmakers to ensure that Internet
companies such as Google share responsibility for curbing the
distribution of pirated films and television shows.  ‘Another Gimmick’  Christopher Dodd , chairman of the  Motion Picture
Association  of America and a former Democratic senator, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday that the Internet protest is
“yet another gimmick, albeit a dangerous one, designed to
punish elected and administration officials who are working
diligently to protect American jobs from foreign criminals.”  The House and Senate measures would let the  Justice
Department  seek court orders requiring search engines, payment
processors and ad networks to block or cease business with the
piracy websites operating outside the U.S.  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who
introduced the Stop Online Piracy Act, said last week he would
remove a provision from his bill requiring Internet-service
providers, when ordered by a court, to block access to non-U.S.
websites linked to piracy.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said he’s
willing to consider dropping a similar provision from the
Protect IP Act. Opponents say such website-blocking may harm the
stability of the Internet’s domain-name system.  Promoting ‘Rogue Websites’  Smith has said that companies “like Google have made
billions by working with and promoting foreign rogue websites so
they have a vested interest in preventing Congress from stopping
rogue websites.”  Google agreed last year to pay $500 million to settle U.S.
allegations that advertising for online Canadian pharmacies on
its website allowed illegal imports of  prescription drugs . The
company has said it has also fought counterfeiters and piracy
operations.  The Senate is scheduled to hold a procedural vote on
whether to proceed with the Protect IP Act on Jan. 24. Leahy
leads the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Smith is chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee.  The Senate bill is S. 968 and the House bill is H.R. 3261.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  