-- Slovenia Must Cut Spending or Risk Rating Cut, Kranjec Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-18T12:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/slovenia-must-cut-spending-or-risk-rating-cut-kranjec-says-1-.html
Slovenia’s next government must cut
spending by as much as 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion) or risk
another downgrade in its sovereign- credit rating , central bank
Governor Marko Kranjec said.  Slovenia, the first post-communist nation to adopt the
euro, was lowered one level to A+ with a negative outlook by
Standard and Poor’s on Jan. 13, along with eight other  euro-
zone members. Moody’s cut its rating to A1 with a negative
outlook on Dec. 22 and  Fitch Ratings  may do the same by the end
of the month, Managing Director  Edward Parker  said today.  Slovenia has been without a permanent government since
Prime Minister  Borut Pahor ’s Cabinet was ousted in September for
failing to convince voters to accept spending cuts and pension-
system changes. Lawmakers on Jan. 11 rejected Zoran Jankovic,
the early-election winner, to form a Cabinet.  “We may see that at a certain stage when Slovenia needs to
refinance debt, there simply won’t be any new loans and this
would mean great trouble for companies here,” Kranjec said in
an interview with public broadcaster  Radio Slovenija  today. “If
the trend continues uncontrollably and the credit rating is cut
further, I don’t rule out Slovenia finding itself in the same
position as some neighboring countries like  Hungary .”  Hungary is seeking financial assistance from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union after Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  enacted policies that the government
described as “unorthodox,” pushing up the country’s borrowing
costs and made its assets, including the forint, less attractive
to investors.  Hungarian-EU Dispute  The European Commission yesterday threatened to sue Hungary
for encroaching on the central bank’s independence and started
infringement proceedings against Orban’s government for meddling
with the judiciary and the data-protection authority.  Slovenian lawmakers agreed yesterday to limit the public
debt at an unspecified ceiling to allay investors’ concern over
debt sustainability. Slovenia saw its borrowing costs breach 7
percent for its benchmark bond in November after the debt crisis
started to engulf its Western neighbor  Italy .  Slovenia’s public debt surged from 23 percent of gross
domestic product in 2007 to above 45 percent last year,
according to the European Commission. The EU’s executive arm
sees the debt advancing past 50 percent of GDP by year’s end and
to 54.6 percent in 2013, it said in a November report.  Kranjec said Slovenia’s budget gap is currently at between
5 percent and 6 percent of GDP.  -- Editors: James M. Gomez, Douglas Lytle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  