-- TSMC Sales, Margin Forecasts Beat Estimates on Mobile-Device Chip Demand
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-18T08:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/tsmc-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-as-customers-reduce-inventory.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips,
forecast sales and profitability exceeding analyst estimates as
customers rebuild inventories in anticipation of rising demand.  Revenue this quarter will be NT$103 billion to NT$105
billion, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
today, compared with the NT$100 billion average of 13 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. TSMC reported a 23 percent drop
in fourth-quarter income today, the third consecutive decline,
to NT$31.6 billion.  TSMC is benefiting from demand for mobile devices such as
HTC Corp. handsets and Apple Inc. iPads as clients including
Qualcomm Inc. and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  renew orders during the
industry’s low season to replenish inventories. Spending by TSMC
this year will be less than last year and fall short of analyst
estimates as the company focuses on technology advancement
instead of expanding capacity.  “First-quarter strength is mainly due to refreshing
depleted inventory levels,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Morris Chang , 80, told investors today. “The bookings
forecast for second quarter indicates that demand is also
rising.”  Fourth-quarter net income was in line with the NT$31
billion average of 18 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Consolidated revenue, reported earlier, dropped 5 percent from a
year prior to NT$104.7 billion, in line with analyst estimates
and at the top end of company guidance for NT$103 billion to
NT$105 billion.  Gross, Operating Margins  Gross margin, a key measure of profitability that tracks
sales less the cost of goods sold, will be 42.5 percent to 44.5
percent this quarter, ahead of the 42.1 percent median of six
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. TSMC also forecast
an operating margin, which accounts for sales minus operating
costs, exceeding analyst estimates.  TSMC, which manufactures chips used in iPads and Dell Inc.
computers, will cut its equipment budget to $6 billion this year
from $7.3 billion last year as a slowing global economy prompts
the company to focus on producing more advanced chips rather
than on expanding capacity.  The median of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
News is for TSMC to spend $6.2 billion this year.  Qualcomm, Broadcom  Qualcomm, the largest maker of mobile-phone chips, in
November forecast stronger 2012 sales than analysts estimated as
demand for mobile devices drives demand for semiconductors.
Broadcom, another TSMC client that designs chips used in TV set-
top boxes, said last month that fourth-quarter revenue was
“coming in stronger than expected.”  “Customers were overcautious, so inventories got too
low,” said Dan Heyler, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. “We can see now that business is
stabilizing, and we’re in the early stages of a recovery.”  Chang cut his global semiconductor market-revenue growth
forecast today to 2 percent, from an earlier estimate of 3
percent to 5 percent next year. The industry had zero growth
last year, while the custom-manufacturing segment climbed 4
percent and TSMC 9 percent, Chang said.  TSMC benefits from growth in mobile devices, with every
tablet device sold globally contributing about $7 to its revenue,
he said April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  