-- Solyndra to Cancel Auction Again After Failing to Lure Bids
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-01-18T18:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/solyndra-will-cancel-auction-again-after-failing-to-lure-turnkey-bids.html
Solyndra LLC (SOLY) , the failed solar-panel
maker that got $535 million in government loan guarantees before
filing for bankruptcy, will again cancel tomorrow’s auction
after failing to draw any offers to continue operating the
company, a financial adviser said.  “Solyndra did not receive any acceptable bids to acquire
the business on a turnkey basis,” Solyndra’s financial adviser,
Eric Carlson with Imperial Capital LLC, said in an e-mail today.  “Solyndra will be withdrawing its sale motion without
prejudice and is moving forward with the court-approved auctions
of its core assets,” Carlson added.  The auction was intended to keep the company operating and
potentially resurrect the jobs lost by some of Solyndra’s former
employees. The company set up a supplemental auction in case
tomorrow’s sale fell through. The piecemeal sale of the
company’s assets will begin with the first round starting on
Feb. 22.  The solar-panel maker has twice delayed the auction of its
business after failing to draw any acceptable bids, court
documents show.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , sought Chapter
11 protection Sept. 6. Two days later its offices were raided by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . The solar-panel maker
listed about $854.1 million in assets and about $867.1 million
in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  Congressional Scrutiny  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. The company faces a probe by
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory.  Congressional Republicans have questioned the size of
government loans made to the fledgling solar-panel maker and
whether the Obama administration properly evaluated its
potential.  The Republicans have also questioned whether political
favoritism may have played a role in awarding the government
loan guarantee due to the company’s ties to an Obama fundraiser,
billionaire  George Kaiser .  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of Kaiser’s
charitable organization, holds almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s
parent, 360 Solar Degree Holdings Inc. Kaiser raised or bundled
$50,000 to $100,000 for Obama’s 2008 presidential run.  Federal Grand Jury  In addition to the congressional probe and the FBI
investigation, Solyndra has been subpoenaed by a federal grand
jury, court documents show. The subpoena was disclosed in
billing records submitted to the bankruptcy court by its special
counsel,  K&L Gates LLP (1142L) .  The back-up auction will be conducted on an asset-by-asset
basis or lots of similar items, according to court papers.
Potential buyers will have to submit what items they intend to
bid on and present proof that they have the financial
wherewithal to complete the sale. The auction would be held on-
site and online.  Within two business days following the end of that auction,
Solyndra will submit a report to the  bankruptcy court  detailing
the winning bidders and the amounts they paid for each item.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  