-- Soros Proves Nothing Rotten in Denmark as Home Financing Excels: Mortgages
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-19T09:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/soros-s-favored-danish-home-loan-bonds-surge-29-to-defy-crises-mortgages.html
Billionaire  George Soros ’s assertion
that Denmark’s $480 billion mortgage credit system can weather
any crisis better than any country where mortgages are bought
and sold is proving the rule for international investors.  The  Nykredit Mortgage Bond Index (NYKRINDX) , which includes the
largest, most-traded of the securities, rose to a record this
month, holding up through a real estate slump, a banking
meltdown and Europe’s debt crisis. Home-loan bonds have gained
29.2 percent since 2007, beating U.S. Treasuries.  “The Danish mortgage system works as advertised under very
special conditions as the rest of the world shuts down,” said
Alan Boyce, a former bond trader at $25 billion Soros Fund
Management LLC, before becoming chief executive officer at
Absalon Project, a joint venture with VP Securities A/S to
promote  Denmark ’s mortgage system. Soros first established a
partnership to champion the Danish market model in 2005.  Denmark’s benchmark mortgage bonds have gained almost as
much since the U.S. subprime collapse triggered the global
credit seizure in 2007 than in the prior five years. Demand is
surging even as home prices are projected to fall 25 percent by
2013 since the crisis, economic growth slows and  unemployment 
rises, with investors gravitating to a country that’s one of
only 12 nations in the world with AAA ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The Danish mortgage bond market differs from other
countries in several key respects. When a homeowner in Denmark
takes out a loan, the mortgage is immediately converted into a
security of the same amount. A homeowner can then retire a
mortgage either by paying off the loan or by purchasing an
equivalent face value of the bonds at the market price.  Balance Principle  Danes call this the  balance principle . Mortgage issuers
take all the credit risk, providing reserves in case a borrower
defaults. Investors face a risk only on  interest-rate 
fluctuations. Another difference with the U.S. is there are no
government-sponsored companies involved in the market.  “Mortgage banks don’t take interest rates risk, the bond
market does,” said Boyce. “Borrowers are benefiting from that.
If you look at the U.K., Ireland, all over Europe, the borrowers
are paying way higher rates.”  Foreclosure rates in Denmark also signal its mortgage
credit system can protect borrowers from losing their homes even
after a property bubble has burst.  Though the country is still in the middle of its real-
estate slump, foreclosures account for just 0.2 percent of the
total housing stock, according to Karsten Beltoft, the head of
the Mortgage Banker’s Federation, which represents the home-loan
arm of  Danske Bank A/S (DNSKY) , the largest bank in Denmark.  House Price Drop  U.S.  house prices  have slumped about 32 percent since a
2006 peak, according to an  S&P Case/Shiller Index (SPCS20) , which tracks
20 major metropolitan areas. About 1.4 million properties
nationwide were in the foreclosure process or bank-owned,
representing 1.07 percent of housing units, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data vendor.  There are also plenty of differences outside the mortgage
market, including a more extensive welfare system that provides
for basic needs, including housing.  The  U.S. unemployment  rate swelled as high as 10 percent in
late 2009 from an average of 4.6 percent in 2006. It’s since
declined to 8.5 percent. In Denmark, joblessness will rise to
6.9 percent next year from 6.5 percent in 2012, Danske Bank
estimated in a Jan. 9 report.  ‘Collateral Damage’  “This is deflating without collateral damage while the
rest of the world is blowing up,” Boyce said. “In the U.S.,
the collapse is probably blowing up a quarter of the households
with mortgages while in Denmark it will blow up about 1 percent,
that’s a difference.”  Soros, whose Quantum fund famously bet $10 billion that the
 Bank of England  would be forced to devalue the pound, started a
joint venture with VP Securities in 2005 to establish the
mortgage model in  Mexico (MXBLMORT) , and has subsequently argued that a
similar system should be adopted in the U.S.  The Nykredit Mortgage Bond Index climbed to a record on
Jan. 2, and has hovered at about that level since, slipping only
0.2 percent through Jan. 18. The bonds returned 29.2 percent
since the end of 2007, beating the 27.9 percent return for U.S.
Treasuries, that includes reinvested interest.  “We have a large holding because we think they’re a good
investment, they have a higher interest rate than  government
bonds  and they’re secure,” said Henrik Henriksen, chief
investment strategist at PFA Pension A/S, Denmark’s second
biggest pension fund with $45 billion in assets.  Foreign Bond Ownership  Foreign ownership of Danish mortgage bonds surged 28
percent last year to 365 billion kroner ($63 billion) in
November, central bank data show. Non-Danish residents now make
up about 13 percent of the total, versus 10 percent a year ago,
the central bank estimates.  The success of the bonds with investors isn’t translating
into stabilizing  home prices  or purchases.  Home loan offers fell 30 percent in 2011 to the lowest in
15 years, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said Jan. 9.
Economic uncertainty is prompting home buyers to delay purchases
and homeowners to refrain from borrowing against their equity,
Beltoft said in a statement.  The yield on Nykredit’s 3.5 percent mortgage bond maturing
in 2044 rose one basis point to 3.82 percent as of 10:14 a.m. in
Copenhagen. The spread to the benchmark 10-year Danish
government bond narrowed one basis point to 213 basis points.  Falling house prices are “a challenge to the system, but
we think the Danish housing market is supported by falling
interest rates and an underlying demand for the bonds,” said
Henriksen. The fund, which is based in Copenhagen, held about
$13 billion in mortgage securities at the end of June.  Economic Stress  House prices will decrease 13 percent until 2013, bringing
total losses since the market peaked in 2007 to 25 percent, the
government-backed Economic Council said in November.  The $300 billion economy will grow 1 percent this year and
in 2013, after contracting 0.5 percent in the third quarter.  Adding to stresses in the housing market is an increase in
the personal debt rate. Danes have the world’s highest ratio of
debt at 310 percent of incomes in 2010, Exane BNP Paribas
estimates. Household debt has swelled from 158 percent since
2000 as mortgage banks developed cheaper loans to attract
borrowers. BNP says such imbalances will ultimately take their
toll.  “There will be a point when something happens and people
will pay attention to what’s happened with house prices to focus
on the risk,” said  Andreas Hakansson , an analyst at Exane BNP
based in  Stockholm .  Hakansson says the evolution of Danish mortgages in the
past 15 years to include riskier products will be a problem.  Traditional Instruments  Denmark’s mortgage- bond market  has moved away from
traditional fixed-rate, callable-at-par securities into more
varied debt instruments. Adjustable-rate mortgages were
introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which the central bank
has criticized for exacerbating volatility in the country’s
property market, were sold starting in 2003. So-called capped
floaters, which offer a floating interest rate with a ceiling on
how high borrower costs can rise, came in 2004.  Because of these changes, Moody’s Investors Service has
warned the bonds are growing riskier. Adjustable-rate loans now
make up almost half the country’s mortgage market, meaning
there’s a growing mismatch between 30-year home loans issuers
give to borrowers and the shorter-term bonds investors buy to
fund the mortgages. The rating company in June cut the so-called
timely payment indicator on the securities and told lenders to
increase the amount of collateral they set aside to offset
refinancing risks.  Dismissed Criticism  “In the old days, with 30-year mortgages, it was a great
system,” said Hakansson. We are far away from that system. It
remains to be seen where we are headed.”  Nykredit Realkredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of
mortgage-backed covered bonds, and Realkredit Danmark A/S, the
mortgage arm of Danske Bank, have dismissed criticism and argue
Moody’s doesn’t understand the market. Realkredit Danmark
terminated its contract with the rating company, while Nykredit
adjusted its business to address the concerns.  Mortgage lenders can’t issue enough bonds to satisfy
demand, said Boyce. While the securities have in part been
buoyed by the haven status of Denmark’s AAA government debt
market, it’s their liquidity and tradability that appeals, he
said. There is more than three and a half times the amount
outstanding in mortgage securities versus Denmark’s $130 billion
in sovereign debt, central bank figures show.  “The European bond market fell apart and what happened is
that the Danish mortgage market and the government issued like
crazy and still couldn’t make enough,” Boyce said. “Nobody
should be worried about this right now, the worry should be what
happens when the issuance stops.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story: Jonas
Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net ; Frances
Schwartzkopff at   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  