-- South Africa to Keep Its Key Lending Rate at 30-Year Low to Boost Growth
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-01-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/south-africa-may-keep-lending-rate-at-30-year-low-to-spur-growth.html
South Africa  will probably keep its
benchmark lending rate at a 30-year low today to support the
recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy as inflation accelerated
less than forecast.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Gill Marcus ,
will leave the repurchase rate at 5.5 percent for a seventh
consecutive meeting, according to all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Marcus will announce the decision at a televised
press conference at 3 p.m. local time in the capital,  Pretoria .  The benchmark rate “is still pretty expansionary,” Sian Fenner, an economist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London , said
in a telephone interview. “There are cost pressures there, but
they are keeping an eye on what is happening with the economy.”  The  Reserve Bank  kept its key rate unchanged in 2011 as
concerns that a worsening European debt crisis will derail the
global recovery outweighed price risks. The  inflation rate  was
unchanged at 6.1 percent in December, exceeding the central
bank’s target range of 3 percent to 6 percent for a second
month, according to data published by the statistics office
yesterday.  Investors pared bets the bank will increase interest rates
after consumer prices rose less than the 6.3 percent median
estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The yield on
the forward-rate agreement contract due in 12 months dropped 7
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.91 percent
yesterday.  While the economy has rebounded from recession in 2009,
annual growth of about 3 percent lags the average 5 percent
expansion in the five years before the global slowdown.  Weaker Rand  At the last MPC meeting on Nov. 10, Marcus said the rand’s
volatility “imparts an upside risk to the inflation outlook,”
limiting the steps the central bank can take to cushion the
economy against the European debt crisis. The rand weakened 18
percent against the dollar last year, the worst performing of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Pressure to ease  interest rates  has abated as  consumer
spending  climbed.  Borrowing (SACEIYOY)  by households and businesses rose
6.2 percent in November from the same month last year, the
fastest pace since April 2009, the central bank said on Dec. 30.
 Retail sales  rose 6.8 percent in November from a year ago, after
expanding 7.5 percent in the previous month, the statistics
office said yesterday.  “Christmas trading was above expectation across all
divisions with sales growth for December of 17.3 percent,”
 Foschini Group Ltd. (FOS) , a Cape Town-based clothing retailer, said
yesterday.  Slower Growth  Europe’s debt crisis, which began in 2009 in  Greece  and has
spread to Italy and  Spain , threatens to further erode growth in
the region.  Europe  buys about a third of South Africa’s
manufactured goods.  South Africa’s government estimates the economy grew 3.1
percent last year, less than half the 7 percent expansion needed
to meet its goal of reducing the  unemployment rate  to 14 percent
by 2020. The jobless rate was 25 percent in the third quarter,
the highest of 61 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank “will not be in a hurry to remove
monetary stimulus to the economy given that inflation is
expected to sustainably re-enter the target range from
late-2012,” Elna Moolman, an economist at Renaissance Capital
in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  