-- South Africa PMI Drops Below 50 as Manufacturing Output Falters
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-01-18T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/south-africa-pmi-drops-below-50-as-manufacturing-output-falters.html
South Africa ’s  purchasing managers ’
 index  dropped below 50 in December, indicating a contraction in
factory output for the first time in four months, Kagiso Tiso
Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index fell to 49.4 from 51.6 in
November, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median estimate of six economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for the index to remain unchanged.  The index “may suggest that purchasing managers are not
confident of a quick or robust return in the demand for factory
goods,” Abdul Davids, head of research at Kagiso Asset
Management in  Cape Town , said in an e-mailed statement today.  Manufacturing (SFPMNSAY) , which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
has come under strain as the debt crisis in  Europe  drove down
demand for exports from  Africa ’s largest economy.  Gross domestic
product  increased an annualized 1.4 percent in the third
quarter, little changed from the slowest pace in almost two
years in the previous three months.  The index measuring new sales orders declined 2.9 points to
48.3 last month and the business activity sub-index fell to 49.7
from 52.3, Kagiso said.  While the expected business conditions index rose 6.3
points to 61.3 in December, which was “encouraging and suggests
better times ahead, that isn’t backed up by the PMI leading
indicator, which remained below 1, Kagiso said.  The South African Reserve Bank will probably keep its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5
percent tomorrow, according to all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  