-- Spain to Propose Sainz De Vicuna to Keep ECB Seat
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-18T15:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/spain-to-propose-sainz-de-vicuna-to-keep-seat-on-ecb-board-1-.html
(Corrects to add appropriate headline. For more on the
euro crisis, click on EXT4.)  Spain  sought to retain its seat on
the  European Central Bank ’s Executive Board, setting up a
potential clash with northern countries that want more control
over its policies as the debt crisis persists.  Spain will nominate Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of legal
services at the ECB, to replace Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo in
May, said a Spanish government official who declined to be named
in line with policy. Spain has joined Germany, France and Italy
in staking claims to permanent seats on the six-member board.  Smaller northern countries led by the Netherlands are
chafing at that arrangement at a time when they are footing the
bill for the euro rescue fund and Spain is battling to avoid
becoming the next casualty of the crisis. The ECB now has an
Italian president and Portuguese vice president, a potential
source of resentment for the richer north.  The ECB seat will be the fifth to change hands in less than
a year, enabling Italy’s  Mario Draghi  -- at the helm since
November -- to put his stamp on an institution struggling to
reconcile its mandate to fight inflation with the imperatives of
battling the sovereign debt crisis.  While a coalition of six smaller countries would be enough
to block a Spanish candidate, they would have to gain support
from Germany, France and Italy to push through their own
nominee.  Nominations Due  Nominations are due tomorrow evening, in time for a first
discussion at the Jan. 23 meeting of euro-area finance ministers
in Brussels. Spain believes it has enough allies to win the post
for Sainz de Vicuna, the Spanish official said.  National egotisms have dominated ECB appointments ever
since  France  in 1998 forced the bank’s first leader,  Wim
Duisenberg  of the Netherlands, to agree to step down midway
through his term to make way for a Frenchman,  Jean-Claude
Trichet .  Trichet ran the ECB for a full eight-year term. His
retirement last year had echoes of the 1998 imbroglio, this time
with Italy’s Lorenzo Bini Smaghi coming under French pressure to
cede his ECB post to a Frenchman after a fellow Italian, Draghi,
was named president.  Bini Smaghi initially clung to his job, reminding
politicians that he was appointed for eight years to a bank
independent of governments’ control. He eventually relented,
making way for France’s Benoit Coeure at the start of 2012.  The leader who engineered that switch, French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , said this week that he would back a Spanish
candidate.  “France supports with all its strength the participation
of a representative from Spain in the ECB’s executive bodies,”
Sarkozy said at a press conference with Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  in  Madrid  on Jan. 16 after both countries had
their credit ratings cut by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  