-- Spain to Test Market Appetite for Longer Debt
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/spain-to-test-investor-appetite-for-longer-maturity-debt-as-yields-decline.html
Spain  is selling debt in a test of
investor sentiment that has seen demand rise and borrowing costs
fall so far this year.  The Spanish Treasury plans to sell as much as 4.5 billion
euros ($5.8 billion) of notes and bonds maturing in 2016, 2019
and 2022 today after exceeding its maximum targets in bond
auctions since Dec. 13. The euro region’s fourth-largest economy
halved its borrowing costs at a bill auction two days ago when
compared with the previous sale of similar-maturity debt.  Strong demand in Spain’s last auctions may have been due to
the  European Central Bank  having pumped 489 billion euros of
three-year money into the financial system on Dec. 21, said
 Riccardo Barbieri , London-based chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc. The nation will have raised 16 percent
of its gross funding needs for the year if its meets its maximum
target today, compared with 9 percent at the same time in 2011,
according to Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  “Spain is in safer waters, courtesy of ECB,” Barbieri
wrote in a research note last week. “The Tesoro must have
decided that it made sense to front-load issuance for 2012 given
that the largest domestic banks had room to expand their balance
sheets.”  ECB Support  Spanish 10-year yields were at 5.15 percent yesterday, down
from a 14-year high of 6.78 percent on Nov. 17. Two-year yields
were at 3.04 percent after reaching a 14-month low of 2.80
percent on Jan. 13.  The ECB’s three-year loans may not alone be enough to
support demand for today’s auction of seven and 10-year
securities, according to   Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in London.  “A successful outcome is not assured,” he said in an e-
mailed report the day before yesterday.  The central bank stepped in to support the Spanish  bond
market  on Jan. 16, according to three people with knowledge of
the transactions who declined to be identified because the deals
were confidential. The ECB and domestic Italian and Spanish
investors may need to buy as much as 121 billion euros of debt
this year as international investors don’t roll over their
holdings and shun new supply, Barclays Plc yesterday said.  “Thursday’s auction of longer-dated paper will provide a
more accurate gauge of underlying sentiment towards Spain,”.
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said by e-mail. “Like in  Italy , the real test for the
Spanish treasury is at the longer end of the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  