-- Spain Loans, Deposits Fall at Record Pace Ahead of Cleanup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-18T12:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/spanish-bad-loans-jump-deposits-fall-as-rajoy-prepares-cleanup.html
Loans and deposits at Spanish
lenders fell at their fastest pace on record in November and
defaults jumped as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  prepared
measures forcing banks to recognize more real-estate losses.  Lending fell by 2.94 percent from a year ago and deposits
slid 2.99 percent, the biggest drop since the regulator’s
records started half a century ago, the Bank of Spain said on
its website today. Bad loans as a proportion of total lending
climbed to 7.51 percent in November, the highest level since
1994, from 7.42 percent in October and 5.69 percent a year
earlier, the regulator said.  Rising defaults together with  declining loans  and deposits
show that banks are being hit by Spain’s property slump and a
wider European debt crisis that’s made it harder for them to
line up financing. Rajoy reiterated in a Jan. 14 speech that
he’s preparing new rules to make banks recognize more losses on
real estate loans made before  Spain ’s property crash and forcing
weaker lenders into mergers.  “The trend in credit is going to look worse,” said Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at Intermoney Valores SA, in a
phone interview. He estimates Spain’s economy will contract by
as much as 1 percent this year after growing by 0.7 percent in
2011, he said.  Spanish banks are scaling back lending as they adjust to
weakening demand in an economy burdened by spending cuts and tax
increases. Rajoy is attempting to tackle a deficit that
government said reached 8 percent of gross domestic product last
year, higher than the previous administration’s 6 percent
target.  Rajoy said yesterday his cabinet would approve new rules
for an overhaul of banks by mid-February.  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , a Spanish retail unit of  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , said Jan. 12 its loan book shrank by 8.6 percent
in 2011 and deposits contracted by 15 percent. The bank also
took a 280 million-euro ($359 million) charge for souring real
estate loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  