-- U.S. States Streamline Medicaid as Federal Law Forces Changes, Report Says
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-18T20:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/states-streamline-medicaid-using-u-s-funds-to-cut-costs.html
A stipulation in the 2010 health-
care law that bans U.S. states from dropping Medicaid patients
has forced them to be more efficient in managing the program to
save money, according to a report today.  While Medicaid, the joint U.S.-state health plan for low-
income people, is among the biggest expenses for states in a
flagging economy, the law prevents them from dropping members or
tightening eligibility. A  Kaiser Family Foundation  survey found
that 29 states have streamlined their programs, with most using
U.S. incentives to add new technology.  States and the federal government were projected to spend
about $442 billion combined on Medicaid in 2011, with about 61
percent covered by the U.S. Twenty-six states challenging the
constitutionality of the 2010 law at the U.S. Supreme Court
contend the overhaul will saddle them with higher spending when
it broadens Medicaid eligibility in 2014.  “It is likely that in the absence of the requirement,”
keeping states from dropping Medicaid members, “more states
would have limited eligibility for tightened enrollment
procedures given ongoing budget pressures,” the report found.  Instead, enrollment in Medicaid and the children’s health
program, called  CHIP , grew or held steady in 48 of 50 states,
according to the report. About half of states now provide
Medicaid to uninsured children whose family income is as much as
250 percent over the poverty line, the report showed.  Parents Denied  At the same time, 33 states limit the eligibility of
parents of children in the CHIP program to those whose incomes
fall below the poverty level, and 43 continue to deny Medicaid
benefits to low-income adults who don’t have children,
regardless of their income, the researchers said.  States are facing “an extraordinary amount of pressure”
because of budget constraints, Cindy Mann, director of Medicaid
at the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said
today at a briefing on the Kaiser report. “It does cause
issues, but it also stimulates creativity.”  Twenty-nine states improved their management of Medicaid
cases in one way or another, the report found. Some created
online applications and improved verification systems to
streamline access to the health programs, or used electronic
databases rather than paperwork submissions from families to
verify incomes.  Georgia  and  South Carolina  used information from their
nutrition assistance programs to speed eligibility.  “Medicaid and CHIP remain key sources of coverage for low-
and moderate-income children,” the report said. “Coverage for
parents, while remaining constant in 2011, continues to lag far
behind that of their children.”  Premiums, Copayments  While the law allows states to control program costs by
increasing premiums and copayments for Medicaid and CHIP
beneficiaries, most states didn’t, according to the report.  In  Florida (STOFL1) , Republican Governor  Rick Scott  credited state
agencies, not the federal law, with making health-care delivery
more efficient.  Taxpayers “think we have to do what the private sector’s
done,” Scott told reporters today in Tallahassee, the state
capital. “We’ve got to figure out how to reduce the cost of
things.”  Scott, a former chief executive of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the
largest U.S. hospital operator, created the nonprofit group
Conservatives for Patients Rights in 2009 to campaign against
the U.S. health-care law. He was elected governor the following
year, after  Florida  challenged the law in court, saying it was
unconstitutional and a burden on states.  Arizona, Nevada Exemptions  Arizona and Nevada reduced eligibility for low-income
adults under exemptions in the 2010 law, according to the
report. Policies Arizona implemented in the last two years,
including freezing enrollment for single childless adults, have
saved the state about $500 million a year, said Matthew Benson,
a spokesman for Republican Governor Jan Brewer.  “The governor recognizes the impact these decisions have
on real people but also believes that the state has been
successful in preserving its underlying Medicaid program for
more than 1 million Arizonans who depend upon it,” Benson said.  Nevada ’s program reductions affected about 200 recipients
of a total Medicaid population of more than 300,000, said
Charles Duarte, administrator of the state  Division of Health
Care Financing and Policy .  Duarte couldn’t provide dollar savings. The cuts mostly
affected services for pregnant women who can seek care in state
and federally subsidized health centers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  