-- Stryker Biotech Pleads Guilty to Misbranding Charge, Pays $15 Million Fine
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-01-18T17:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/stryker-biotech-pleads-guilty-to-misbranding-charge-pays-15-million-fine.html
A  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  unit agreed to plead
guilty and pay a $15 million fine while the medical-device maker
was on trial on charges it marketed an unapproved mixture of
products for strengthening human bone growth.  The unit, Stryker Biotech, and three Stryker sales
representatives were on trial in federal court in Boston on a
13-count criminal indictment claiming conspiracy and  wire fraud .
The trial began Jan. 9 with jury selection.  Stryker Biotech agreed to plead to one misdemeanor count of
misbranding a medical device, according to a letter dated
yesterday from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston and filed
with the federal court.  Prosecutors agreed to drop the case against Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based Stryker Biotech and won’t call Stryker Corp.
President Stephen P. MacMillan to testify “in connection with
current or future trial proceedings” in the case before Judge
George O’Toole.  The government yesterday dropped charges against former
regional sales manager David Ard of  California , according to a
motion filed by prosecutors. Attorneys for former national sales
representative William Heppner of  Illinois  and ex-regional
manager Jeffrey Whitaker of  North Carolina  have asked the judge
to declare a mistrial. Mark Philip, former chief executive
officer of Stryker Biotech from 2004 to 2008, is scheduled to go
to trial later this year.  Sold to Surgeons  In a letter filed yesterday in court, the U.S. said Stryker
Biotech made $12.5 million by misbranding and selling the bone
growth mixture to surgeons over a two-year period.  The company could have faced a maximum fine of $25 million,
 Massachusetts  U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz said in the letter.  The U.S. had charged Stryker Biotech with misbranding and
its sales force with conspiring to defraud surgeons into
combining the company’s OP-1 and OP-1 Putty with the bone filler
Calstrux. Some patients suffered adverse side effects and
required more surgery, the U.S. said.  “That mixture was never studied clinically,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Susan Winkler told the jury in her opening
statement on Jan. 12. “They did not know if it worked. They did
not know if it was safe, and they marketed it to doctors
anyway.”  Narrow Exemption  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  allowed the company
to supply its products under a narrow, provisional humanitarian
exemption. The company had no FDA approval for mixing in
Calstrux, which was later pulled from the market, the U.S. says.
Stryker Biotech tracked 63 adverse events in more than 10,000
procedures involving the bone mixture, according to a defense
attorney.  Ard’s attorney, Brent Gurney, said during the trial that
Stryker Biotech’s products were safe. He displayed a chart
showing that less than 1 percent of patients suffered any
adverse events, of more than 10,000 surgeries involving the bone
mix.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in  Boston  at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 