-- Suez, Veolia, Saur Probed by EU on Water-Services Collusion
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-18T21:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/suez-veolia-saur-under-investigation-by-eu-antitrust-regulator.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water utility,  Suez Environnement SA (SEV)  and Saur SA face a
formal probe by European Union antitrust regulators into
possible collusion to fix the price of water and waste-water
services in  France .  The European Commission will examine whether the French
utilities and their trade group the Federation Professionnelle
des Entreprises de l’Eau, or FP2E, “coordinated their
behavior” on “elements of the price invoiced to final
consumers,” usually French local government authorities, it
said in a statement.  Regulators raided the three companies in 2010 over concerns
that they colluded in public tenders for water distribution and
treatment. The companies have a combined market-share of 69
percent for water distribution and 55 percent for water
treatment, according to a study published by FP2E, on its
 website . Both markets are worth about 12 billion euros ($15.3
billion) a year.  Veolia shares fell 5.5 percent to 8.139 euros in Paris
trading and Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s second-largest water
company, declined 2.6 percent to 9.142 euros after sliding as
much as 4.5 percent.  Suez Environnement and its unit Lyonnaise des Eaux “will
continue to fully cooperate with the European Commission
competition services in charge of this investigation and
reiterate their commitment to respecting the rules of
competition in the markets where they operate,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Very Vigilant’  FP2E said it “has always been very vigilant in respecting
the rules of competition,” according to an e-mailed statement.
The trade association “will fully cooperate to help the
regulatory authorities to reach an objective view of the
specifics of the French market.”  Veolia takes note of the formal commencement of the inquiry
and will cooperate fully with the Commission, it said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Saur didn’t return a call for comment.  The EU’s fight against “defensive cartels and collusive
practices” is “one of our priorities in this time of crisis,”
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in a  speech 
yesterday.  Suez Environnement was last year fined 8 million euros by
the EU for breaking a seal regulators attached to an office door
during the 2010 raid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 