-- Sugar Traders Wager That Biggest Glut in Five Years Is Ending: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-01-19T17:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/sugar-traders-wager-that-biggest-glut-in-five-years-is-ending-commodities.html
Traders are betting that the biggest
sugar glut since 2007 will shrink in the next harvest, reversing
expectations from six months ago and ending the largest decline
in prices in a decade.  Raw sugar for March 2013 is trading at a  premium  of 3.3
percent to the July 2012 contract on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , compared with a 6.6 percent discount six months ago. The
switch is reflecting a change in outlook even before forecasts
for the next season from the International Sugar Organization or
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . Prices may rise as much as 10
percent to 27 cents a pound by Dec. 31, according to the median
of 21 analyst and trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures fell 27 percent last year, the most since 2001, as
a glut emerged after three consecutive annual shortages. Traders
are now focused on the prospect for crops in India and Brazil,
which account for 38 percent of output. The predicted rally may
curb a drop in global food prices tracked by the  United Nations 
that drove  costs  to a 14-month low in December.  “Sugar is moving from an expected surplus to concern about
supply,” said Bruno Lima, a Campinas, Brazil-based senior risk
management consultant at INTL FCStone, a trader and adviser to
commodity producers and consumers. “There’s a lot of sugar now
and this is reflected in the lower price for July, while March
2013 futures are higher because Brazilian producers are
concerned about the crop and there’s speculation output could
shrink in other countries like India.”  World Index  The sweetener rose 4.9 percent to 24.44 cents this year
compared with a 3.2 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Agriculture  Index (SPGSAG)  of eight commodities. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities climbed 4.5 percent as the return on
Treasuries was 0.01 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Hedge funds and other large speculators raised their net-
long  position , or bets on higher prices, by 15 percent to 50,403
futures and options since wagers reached a four-year low at the
end of last month, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show.  The harvest in  India , the second-biggest producer after
Brazil, may drop as much as 4 million metric tons in the 12
months ending in September 2013, from 25 million to 26 million
tons this season, if millers are unable to pay farmers for cane,
said London-based ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., which trades sugar
across 40 countries. The decline is more than the European Union
imports in a year, USDA data show.  Three-Decade High  Decreasing output may require the country to be an importer
of sugar, said  Kona Haque , a commodities analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in  London . Futures exceeded 30 cents in 2010, a
three-decade high at the time, after shortages drove India to
tap overseas markets. The nation was last a net importer in
2009-2010, according to the USDA.  The next cane harvest in the center-south of  Brazil , the
main growing region, will probably reach 480 million tons to 520
million tons, according to Datagro Ltd., a Sao Paulo-based
research company. Production this season fell 11 percent to
492.23 million tons by Jan. 1, the first drop in a decade,
according to data from industry association Unica.  While global supply will exceed demand by 6 million tons in
the 12 months ending in September, combined shortages in the
past three seasons reached about 20 million tons, said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank International in London.
Consumption rose every year since 1994, USDA data show.  Australian Crop  Less production from India and Brazil may be met by bigger
crops elsewhere.  Australia , the third-biggest  exporter , may
increase sugar output by 15 percent to 4.5 million tons in the
harvest from June as cane acreage expands 5 percent, according
to Sydney-based  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Brazil’s crops could escape damage from La Nina, a
phenomenon that causes heavier rainfall in  Asia  and drier
weather in  South America . La Nina may have peaked, bringing a
return to normal rainfall,  Bryce Anderson , an agricultural
meteorologist with DTN Telvent in Omaha,  Nebraska , said Jan. 11.
An undamaged crop may mean another surplus of as much as 6
million tons, said  Paul Deane , an agricultural economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne .  Hedge funds  are less bullish than they have been for most
of the past four years, when the average net-long position was
more than twice as big as it is now.  India’s stockpiles should be large enough to prevent
imports, said Jayantilal B. Patel, the president of the New
Delhi-based National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories
Ltd. Reserves may reach 5 million tons at the end of this
season, said Kishor Shah, the chief financial officer of
Kolkata-based  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) , the nation’s second-
largest producer.  Uttar Pradesh  Cane prices set by Uttar Pradesh, the biggest cane-growing
state, rose as much as 19 percent in the past year while the
cost of refined sugar in Mumbai was little changed and global
rates slumped. That’s left the country’s mills struggling to pay
farmers, who in turn may choose to plant other crops next
season, said G.S.C. Rao, president of the New Delhi-based Sugar
Technologists’ Association of India, which advises the industry.  The anticipated rally in prices may raise costs for food
companies.  Nestle SA (NESN) , whose brands include Smarties and Aero,
spends about 1.5 billion Swiss francs ($1.6 billion) a year on
sugar, according to Millicent Molete, a spokeswoman. Shares of
the Vevey, Switzerland-based company fell 0.6 percent this year.  Production could stagnate in the 27-nation European Union
because of the level of inventories carried over from this
season, said Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at Kingsman SA, a
Lausanne, Switzerland-based broker and researcher. The region
consumes about 11 percent of the world’s sugar.  Dry Weather  Cane production in  Thailand , the second-largest shipper,
may decline from a record in the year starting in November
because of dry weather, said Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, the
secretary-general of the Office of the Cane & Sugar Board in
Bangkok. He declined to provide a forecast.  China , the second-biggest consumer after India, will import
the sweetener to replenish stockpiles that were diminished by
state sales intended to curb inflation, the National Development
and Reform Commission, the nation’s top economic planning
agency, said in November. Purchases rose 48 percent to 2.4
million tons in the first 11 months of 2011,  customs  data show.  “There is growing speculation that over the next few
months we will see the buildup of cane-payment arrears, which
could be the precursor of a fall in next year’s Indian crop,”
said Farideh Bromfield, the London-based head of commodities
research at ED&F Man. “Brazil can’t be overlooked as the poor
rate of investment there doesn’t bode well for continued growth
in sugar production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  