-- Sumitomo Mitsui Follows on RBS Aviation Accord with Investment in Moelis
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-18T15:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/sumitomo-mitsui-to-invest-93m-in-moelis.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
said it will invest in U.S. investment bank Moelis & Co. a day
after the Japanese lender disclosed its $7.3 billion purchase of
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aviation division.  Sumitomo Mitsui  Banking Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s second-
biggest lender by market value, will invest $93 million in
Moelis, the New York-based firm founded by former UBS AG
executive Kenneth Moelis, with completion of the transaction
slated for mid-February, the companies said in a statement
today. The stake represents about 5 percent of Moelis, Kiyoo Kuniyoshi, a spokesman for Sumitomo Mitsui’s brokerage unit,
said by phone.  The deal is part of Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui’s efforts
to expand its advisory business as Japanese companies increase
acquisitions abroad to take advantage of a rising yen and
counter slowing economic growth at home. Japan’s three so-called
megabanks led by  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  will step
up purchases this year of assets from European banks that are
building capital to weather the sovereign debt crisis, said
Yoshinobu Yamada, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst.  “Japanese megabanks could acquire more overseas assets in
the months ahead, given that they have more than enough stamina
to do so,” Yamada said today after the announcement. “The
stronger yen is a tailwind for Japan Inc. to push ahead with
acquisitions abroad. I expect megabanks to seal several more
multibillion-dollar deals this year.”  Shares Rise  Sumitomo Mitsui  shares  rose 0.6 percent at the trading
break in Tokyo. They have slid 27 percent over the past year,
compared with a 28 percent drop at Mitsubishi UFJ and a 36
percent decline at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-
biggest bank by market value.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s brokerage unit, SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., started merger advisory operations in  Shanghai  in January
last year to win business from Japanese companies moving to
faster-growing overseas markets. The bank ranked 27th globally
among merger advisers last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Moelis was 19th.  Koichi Miyata, president of Sumitomo Mitsui, said last
month that midsized as well as large Japanese enterprises have
been accelerating acquisitions overseas, and the yen’s gains
helped boost the momentum of buyouts. Japan’s currency has
advanced more than 7 percent against the dollar in the past
year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Japanese acquisitions abroad climbed to about $88 billion
last year, the most in any of the 12 years for which data
compiled by Bloomberg are available, and more than double the
amount in 2010. Cross-border deals last year include Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s 9.6 billion-euro ($12.2 billion)
acquisition of Swiss drugmaker Nycomed.  ‘Penetrate Japan’  “It’s an opportunity for us to penetrate Japan in a way
that we could never do,” Moelis, 53, said of the deal with
Sumitomo Mitsui during a conference call with journalists.
“It’s an opportunity for their clients in Japan to access the
world through a bank that they trust and a relationship that
they trust if they’re going to do M&A.”  If a $93 million investment is worth about 5 percent of the
company, that values the firm at approximately $1.86 billion,
larger than rivals New York-based  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , which
has a market capitalization of $1.12 billion, and  Greenhill &
Co. , with a market cap of $1.16 billion. Moelis declined to
comment yesterday on the value of his firm.  While Moelis said the agreement doesn’t address financing
deals, he said his firm is “enthusiastic to be closely aligned
with one of the best-capitalized financial institutions in the
world.”  Sumitomo Mitsui has been making acquisitions of its own.
Its purchase of RBS’s aviation unit, which is subject to
regulatory approval, will be the world’s biggest takeover of a
leasing business. The bank and partner Sumitomo Corp. will gain
control of a fleet of 206 aircraft, with commitments to buy
another 87 by 2015, RBS said.  Shopping in  Europe   The Japanese bank plans to buy “several hundred billion
yen” of assets being sold by European lenders, Miyata said in a
December interview. It agreed to buy Bank of Ireland Plc’s
project-finance loans last November for about 470 million euros
to back infrastructure development in  North America  and Europe.  Moelis, who opened his firm in 2007 after resigning as
president of UBS’s investment bank, said in November that he
planned to hire executives from Wall Street firms grappling with
investor concern that the European debt crisis will deepen. He
now employs more than 580 people in 11 offices worldwide,
according to the firm’s website.  The company is looking to hire bankers in  Asia  and
exploring whether to begin operations in France and  Germany ,
Mark Aedy, a member of Moelis’s management committee, said last
year. The U.S. firm said last January that it was buying Hong
Kong-based financial advisory business Asia Pacific Advisers to
expand in that region.  In November, Moelis hired Credit Suisse Group AG’s John Thorndike, an investment banker with almost four decades of
experience who has advised clients including Exelon Corp. The
company also hired Liam Beere, former global head of M&A at UBS
in  London , as a managing director for its team in Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa .  Moelis said his firm isn’t considering an initial public
offering.  “We like being private,” he said. “It gives us a lot of
opportunities to plan for the long term, to run the company on a
long-term basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 