-- Obama Said to Consider Nominating Summers as World Bank Chief
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/summers-under-consideration-to-lead-world-bank-when-zoellick-s-term-ends.html
President  Barack Obama  may put his
mark on the World Bank by nominating  Lawrence Summers , his
former National Economic Council director, to lead the bank when
Robert Zoellick’s term expires later this year, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  While a Summers nomination may draw criticism from some
Democrats who disagree with his past stances on deregulating the
financial industry, he has support inside the administration
from top officials, including Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and current NEC Director  Gene Sperling , said one of the
people.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is also being
considered, along with other candidates, said the other person.
Both spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal White
House deliberations.  Lael Brainard, the Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, is compiling a list of potential
candidates to replace Zoellick, who was nominated to a five-year
term that began in July 2007 by then-President  George W. Bush .
By tradition, the U.S. president chooses the leader of the World
Bank while the head of the  International Monetary Fund  is
selected by European leaders. The nomination is subject to
approval by the World Bank’s executive board.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  declined to comment.
Summers’ assistant, Julie Shample, said he was unavailable.
Philippe Reines, a spokesman for Clinton, also declined to
comment.  Scrutiny of Record  A nomination of Summers, who has expressed his interest in
the job to White House officials, would bring scrutiny of his
previous stints in government, both as former President  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury secretary and Obama’s NEC director, as well
as his tenure as president of  Harvard University .  “Larry is controversial,” said  Erskine Bowles , who served
as Clinton’s chief of staff. “Anything you appoint Larry to,
you know there are going to be some people who are going to take
shots at him. But you know he’s a brilliant economist, which I
think everybody recognizes.”  Bowles said he had no information on the White House
deliberations.  “He performed well in some difficult markets,” Bowles
said. “I think it’s been a passion of his for a long, long time
and I am confident that he will do a good job.”  Summers also may face criticizm for some of his previous
work at the bank, as well as the commercial relationships he has
forged since leaving the White House in December 2010.  In 1991, at the  World Bank , he signed off on a memo that
argued that less-developed countries might benefit from
accepting pollution from wealthy countries.  Return to Harvard  After leaving the Obama administration, Summers, 57,
returned to Harvard, where he’s now a professor at the John F.
Kennedy School of Government.  Summers earned his doctorate in economics at Harvard in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and at 28 was granted tenure, the
youngest age anyone had gained that status at the time. He spent
time on the staff of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers in the 1980s before joining the World Bank as chief
economist.  He was Clinton’s Treasury secretary from 1999 to 2001,
after which he became Harvard president. Summers quit that post
in 2006 after a series of battles with the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences, which teaches most of the undergraduate courses, and
following a controversy over comments he made at a conference,
in which he suggested women lacked an aptitude for science.  ‘Supported Deregulation’  During the Clinton era, Summers argued for the deregulation
of the financial industry and clashed with Brooksley Born, then
head of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, over the
regulation of the over-the-counter  derivatives market . Those
positions, along with his speaking engagements at banks and work
at a hedge fund, have made him unpopular with some Democrats.  In the 16 months before joining Obama’s White House, the
hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co. paid Summers more than $5 million,
according to a 2009 financial-disclosure form.  “Summers is certainly a very smart economist,” said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy
Research in Washington. “However, his track record in dealing
with the  U.S. economy  has not been very good.”  Baker cited Summers’ support for deregulating the financial
industry and said he “ignored the stock bubble in the ‘90s and
the housing bubble in the last decade.’’  ‘‘And, he seems to have badly underestimated the severity
of the downturn,’’ Baker said.  ‘Global’ Experience  Summers’ ascension to the World Bank presidency would be
cheered by  Wall Street , said Ralph Schlosstein, chief executive
officer at Evercore Partners Inc.  ‘‘He has a very strong set of global experiences, which are
fundamental to being a great head of the World Bank,’’
Schlosstein said. ‘‘I think he has an open-mindedness and
creativity that will probably be a tremendous asset in the
challenging world we face over the next decade.’’  Summers will also have his detractors, Schlosstein said, in
part because of his interpersonal skills. ‘‘He doesn’t suffer
fools graciously,’’ he said.  Under a longstanding unwritten agreement, the IMF has
always been led by a European while the World Bank has been
headed by an American. The U.S. in June backed then-French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  to take the head of the IMF.
Emerging market leaders such as Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega have questioned the division of leadership posts at the
two institutions, saying the choice should be made on the basis
of merit, not nationality.  Aid Channel  The World Bank, which was established to rebuild  Europe 
after World War II, made loans worth about $57 billion in the
year ended June 30. It offers financial and technical assistance
to countries.  Pakistan , for example, will receive up to $5.5
billion in grants and loans through mid 2015. The institution
also has a private sector arm.  Under Zoellick, shareholders approved a capital increase
providing the institution with $5.1 billion in cash to meet
demand from countries hit by the global recession that followed
the 2008 financial crisis.  The next World Bank president may yet face another increase
in loan demand. Yesterday, the bank cut its global growth
forecast by the most in three years and told developing
countries to ‘‘prepare for the worst,’’ saying that Europe’s
debt crisis still has the potential to trigger another global
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  