-- Super-PACs Dominate Airwaves With Flood of Negative Commercials
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/super-pacs-dominate-airwaves-with-flood-of-negative-commercials.html
South Carolina  airwaves are being
saturated by mostly negative televisions advertisements coming
more from outside political groups than the candidates seeking
votes in the Jan. 21 presidential primary.  Independent political committees supporting Republican
candidates accounted for $3.1 million, or 60 percent of the more
than $5.1 million spent on South Carolina broadcast  TV
advertising  through Jan. 16, according to data from  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks political advertising.
About 80 percent of the ads from the political committees are
negative in tone.  The findings show how the groups, known as super-PACs which
can raise unlimited sums from corporations, unions and wealthy
individuals, can influence the political debate more than the
candidates they support, sometimes to the consternation of the
White House hopefuls. Super-PACs can compete with their
preferred campaign for prime air time, crowding out candidate
communications and driving up the cost of ads.  “It highlights the frustration some candidates are feeling
about getting their messages out,”  Anthony Corrado , a political
scientist at Colby College in Waterville,  Maine , said in an
interview from South Carolina. “Their ads are being swamped by
the competing super-PACs.”  Super-PAC Spending  South Carolina is the first state in this year’s Republican
presidential race where super-PAC spending is exceeding
candidate spending on broadcast television, CMAG data show.  Super-PACs and candidate committees already have spent more
on television in South Carolina than during the entire campaign
in  New Hampshire , where candidates outspent super-PACs by $1.6
million to $1.4 million before the Jan. 10 primary. In Iowa,
which held the kickoff contest on Jan. 3, candidates spent $4.5
million and super-PACs spent $2.7 million on broadcast TV. The
South Carolina total is still rising because the CMAG data
doesn’t include ads that will run in the final four days of the
race.  Outside spending has intensified in South Carolina because
it’s a pivotal contest in which  Mitt Romney  is looking to
solidify his front-runner’s position as his rivals search for a
consensus alternative to slow his momentum.  Gingrich Casino Donation  Sheldon Adelson , a billionaire  Las Vegas  casino executive,
heightened the importance of the South Carolina race by donating
$5 million to Winning Our Future, a super-PAC supporting former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who has said he will reassess his
candidacy if he fails to win the Palmetto State race.  “That raised the stakes for the other super PACs to
compete,” Corrado said.  Comedian  Stephen Colbert , who has used his Comedy Central
program to highlight the ineffectiveness of campaign finance
laws aimed at reducing the influence of money in politics, poked
fun at the explosion of super-PACs by forming his own. It is
airing  ads  in South Carolina to help him explore running for
“president of the United States of South Carolina.”  To prove he doesn’t control the super-PAC, Colbert handed
control of it over to  Jon Stewart , another Comedy Central star,
in a mocking televised segment of his show. Stewart’s team put
up an ad that prominently features a picture of Colbert while a
narrator urges a vote for  Herman Cain , the Georgia businessman
who withdrew from the race last month after allegations of
sexual harassment against him became public.  Muddled Messages  In the Republican race, super-PACs sometimes have muddled
the messages candidates are trying to convey to voters who can’t
distinguish between the groups and the campaigns.  After Winning Our Future unveiled a web-based, 28-minute
video last week that attacked Romney’s role as a private-equity
executive at Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, Gingrich took fire
from other Republicans and urged the group “to either edit out
every single mistake or to pull the entire film.” The unedited
commercial is still on the super-PAC’s home page.  Another ad by Winning Our Future promotes Gingrich as the
only Republican candidate “who stood up to  Bill Clinton .” In
some public appearances, though, Gingrich has touted a balanced-
budget agreement he negotiated with Clinton as a reason to elect
him.  “From a candidate standpoint, it’s very frustrating
because obviously you’re going to know the super-PAC is trying
to help you, but there might be a subtlety they miss that makes
you crazy,” David Hill, a Texas-based Republican pollster, said
in an interview.  Influence Strategy  Though federal law prohibits coordination between super-
PACs and candidates, their ads are public record so each can see
where the other is airing commercials and stretch their
individual resources.  Super-PACs can influence candidates’ strategy even if they
never talk to one another -- or if they talk to each other
through press conferences and debates as Gingrich did when he
advised his friendly committee to clean up the Romney
documentary. While Winning Our Future hasn’t changed the film
and still posts it on its home page, it hasn’t run it full
length on South Carolina stations.  “The super-PAC can do the dirty work for the campaign,”
Adam Geller, a New Jersey-based Republican pollster, said in an
interview. “They can go ahead and launch the negative
advertising and really allow the campaign, at least in theory,
to get their positive messages out.”  Good Cop, Bad Cop  That’s the playbook followed thus far by Romney and Restore
Our Future, a super-PAC run by his former campaign aides. In
 Iowa , Romney used his campaign cash to run about $940,000 in
positive ads, while Restore Our Future spent $1.2 million on
commercials attacking his competitors.  The spending by the campaigns and their allied super-PACs
has become so intertwined, though, that the candidates are
holding each other accountable and challenging one another in
public forums to call on the groups to remove or correct
negative ads.  “This is a huge character issue,” former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum  said of Romney yesterday as he called on
the former Massachusetts governor to direct his super-PAC to
take down an ad he says is untrue.  Romney “wants to keep the veil of ‘I can’t do anything’ to
perpetuate these lies out there against me and other
candidates,” Santorum told TV interviewer Sean Hannity after
this week’s debate in Myrtle Beach sponsored by  Fox News  and the
Wall Street Journal.  Candidates Urge Accuracy  Romney said during the debate that, while he “can’t call”
his super-PAC and “direct it” to remove or amend ads, “I can
tell them publicly, as I can here, if there’s anything that’s
inaccurate in any ads that support me, I hope they take it off
and don’t run it.”  The Republican front-runner also said he would like to see
all super-PACs eliminated and allow the campaigns to accept
unlimited contributions to manage their own messages free of
outside interference.  “We all would like to have super-PACs disappear, to tell
you the truth,” Romney said. “Wouldn’t it be nice to have
people give what they would like to campaigns, and campaigns
could run their own ads and take responsibility for them?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  