-- Swire Pacific Shares Fall After Property Unit Trades at Discount in Debut
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-01-18T08:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/swire-properties-rises-from-pre-market-trading-in-hong-kong-spin-off-debut.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)  shares fell after
its property unit started trading on the Hong Kong stock
exchange at a deeper discount to underlying assets than rival
developers.  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , landlord to Societe Generale SA and
Time Warner Inc., traded at HK$17.26 at the midday break in Hong
Kong, or 41 percent less than its adjusted book value of
HK$29.20 per share as of June 30. Hong Kong landlords trade at
an average discount of about 34 percent, according to estimates
from Credit Suisse Group AG. Swire Pacific  shares  declined 3.7
percent to HK$76.05.  Swire Properties may post lower profit this year as the
global economic slowdown curbs office rents in Hong Kong, the
biggest contributor to earnings. Office rents in the city may
fall as much as 40 percent over the next two years, according to
a Barclays Capital Research report in October.  “This will be a tough year for all developers in Hong Kong
given how home prices and rents are expected to perform,”
Castor Pang, Hong Kong-based head of research at Core-Pacific
Yamaichi International Ltd.  Swire Properties  built and operates complexes such as Tai
Koo Shing residential district and the Pacific Place commercial
complexes in Hong Kong’s Admiralty district. Its properties in
other parts of  China  include the Sanlitun Village retail complex
in Beijing, the 99-room luxury hotel Opposite House in the
capital’s Chaoyang district and the Beaumonde Retail Podium in
the southern city of  Guangzhou . It also has projects in Chengdu
and  Shanghai .  Slowing Rents  Swire Properties’s adjusted book value was HK$29.20 per
share as of June 30, 2011, according to the company’s listing
document. The shares were listed by way of introduction, meaning
there was no initial public offering to raise funds.  Hong Kong’s prime office rents may slow in 2012 after
climbing 60 percent since July 2009, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.,
the world’s second-biggest publicly traded commercial-property
broker, said in December.  The city’s retail rents are expected to “stay strong” in
2012 as Hong Kong remains a key market for international brands,
Jones Lang LaSalle said. Hong Kong’s prime rents for shopping
malls climbed 12 percent in the first 11 months this year, while
the top rents for street stores rose 19 percent.  In Hong Kong, Swire Properties owns about 10.5 million
square feet of prime  office space  and 2.4 million square feet of
retail space, according to the listing document. For other parts
of China, it has 1.7 million square feet of office and 2.5
million square feet of retail.  Share Offer  Shareholders of Swire Pacific were given seven shares of
Swire Properties for every 10 A-share they hold in Swire Pacific,
according to documents.  Swire Pacific in July sold the Festival Walk mall in Hong
Kong for $2.4 billion, the biggest transaction for the company,
to help fund projects it is developing in China.  It scrapped a planned initial public offering of the
property unit in 2010 because of “deteriorating market
conditions.” The company had sought to raise as much as HK$20.8
billion, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Swire Pacific also controls Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.,
the city’s biggest airline, bottles Coca-Cola in China and
operates offshore vessels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  