-- Swiss Stocks Climb to Highest Level Since July; Nestle Advances
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-18T16:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/swiss-stocks-fall-snapping-two-day-climb-ubs-swiss-life-drop.html
Swiss stocks  rose to their highest
level in six months as the International Monetary Fund said it
plans to increase its lending resources to protect the global
economy from any worsening of the euro area’s debt crisis.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, added 1.2
percent after HSBC Holdings Plc recommended the shares.
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of deepwater oil rigs and swamp
barges, climbed.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  added 1.4 percent as the
wealth manager said it sees opportunities to acquire the Swiss
units of international banks.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 1 percent to 6,116.23 at the
close of trading in Zurich, extending its  rally this year to 3
percent . The index fell 7.8 percent in 2011 as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis spread from Greece to Italy and Spain. The
broader Swiss Performance Index rose 0.9 percent today.  The IMF will propose to expand its lending resources after
identifying a potential need for $1 trillion in financing. The
Washington-based lender will push  China , Brazil, Russia, India,
Japan and oil-exporting nations to contribute the most,
according to an official from a Group of 20 country. The fund
wants to strike the agreement at the Feb. 25-26 meeting of G-20
finance ministers and central bankers in Mexico City.  Global Growth Forecast  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast in its  Global
Economic Prospects  report which it released today in Asia. The
institution said that a recession in the euro area threatened to
exacerbate a slowdown in emerging markets such as India and
Mexico.  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2012, down from
a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based institution
said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent, compared with a
previous estimate for a 1.8 percent gain. The World Bank cut its
projection for U.S. growth to 2.2 percent from 2.9 percent.  “Even achieving these much weaker outturns is very
uncertain,” the report said. “The downturn in Europe and
weaker growth in developing countries raises the risk that the
two developments reinforce one another, resulting in an even
weaker outcome.”  Greek Debt Deal  Greece will agree a deal with private creditors that would
give them cash and securities with a market value of about 32
cents per euro of government debt, according to Bruce Richards,
the chief executive officer for Marathon Asset Management LP.
Richards sits on the committee of 32 private creditors that
formed in November to negotiate with Greece, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Nestle increased 1.2 percent to 53.90 Swiss francs for the
biggest contribution to the SMI’s climb as Cedric Besnard, an
analyst at HSBC, upgraded the stock to “overweight” from
“neutral” after European markets closed yesterday.  Transocean added 2.6 percent to 40.44 francs as crude
traded at its highest price in three days.  Julius Baer  increased 1.4 percent to 36.76 francs after
Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said he sees
opportunities to acquire the local units of international banks,
according to an interview with Finanz und Wirtschaft. The Swiss
financial market faced consolidation, job cuts and salary
reductions, Collardi told the newspaper.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  gained 1.6 percent to 386.10 francs, its
highest price since Oct. 28, and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA
climbed 1.6 percent to 52.55 francs, its highest since July 26.  Swiss watch exports will probably climb to record levels
this year, though growth may slow to a “single-digit” pace,
Jean-Daniel Pasche, the head of the Federation of the Swiss
Watch Industry said.  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , Switzerland’s largest telecommunications
company, gained 1.5 percent to 366.20 francs after Deutsche Bank
AG raised the company’s shares to “buy” from “hold.”  Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN)  jumped 3.9 percent to 14.55
francs after saying it completed a credit agreement for 125
million francs ($132 million) to fund its activities in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  