-- Syrian Army Remains in Besieged Town Amid Talk of Withdrawal
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-18T15:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/syrian-army-remains-in-besieged-town-amid-talk-of-withdrawal.html
Syrian troops remain in the besieged
town of Zabadani where they have clashed with defectors, amid
reports of a truce between the two sides and an agreement to
withdraw, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said.  “It’s illogical for President Bashar al-Assad to say last
week he will strike with an ‘iron fist’ and for the army to give
up in Zabadani,” Rami Abdel Rahman, the head of the U.K.-based
observatory, which has a network of activists in the country,
said by telephone today. “If that’s true, then the regime is
finished. This isn’t true.”  While on the phone, Abdel Rahman called a resident of
Zabadani, who said soldiers were still in the town, near the
border with Lebanon, and gunfire could be heard though shelling
had stopped. Zabadani has been besieged by the army, which
deployed tanks to the area and clashed with defectors yesterday,
Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone today.  The revolt against Assad started in March amid popular
movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya ,
while forcing Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh to agree to
cede power. The  United Nations  estimates that more than 5,000
Syrians have died during the violence, in the greatest challenge
to Assad’s rule since he took over from his father in 2000.  Death Toll Rises  At least two people were killed today by Syrian security
forces in the northern province of Idlib, where clashes continue
between the army and defectors, while two others were killed in
the central city of Homs, the observatory reported.  Al Arabiya 
said 15 people were killed today.  The  Arab League , which imposed sanctions on  Syria  on Nov.
27, will hold a ministerial meeting to discuss the situation in
the country on Jan. 22, the Middle East News Agency said. Russia
and  China  have blocked efforts by the U.S. and the European
Union, which also have applied sanctions, for the  Security
Council  to condemn the crackdown.  A group of 145 Arab organizations, which include members of
the Syrian opposition, and a former Arab League observer, who
was part of the monitoring mission that has been deployed in
Syria, called on the league to withdraw its observers from the
country today. They also called on the league to urge the United
Nations  Security Council  to “take action to address the ongoing
violence,” according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  