-- U.K. Self-Employment Surge Driven by Desperation, CIPD Says (1|
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-18T11:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-k-self-employment-surge-driven-by-desperation-cipd-says-1-.html
An increasing number of Britons are
being forced to work for themselves in a “desperate” attempt
to avoid unemployment, the Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development said in a report.  Self-employment rose by 101,000 to 4.12 million in the
three months through November and accounts for 14.1 percent of
total employment, figures released by the Office for National
Statistics today show. It has grown about 8 percent since the
start of the recession in 2008, while the number of employees
has fallen 3 percent.  The rise in self-employed “is having quite an important
dampening effect on unemployment numbers,” John Philpott,
chief economic adviser at the CIPD, said in an interview. “The
job situation is so tight, people are taking what they can
get.”  Two years after Britain emerged from its worst recession
since World War II, gross domestic product is still almost 4
percent below its peak in early 2008. Concerns are mounting that
the economy may now be contracting again as the euro-region debt
crisis and government austerity measures sap confidence.  The  unemployment rate  based on International Labour
Organization methods rose to 8.4 percent in the three months
through November, the highest since January 1996, from 8.1
percent in the period through August, the ONS said London. The
jobless total climbed by 118,000 to 2.69 million, the most since
1994.  Private Jobs  While self-employment surged, the number of people in
employee jobs fell by 109,000, the figures show. Overall
employment climbed by 18,000 to 29.1 million, suggesting the
private sector created jobs at a faster pace than the government
eliminated them.  The type of people who have become self-employed since 2008
“are unlike self-employed people as a whole in terms of gender,
hours of work, occupation and sector of employment,” London-
based CIPD said in its report. Women account for more than half
of the increase, while almost 90 percent of the newly self-
employed work fewer than 30 hours a week. Agriculture saw the
biggest increase.  “It’s far from clear that the recent rise in self-
employment marks a resurgence in British enterprise culture,
with many of those taking the self-employed route back to work
looking more like an army of part-time ‘odd jobbers’ desperate
to avoid unemployment,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 