-- U.S. Shale Revolution Spreading to Oil From Gas, Mulva Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-01-18T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-shale-revolution-spreading-to-oil-from-gas-mulva-says.html
The U.S. is poised for a revival of
domestic oil production that may mirror a surge in natural-gas
output from shale formations,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Mulva  said.  “The revolution has spread to domestic oil production,”
Mulva said in remarks prepared for a speech at  Rice University 
in Houston today. “And it may track the path it followed with
natural gas. We just don’t know yet. But it looks promising.”  During the last three years, the U.S. has reversed a
decline in its oil resources, which peaked in 1970 then dropped
about 50 percent by 2008, Mulva said. The industry is returning
to older producing areas to find petroleum liquids in shale and
other so-called tight-rock formations, he said.  Energy consultants’ estimates show such fields may produce
3 million barrels of oil a day by 2025, or five times their
current production, Mulva said. Together, the U.S. and  Canada 
may have at least 100 billion barrels of recoverable resources
from tight-oil basins, he said.  A combination of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal
drilling led to the increase in production from shale, Mulva
said. Fracking, as fracturing is known, involves high-pressure
injections of water, sand and chemicals underground to crack
rock so oil and gas can flow.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration  estimates  the
U.S. now has about 2,700 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas,
enough supplies to last more than a century, Mulva said. Now
those same techniques are unlocking new oil supplies in “the
biggest oil-industry breakthrough since the 1940s, when we first
moved offshore into the  Gulf of Mexico .”  Oil-Rich Reservoirs  ConocoPhillips has operations in such oil-rich reservoirs
as the Eagle Ford Shale of  Texas  and the Bakken in  North Dakota 
and Montana, Mulva said. The company continues to add acreage in
other areas, he said.  Government must play “a constructive role” if the  energy
industry  is to reach the full potential of North American
resources, Mulva said. A balance must be struck between energy
needs and protection of the environment and climate, he said.  Mulva cited  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL
pipeline, planned to carry crude from Canada’s  oil sands  to U.S.
Gulf Coast refineries, as an example of a project that has been
delayed by regulation. Canadian oil sands could be used to
replace heavy crude sent to U.S. refineries from nations such as
Venezuela, Mulva said.  The U.S. could use its expanding oil resources to cut its
dependence on overseas imports, he said.  “An energy bonanza lies within our reach -- if we only
take full advantage of the unconventional resources right
beneath our feet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  