-- U.S. Bancorp Chief May Use Cash for Payout Boost, Acquisitions
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-19T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-bancorp-ceo-may-use-cash-for-dividend-boost-acquisitions.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s fifth-
biggest commercial bank by deposits, said it plans to at least
double the percentage of profit it returned to shareholders last
year through dividends and share buybacks.  “Raising the dividend remains a top priority for this
management team,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis  said
yesterday in a conference call after the Minneapolis-based
lender reported fourth-quarter results. The company also has
sufficient capital for acquisitions, he said.  U.S. Bancorp, which asked the  Federal Reserve  for approval
to raise the dividend, returned 31 percent of earnings to
shareholders in 2011 and has a long-term goal of increasing that
ratio to 60 percent to 80 percent, said Davis, 53.  The Fed told the nation’s 31 largest banks to test their
loan portfolios against a deep recession to ensure they have the
capital to withstand losses. The central bank said it would
approve dividend increases and other capital distributions for
lenders that demonstrate strength.  U.S. Bancorp, which has reported a profit every quarter
since at least 1999, wants dividends and share buybacks each to
account for 30 percent to 40 percent of profit, Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Cecere said in a phone interview.  The company’s “very steady history” gives Davis
confidence that the Fed will approve his request for an
“aggressive” dividend increase and share-repurchase program,
he said. Davis also said he may be interested in acquiring non-
bank assets, including corporate trusts and credit portfolios,
and that a larger deal is possible.  ‘Undeniably Good’  “We have the capital” to make acquisitions, Davis said in
the conference call. “I know we have the regulator confidence,
and I believe the Street would accept a deal if we were to look
at something and have a capital raise, but it’s not one of our
goals. It would just have to be something so undeniably good
that you didn’t want to pass.”  U.S. Bancorp climbed 1.1 percent to $29.08 yesterday in  New
York  trading and has gained 6.5 percent in the past year, the
 top performance  in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. lenders.  Fourth-quarter net income attributable to the bank rose to
$1.35 billion from $974 million a year earlier, the company said
yesterday in a statement. Earnings per share, excluding some
items, was 64 cents, one cent higher than the average estimate
of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company reported a $130 million expense related to
mortgage-servicing.  Mortgage Investigations  About a dozen state attorneys general met last week to
discuss their mortgage investigations and how they might work
together as settlement talks with banks over foreclosures drag
on, three people familiar with the matter said at the time. The
meeting occurred as state and federal officials negotiate a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers that would
set requirements for conducting foreclosures and provide relief
to homeowners.  “The banks beyond the big five have been invited into the
conversations” with attorneys general and regulators, Davis
said in the conference call. “We believe we have something that
we need to reserve for.”  PNC Financial Services Group Inc., the sixth-largest U.S.
bank by deposits, set aside $240 million for costs tied to
residential mortgage foreclosures as a result of “ongoing
governmental matters,” the Pittsburgh-based company said
yesterday in a statement. CEO Jim Rohr, 63, declined to
elaborate on the firm’s government relations during a conference
call.  U.S. Bancorp has a capital cushion of about $4 billion,
giving Davis reason to be confident that the Fed will approve
his dividend and share repurchase proposals, said  Marty Mosby , a
Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC.  “They can feel very confident in their capital position
and their ability to get approval for the plan they feel like
they want to put out there,” Mosby said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 