-- U.S. December Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-01-18T14:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-december-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Industrial Production  and Capacity Utilization report for
December:  Industrial production increased 0.4 percent in December
after having fallen 0.3 percent in November. For the fourth
quarter as a whole, industrial production rose at an annual rate
of 3.1 percent, its 10th consecutive quarterly gain. In the
manufacturing sector, output advanced 0.9 percent in December
with similarly sized gains for both durables and nondurables.
The output of utilities fell 2.7 percent, as unseasonably warm
weather reduced the demand for heating; the output of mines
moved up 0.3 percent. At 95.3 percent of its 2007 average, total
industrial production in December was 2.9 percent above its
level of a year earlier. The capacity utilization rate for total
industry rose to 78.1 percent, a rate 2.3 percentage points
below its long-run (1972-2010) average.  Market Groups  The production of  consumer goods  gained 0.2 percent in
December and moved up at an annual rate of 1.1 percent in the
fourth quarter. The output of consumer durable goods rose 0.3
percent in December, with increases in the indexes for
automotive products, home electronics, and miscellaneous
 consumer durables  partially offset by a decline in the index for
appliances, furniture, and carpeting. The output of nondurable
consumer goods rose 0.2 percent, but the index declined at an
annual rate of 0.7 percent for the fourth quarter. In December,
the production of non-energy nondurables advanced 0.7 percent,
with gains in all of its component indexes other than clothing,
while the output of consumer energy products decreased 1.0
percent. The output of business equipment rose 0.8 percent in
December. Increases of more than 1 percent were recorded by the
indexes for information processing equipment and for industrial
and other equipment, but the index for transit equipment
decreased 1.0 percent. In the fourth quarter, the production of
business equipment rose at an annual rate of 10.0 percent, in
part because of a jump of 23.3 percent in the production of
transit equipment. The gain in business equipment this past
quarter was similar to the average pace of increase over the
past two years.  The production of defense and space equipment fell 1.3
percent in December but advanced at an annual rate of 6.1
percent in the fourth quarter.  Among nonindustrial supplies, the production index for
construction supplies increased 1.0 percent in December. The
output of construction supplies rose at an annual rate of 1.2
percent in the fourth quarter, its eighth consecutive quarterly
gain. Nevertheless, the index remained more than 20 percent
below its level preceding the recent recession. The production
of business supplies increased 0.3 percent in December but fell
at an annual rate of 1.9 percent for the quarter as a whole.  The production of materials rose 0.6 percent in December.
The index advanced at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the
fourth quarter after having climbed 6.7 percent in the third
quarter. The production of durable materials jumped 1.6 percent
in December, with gains for all of its major components. The
output of nondurable materials rose 1.0 percent, with large
increases in the output of textiles and chemicals slightly
offset by a decline in the output of paper. The index for energy
materials fell 0.6 percent but moved up at an annual rate of 2.5
percent in the fourth quarter.  Industry Groups  Manufacturing production climbed 0.9 percent in December to
a level 3.7 percent above that of 12 months earlier; gains in
December were widespread among the major industry groups. The
factory operating rate moved up 0.6 percentage point to 75.9
percent, but it was still 3.1 percentage points below its long-
run average of 79.0 percent. For the fourth quarter,
manufacturing production increased at an annual rate of 3.9
percent.  The output of durable goods rose 0.9 percent in December.
The indexes for wood products, primary metals, and machinery
registered gains of more than 2 percent; the only major
industries that recorded substantial decreases were nonmetallic
mineral products, aerospace and miscellaneous transportation
equipment, and furniture. For the fourth quarter, the output of
durables moved up at an annual rate of 6.3 percent, with gains
of nearly 10 percent or more in wood products; primary metals;
electrical equipment, appliances, and components; motor vehicles
and parts; and aerospace and miscellaneous transportation
equipment. The production of nondurable goods advanced 0.8
percent in December. The indexes for textile and product mills,
for petroleum and coal products, for chemicals, and for plastics
and rubber products all gained 1.0 percent or more, while the
indexes both for paper and for apparel and leather fell. The
output of nondurables increased at an annual rate of 1.5 percent
in the fourth quarter. The index for other manufacturing (non-
NAICS), which consists of publishing and logging, jumped 2.3
percent in December after having dropped 1.9 percent in November.  In December, the output of mines moved up 0.3 percent, and
the capacity utilization rate for mining rose to 92.8 percent, a
level 5.4 percentage points above its long-run average. The
output of mines advanced at an annual rate of 10.4 percent in
the fourth quarter, its third consecutive quarter of strong
growth. In December, the output index for natural gas utilities
dropped 8.5 percent and the index for electric utilities
decreased 1.7 percent, as temperatures for the month moved well
above seasonal norms. The operating rate for utilities was 76.8
percent, a level 9.8 percentage points below its long-run
average. In December, capacity utilization rates at industries
grouped by stage of process were as follows: For the crude stage,
the operating rate edged up 0.2 percentage point to 90.4 percent,
a rate that was 4.0 percentage points above its long-run
average; for the primary and semifinished stages, utilization
increased 0.3 percentage point to 74.8 percent, a rate 6.5
percentage points below its long-run average; and for the
finished stage, the operating rate increased 0.3 percentage
point to 76.9 percent, a rate 0.4 percentage point below its
long-run average.  Revision of Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  The Federal Reserve Board plans to issue its annual
revision to the index of industrial production (IP) and the
related measures of capacity utilization on March 30, 2012. The
revised IP indexes will incorporate detailed data from the 2010
Annual Survey of Manufactures, conducted by the U.S. Census
Bureau. Annual data from the  U.S. Geological Survey  regarding
metallic and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels) for 2010 will
also be incorporated. The update will include revisions to the
monthly indicator (either product data or input data) and to
seasonal factors for each industry. In addition, the estimation
methods for some series may be changed. Any modifications to the
methods for estimating the output of an industry will affect the
index from 1972 to the present. Capacity and capacity
utilization will be revised to incorporate data through the
fourth quarter of 2011 from the Census Bureau’s Quarterly Survey
of Plant Capacity, which covers manufacturing, along with new
data on capacity from the U.S. Geological Survey, the  Department
of Energy , and other organizations. Once the revision is
published, it will be available on the Board’s website at
www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17.  Further information on the revision can be obtained from
the Board’s Industrial Output Section (telephone number 202-452-
3197). 