-- U.S. Homebuilder Confidence Highest Since 2007
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-climbs-to-highest-since-2007-on-buyer-traffic.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
rose in January to the highest level in more than four years as
sales and buyer traffic improved.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo
sentiment  gauge  increased to 25 this month, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and reaching
the highest level since June 2007, the Washington-based group
said today. Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents still
said conditions were poor.  Record-low borrowing costs, a growing population and
reduced prices may drive demand for homes this year even as
another round of foreclosures threatens to weigh on the market.
The confidence measure, which increased for a fourth straight
month, improved in all four regions of the U.S.  This is “yet another indication of the gradual but steady
improvement that is beginning to take hold in an increasing
number of housing markets nationwide,” Bob Nielsen, chairman of
the National Association of Home Builders and a builder from
Reno,  Nevada , said in a statement.  The  median forecast  of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the index would climb to 22 from December’s
reading of 21. Estimates ranged from 20 to 25. The gauge, which
was first published in January 1985, averaged 54 in the five
years leading to the 18-month recession in December 2007. It
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009.  Other reports today showed factory production climbed in
December by the most in a year and wholesale prices unexpectedly
dropped.  Manufacturing Accelerates  Manufacturing  output  increased 0.9 percent last month, more
than double the 0.4 percent gain in November, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed. Assembly lines churned out more business
equipment and construction materials, according to the report,
showing the improvement in housing is staring to ripple through
the world’s largest economy.  The  producer price index  fell 0.1 percent in December, the
second decline in the past three months, according to data from
the Labor Department.  The builders group’s index of  current single-family  home
sales increased to 25 this month, also the highest since June
2007, from a reading of 22 in December. The figure shows new
construction of single-family houses may rebound after what may
be the weakest year since records began in 1959. Starts may have
finished 2011 at 423,000 dwellings, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. The  worst year  was 2009, when 445,100 homes were
started. The Commerce Department’s construction report is due
tomorrow.  Improving Expectations  A measure of  sales expectations  for the next six months
increased to 29 in January, the highest since September 2009,
from 26, today’s report showed. The gauge of  buyer traffic  rose
to 21, the highest since June 2007.  Builders in the Northeast led the increase, with that
region’s index rising 9 points to 23 this month. In the West,
the measure climbed 5 points to 21, while smaller gains were
reported for the Midwest and South.  “Builders are seeing greater interest among potential
buyers as employment and consumer confidence slowly improve in a
growing number of markets,” NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe 
said in a statement.  Nonetheless, “caution remains the word of the day as many
builders continue to voice concerns about potential clients
being unable to qualify for an affordable mortgage, appraisals
coming through below construction cost, and the continuing flow
of foreclosed properties hitting the market,” Crowe said.  Survey Breakdown  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  At  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S. builder by revenue,
orders jumped 20 percent in the three months ended Nov. 30.
Demand rose to 3,027 homes for the company’s fourth quarter from
2,520 a year earlier, Lennar said Jan. 11  “As I look ahead to 2012, I’m cautiously optimistic that
we’re seeing a real bottom form and that we will begin to see
signs of recovery,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at
Miami-based Lennar, said on a Jan. 11 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 