-- U.S. December Producer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-01-18T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-december-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. producer price report for Dec. released by the Labor
Department.  PRODUCER PRICE INDEXES - DECEMBER 2011  The Producer Price Index for finished goods declined 0.1
percent in December, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics  reported today. Prices for finished goods
moved up 0.3 percent in November and fell 0.3 percent in
October. At the earlier stages of processing, the index for
intermediate goods decreased 0.5 percent in December, and
crude goods prices moved down 1.1 percent. On an unadjusted
basis, the index for finished goods increased 4.8 percent in
2011 after rising 3.8 percent in 2010.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  The December decline in finished goods prices is attributable
to decreases of 0.8 percent in the indexes for finished energy
goods and finished consumer foods. By contrast, prices for
finished goods less foods and energy increased 0.3 percent.  Finished energy:  The index for finished energy goods fell 0.8
percent in December after inching up 0.1 percent in November.
Leading this decline, gasoline prices dropped 2.3 percent.
Lower prices for residential natural gas and  diesel fuel  also
were factors in the decrease in the finished energy goods
index.  Finished foods:  Prices for finished consumer foods moved down
0.8 percent in December, the first decline since a 1.2-percent
drop in May 2011. Seventy percent of the December decrease can
be traced to the index for fresh and dry vegetables, which
fell 11.1 percent. Lower prices for pork also contributed to
the decline in the finished consumer foods index.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and
energy rose 0.3 percent in December, the largest advance since
a 0.6-percent increase in July 2011. Roughly thirty percent of
the December rise is attributable to prices for light motor
trucks, which moved up 0.9 percent.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials, supplies,
and components fell 0.5 percent in December after rising 0.2
percent in November. Accounting for three-quarters of this
broad-based decline, the index for intermediate materials less
foods and energy decreased 0.5 percent. Prices for
intermediate energy goods and for intermediate foods and feeds
moved down 0.3 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively. In 2011,
prices for intermediate goods rose 6.1 percent after
increasing 6.3 percent in 2010.  Intermediate core:  The index for intermediate materials less
foods and energy moved down 0.5 percent in December, the third
consecutive decline. About two-thirds of the December decrease
can be attributed to a 4.0-percent drop in prices for basic
organic chemicals. The indexes for thermoplastic resins and
plastics materials and for nonferrous mill shapes also
contributed to the decline in intermediate core prices.  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods
moved down 0.3 percent in December after rising 1.9 percent a
month earlier. A major factor in this decline was the index
for diesel fuel, which fell 3.8 percent. Lower gasoline prices
also contributed significantly to the decrease in the
intermediate energy goods index.  Intermediate foods:  Prices for intermediate foods and feeds
moved down 0.6 percent in December following a 0.6-percent
advance in November. Accounting for nearly half of the
decrease, the index for prepared animal feeds fell 2.2
percent.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing decreased 1.1 percent in December. For the 3 months
ending in December, prices inched up 0.1 percent following a
1.8-percent rise from June to September. The December monthly
decline is mostly attributable to the index for crude
foodstuffs and feedstuffs, which fell 2.6 percent. Prices for
crude energy materials edged down 0.1 percent and the index
for crude nonfood materials less energy was unchanged.  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
dropped 2.6 percent in December. From September to December,
crude foods prices decreased 3.8 percent subsequent to a 2.9-
percent advance in the previous 3-month period. Accounting for
over half of the December monthly decline, the index for corn
fell 11.4 percent. Lower prices for slaughter steers and
heifers and for slaughter hogs also were significant factors
in the decline in the crude foods index.  Crude energy:  Prices for crude energy materials inched down
0.1 percent in December. For the 3 months ending in December,
the crude energy materials index increased 8.0 percent after
falling 0.3 percent from June to September. The December
monthly decrease was the result of a 4.6-percent drop in
natural  gas prices .  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy
was unchanged in December. In the fourth quarter, the crude
core index declined 6.7 percent compared with a 3.0-percent
advance from June to September. In December, higher prices for
iron and steel scrap and for corrugated wastepaper offset
declining prices for nonferrous metals and corn.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output
of total trade industries moved up 0.2 percent in December
after no change in November. (Trade indexes measure changes in
margins received by wholesalers and retailers.) Leading the
December advance were margins received by merchant wholesalers
of durable goods, which climbed 1.4 percent. Higher margins
received by discount department stores and by automotive parts
and accessories stores also were factors in the rise in the
total trade industries index. In 2011, the total trade
industries index rose 3.4 percent.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price
Index for the net output of transportation and warehousing
industries moved up 0.6 percent in December following a 0.2-
percent decline in November. Over seventy percent of this rise
can be traced to prices received by the scheduled passenger
air transportation industry, which climbed 2.7 percent. Higher
prices received by the industries for long-distance general
freight trucking (truckload) and local general freight
trucking also contributed to the increase in the
transportation and warehousing industries index. In 2011, the
transportation and warehousing industries index moved up 6.1
percent.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for
the net output of total traditional service industries edged
down 0.1 percent in December following a 0.1-percent advance
in November. The index for the commercial banking industry led
the December decrease, falling 0.9 percent. Lower prices
received by the industries for non-casino hotels and motels
and for passenger car rental also were factors in the decline
in the total traditional service industries index. In 2011,
the total traditional service industries index increased 1.9
percent.  ____________
The Producer Price Index for January 2012 is scheduled to be
released on Thursday, February 16, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. (EST).  Recalculated Seasonal Adjustment Factors and Relative  Importance Figures to be Available on February 14, 2012  Each year with the release of PPI data for January, seasonal
adjustment factors are recalculated to reflect price movements
from the just-completed calendar year. The following
information will be available on February 14, 2012 (two
workdays prior to the release of PPI data for January 2012 on
February 16):  * Direct seasonal factors for commodity indexes for the year
2012,  * Recalculated seasonal factors for the last 5 years (2007-
2011) for the commodity indexes,  * Recalculated seasonal factors for the last 5 years (2007-
2011) for the stage-of-processing indexes.  This routine annual calculation may result in revisions to
seasonally adjusted indexes for the previous 5 years, which
will be available on the BLS website. In addition, December
2011 relative importance figures will be available on February
14, 2012.  PPI Weights to be Updated  The Bureau of Labor Statistics will soon update the value
weights used to calculate Producer Price Indexes to more
accurately reflect recent production and marketing patterns.
The new weights, which will be introduced in February 2012
with the release of January 2012 index data, will be based on
shipment values from the year 2007. These value weights come
from the Census of Manufactures, the Census of Mining, the
Census of Services, and the Census of Agriculture. PPI weights
have been based on 2002 census shipment values since January
2007.  All PPIs will be affected by this weight update, including all
the industry net output indexes, as well as indexes for
traditional commodity groupings. In addition, weights will be
updated from the 2002 to the 2007 census for all stage-of-
processing indexes, durability of product indexes, and special
commodity-grouping indexes. This weight revision will not
change any arithmetic reference bases for indexes, the dates
when PPIs were set to 100.  The basic structures of the PPI commodity and stage-of-
processing classification systems will not change as a result
of the weight revision. The PPIs classified according to the
North American Industry Classification System (NAICS),
however, will be updated in February 2012 with the release of
January 2012 index data to reflect 2012 NAICS definitions
established by the U.S. Census Bureau. The weight update will
also result in significant shifts in the relative importance
of various industries and products. These shifts will impact
aggregate indexes in a manner commensurate with the relative
gains and losses in value weights from 2002 to 2007.  Commodity and stage-of-processing relative importance figures
for December 2011 will be available on February 14, 2012, two
business days prior to the release of January 2012 PPI data.
This information will be available on the PPI website at
www.bls.gov/ppi or by calling the Division of Industrial
Prices and Price Indexes, Section of Index Analysis and Public
Information at (202) 691-7705.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  