-- U.S. Supreme Court Sides With Death-Row Inmate on Law Firm Mailroom Error
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-18T16:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-supreme-court-sides-with-death-row-inmate-on-law-firm-mailroom-error.html
The U.S. Supreme Court revived an
appeal from an Alabama death-row inmate who missed a legal
filing deadline because of a mailroom error at the  New York  law
firm that was representing him.  The justices, voting 7-2 today to reverse a lower court,
said Cory R. Maples was entitled to another chance to challenge
his death sentence for killing two friends in 1995.  “Maples was disarmed by extraordinary circumstances quite
beyond his control,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  wrote for the
majority.  The ruling is a victory for criminal defendants at a court
that in other cases has been reluctant to excuse missed
deadlines. In 2007, the justices threw out an appeal by a
convicted murderer who missed a filing deadline because of a
judge’s error.  Maples had been represented without charge by two lawyers
at New York’s  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  in his 2001 bid to
overturn his conviction. By the time an Alabama judge ruled
against Maples in 2003, both lawyers had left the firm.  When the clerk’s office for the Alabama court mailed the
judge’s order to the two lawyers, both envelopes were returned.
One was stamped, “Returned to Sender -- Attempted, Unknown,”
and the other had a similar stamp along with “Return to Sender
-- Left Firm” written by hand.  No Additional Steps  The clerk’s office didn’t take any additional steps to
contact the lawyers, and Maples himself didn’t learn about the
order until a month after the appeal deadline had passed.  “Had counsel of record or the state’s attorney informed
Maples of his plight before the time to appeal ran out, he could
have filed a notice of appeal himself or enlisted the aid of new
volunteer attorneys,” Ginsburg wrote.  Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas  dissented,
saying Maples didn’t have a constitutional right to an attorney
for the proceedings at issue in the case. Maples was seeking to
set aside a conviction that had already been upheld on appeal.  “If the interest of fairness justifies our excusing
Maples’ procedural default here, it does so whenever a
defendant’s procedural default is caused by his attorney,”
Scalia wrote for the pair. “That is simply not the law -- and
cannot be, if the states are to have an orderly system of
criminal litigation conducted by counsel.”  The case is Maples v. Thomas, 10-63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  