-- U.S. Bancorp Fourth-Quarter Profit Climbs 39%, Beating Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-18T12:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-bancorp-fourth-quarter-profit-rises.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s fifth-
largest lender by deposits, reported a 39 percent increase in
fourth-quarter profit, beating analysts’ estimates as costs
linked to souring loans fell.  Net income attributable to the bank rose to $1.35 billion
from $974 million in the year-earlier period, the bank said
today in a statement. Earnings per share increased to 64 cents,
excluding a 5-cent net gain linked to items including a
litigation settlement, from 49 cents. The average  estimate  of 30
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 63 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis  expanded the bank
during the credit crisis to take market share and counter slow
industry growth. The Minneapolis-based bank boosted commercial
lending 16 percent from a year earlier, while reducing
provisions for credit losses by 46 percent to $497 million.  “Credit quality continued to improve this quarter,”
Davis, 53, said in the statement. “We expect that nonperforming
assets will decline in the coming quarter as the economy slowly
improves.”  Revenue increased 8.1 percent from a year earlier to $5.1
billion. Net charge-offs fell to $622 million from $669 million
in the third quarter and $937 million in the year-earlier
period. The company said it expects charge-offs will “be down
modestly” in this year’s first three months.  Full-year profit climbed 47 percent to $4.87 billion, as
revenue climbed 5.3 percent.  Federal Reserve  Tests  The Federal Reserve told the nation’s 31 largest banks to
test their loan portfolios against a deep recession to ensure
they have enough capital to withstand losses. The Fed said it
would approve dividend increases and other capital distributions
for banks that demonstrate sufficient financial strength to
operate in stressed markets.  “We expect to ‘pass’ the assessment, and we look forward
to moving closer to our long-term goal of returning a majority
of our earnings to shareholders,” Davis said in the statement.
“Raising the dividend is a top priority.”  The firm joined Commerce Bancshares Inc. as the two lenders
in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  to climb in 2011, with U.S.
Bancorp rising 0.3 percent. It has advanced 6.4 percent this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Clark in  New York  at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 