-- U.S. Envoy Einhorn Says Japan Agrees on Need to Increase Pressure on Iran
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-01-18T10:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-envoy-turns-to-japan-after-pushing-south-korea-on-iran-oil-sanctions.html
A senior U.S. official said  Japan 
agrees on the need to increase pressure on Iran to prevent the
Mideast nation from developing nuclear weapons, and sought to
ease concerns that doing so will drive up  oil prices .  “Increasing pressure could give the Iranians stronger
incentive to get to the negotiating table,” Robert Einhorn, the
State Department’s special adviser for nonproliferation and arms
control, told reporters today in Tokyo after meeting with
Japanese officials. “I think there is agreement on that. And my
government believes in stepping up pressure against Iran while
maintaining stability in the international oil markets.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government has
signaled support for U.S. efforts to cut imports of Iranian oil
while expressing concern about the economic impact. Japan and
 South Korea , Einhorn’s stop yesterday, each count on Iran for
about 10 percent of their oil, and switching to alternative
sources risks stoking import costs as the two export-reliant
economies cope with a dimming outlook for global growth.  “We’re urging all of our partners to help us, to work with
us in putting pressure on the government of Iran to get it to
negotiate seriously” on its nuclear program, Einhorn said in
his meeting with South Korean deputy foreign minister Kim Jae
Shin yesterday. While the U.S. asked for a 50 percent cut, South
Korea is seeking a 30 percent reduction, the Dong-A Ilbo
newspaper said, citing a South Korean official.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  visited Tokyo
and Beijing last week, with talks focused on Iran. The visits
follow President  Barack Obama ’s signing of legislation last
month that tightens sanctions on Iran.  Cutting Off Income  The Obama administration’s efforts are aimed at cutting off
Iran’s main source of income to force the regime to abandon its
nuclear development program. Iran is already under four rounds
of United Nations sanctions as well as additional U.S. and
European Union financial restrictions.  Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in 2010 and supplied more
than 50 percent of the national budget, according to the U.S.
 Energy Department  and the  International Monetary Fund . The
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , Iran exported an average
of 2.58 million barrels a day in 2010.  Iran’s Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation may close the  Strait of Hormuz , the passageway
for about a fifth of globally-traded oil, if the U.S. and its
allies impose stricter economic sanctions.  Oil traded near the highest level in three days as Iran
advised Saudi Arabia against replacing supplies in the event of
sanctions. Crude for February delivery increased as much as 62
cents to $101.33 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  U.S. Law  The American measure denies access to the U.S. financial
system to any foreign bank that conducts business with the
Central Bank of  Iran , a step that would complicate the
international purchases of Iran’s crude oil.  “It is an extraordinary period in the history of U.S.
sanctions enforcement in view of the completely extraterritorial
character of the proscribed conduct,” Clifford Chance LLP
attorneys wrote in a note to clients this month.  Noda’s administration has given conflicting signals on its
preparedness to cut Iranian oil imports. While Finance Minister
 Jun Azumi  said in a joint press briefing with Geithner Jan. 12
that his country would take “concrete steps” to do so, Noda
the next day said consultations were needed with business groups
about the impact of reductions. Japan imports virtually all its
petroleum.  Noda also said at a press briefing in  Tokyo  that he wants
to discuss with the U.S. about how Japanese banks can avoid
adverse effects from American sanctions.  Seeking Market Stability  Foreign Minister Koichiro Gemba today said that while Japan
is considering cutting Iranian imports, keeping oil prices
stable is critical.  “The important thing is the stability of markets,” he
said at a press conference in Tokyo. “If crude oil prices rise
as a result, the sanctions aren’t effective.”  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said after
a meeting with Noda today in Tokyo that he doesn’t expect Japan
to be able to immediately cut Iran oil shipments.  “It’s not easy to switch supplies overnight,” Osborne
told reporters.  He and Azumi agreed that a peaceful solution to the
situation is desirable, according to a Japanese government
official who spoke to reporters in Tokyo today on condition of
anonymity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  