-- Auto Electronic Faults May Be Untraceable, Need More Oversight, Panel Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-18T17:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/u-s-needs-more-auto-oversight-after-runaway-toyotas-science-panel-says.html
U.S. regulators were justified in
closing a probe into unintended acceleration of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  vehicles without finding electronic causes, a National
Academy of Sciences panel said while emphasizing it wasn’t
ruling out such failures in the future.  Software and other electronic failures may not leave traces
that investigators are equipped to find, so the Washington-based
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  must “become
more familiar with and engaged in” setting automotive-
electronics standards, the panel said today in a report.  “It’s impossible to prove a complete negative, but all the
data available to us indicated the conclusion that there was no
electronic or software problem” that may have caused the Toyota
unintended acceleration reports, Louis Lanzerotti, a New Jersey
Institute of Technology physics professor and chairman of the
panel, said today on a conference call with reporters.  Toyota recalled more than 8 million Toyota and Lexus
vehicles worldwide in 2009 and 2010, a record, after reports of
unintended acceleration. NHTSA and Toyota investigated the
electronic throttle controls, which send signals from the
accelerator to the engine. They blamed the incidents on sticky
gas pedals or floor mats that might jam them.  The committee often discussed the potential for
“untraceable faults” as an explanation for unintended
acceleration, the panel said in the report.  Working With Regulators  “We share the goal of NAS and NHTSA to make America’s
vehicles even safer, and we will continue to work
collaboratively and constructively with regulators and lawmakers
to help achieve the greatest possible benefits from the
academy’s valuable work,” Toyota said in a statement posted to
its website today.  The 16-member scientific panel was convened following
congressional hearings in 2010 examining Toyota’s recalls and of
the regulator’s response to those defects.  Automotive safety advocates including Sean Kane, president
of Safety Research & Strategies Inc., and Joan Claybrook, a
former NHTSA administrator and former president of the advocacy
group  Public Citizen , have said the fact that NHTSA didn’t find
an electronic cause for the Toyota reports didn’t exonerate the
automaker because there was no way to record what may have
happened.  Today’s report doesn’t exclude an electronic cause for
unintended acceleration, Kane said in a phone interview.  ‘Contradictory’ Report  “The report is contradictory,” he said. “On one hand,
they call the agency out for being unequipped for being unable
to handle electronics. On the other hand, they say they’re not
going to second-guess NHTSA’s conclusions.”  Clients of Safety Research & Strategies, a Rehoboth,
Massachusetts-based advocacy and research firm, include
attorneys, engineering companies and suppliers, according to its
website.  A report last year by  NASA , the U.S. space agency, found no
electronic causes of the unintended acceleration in Toyotas.  NHTSA should develop a long-term strategy for meeting the
oversight challenges caused by automotive electronics systems,
the panel said.  “NHTSA will continue to evaluate and improve every aspect
of its work to keep the driving public safe, including research
to assess potential safety concerns and help ensure the
reliability of electronic control systems in vehicles,” the
agency said in an e-mailed statement. “The agency will also
further refine its strategic plan to address any potential
technical and policy issues.”  Data Recorders  The panel recommended that regulators require event data
recorders in cars and that the safety agency research the design
and placement of accelerator and brake pedals to minimize the
risk of drivers mistaking one for the other.  NHTSA plans to propose a rule requiring data recorders and
to update its accelerator-control safety standard to require a
so-called brake override system in a few months, Lynda Tran, an
agency spokeswoman, said.  Brake override controls allow the brake to supersede the
accelerator pedal when both are pressed at the same time. That
would enable a driver with a stuck accelerator pedal to stop the
car by pressing the brake.  Today’s report “does close the book” on any remaining
Toyota unintended acceleration questions, U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood told reporters today in  Washington . The
report “sustains the work that we did and verifies the
solutions that we found,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  