-- Federal-State Meeting Planned to Rally for Foreclosure Accord
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/hud-doj-to-meet-with-states-for-support-on-foreclosure-deal.html
U.S. Housing and Urban Development
Secretary Shaun Donovan and a Justice Department official are
set to meet with state  attorneys general  next week to rally
support for a proposed settlement with banks over foreclosure
practices, said the Iowa Attorney General’s Office.  Materials about the proposed deal are being sent to all
states, and Democratic attorneys general have been asked to meet
on Jan. 23 with Donovan and Associate Attorney General Thomas Perrelli, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney 
General  Tom Miller .  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers, including
 Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., which would set
requirements for conducting foreclosures and provide mortgage
relief to homeowners. Miller, a Democrat, has been leading
negotiations for the states.  The attorneys general from all 50 states announced in 2010
they were investigating bank foreclosure practices after
disclosures that the companies were using faulty documents in
seizing homes.  At the Jan. 23 meeting in  Chicago , the federal and state
officials will answer questions and discuss details of the
potential deal in an effort to win support, Greenwood said.
Republican attorneys general will separately discuss the
proposed settlement by phone the same day with their Republican
counterparts on the negotiating committee in addition to Donovan
and Perrelli, Greenwood said.  The sessions come after about a dozen state attorneys
general met last week to discuss their mortgage investigations
and how they might work together, people familiar with the
matter said at the time.  New York, California  The group included New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , California Attorney General Kamala Harris and
others who have said any foreclosure settlement shouldn’t
protect banks from mortgage-related investigations that haven’t
yet been resolved.  Harris and Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto
announced in December they were collaborating in their mortgage
and foreclosure investigations. Schneiderman and Delaware
Attorney General Beau Biden are also cooperating. In December,
 Massachusetts  Attorney General  Martha Coakley  sued  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, New York-based JPMorgan,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,
accusing them of conducting unlawful foreclosures and deceiving
homeowners.  Coakley said she believes there is “a likelihood that a
settlement will be reached between some states and the banks,”
according to a copy of remarks given to the Boston Chamber of
Commerce.  “We will keep an open mind about whether the ultimate
agreement makes sense for Massachusetts,” she said.  HUD spokesman Derrick L. Plummer declined to comment about
the Jan. 23 meeting. A Justice Department spokesman couldn’t be
reached for comment after normal business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  