-- UniCredit Says Credit Drought Is ‘Manageable’ in East Europe
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-18T14:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/unicredit-says-deleveraging-is-manageable-drag-in-east-europe.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , eastern Europe’s
biggest bank by assets, said the economies of Romania,  Serbia ,
Croatia and  Bulgaria  are most at risk due to western banks’
efforts to raise capital and cut assets.  The Balkan countries would lose most loan growth among
their eastern European peers if western banks cut funding of
their subsidiaries by about a third, UniCredit said in a  study 
released in Vienna today. Even under that scenario, lending
would still grow, the bank said. It expects no lending cuts in
 Turkey  and Russia due to the western European deleveraging.  “Western European banks’ deleveraging represents a clear
downside risk with some countries more exposed than others,”
Gianni Papa, the head of UniCredit’s eastern European division,
said in the study. “But according to our baseline scenario,
this remains a manageable drag.”  Regulators and policy makers are trying to shield growth in
eastern  Europe  against contagion from the euro area’s deepening
debt crisis. New capital and liquidity requirements for the
western lenders controlling three-quarters of eastern Europe’s
banking system threaten to curb credit needed to fund the
region’s companies and households.  “The short-term risk for central and eastern Europe
stemming from western European banks’ response to the European
Banking Authority’s capital requirement remains limited,”
UniCredit said. In the medium term, some banks may have to
introduce “more rebalanced, self-sufficient business models”
abandoning strategies based on parent funding, it said.  Turkey, Russia  In its “baseline scenario,” the Italian lender sees loans
in Turkey, which UniCredit includes in its definition of eastern
Europe, growing by 17.7 percent annually on average from 2011 to
2015. It expects 12.9 percent average annual growth in  Russia ,
12 percent in Ukraine and 7.6 percent in  Poland , it said.
Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania are all expected to grow by about
6 percent.  “Central and eastern Europe should remain a region of two
halves, with larger economies -- e.g. Turkey, Russia and Poland
-- likely to keep growing almost at full steam, whereas others,
especially in southeastern Europe, may suffer from their
structural weaknesses,” UniCredit’s Papa said.  Lending in eastern Europe grew 9 percent to about 1.5
trillion euros ($1.9 trillion) last year, driven by corporate
loans. UniCredit said growth was “dissipating” in the second
half of the year as markets and funding deteriorated. Growth
varied widely with loans in Turkey and Russia adding the most,
subdued expansion in  Romania , Croatia and Bulgaria, and further
credit tightening in  Hungary , Estonia and  Latvia .  ‘Growth Engine’  The region remains UniCredit’s “engine for growth” and
Papa said the group would “strengthen its leading position” in
the region. The bank has said it is investing most in Turkey,
Poland, Russia and the  Czech Republic .  “We are seeing quite strong M&A activity in countries
where we are already strong and want to expand,” Papa said,
adding that UniCredit hasn’t budgeted to purchase or sell banks
in the region itself in its five-year plan to 2015. “For the
time being, what we’re working on is improving our position,
putting together activities to improve cost synergies. We’re
working very much on efficiency.”  Bad Debt  “Credit quality has generally stabilized on the back of
the recovery in lending and the improvement of macroeconomic
conditions,” UniCredit said in the study. Bad debt stood at 14
percent of all loans in the region as a whole by the end of
2011. “Clear exceptions are represented by Hungary,  Croatia ,
Romania and Bulgaria, where non-performing loans were still
growing.”  The still-high level of bad debt remains a risk on future
developments, the lender said. That will also weigh on banks’
revenue and profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  