-- Turkey’s Young Shoppers Choosing Malls Powers Development Boom
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-01-19T13:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/turkey-s-young-shoppers-choosing-malls-powers-development-boom.html
Turkey , where jewelry, fabrics and
spices have been haggled over in bazaars for centuries, was
among the last European countries to embrace modern shopping
centers. It’s catching up quickly.  Property developers attracted by one of the youngest
 populations  in  Europe  are building malls at a faster rate than
in any other country on the continent except  Russia . Istanbul,
Turkey’s wealthiest and most populous city, is leading the way
with about 30 centers in the pipeline.  “The attraction of Turkey is the enormous power of young
people wanting to go out and improve their lot and their
willingness to spend,” said Frank Billand, board member in
charge of shopping centers for  Union Investment Real Estate
GmbH . The Hamburg-based  money manager  owns four centers in
Turkey valued at 450 million euros ($574 million).  Private consumption fueled an 8.2 percent increase in gross
domestic product in the third quarter, three times Germany’s
growth rate. The economy’s strength encouraged Multi Corp. BV,
Inditex SA and Abercrombie & Fitch Co. to invest in a country
which, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc., has 76 square
meters (818 square feet) of mall space for every 1,000
inhabitants. That compares with 240 square meters in the
European Union.  Emerging Economy  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board chose Turkey over
Russia and Ukraine for its long-term investment in emerging
European economies. Canada’s second-largest pension manager
holds a 27 percent stake in the Forum Turkey Fund, which owns
seven Turkish malls and is controlled by Multi Corp., the
biggest developer in the country.  “It’s an emerging market, so it has its bumps,” said
Wenzel Hoberg, the pension board’s head of European real estate
investment.  Hoberg and Union Investment’s Billand decided to focus on
centers that will dominate their area because of Turkey’s
relatively low number of malls. There are comparatively few
opportunities to invest in office and residential projects, they
said in Dec. 21 interviews at the opening of Multi’s newest mall
in Kayseri, Turkey, in which Union has a 50 percent stake.  Investment demand will support retail property prices and
ensure capitalization rates have a “modest” gain even if rents
decline, Kelvin Davidson, an economist at London-based research
firm Capital Economics Ltd., said in a Jan. 5 report.
Capitalization rates measure the amount of income a building can
generate compared with its value.  Steady Returns  Capitalization rates for prime Turkish shopping centers
were little changed at about 7.25 percent in the second half of
2011 after declining by 1 point from two years earlier,  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said. That’s still 3 points more than
equivalent properties in the U.K. and 1 point more than in the
 Czech Republic , one of central and eastern Europe’s best-
performing property investment markets.  Turkey’s first modern mall, Galleria Atakoy, opened in a
western suburb of Istanbul in 1988. Outside that city, 37 malls
will open across Turkey by the end of 2013, Jones Lang said.  Istanbul accounted for almost two-thirds of the mall space
that was built in Turkey last year and will represent about 60
percent of the 1.4 million square meters scheduled to open in
the 18 months through 2012,  Cushman & Wakefield  estimates.  By the end of 2013, the city of 13 million will have 132
centers compared with 93 at the start of 2011,  Jones Lang 
predicts. By then, there will be 275 square meters of mall space
to lease for every 1,000 inhabitants, or 15 percent more than
the EU average.  Public Offerings  During the past 15 months, the strength of investor demand
for mall and residential development projects enabled Turkey’s
Kiler and Torun families to raise about 600 million liras ($327
million) in initial public share offerings of their real estate
companies, Kiler GYO AS and Torunlar GYO AS. Multi plans an IPO
for Forum Turkey Fund in about two years.  Deals are heating up in the industry. Sales of large
Turkish retail properties rose 35 percent last year to 336
million euros, according to figures compiled by Real Capital
Analytics Inc. The figure is likely to rise again this year, the
New York-based research firm said.  ECE Projektmanagement GmbH & Co., the developer controlled
by  Germany ’s Otto family, offered $525 million for Ankamall in
Ankara and the Crowne Plaza Hotel next door. Pramerica Real
Estate Investors is seeking more than 200 million euros for the
TerraCity mall it opened in June in the resort city of Antalya.  Rent Cuts  Not every part of the market is thriving. The  Sapphire
Istanbul  mall in Istanbul, occupying six floors of Turkey’s
tallest building, opened in March and the owners already plan to
cut rents. The 54-story tower’s mall competes with three others
in the central business district. The 65,000 square-meter  Zorlu
Center  will open in 2013 and the city’s main shopping area is
just three miles away.  Kiler GYO, the mall’s majority owner, said Dec. 30 it will
cut rents by as much as half and fix them at a favorable rate
against the euro. Tenants include  Sweden ’s Hennes & Mauritz AB,
the world’s second-largest clothing retailer.  “Bargaining power is back with the tenants” in Turkey’s
biggest cities because of the amount of space under construction
and the prospect of slower economic growth, Ecem Nalbantgil, a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst, said in a December note.  Kiler GYO shares have lost 56 percent of their value since
trading for the first time in April 2011, while Torunlar GYO has
declined 43 percent since the company’s IPO in October 2010.  Economy Slowing  Turkey’s rate of economic expansion will probably drop to 2
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Dec. 7.  The rent cuts are also a response to the Turkish currency’s
slump. The lira fell 16 percent last year against the euro as
rising corporate investment and a credit-fueled consumer spree
fueled a record  current account deficit .  While Istanbul’s center may be getting saturated, a subway
extension has enabled developers to build malls in satellite
towns, said Ismail Kazanc, chief financial officer of  Torunlar
GYO AS. (TRGYO)  Torunlar is constructing the 135,000 square-meter  Mall
of Istanbul , part of a 500 million-liras ($267 million) plan for
660 homes, a 300-room hotel and 25,000 square meters of offices
three miles north of the airport.  Increased competition has prompted some shopping centers to
focus on new ways of winning customers.  Forum Istanbul , Turkey’s
largest mall, attracts 2 million visitors a month with 265
retail brands, an aquarium, ice skating, bowling and a 10,000
square-meter dinosaur exhibit.  Some Will Die  “Some shopping centers will die, some will continue to
grow, but some adaptation will definitely happen,” said Anthony
Khoi, chief executive officer of Cenor Group, which manages
Carrefour SA’s nine outlets in Turkey.  Istanbul’s Istinye Park is a modern Turkish center that’s
focused on high-end brands and attractions. The mall, owned by
the Dogus and Orjin groups, features luxury stores including
Prada SpA and Gucci. The food court is styled like a market, so
diners can eat freshly prepared produce.  Mike Rodda, Cushman’s head of European retail  capital
markets , said it’s one of the best shopping centers he had ever
visited. “The food court is amazing,” he said.  “There’s a need to differentiate and create variety in new
types of shopping centers,” said Avi Alkas, Jones Lang’s head
of Turkey. “There might be some casualties of centers which are
too near to each other and cannibalize each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 