-- Turkish Yields Drop on Lower Borrowing Cost, Steady Lira Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-18T11:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/turkish-yields-drop-on-lower-borrowing-cost-steady-lira-bets.html
Turkish  yields  dropped on
speculation the Treasury will meet borrowing targets in next
week’s auctions after strong demand from banks in the year’s
first two debt sales yesterday.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt decreased 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 10.70 percent at 12:57 p.m.
in Istanbul, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index of the securities
showed, heading for the lowest level in three weeks. The lira
appreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8372 per dollar in its third day of
gains, leading emerging-market currencies in  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa  this year, after losing 18 percent last year to
be the worst performer worldwide.  “The sales were quite good in yesterday’s auctions and it
appears that the upcoming auctions will be comfortable” for the
Treasury,  Emre Balkeser , head of trading at Garanti Investment
in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  The Ankara-based Treasury sold a total net 4.58 billion
liras of 14-month bonds and six-year floating rate notes
yesterday, ahead of a repayment of 4 billion liras of debt to
investors today. The Treasury will hold a total of six auctions
this month to borrow 14.4 billion liras in domestic debt,
according to a program published on Dec. 30. The Treasury will
repay 17.8 billion liras of domestic debt this month, the
highest monthly repayment in a year.  “What favors Turkish bonds at the moment might be the fact
that the Turkish lira might have found its low against the
majors thanks to the support of the central bank,” Felix Herrmann, analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed
comments. The lender’s three-month target for two-year lira
bonds is at 10.20, he said. “We are therefore still bullish on
Turkish bonds.”  Turkey’s central bank has sold at least $15 billion since
August and tightened borrowing costs of other lenders to shore
up the lira.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  