-- Turkish Court’s Dink Ruling Criticized by Amnesty, Arinc, EU
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-01-18T14:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/turkish-court-s-dink-ruling-criticized-by-amnesty-arinc-eu.html
Amnesty International  and Turkey’s
deputy prime minister criticized a court ruling that there was
no conspiracy in the killing of Armenian journalist Hrant Dink.  The court in Istanbul sentenced five people to prison
yesterday and acquitted another 13 of involvement in the crime.
The court said today it forgot to issue a ruling on another
defendant, and will reconvene to do so, according to the state-
run Anatolia news agency. All 19 defendants were acquitted on
the charge of being part of a gang that plotted to kill Dink.  Turkish authorities “failed to address” the state’s role
in the murder, Amnesty International said in a  statement  on its
website. The European Union called for a new investigation and a
trial of everyone involved in the murder, reminding  Turkey  that
the  European Court  of Human Rights ruled in September 2010 that
Turkey had failed to protect Dink from a plot or properly
investigate his killing in January 2007.  “This decision isn’t satisfying the people’s conscience,
including mine,” Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said,
according to Anatolia. “The trial isn’t over yet, this is a
first step.” He said Dink’s lawyers can appeal the decision.  The trial was a “comedy,” the slain journalist’s wife,
Rakel Dink, said yesterday after the verdict was announced.
Dink’s family and lawyers say security forces were complicit in
the murder. A crowd of Dink’s supporters marched yesterday from
the courthouse to the headquarters of Agos, the newspaper he
edited, to protest the verdict.  ‘Never Again’  Dink was shot three times in the head and neck outside the
Agos office while he was being prosecuted for criticizing a
state policy that denies that 1.5 million Armenians were killed
in a genocide during World War I.  “The state’s tradition of political assassinations and
marginalizing its citizens continues,” Rakel Dink said in
televised comments after the court decision. “The Hrant Dink
murder trial was an unprecedented opportunity to say, ‘Never
again,’ to such killings, but the prosecution didn’t want to use
the chance.”  Dink’s lawyers are carrying out their own investigation of
the murder “despite obstructionist maneuvers by the Istanbul
police,” Reporters Without Borders said yesterday in a
statement  published  on its website before the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  