-- Vacheron Constantin Says Watches for 2012 Are Already Sold Out
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-01-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/vacheron-constantin-says-watches-for-2012-are-already-sold-out.html
Vacheron Constantin , the oldest
Swiss watchmaker in continuous operation, said it has sold all
of its expected production for the year.  The Geneva-based company, which has been in business for
more than 250 years, sold out its planned 2012 output of 19,000
timepieces in the first two days of the annual SIHH watch fair
in Geneva, Chief Executive Officer Juan-Carlos Torres said today
in an interview.  Vacheron Constantin  expects to have a “great”
year and to increase its revenue, though growth in the overall
industry may moderate, he said without being more specific.  “It will be a good year, but I think it will be less than
last year,” Torres said.  China , a key growth driver for the
watch industry, isn’t likely to see a sharp slowdown, he said.  The maker of the Patrimony range of complicated watches and
Metiers d’Art collection of timepieces decorated with enamel,
gems and engraving is expanding its existing watch-manufacturing
operations to meet rising demand, according to Torres.  Vacheron Constantin also plans to open about eight
boutiques this year, adding to its existing network of 29 stores
worldwide. The new boutiques will be located in cities including
Macau and Paris.  The watchmaker, now part of  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) ,
the world’s second-biggest luxury-goods company, plans to add
another watch plant to its existing facility in Geneva,
according to Torres. The brand’s capacity is set to rise to
21,000 pieces next year and to about 30,000 watches between 2015
and 2017, he said.  Richemont doesn’t break down sales for each of its watch
brands, though revenue from the group’s overall watchmaking
operations climbed 28 percent during the financial third quarter
to 697 million euros ($896 million). Richemont’s overall sales
in the Asia Pacific region gained 36 percent during the three-
month period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  