-- Vinashin Said to Miss Third Payment on $600 Million Facility
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-01-18T07:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/vinashin-said-to-miss-third-payment-on-600-million-facility-1-.html
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group,
whose failure to make payments on a dollar-denominated loan in
2010 roiled the nation’s debt markets, has missed three
installments for $180 million, two people familiar with the
matter said.  State-owned Vinashin, as the company is known, received the
$600 million loan in 2007 from a group of institutions led by
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It missed the first $60 million payment on the principal in
December 2010, putting the loan into default, according to
Moody’s. The company has since missed paying an additional two
installments of $60 million each, the people said.  Vinashin’s Hanoi-based Chief Executive Officer, Truong Van
Tuyen, declined to comment on the missed payments when reached
by phone at his office yesterday.  Earnings for shipbuilders globally are being hurt by a
record fleet that’s outgrown demand for cargo. Vessels ordered
in 2008 are still leaving yards while slower economic growth
reduced international trade pushed daily rents for the largest
vessels hauling  iron ore  and coal to the lowest since 2002,
according to the  Baltic Exchange , the London-based publisher of
shipping costs.  Rating Downgrades  At least one state-owned company was downgraded after
Vinashin’s 2010 default raised concern that companies part-owned
by the government would not have its support in the event of
financial difficulties. The country’s debt rating was cut by
 Standard & Poor’s  in December 2010 by one grade to BB-, or three
levels below investment-grade, after Moody’s took similar action
earlier that month.  State-owned mining company Vietnam National Coal-Mineral
Industries Group, or Vinacomin, was downgraded, to B2 from Ba3,
by Moody’s in December 2010 and had its outlook lowered to
“negative” from “stable” by S&P as Vinashin’s restructuring
prompted a review of risk assumptions.  Syndicated lending and bond sales in  Vietnam  dropped 11
percent to $4.1 billion last year from 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hanoi-based Vinacomin postponed a $150
million loan in October until markets are more conducive, a
person familiar with the matter said at the time. The loan is
still on hold, the person said today.  Vinacomin Chief Accountant Nguyen Xuan Thuy today said
Standard Chartered Plc was still helping to arrange the loan and
the company planned to borrow the funds at a later date, without
elaborating.  Vinashin is being sued in the U.K. High Court by hedge fund
Elliott Advisors LP, one of about 20 creditors with a stake in
the $600 million loan. Credit Suisse, Depfa Bank Plc and Malayan
Banking Bhd. are also among holders of the debt, the people
said, declining to be identified as details are private.  Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, Josephine
Lee, declined to comment on Vinashin’s finances or the missed
payments.  Vinashin offers shipbuilding and ship repair services to
companies in Vietnam and internationally, according to its
 website . It’s the largest shipbuilder in the country, accounting
for as much as 80 percent of total domestic capacity, according
to the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  