-- Volcker Rule Regulators Resist Lawmakers Calls to Scrap Proposal
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-18T21:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/volcker-rule-regulators-resist-lawmakers-calls-to-scrap-proposal.html
U.S. regulators, responding to
criticism of their Volcker rule proposal, told lawmakers they
will refine plans for the ban on banks’ proprietary trading
while resisting calls to scrap the measure and start over.  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  joined top
officials from four other agencies in defending the 298-page  
rule  today at a House Financial Services joint subcommittee
hearing in Washington, faulting Congress for imposing
complexities that led Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  to say
the measure as proposed would be a “self-inflicted wound.”  “Congress actually laid out seven key permitted
activities, or if you wish, exceptions,” Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  told lawmakers, citing
underwriting, market-making and hedging as critical exemptions.
“We want to fully comply with the intent of Congress.”  Lawmakers called the regulators to testify amid criticism
from  House Republicans  and banking-industry groups that the
Dodd-Frank Act measures proposed by four agencies in October and
the CFTC this month would sow confusion among banks over which
activities were permitted and put firms such as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and   JPMorgan Chase & Co . at a competitive
disadvantage to overseas rivals. Tarullo, who said regulators
would review comment letters in determining the need for
adjustments, resisted suggestions that the rule be withdrawn.  Bachus, who called on regulators to resubmit the proposal
and consider extending the implementation timeline in a Dec. 7
 letter , outlined his criticisms at today’s hearing.  Stifle Growth  “The rule’s impact on market liquidity, access to credit,
the cost of capital and job creation will unnecessarily stifle
the growth of businesses that operate far from Wall Street, and
hamper the ability of asset managers, pension funds and
insurance companies to grow their portfolios for millions of
individual investors,” said Bachus, an Alabama Republican.  The proposed rule named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who championed the idea as an adviser to President
 Barack Obama , would ban banks from proprietary trading while
allowing them to continue short-term trades for market-making or
hedging. It also would limit investments in private-equity and
hedge funds. Dodd-Frank, enacted in response to the 2008 credit
crisis, requires that the rule be in place by July 21.  Regulators acknowledged industry concerns, including the
idea that banks without U.S. operations could benefit because
foreign jurisdictions haven’t adopted similar measures.  ‘Competitive Disadvantage’  “U.S. banks competing with these foreign banks will
operate at a competitive disadvantage,” Acting Comptroller of
the Currency  John Walsh  said in his prepared statement,
responding to a question from Republican members of the two
Financial Services subcommittees that held the hearing.  Congress included the rule in Dodd-Frank to curb risky
trading by banks that benefit from  deposit insurance  and Fed
discount window borrowing. Financial firms, in  comment letters 
to regulators and in public statements, have said the rule may
restrict market liquidity, specifically in corporate bonds.  Democrats such as Representative Carolyn Maloney of  New
York  joined Republicans at today’s hearing in echoing the
banking industry view that the proposed rule is too complex.  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat, said
that complexity stems partly from regulators’ efforts to meet
the industry’s needs.  “A very simple rule could have been formulated, but it
would not have accommodated the concerns you have of the
financial institutions,” said Frank, who led the Financial
Services Committee during the talks that yielded the regulatory
law that bears his name. “So to some degree they are
complaining about you having accommodated them.”  ‘Flow of Capital’  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar
addressed the Volcker rule during an investor call after the
company reported fourth-quarter financial results today, saying
the  Wall Street  firm wants to ensure the measure doesn’t inhibit
“the free flow of capital and the growth of the U.S.”  “We want to make sure that the market-making rules are not
written in such a way that they make it so onerous for us and
not just us but for all the firms to continue our market making
function,” Viniar said.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said regulators have “no interest” in sanctioning banks that
run afoul of Volcker rule limits on proprietary trading while
attempting legitimate market-making.  “We have no interest in pursuing activity where people are
intending to provide market-making and get it wrong,” Schapiro
told lawmakers.  ‘Most Feasible’  Tarullo called the proposal released by regulators “the
most feasible,” knocking down alternatives including self-
reporting of violations of principles-based rules by covered
firms or creating “definitive bright lines” on what type of
trading is permitted or banned.  “The more nuanced framework contained in our proposal was
designed to realize some of the advantages of both of these
approaches while minimizing their potential adverse effects,”
Tarullo said.  The Fed, FDIC, SEC and OCC bowed to pressure from lawmakers
and industry groups including the Financial Services Roundtable
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in extending the Volcker rule
comment period through Feb. 13. That extension also gave the
CFTC time to complete its largely similar proposal, which was
released for comment on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  