-- Washington Crosses the Delaware in Met’s Grand New Wing: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/washington-crosses-the-delaware-in-met-s-grand-new-wing-review.html
The  Metropolitan Museum of Art  is a
magnificent puzzle. The last piece of its current configuration,
the New American Wing Galleries for Paintings, Sculpture and
Decorative Arts, has just been put in place.  The most direct way is up a small glass elevator -- which
will surely have to work like a piston to accommodate crowds.  Once upstairs, however, the suite of 26 galleries is
spacious. A minimalist interpretation of 19th-century Beaux Arts
galleries, the arrangement is mostly sky-lit and includes high
cove ceilings. Although it adds a modest 3,300 square feet, the
galleries feel expansive. Their range of thematic spaces -- from
monumental to intimate niches -- flows naturally.  The installation of almost 600 artworks from the 18th to
the early 20th century provides long-range views of classics,
such as Emanuel Leutze’s 21-foot-wide “Washington Crossing the
 Delaware ” (1851) -- America’s response to grand-manner European
history painting.  The Leutze work has just been restored, replete with a new
hand-carved, gilded frame based on a recently discovered 1864
photograph. The frame is crowned by a commanding crest
comprising weapons, an eagle, a stars-and-stripes shield and
waving banners.  Trumpet Blasts  One of the most famous of U.S. artworks, the painting
provides patriotic trumpet blasts and is the designated hallmark
of the collection.  I was surprised to learn that Leutze’s “Washington” is
also the most popular object in the museum. It beats out the
Vermeers, Rembrandts and Van Goghs, El Greco’s “View of
Toledo” and Bruegel’s “The Harvesters.”  For me, it’s when the drums aren’t beating and the flags
aren’t waving, when the galleries feel less like boastful
history lessons, that the artworks shine.  The great 19th-century U.S. landscape painters Albert
Bierstadt, Frederick Edwin Church and Thomas Cole are
represented here. Yet when their landscapes are compared to
those by Cezanne, Claude, Corot and Poussin, the American
pictures feel burdened by well-intended morality tales.  Fluid Study  Cole’s small study for the painting “View from Mount
Holyoke, Northampton Massachusetts, after a Thunderstorm -- The
Oxbow” (1836) is more fluid and convincing than the larger,
stiffer finished work.  You’ll find many crowd-pleasers by Thomas Eakins, Childe Hassam, Winslow Homer, Charles Willson Peale and James McNeill Whistler in galleries devoted to American Impressionism;
History, Landscape and National Identity; Portraiture in the
Grand Manner; the West; and the Civil War Era. There’s also, of
course, John Singer Sargent’s infamous “Madame X,” the wife of
a banker. Poorly received at the Paris Salon of 1884, the
portrait made the painter flee to  London  and sent the poor, odd-
shaped woman into the vale of tears.  A room of works by John Singleton Copley includes the
masterwork “Daniel Crommelin Verplanck” (1771), that strange
little portrait of a squirrel with a seated child who is perched
like a bird and has the knowing, if not predatory, countenance
of a man.  The new American Wing Galleries’ most compelling works are
often small, humble and restrained. They include furniture,
silver and folk art, such as Ammi Phillips’s portrait painting
“Mrs. Mayer and Daughter” (1835-40) and a beautiful grouping
of hand-carved, 19th-century wildfowl decoys.  A sheet-metal, iron and gold-leaf weathervane of a bird (c.
1874), which once topped the barn of a New Jersey shooting
retreat, is elegant and quirky.  Make Time  There are two little dark, moonlit masterpieces by Albert
Pinkham Ryder in a corner. In the small Portraits in Miniature
Gallery, you’ll find, among other gems, Emily Drayton Taylor’s
coin-sized painting on ivory “Eye of Maria Miles Hayward” (c.
1930).  The new galleries are packed with big favorites. Allow
yourself to venture off the beaten path, away from the
grandstanding and into its nooks and crannies, and you will be
rewarded by an astounding range of small treasures, made in
America, newly discovered.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 