-- Weidmann Says ECB Should Resist Pressure to Use ‘Nuclear Option’ in Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/weidmann-says-ecb-should-resist-pressure-to-use-nuclear-option-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said policy makers should resist
pressure to increase government bond purchases in response to
the euro region’s debt crisis.  Some are demanding that the ECB turn to the “bazooka” or
“nuclear option” of “engaging in unlimited government bond
purchases and limiting yields,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s
Bundesbank, said in a speech in Ludwigsburg late yesterday.
“There are a number of legal, economic and political reasons
why we shouldn’t do this,” he said. Such an approach would
violate  European Union law , take away the incentive for
governments to implement fiscal reforms and redistribute losses
within the currency union, Weidmann said.  While the ECB has bought 217 billion euros ($279 billion)
of bonds from distressed member countries since May 2010,
President  Mario Draghi  says the program is temporary, limited
and aimed solely at improving the transmission of interest rates
on financial markets. It’s wrong to compare the ECB with the U.S.
Federal Reserve, Weidmann said.  “The Fed is the central bank of a nation state and not of
a monetary union, in which the financing of governments through
the printing press is forbidden,” he said. In addition, Fed-
style quantitative easing aims to reduce long-term  interest
rates  in a capital market-based financial system and not at
cutting refinancing costs for individual states, Weidmann said.  ECB Independence  In the case of the ECB, “monetary policy would definitely
cross the division line to fiscal policy with a massive
expansion of bond purchases,” Weidmann said. “Central banks
that allow themselves to be manipulated by fiscal policy quickly
risk the legitimacy of their independence.”  Instead, the ECB has provided banks with unlimited
liquidity to keep the banking sector afloat and avoid a credit
crunch. Banks last month borrowed a record 489 billion euros
from the ECB for three years.  “Naturally, risks resulting from this liquidity provision
are increasing,” Weidmann said. “It’s warranted to maintain a
balance.  Monetary policy  mustn’t lose sight of its mandate for
stable prices by taking on excessive risks or acting outside its
mandate.”  Weidmann said postponing fiscal reforms in countries that
are in economic downturns wouldn’t be the right policy response.  “It is undisputed that fiscal consolidation normally has a
dampening impact on the economy,” he said. “In a situation of
a massive confidence crisis, triggered by an excessive increase
of government debt, however, there is no alternative” and “it
shouldn’t be ignored that we are observing adjustment recessions
in some countries of the euro area.”  Fiscal Compact  Weidmann said a new rulebook for budgetary discipline
negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit of EU leaders seeking to create a
“fiscal compact” can make a “helpful contribution” to
overcoming the crisis. “However, preliminary agreements
reaching the public don’t give reason to be hopeful; watering-
down tendencies are unmistakable.”  Weidmann also said the fiscal pact doesn’t justify asking
the ECB to do more. The central bank “has a very clear mandate,
namely guaranteeing  price stability , and strict rules for good
reasons,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s  last week stripped France and  Austria  of
their top credit ratings in a string of downgrades that left
Germany with the region’s only stable AAA rating. S&P said
governments’ crisis-fighting efforts are falling short of what’s
needed.  Credit Ratings  While ratings companies are not to blame for the crisis and
only reflect what is happening, it’s advisable “to attach less
weight to credit ratings and instead increase incentives for
market participants to strengthen their own risk analysis,”
Weidmann said.  S&P also stripped the European Financial Stability Facility
of its AAA rating.  “The loss of the top rating for the euro rescue fund EFSF
in my eyes proves one more time that there are limits to solving
the crisis with more and more money,” Weidmann said.  The Bundesbank expects the German economy,  Europe ’s largest,
to stagnate in the first quarter and gross domestic product may
have contracted in the final quarter of last year, Weidmann said.
Economic momentum should return in the course of 2012 as
domestic demand increases, providing the basis for a long and
broad-based economic upswing, he added.  The Bundesbank forecasts growth of 0.6 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2013, Weidmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  