-- Wells Fargo Couldn’t ‘Care Less’ If Investment Bank Climbs League Tables
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-18T18:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/wells-fargo-chief-could-care-less-if-investment-bank-climbs-league-table.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is overtaking
competitors in the ranks of  investment banking  and capital
markets, and its leader says he couldn’t “care less.”  “We think of investment banking or capital markets as
another product, another arrow we have in our quiver,” Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said during a conference call
yesterday in response to an analyst’s question. “I’m not driven
by league tables around here.”  Wells Fargo, the most valuable U.S. lender, is bolstering
the investment-banking unit acquired as part of the  takeover  of
Wachovia Corp. in 2008. In interviews and conference calls,
executives of the San Francisco-based lender say they will build
the business differently than Wall Street rivals, focusing on
customers and avoiding some of the industry’s riskier practices.  “We wouldn’t compete for business just to advance in the
league tables, which is a business strategy for other firms,”
said John Shrewsberry, head of the lender’s investment bank and
 capital-markets  business. “The market-share numbers reflect
what’s recently been going on with customers. Where you end up
on that list is a byproduct, not an end to itself.”  Even so, the company highlighted a gain in market share
when reporting fourth-quarter profit yesterday. The firm reaped
5.1 percent of the U.S. investment-banking fees in 2011, up from
4.2 percent in 2010, Wells Fargo said yesterday in a statement,
citing Dealogic data. Fourth-quarter profit rose 20 percent from
a year earlier to $4.11 billion.  Capital Markets  The company also said the capital-markets business helped
bolster fourth-quarter noninterest income, which climbed 6.9
percent from the preceding three-month period to $9.71 billion.
Trading gains fell 19 percent to $430 million from a year
earlier.  Wells Fargo advanced 0.6 percent to $30 at 12:45 p.m. in
New York trading. The company became the most valuable  U.S. bank 
even after its stock fell 11 percent last year as most rivals
declined more. It had a market value of $157.3 billion through
yesterday, compared with $132.6 billion for JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the biggest U.S. lender by assets.  Wells Fargo is hiring bankers and moving into new business
lines. The lender hired about two dozen investment bankers from
Citadel LLC in August, and in October it hired Cronin McTigue to
head the sales and trading functions of the so-called liquid-
products desk, which trades U.S. Treasuries.  Fourth-Quarter Results  Investment-banking hurt fourth-quarter results at other
U.S. lenders. Citigroup Inc., excluding its repayment of a
government bailout in the last quarter of 2009, joined New York-
based JPMorgan in posting its lowest revenue since the height of
the 2008 financial crisis as trading slumped. Citigroup said
about 25 percent of 5,000 jobs cuts, or about 1,250 people,
would come from its securities-and-banking unit.  Figures from the league tables or market-share data may
give analysts and investors a way to monitor the unit’s growth.
 Nancy Bush , an analyst and contributing editor at SNL Financial,
a bank-research firm in Charlottesville,  Virginia , used the
conference call to press Wells Fargo about its expansion plans.  “League tables obviously do not drive that company,” Bush
said in a subsequent phone interview. “But here’s the question:
For a company like theirs that is primarily a regional bank,
albeit one that operates in just about every region of the
country, how much capital markets do you need? This quarter they
got up to 5 percent. At 10 percent do you then self-identify as
a capital markets bank?”  The bank ranked 21st in U.S. mergers and acquisitions last
year, advising on 31 deals valued at $27.6 billion, while
ranking 12th in U.S. debt underwriting, with 1,824 deals valued
at $53.1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We don’t have a goal saying we want investment banking or
capital markets to be X percent of our earnings or our
revenue,” Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan said in a phone
interview. “Important for us is don’t look at the league tables
and focus on the opportunities where we can gain share and can
help customers succeed and then it’ll take care of itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  