-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Unexpectedly Decreased in December
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-18T13:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fall.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in December, consistent with the  Federal
Reserve ’s assessment that inflation remains tame.  The producer price  index  fell 0.1 percent, the second
decrease in the past three months, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.1 percent
gain, according to the  median  estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The core measure excluding volatile food and energy rose
0.3 percent as the cost of light trucks climbed.  Cooling global demand, which has reduced the cost of
commodities and hurt profits at companies like aluminum producer
 Alcoa Inc. (AA) , signals price pressures may dissipate. Less
inflation offers Fed officials room for more policy steps should
they need to boost the world’s largest economy.  “Price pressures will continue to moderate,” said  Ryan
Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who projected the decline in PPI.
“Inflation is not an immediate concern for the Fed.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent to 1,292.8 at 8:43 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities 
were little changed.  The median estimate for producer prices was based on
forecasts from 74 economists. Projections ranged from a decline
of 0.3 percent to an increase of 0.8 percent. The index rose 0.3
percent in November.  Survey Results  Core wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.1 percent
for a second month, the Bloomberg survey showed.  For all of 2011, companies paid 4.8 percent more for goods,
the biggest annual gain since 2007. The core index increased 3
percent in the 12 months ended in December, the most since 2008.  The drop in the PPI was led by 0.8 percent decreases in
both food and energy. The cost of vegetables plunged 11 percent
and gasoline prices declined 2.3 percent, the report showed.  About 30 percent of the increase in core prices in December
was attributable to a 0.9 percent gain in the cost of light
trucks, the report said.  Price pressures cooled all the way down the  production
line , according to today’s data. The cost of intermediate goods
dropped 0.5 percent reflecting decreases in chemicals, food and
energy. Crude prices fell 1.1 percent on lower costs for food,
including corn, hogs and cattle.  Raw Materials   Some producers are hurting from the lack of pricing power.
Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, on Jan. 9 reported
its first quarterly loss in more than two years after prices for
the lightweight metal tumbled. Aluminum fell in 2011 with the
benchmark three-month price in London averaging 11 percent lower
in the fourth quarter than a year earlier.  Inflation and pressures to raise prices “were very
limited” at the end of last year, the Fed said in its Beige
Book anecdotal business survey released on Jan. 11. Several
district banks reported that “upward price pressures from
rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,” it
said.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department, while the cost of living
index, due tomorrow, is the broadest of the three measures. The
 consumer price index , due tomorrow, rose 0.1 percent in December
after being little changed the prior month, according to the
median estimate in the Bloomberg survey.  The cost of goods imported into the U.S. fell in December
for the fourth time in the past five months, Labor Department
data showed last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  