-- Two Hedge Fund Employees Said in Custody in Insider Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-18T13:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/two-hedge-fund-employees-said-to-be-in-custody-in-insider-trading-probe.html
Two people are in custody in the
U.S. probe of  insider trading  at hedge funds and another two,
including Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson,
are to surrender to authorities later today, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Todd Newman of Diamondback Capital Management LLC was
arrested in the Boston area today by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the arrests haven’t been made public. Another
person was picked up in New York and a fourth is going to turn
himself in today, according to the person.  Securities fraud charges stemming from the probe will be
announced today by the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , the person said.  Bharara’s office has charged at least 56 people with
insider-trading and more than 50 have pleaded guilty or been
convicted after trial since 2009. They included Galleon Group
LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was convicted in May and is
serving 11 years in prison.  Not at Home  When FBI agents this morning sought to arrest Chiasson at
his Manhattan home, they discovered that he had already left,
said the person. FBI agents encountered Wall Street Journal
reporters at the building, the person said. Adrienne Senatore, a
spokeswoman for the FBI’s New York office, declined to comment
on the arrests or Chiasson’s absence from his home.   Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment 
on the attempted arrest.  On Nov. 22, 2010, FBI agents from New York and Boston
executed search warrants at the offices of Level Global and
Diamondback, hedge funds founded by former employees of SAC
Capital Advisors LP.  Level Global told clients last February that it was
shutting, eight years after David Ganek and Chiasson founded the
hedge fund, because of the U.S. probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 