-- AMR 65-Year-Old Female Flier in Custody After Bringing Gun on Dallas Plane
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-01-18T21:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/woman-boards-amr-plane-with-gun.html
A 65-year-old passenger was charged
with a felony after boarding an American Airlines flight with a
gun in her handbag and passing through security screening at the
Dallas-Fort Worth airport, authorities said.  The loaded .38-caliber revolver was spotted during an X-ray
check of the bag, Greg Soule, a spokesman for the  Transportation
Security Administration , said in an interview. The woman took
the bag from the conveyor and left the security area before the
TSA could notify police, he said. Soule declined to elaborate.  The woman passed through security at about 6:30 a.m. and
was taken into custody about 8 a.m., after the plane from  AMR
Corp (AAMRQ) .’s American taxied back to the terminal, an airport
spokesman, David Magana, said today in a statement. The woman is
from Little Elm,  Texas , and was charged with a third-degree
weapons felony under state law and released this afternoon,
Magana said. Police are withholding her name for now, he said.  “This is not a typical, exploitable weakness and the
reality is that we have human beings in this system and they can
be distracted,” said John Nance, a former commercial and Air
Force pilot who runs the safety consulting company John Nance &
Associates in University Place,  Washington .  “It’s less a matter of ‘Oh my god, we had a breach and the
whole system is wrong’ than this being a reason to review things
and find out if there are chinks in the armor that we can
improve,” Nance said.  Police Called  When TSA officers realized the woman had left the screening
area, they called airport police and reviewed closed-circuit
video to get a description of her, Soule said.  Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport police swept all
five terminals during the search for the woman, and 10 flights
were delayed by about 25 minutes while shuttle trains bypassed
the terminal where the incident occurred, Magana said in the
statement.  Soule and Magana declined to say why officials didn’t
evacuate and re-screen all passengers in the terminal, or why
passengers weren’t prevented from getting on planes during the
search for the weapon.  The woman was on  American Airlines (AMR)  Flight 2385 bound for
Houston with 128 passengers and five crew members, and the MD-80
jet had pushed away from the gate when it was recalled, said Ed Martelle, a spokesman for the Fort Worth-based carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  