-- World Bank Cuts Global Growth Forecast as Euro Region Contracts: Economy
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-18T05:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/world-bank-cuts-global-growth-outlook-as-europe-threatens-emerging-markets.html
The World Bank cut its global growth
forecast by the most in three years, saying that a recession in
the euro region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in emerging
markets such as India and  Mexico .  The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based
institution said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain. The
U.S. growth outlook was cut to 2.2 percent from 2.9 percent.  “Even achieving these much weaker outturns is very
uncertain,” the World Bank said in its Global Economic
Prospects  report  released today in Asia and yesterday in the
U.S. “The downturn in  Europe  and weaker growth in developing
countries raises the risk that the two developments reinforce
one another, resulting in an even weaker outcome.”  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, reported today
that foreign direct investment declined in December by the most
since July 2009, underscoring the  World Bank ’s warning that
developing economies should “prepare for the worst.”  Home
prices  fell in 52 of 70 cities in December from November,
statistics bureau data showed.  Turmoil in European still has the potential to trigger a
global financial crisis reminiscent of 2008, according to the
World Bank.  Muddling Through  The lender’s growth forecast assumes that the euro
countries “muddle through,” Justin Lin, the World Bank’s chief
economist, said in Beijing. If they fail to do so, with
conditions in three or four of the nations deteriorating and
the  capital market  freezing up, “the downturn is likely to be
longer and deeper than the last one,” with no country spared,
he said.  The estimated global expansion would compare with growth of
2.7 percent in 2011 and 4.1 percent in 2010, and a contraction
of 2.3 percent in 2009, the World Bank estimates. The revision
is the largest since January 2009, when the lender cut its
global estimate for that year by 2.1 percentage points.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index rose 0.4 percent as of 2:41
p.m. in  Tokyo . on signs of strength within the global economy. A
U.S. Federal Reserve report showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded at the fastest pace in nine months, while German
investor confidence jumped the most on record and South Korean
department store sales gained at the fastest pace in eight
months.  U.S., European Reports  In reports due today, producer prices in the U.S. probably
rose 0.1 percent in December from the previous month and
industrial production increased 0.5 percent, according to the
median estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. In
Europe, U.K. unemployment probably held at 8.3 percent and  Italy 
will release trade figures for November.  “Despite the significant measures that have been taken,
the possibility of a further escalation of the crisis in Europe
cannot be ruled out,” the World Bank said.  The MSCI All-Country World Index declined 9.4 percent last
year, the first drop since 2008, as Europe’s debt crisis and
slowing economic expansion worldwide weighed on investor demand
for riskier assets.  The World Bank sees a global expansion of 3.1 percent in
2013, 0.5 percentage point lower than previously forecast.  “Some of the big  developing countries  that have been the
motor of growth in the post 2008-2009 period now have slowed,”
 Andrew Burns , who heads the World Bank’s global macroeconomics
team, told reporters on a conference call. A report yesterday
showed that  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the final three
months of last year, the least in 10 quarters, on tightening
measures and weakness in exports.  ‘Desirable’ Slowdowns  Decelerating growth in these countries is mostly the result
of domestic policies such as higher  interest rates , which were
“engineered, desirable because these countries were
overheating” Burns said.  High-income economies are now seen growing 1.4 percent this
year, down from a June estimate of 2.7 percent. That compares
with 5.4 percent in emerging economies, including nations from
 Indonesia  to  South Africa , which  in June  were forecast to grow
at a 6.2 percent pace.  Still,  emerging markets  are also feeling the pinch of the
financial turmoil in the 17-nation euro area, according to the
report. Developing economies’ stock markets had lost 8.5 percent
of their value by early January compared with their level at the
end of July, it said. In the second half of 2011, gross capital
flows to these countries fell to 55 percent of the level in the
year-earlier period.  Vulnerable Nations  Emerging markets are more vulnerable than in 2008 to a
renewed global crisis because rich nations wouldn’t have the
fiscal resources they had back then to support their economies,
the World Bank said. Developing countries, whose deficits have
also widened, should engage in contingency planning to have the
necessary fiscal leeway if need be, it said.  “Should conditions in high-income countries deteriorate
and a second global crisis materializes, developing countries
will find themselves operating in a much weaker global economy,
with much less abundant capital, less vibrant trade
opportunities and weaker financial support for both private and
public activity,” the World Bank said in the report.  Slower global expansion is already showing through softer
trade figures and lower commodity prices, according to the World
Bank, which was established after World War II to fight poverty
and offers financial and technical assistance to countries.  The 2012 forecast for  Japan  was cut to 1.9 percent growth
from 2.6 percent in June. The World Bank said it estimates that
the euro region entered recession in the fourth quarter.  China’s growth  will slow to 8.4 percent this year, the same
as an interim revised projection released in November. It cut
 India ’s 2012 forecast by 1.9 percentage point to 6.5 percent.  The Bank also explored the impact on the rest of the world
of a more severe European crisis. Global growth could be 3.8
percent lower than now forecast this year in such a situation,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  