-- Pachinko Mogul Okada Presses Wynn Resorts Fight With Proposed Board Slate
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-01-18T22:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/wynn-resorts-former-vice-chairman-okada-submits-nominees-for-board-vote.html
Kazuo Okada, the pachinko
billionaire suing  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  for access to spending
records, submitted four nominees to the board of the casino and
hotel company, escalating a fight with founder  Stephen Wynn .  Okada’s Aruze USA Inc. proposed three candidates for
election at the 2012 shareholder meeting, according to a
regulatory  filing  today. The investor proposed a fourth nominee
in the event Elaine Wynn doesn’t stand for re-election. None of
them was named in the filing.  An agreement requires Stephen Wynn, chairman and chief
executive officer, to vote the  stake  he and his ex-wife hold in
favor of Okada’s slate, according to the filing. The CEO and his
former spouse own almost 16 percent of Wynn, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Okada, chairman of the Japanese company
 Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , controls 20 percent.  Samanta Stewart, a Wynn Resorts spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone request for comment  Wynn, the Las Vegas-based owner of the namesake and Encore
resorts, gained 4.4 percent to $116.81 at the close in  New York .
The stock rose 6.4 percent last year. The company held its last
annual meeting in May 2011.  Okada, whose net worth was estimated to be $2.1 billion by
Forbes magazine, sued Wynn last week in Nevada court, seeking
access to spending records. The investor, 69, opposed Wynn
Resorts’ HK$1 billion ($129 million) pledge in July 2011 to the
University of Macau Development Foundation, the complaint said.  Wynn Resorts said the dispute stemmed from Okada’s decision
to compete with the company by pursuing projects in the
 Philippines . Okada was removed as vice chairman after
admonishments from the board over the plan, Wynn said in an e-
mailed statement last week.  The company also claims Okada implied Wynn would
participate “in projects that the company had made firm
decisions to avoid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  