-- Xilinx Shares Jump After Quarterly Profit, Sales Exceed Analyst Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/xilinx-shares-jump-after-quarterly-profit-sales-exceed-analyst-estimates.html
Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) , a maker of programmable
chips used in mobile-phone base stations, rose as much as 8.5
percent in late trading yesterday after new products helped
generate more sales and profit than analysts had estimated.  Excluding some items, fiscal third-quarter profit was 41
cents a share, the  San Jose , California-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Sales were $511.1 million in the
period, which ended Dec. 31. Analysts had projected earnings of
37 cents a share and revenue of $496.5 million on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While third-quarter sales were hurt by weaker demand from
makers of communications equipment, the company is getting
strong growth from its newer products, said Chief Executive
Officer Moshe Gavrielov. The explosive growth of smartphones
should prompt carriers to buy more mobile-phone systems by later
this year, reversing a slump in that market, he said.  “These phones generate huge, huge bandwidth demand,”
Gavrielov said on a conference call. Networks have “to be
upgraded. Otherwise, people will revolt against the fact that
their phones, while flashy, can’t be used for anything.”  The  stock  rose as high as $38.30 in late trading following
the announcement. The shares, up 11 percent in the past year,
had gained 5.9 percent to $35.30 at the close in  New York .  Xilinx and rival  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , also based in San Jose,
dominate the market for chips that can be reprogrammed after
they’ve been installed in electronic devices. The use of their
products, traditionally limited to expensive communications and
industrial machinery, is spreading to new areas, such as
automobiles and consumer electronics.  Xilinx predicted that sales will rise 2 percent to 6
percent in the current period from the preceding three months.
That indicates revenue of as much as $541.8 million, compared
with an average analyst estimate of $505.7 million. Gross
margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after deducting the
cost of production, will be 64 percent to 65 percent. Analysts
had projected a margin of about 64 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  