-- My IPad’s Ringing, Plus More New-Tablet Tips: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-01-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/my-ipad-s-ringing-plus-more-new-tablet-tips-rich-jaroslovsky.html
     Jan. 19 (Bloomberg) - It’s a few weeks since Christmas, and
the novelty of that new iPad or Android tablet may be wearing
off. You’ve already watched a  Netflix (NFLX)  movie, played “Angry
Birds” and maybe even downloaded an e-book or two from
 Amazon.com (AMZN)  or Apple’s iBooks. What next?  Here are three things you might not be aware you can do with
your new tablet:  USE IT AS A TELEPHONE: If you want to place a video call
over a Wi-Fi connection, you’ve got a lot of options, including
Microsoft’s Skype and, for iPad users, Apple’s FaceTime. But
suppose you want to make and receive voice calls, and not just
with other Internet-connected devices but with traditional
phones as well?  You could set up a  Google (GOOG)  Voice account, which comes with
its own phone number, and download its app -- which in the case
of the iPad means an iPhone app blown up to twice its usual
size.  A more elegant solution is  Line2 , an app from the cleverly
named Toktumi, a  San Francisco  company. For less than $10 a
month, Line2 converts your iPad or Android device into a fully
functioning phone with its own number, voicemail and a host of
advanced features.  It works not only over Wi-Fi but also 3G and 4G wireless
data networks -- giving you voice service any place and in any
way your tablet can connect.  Multiple Devices  Even better, the service is transferable from device to
device. Put the app on your phone too, and you’ve now got a
second, fully integrated line you can use for business or in
other situations where you don’t want to give out your personal
number. Toktumi also provides software to let you place and
receive calls on your Line2 number from Windows PCs and Macs.  Line2 for Android provides a seven-day free trial before
the $9.95 monthly fee kicks in. For the iPad, the company,
prodded by  Apple (AAPL) , is in the process of moving to a “freemium”
model, with a no-cost level for calls with other Line2 users and
a paid service for everyone else.  You’ll also want to invest in a Bluetooth headset. You’d
look awfully silly holding an iPad to your ear.  RUN WINDOWS AND MICROSOFT OFFICE: Several apps allow you to
create, open and manipulate Microsoft Office files on a tablet,
such as Documents To Go from Blackberry maker  Research In
Motion (RIM) , Quickoffice and, for iPad users, Apple’s iWork suite.
LogMeIn Ignition allows you to view and control a specific
Windows PC over an Internet connection, while  Citrix (CTXS)  Receiver is
aimed at enterprise users.  Free Windows  Now OnLive, a  Palo Alto , California-based online game
service, has launched an app called  OnLive Desktop  that puts a
fully functional version of Windows 7, plus  Microsoft (MSFT)  Word,
Excel and PowerPoint, on your iPad -- all for free.  The Microsoft programs aren’t actually installed on your
tablet. Rather, they are running on OnLive’s servers, to which
you connect over the Internet. You’ll need a Wi-Fi connection,
where the programs run smoothly; while you can occasionally
squeeze in a few minutes over 3G, you can’t count on it.  The documents you create are stored on OnLive’s servers;
sharing them with other computers, or uploading documents
created elsewhere, is managed via the OnLive website. The free
app provides 2 gigabytes of storage, and OnLive says a coming
$10-a-month service will provide 50 gigabytes, plus the ability
to add and run more Windows programs. Enterprise and Android
versions are also in the works.  Wireless Keyboard  OnLive Desktop uses a touch-friendly version of Windows 7;
an on-screen keyboard also is available. You’ll almost
certainly, though, want to use it with a Bluetooth wireless
keyboard. It may now be possible to imagine The Great American
Novel being written on an iPad - but not via fingers-on-glass.  ENTERTAINMENT REMOTE CONTROL: Here’s perhaps the only area
where some Android tablets are easier to use than iPads.  Most TVs are being sold with some ability to put them onto
a home network, either with built-in Wi-Fi or an adapter port.
Connecting your TV to a network means, among many other things,
that you may be able to control it with an app on your Wi-Fi-
connected device. Millions of TVs, though, don’t live on Wi-Fi
networks. Owners rely on the infrared technology in traditional
remote controls to change channels and adjust the volume.  Built-In Transmitter  Unlike the iPad, some Android tablets have a built-in IR
transmitter, allowing them to function as universal remote
controls for TVs and home-entertainment gear right out of the
box. Probably the best I’ve seen is the  Tablet S  from  Sony (6758) ,
which includes an app that mimics the functions of the company’s
high-end standalone remotes, including controlling non-Sony
gear. Other Android tablets with IR blasters include Vizio’s
 Vtab  and  Samsung (005930) ’s  Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus .  If you have an iPad, or a non-IR-equipped Android tablet,
your best bet is a device that uses a Wi-Fi or Bluetooth
connection to your tablet and translates its commands into IR
instructions. One that I’ve used is the  Peel Fruit , which is
currently on sale for $79; other products that perform similar
functions include  Logitech (LOGN) ’s $100  Harmony Link  and  Griffin
Technology ’s $70 Beacon.  Whatever you use, there’s one huge advantage to using a
tablet over a traditional remote: little risk of losing it in
the sofa cushions.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 