-- Yuan Forwards Gain to Four-Month High on Fixing, QFII Report
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-01-18T10:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-18/yuan-fluctuates-on-lower-foreign-investment-qfii-boost-report.html
Yuan forwards climbed to a four-
month high as the central bank raised the currency’s daily
reference rate and on a report that foreigners may be allowed to
pump more funds into Chinese debt and stocks.  The People’s Bank of  China  set the yuan’s fixing 0.07
percent stronger at 6.3205 per dollar. The government may more
than double the combined quota for its qualified foreign
institutional investor program from $30 billion, the China
Business News reported today, citing an unidentified person
close to regulators. Gross domestic product rose 8.9 percent
from a year earlier in the fourth quarter, more than the 8.7
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists,
official data showed yesterday.  “China’s fundamentals are still solid to allow some yuan
appreciation,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Greater China
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The
risk of a hard landing in China is diminishing.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.48 percent
to 6.2758 per dollar as of 5:44 p.m. in  Hong Kong . That’s the
strongest level since Sept. 2 and the biggest daily rise in more
than two weeks. The contracts traded at a 0.6 percent premium to
the onshore spot rate.  The yuan advanced 0.05 percent to close at 6.3120 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It is allowed to trade as much as 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing. In Hong Kong’s offshore market,
the currency advanced 0.15 percent to 6.2858, the strongest
level since trading started in July 2010.  FDI Drops  The GDP figures were a “blow” to those predicting a
“hard landing” for the Chinese economy,  Jim O’Neill , chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Foreign-direct investment  in China fell 12.7 percent in
December from a year earlier following a 9.8 percent decrease
the previous month, the Ministry of Commerce said today.  China announced amendments to policies to attract foreign
funds last month, changes that may weigh on spending in some
industries this year.  Europe ’s debt crisis and anticipated
weaker growth in the U.S. may also limit investment, with
central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan warning this month a global
downturn could lead to “large” capital outflows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  