-- Airport Seeks Incheon’s Help for Global Rank: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-03T18:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/airport-seeks-incheon-s-help-for-global-rank-corporate-india.html
Airports Authority of India, the
nation’s biggest manager of the facilities, is seeking partners
to help improve service quality in the world’s second-fastest
growing air travel market.  The New Delhi-based state-run agency has had “initial
discussions,” with companies that run Seoul, Singapore and
Zurich airports, V.P. Agrawal, chairman of Airports Authority,
said in an interview. Incheon International Airport Corp.’s
Seoul facility was named the world’s  best airport  for service
quality for a fifth straight year in 2011 by  Airports Council
International , an industry group. Changi Airports International
Pte.’s Singapore facility was second.  A partner will help the operator of 97 percent of the civil
facilities in India, which ranked below Ethiopia and Namibia in
the  World Economic Forum ’s 2012  score  for quality of air
transport infrastructure, prepare for a targeted 54 percent jump
in passenger traffic by 2017. International Air Transport
Association forecasts air travel in India will rise 13 percent
by 2016 making it the fastest growing market after  Kazakhstan .  “It boils down to the quality of operations and
maintenance which makes or mars an airport,” said Amber Dubey,
partner at consultancy KPMG.  “AAI has already built the
assets, now it’s a matter of maintaining them in a nice way and
increasing the level of service.”  Airports Authority, which ran facilities termed
“prehistoric” by  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ’s Chairman Emeritus N.R.
Narayana Murthy in 2004, will publish global tenders seeking
minority partners for its latest facilities in Chennai and
Kolkata, after the agency’s board approves the proposal, Agrawal
said.  Airport Infrastructure  India ranks higher than  South Korea  and  Taiwan  in terms of
airport infrastructure, while the two North Asian nations have
better quality, according to the WEF’s Competitiveness Report.  “It’ll be fantastic because the ownership remains with the
government and India gets a chance to see world-class service,”
said Dubey. “The quality of airports will definitely go up.”  The world’s second-most populous nation is building
airports that can handle 370 million passengers by 2017, from
240 million last year. Airports Authority, which operated 125
airports last year, opened the terminals in Chennai and Kolkata
last month.  Asia ’s third-largest economy needs about $12.2 billion
investments in airport infrastructure in the five years to 2017,
according to the Planning Commission, an agency that designs
five-year economic and social programs. In comparison,  China 
requires $46.2 billion in the 10 years through 2020, according
to an Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
report on transport infrastructure needs.  No Opportunities  Still, Fraport AG, the operator of  Frankfurt  airport, said
in June it’s in talks to sell its 10 percent stake in  New Delhi 
airport as its Indian operating license expires and the company
doesn’t see new opportunities materializing.  Fraport can sell its stake only after May 2013, according
to a Nov. 5 statement from partner  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  that
runs Delhi airport. The German company, which operates 13
airports globally, including  Europe ’s third-busiest in
Frankfurt, is part of a group that won a 30-year concession in
2006 to run the airport in India’s capital.  In 2005, Changi partnered India’s Bharti Enterprises Ltd.
and  DLF Ltd. (DLFU)  to bid for modernization of the airports in New
Delhi and  Mumbai . The company opted out of the bidding process
because of concerns over some rules, according to a Civil
Aviation Ministry statement. Incheon and  Flughafen Zurich AG (FHZN) 
weren’t part of the six groups that bid for Delhi and Mumbai
facilities.  Quality Measure  Airports Authority’s selected partners may receive payments
linked to meeting quality targets, Agrawal said. The chairman
will be measuring user satisfaction from passing through the
airport, interaction with employees, cleanliness among other
attributes, he said. The Airports Council measures waiting time
at immigration, security and availability of baggage carts among
others for service quality.  “If the partners help us achieve a ranking of 4.5 and
above in user satisfaction, I’ll consider the job done,” he
said. “The best airports manage a score of only 4.9.”  Changi doesn’t comment on market speculation, the company
said in response to e-mailed questions about talks with Airports
Authority. Officials in Incheon couldn’t be reached outside of
regular working hours.  India  currently has four airports that are controlled by
private builders, in the cities of New Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad
and Bangalore.  Second-Best Operator  Delhi International Airport Ltd. , run by GMR Group, was
named the world’s second-best operator for airports handling
25-40 million passengers in 2011 by Airports Council. Mumbai
International Airport Ltd. was named the third-best in the same
category.  Incheon, which operates South Korea’s busiest gateway, has
been attempting to buy stakes in operators overseas.  It was among seven companies that passed qualification
evaluation to bid for Myanmar’s new airport project, Korea
Economic Daily reported on Jan. 6. The company last year made a
failed approach for BAA Ltd.’s Edinburgh airport in Scotland.  Improving the quality of transport infrastructure is part
of the requirement to achieve high growth by 2017, the Planning
Commission said in its five-year program document. Efforts are
on to empower consumers to demand quality services, according to
the panel.  Improved service quality may also lure more travelers and
help airlines including  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) ,  which posted
profit just twice in the past eight quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  