-- Taiwan Keeping Perng at Central Bank Suggests Stability
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g ,   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-02-04T01:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/taiwan-keeping-perng-at-central-bank-suggests-currency-stability.html
Taiwan ’s re-appointment of its top
central banker to a fourth term will likely mean continued
stability for the island’s currency and protection for exporters.  The decision, announced late Feb. 1, came three days after
Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) Governor Perng Fai-Nan reiterated the authority would intervene to offset any
“disorderly movements” in the market for the local dollar.  The move bolsters President Ma Ying-jeou’s efforts to
strengthen an economy that grew in 2012 at the slowest pace
since the 2009 global recession. Perng has promoted order in the
currency market as the island’s biggest companies, including
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , compete
with Sony Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co. Exports account for
around two-thirds of Taiwan’s  gross domestic product .  “Perng’s re-appointment is a big help in maintaining
stability in Taiwan’s financial environment,” said Tsung-Sheng
Liu, president of Yuanta Securities Investment Trust Co.,
Taiwan’s biggest money manager. “Now that the uncertainty is
gone before the Lunar New Year holiday, we’re bullish about
Taiwan stocks.”  The Chinese holiday is next week. Taiwan’s benchmark stock
index, the  Taiex (TWSE) , rose 0.4 percent to 7,885.53, a sixth day of
gains. The dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to NT$29.593,
snapping a three-day decline. The currency has weakened 1.8
percent against its U.S. counterpart in 2013.  Export Competitiveness  The central bank has sold the local currency near the close
on most days in the past 10 months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified. Under Perng’s 15 years at the helm
so far, the Taiwan dollar gained about 10 percent against its
U.S. counterpart, less than half the 22 percent appreciation of
 Asian currencies , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morris Chang, chairman of TSMC, the world’s biggest
contract manufacturer of chips, said at a forum Jan. 11 that the
government should let the Taiwan dollar depreciate further to
aid competitiveness, according to a Formosa Television report.  Taiwan’s exports rose 9 percent in December from a year
earlier after falling in eight of the 12 months. Export orders,
an indicator of shipments in the next one to three months,
climbed 8.5 percent from a year ago, a fourth straight month of
gains, government data showed.  The governor’s extension to a new five-year term from the
end of February was confirmed by presidential spokesman Fan-
Chiang Tai-chi. The government yesterday also named former
deputy transport minister Chang Chia-Juch Minister of Economic
Affairs as part of an executive branch personnel shake-up as Ma
battles a 14 percent approval rating.  Crisis Aftermath  Chang is chairman of Taiwan-based  China  Airlines Ltd. and
succeeds Shih Yen-shiang, who has led the ministry since
September 2009, the Cabinet said in a statement late yesterday.
Chang, who was Vice Minister of Transportation and
Communications for a decade until 2005, took over as chairman of
the island’s biggest carrier in January 2011, and is also a
former chairman of China Steel Corp.  Minister Without Portfolio Kuan Chung-Ming, 56, will lead
the Council for Economic Planning and Development, taking over
from Yiin Chii-ming, according to the Cabinet. Premier Sean Chen
resigned on health and family grounds, and will be replaced by
Vice Premier Jiang Yi-Huah, presidential spokesman Fan-Chiang
Tai-chi said Feb. 1.  Perng was appointed in February 1998 by President Lee Teng- hui after Governor Sheu Yuan-dong died in an airplane crash. The
holder of a doctorate in law from the University of Minnesota
helped guide Taiwan’s lenders through the aftermath of the 1997-
1998 financial crisis in Asia, in part by cutting reserve
requirements for banks to deal with bad loans.  Offshore Yuan  While the governor led Taiwan through those difficulties
and helped stabilize the currency, his policies have also
contributed to a surge in real estate prices, according to Wu
Hui-lin, a research fellow at Chung-hua Institution for Economic
Research in Taipei.  “The central bank’s currency-stabilizing policy has
released a lot of money into the financial system over the years,
contributing to the build-up of a property bubble,” Wu said.  M2 money supply , the broadest measure of money in the
financial system, has surged more than two-fold since 1998,
while the overnight money-market rate, which measures funding
availability among banks, slumped to less than 0.4 percent from
7 percent. Housing prices in Taipei, the seat of Taiwan’s
government, have more than doubled since 2000 and reached a
record high last year, according to  Sinyi Realty Co. (9940)   Systemic Stability  Taiwan’s central bank has held  interest rates  steady since
June 2011 as the export-dependent economy struggled with weaker
demand for its electronic goods. Gross domestic product 3.42
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, compared with
0.98 percent in the previous three-month period.  Perng has led the monetary authority’s efforts to implement
a cross-strait agreement signed in August, allowing for
interbank trading of mainland China’s currency on the island,
creating a new exchange rate for offshore  yuan . Taiwan lenders
can start conducting yuan business as early as Feb. 6, China’s
official Xinhua News Agency said on Jan. 31.  The governor “has an incredible record of pre-empting
crisis and reassuring the markets,” said Wai Ho Leong, a
Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc. “He’s done an
excellent job of managing the growth-inflation trade-off and has
maintained systemic stability.”  Perng told lawmakers in December that the governor’s
position “will be my last public job.” He is the longest-
serving central bank governor among Asian economies tracked by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s Zeti Akhtar Aziz, who took charge in May
2000, comes next.  Perng, Zeti, Amando Tetangco of the  Philippines , Glenn
Stevens of  Australia  and  Israel ’s Stanley Fischer received “A”
grades in Global Finance magazine’s annual ranking of the
world’s central bankers last year. They were rated higher than
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and the European Central
Bank’s Mario Draghi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  