-- Harbaugh Mom Wishes for Tie as Sons Compete in NFL Super Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/harbaugh-mom-wishes-for-tie-as-sons-compete-in-nfl-super-bowl.html
Today will be a day of celebration
and disappointment in the Harbaugh household.  For the first time in any of the four major professional
sports leagues in the U.S., two brothers face off as opposing
coaches in a postseason game as John Harbaugh’s Baltimore Ravens
meet Jim Harbaugh’s San Francisco 49ers for the National
Football League championship in New Orleans.  Kickoff is scheduled for 6:30 p.m.  New York  time at the
Superdome, marking the 10th time the game has been played in New
Orleans. While Jackie Harbaugh has joked it would be nice if the
Super Bowl could end in a tie for her sons, the reality is that
the Harbaugh family will experience a full range of emotion when
the final seconds tick off the clock.  “We both want to desperately win and be a part of a
championship,” Jim Harbaugh, who at 49 is 14 months younger
than John, told reporters. “The great thrill of winning is
there, but we understand the other side of that. We’ll do
everything in our power to not let that happen.”  The 49ers are 3 1/2-point favorites to win their record-
tying sixth title, according to Las Vegas oddmakers, who have
predicted the winner in 32 of the previous 46 Super Bowls.  San Francisco is 5-0 in the Super Bowl, with the
franchise’s last appearance after the 1994 season. The Ravens
won their only previous trip in 2001 and have only one player
left from that team, All-Pro linebacker Ray Lewis, who has said
he’s retiring from the NFL after this season.  The ‘Harbowl’  Jim Harbaugh is in his second season with the 49ers and his
27 wins are tied for the third most for any coach over his first
two seasons in the NFL. John Harbaugh’s eight postseason wins
with Baltimore are tied with Tom Flores for the most by a coach
in his first five NFL seasons. The brothers held a joint news
conference in New Orleans, another first for Super Bowl coaches
two days before the title game, which has received nicknames
such as the “Harbowl” and the “Bro Bowl.”  “Anybody who has a brother, especially one that’s close in
age, gets it,” John said this week. “You just grow up fighting
for everything. You fight for the extra hotdog. You fight for
girls. You fight for everything. We both got our girls, but we
both want a victory this week.”  The Harbaughs last year became the first brothers to face
each other as opposing coaches in a regular-season NFL game,
with John and the Ravens emerging with a 16-6 win in Baltimore
on Thanksgiving Day. After the game, their father Jack said he
first looked in on the Ravens’ celebration and then went into
the 49ers’ somber locker room to console his younger son, saying
it was “where we were needed.”  Family Emotions  “To experience that same emotion, walking across the hall,
is something that I remember and am not looking forward to,”
Jack Harbaugh, whom the brothers credit as the biggest influence
on their coaching careers, said on a conference call.  Jack Harbaugh, 73, was a college football coach for 42
years, completing his career as a running backs coach for
Stanford University in the 2009 Sun Bowl when Jim was the head
coach for the Cardinal. The elder Harbaugh spent the 1961 season
as a defensive back and quarterback for the New York Titans of
the American Football League.  Family members have said they’ll wear neutral colors at the
Superdome today, and some online sports books have set betting
lines on how often “Harbaugh” will be said by  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
broadcasters during the telecast. The over/under for total
number of mentions is 22.5, according to Las Vegas-based
Pregame.com.  “It’s going to be fun,” John Harbaugh said. “But it’s
two teams going against each other. It’s the players, those are
the guys that really deserve the attention. Those are the guys
who have really won the games to get here.”  Both Super Bowl coaches took in-season personnel risks that
proved successful.  Coordinator Change  In Baltimore, the Ravens had a 9-4 record and held a two-
game division lead when offensive coordinator Cam Cameron was
fired and replaced by quarterbacks coach Jim Caldwell. The
Ravens, who had the league’s 18th-ranked offense before the
change, have averaged 30 points a game in playoff wins against
the Indianapolis Colts, Denver Broncos and New England Patriots.  “We needed a little bit of a spark, I think we were
starting to level out maybe a little bit,” Ravens quarterback
 Joe Flacco  said. Caldwell “has done a great job in
transitioning and making it as clean and crisp as possible.”  In San Francisco, the 49ers made a more drastic change,
staying with second-year quarterback Colin Kaepernick over Alex Smith after the former No. 1 overall draft pick recovered from a
concussion.  While Smith had completed an NFL-high 70.2 percent of his
passes for 13 touchdowns and five interceptions in the 49ers’
6-2-1 start, Kaepernick’s playmaking ability as a passer and
runner has reshaped San Francisco’s offense. Kaepernick, who
rushed for an NFL quarterback-record 181 yards in his second
playoff start, now joins Hall of Fame players Joe  Montana  and
Steve Young in guiding the 49ers to a Super Bowl.  ‘Take Advantage’  “The NFL is a business and you have to take advantage of
the opportunity when you have it,” Kaepernick said.  Although only two other Super Bowl quarterbacks have made
fewer regular-season starts than Kaepernick, he’s been listed by
online sports books as the favorite to win the Most Valuable
Player award. With an estimated $10 billion projected to be
wagered on the game worldwide, according to Pregame.com,
bookmakers have even set a line on how long the postgame
handshake and hug between the Harbaugh brothers will last. The
over/under is currently six seconds.  Regardless of which brother’s team wins, John Harbaugh said
they won’t be consoling each other after the game.  “The other guy wouldn’t want to hear it anyway, just move
on to the next one,” he said. “We’ll probably get a good golf
game going sometime in the offseason and that will be good
revenge for somebody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  