-- Stocks Fall Most This Year, Euro Drops; Spain Yields Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-04T21:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/australia-stocks-japan-futures-rise-on-economy-yen-weakens.html
Stocks tumbled the most this year and
the euro slid while Spanish bond yields surged amid renewed
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis. U.S. Treasuries rose, while
oil fell after the longest stretch of weekly gains since 2004.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 1.2 percent to
1,495.71 at 4 p.m. in  New York , falling from a five-year high,
and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed 1.5 percent lower. The
euro declined 0.9 percent to $1.3516, retreating from the
strongest level since November 2011. Spanish 10-year yields
jumped 23 basis points to 5.44 percent and  Italy ’s rates added
14 points.  Ten-year U.S. yields  lost six basis points to 1.96
percent. Oil sank 1.6 percent to $96.17 a barrel, the most in
two months, after capping an eighth straight weekly gain.  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis was renewed as Spanish
Premier  Mariano Rajoy  faced opposition calls to resign amid
contested reports about illegal payments, while Deutsche Bank AG
said this year’s rally in Italian and Spanish bonds may falter
as Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi narrowed the front-runner’s lead
before elections this month. In the U.S., growth in factory
orders trailed economist estimates.  “The market is realizing that there are still substantial
risks out there, especially on the political front,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 London . “The dynamics in  Spain  are devastating because they
have the potential to cause a lot of damage. If in the worst
case we would get a new election in Spain, this would be a real
shocker for the market.”  Market Movers  All  10 groups  in the  S&P 500  fell, sending the benchmark
gauge to its biggest drop since Nov. 14 and trimming its year-
to-date gain to less than 5 percent. Gauges of technology,
consumer-discretionary and financial shares lost more than 1.2
percent to lead declines. Travelers Cos., Merck & Co. and Bank
of America Corp. fell at least 2 percent for the biggest
declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , which retreated
129.71 points to 13,880.08 after climbing above 14,000 last week
for the first time since 2007.  McGraw-Hills Cos. tumbled 14 percent as the U.S. Justice
Department planned to file a civil lawsuit against its  Standard
& Poor’s  unit based on ratings in 2007 of certain collateralized
debt obligations. Moody's Corp. tumbled 11 percent. Wal-Mart 
Stores Inc. fell 1.2 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its
rating on the world’s largest retailer.  “It’s a little bit of a breather,” Joseph Veranth, chief
investment officer at Dana Investment Advisors in Brookfield,
 Wisconsin , said by telephone. The firm manages $3.8 billion.
“In Europe, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese bond yields are up
a bit there and that’s partly causing it. Nevertheless, the
market in the U.S. has been strong since the beginning of the
year and we don’t see a whole lot to change that trend.”  Earnings Season  Thirteen companies in the index are due to report results
today, including Yum! Brands Inc. Of the 259 companies that have
released earnings so far in the reporting season, 73 percent
topped analysts’  profit projections , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Stocks in the world’s developed nations posted the best
start to a year in two decades, a sign the global economy is
poised to accelerate after contractions in  Japan , the U.S. and
Europe, if history is a guide.  The MSCI World Index of stocks in 24 markets rose 5 percent
in January, the most since 1994, as individual investors pumped
record deposits into mutual funds, U.S. profits increased for an
11th quarter, central banks kept  interest rates  at record lows
and growth from Europe to  China  improved. The last two times
stocks gained this much in January, world gross domestic product
expanded at least three times the 2.4 percent that economists
forecast for 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bulls, Bears  While market strategists say that equities have already
recorded most of this year’s gains, bears who predicted declines
at this point in 2012 only to see the S&P 500 close up 13
percent, are being overlooked. Bulls say the rally is just
getting started after U.S. investor sentiment rose to a two-year
high and billionaire  Warren Buffett  offered to buy the parent of
the New York Stock Exchange.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  fell the most since October and trimmed its
2013 advance to 1.5 percent.  Spain’s IBEX 35 Index tumbled 3.8 percent, the most since
September, and Italy’s FTSE MIB Index plunged 4.5 percent in its
biggest slide since August. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest
bank, sank 5.7 percent as Rajoy denied corruption allegations.
UniCredit SpA, the biggest lender in Italy, sank 8.3 percent in
the largest drop since June. Julius Baer Group Ltd. fell 3.1
percent after the wealth manager reported declining revenue
margins.  European Movers  Royal Imtech NV tumbled 48 percent in Amsterdam today, the
biggest drop since at least 1989, as the Dutch provider of
infrastructure for stadiums in last year’s London Olympics
forecast writedowns of at least 100 million euros ($136 million)
because of alleged irregularities at its Polish business.  Swatch
Group AG (UHR) , the largest maker of Swiss timepieces, climbed 5
percent after reporting profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates.  The euro weakened against all 16 major peers, sliding 1.6
percent versus the yen, after completing an eighth consecutive
weekly advance in the five days through Feb. 1. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six major peers,
increased 0.6 percent.  Spain’s 10-year  yield  climbed to the highest level since
December and yields on similar-maturity Italian debt rose 14
basis points to 4.47 percent. The nations’ bonds had positive
returns for six straight months through the end of January,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Market Movers  Strategists from Commerzbank recommend reducing holdings of
Spain’s debt, while analysts at BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank
AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan Stanley also
said the rally in higher-yielding euro-area sovereign bonds may
falter.  The S&P GSCI Index retreated 0.8 percent as 16 of its 24
commodities declined, with coffee, oil and cotton dropping at
least 1.5 percent to lead losses. Platinum futures rose to the
highest in almost 17 weeks as output declined at Anglo American
Platinum Ltd., the world’s biggest producer. Palladium extended
a rally to the highest since September 2011, and gold gained.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost was little changed.
Russia’s Micex Index closed down 0.8 percent as oil declined.
Brazil’s Bovespa index slid 1.3 percent and  India ’s Sensex gauge
lost 0.2 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.4 percent
after China’s service industries grew at the fastest pace since
August, with volumes 31 percent more than the 30-day average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  