-- Australia TD Annual Inflation Rises to Middle of RBA Target
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/australia-td-annual-inflation-rises-to-middle-of-rba-target.html
A private gauge of Australian
inflation advanced to the middle of the central bank’s goal on
costlier fruit, vegetables and utilities, adding to the case for
the central bank to hold rather than cut  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in January from a year
earlier after a 2.4 percent year-on-year increase the prior
month, an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne
Institute released in Sydney today showed. They climbed 0.3
percent from December, when they gained 0.4 percent.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has cut
the overnight cash-rate target by 1.75 percentage points since
Nov. 1, 2011, to 3 percent to stimulate areas of the economy
outside mining, where investment is predicted to peak this year.
Investors are pricing in an 18 percent chance he will ease
monetary policy an additional quarter percentage point at a
board meeting tomorrow.  “Past RBA action has set the stage for a decent revival in
the housing sector to support growth, as the impact of mining
investment fades by year end,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in Singapore, said in a
statement. “The strong Australian dollar has allowed numerous
goods and services to be imported at discount prices.”  Today’s inflation gauge showed fruit and vegetable prices
rose 1.2 percent, while utilities and education costs also
gained. The cost of fuel fell by 0.6 percent, and clothing and
footwear also declined, it showed.  The central bank targets inflation in a range of 2 percent
to 3 percent on average.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  