-- Baidu Travel Site Aims to Double Sales This Year on Mobile App
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-03T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/baidu-travel-site-aims-to-double-sales-this-year-on-mobile-app.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s travel-booking website,
 China ’s biggest, expects to double  sales  this year to about 1
billion  yuan  ($160 million) helped by an expanding middle class
and rising use of its mobile application.  Qunar.com Inc. may generate 20 percent of bookings via
wireless devices this year, compared with less than 15 percent
last year, Chief Executive Officer Zhuang Chenchao said in a Jan.
31 interview in Beijing. The unit’s mobile application was
downloaded more than 25 million times by the end of last year.  The travel site surpassed  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  as
China’s largest internet retailer of airline tickets in the
fourth quarter as its greater use of online bookings helped
lower fares, Zhuang said. Baidu, operator of China’s largest
search engine, bought Qunar in 2011 to tap the country’s growing
travel market and because of competition in its main businesses.  Qunar , which generates most of its revenue through
advertising, will hire “hundreds” of software engineers this
year as it tries to let users do as much as possible online,
Zhuang said.  “If our customers have to call us to speak in person then
it means we have not done a good job,” he said. Qunar, which
means “where to go” in Chinese, handled as many as 150,000
flight reservations a day last month, he said.  Ctrip Bookings  Ctrip, which is more reliant on call-center bookings than
Qunar, said Jan. 25 it will cut about 500 employees as it
overhauls operations. The company had about 9,000 call-center
staff in November. Yu Heping, a Ctrip spokesman in  Shanghai ,
declined to comment on comparisons with Qunar sales.  Qunar has room to grow as only about 15 percent of Chinese
travel bookings are made online, Zhuang said. China’s air-travel
market will also probably be the fastest growing worldwide
through 2014, according to the  International Air Transport
Association , an airline trade body.  The website maintains a 40 percent profit margin at its
air-ticket business because of the use of technology reduces
staffing costs, Zhuang said.  The company expects hotel-related sales to generate 40
percent of revenue this year, up about 10 percentage points from
last year, he said. Most of the rest will come from airline
tickets, he said.  The travel site had been considering an initial public
offering before Baidu bought its $306 million controlling stake.
An IPO will probably still happen eventually, Zhuang said,
without giving a timeframe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  