-- Barclays Finance Director Chris Lucas Said Set to Retire
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-03T17:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/barclays-finance-director-chris-lucas-said-set-to-retire.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Finance Director Chris Lucas, who is under investigation by the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority, is set to step down, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  The retirement of 52-year-old Lucas after almost six years
in his position at the U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets
may be announced in a statement by the London-based bank as soon
as tomorrow, said the people who asked not to be identified as
the information is confidential.  Lucas was one of four past and present employees at
Barclays who were being investigated by the FSA as part of an
inquiry into whether the bank adequately disclosed fees it
agreed to pay to the Qatar Investment Authority as it sought to
raise money from investors including the sovereign-wealth fund.
His departure follows that of the bank’s three top executives
who stepped down last year after the bank was fined 290 million
pounds ($455 million) for manipulating the Libor benchmark
interest rate. It leaves investment banking head  Rich Ricci  as
one of the last surviving members of the old management.  After the departure of  Robert Diamond  as Chief Executive
Officer, Marcus Agius as chairman and Jerry del Missier as chief
operating officer, “this is a complete clearing of the stables,
and it will be interesting to see who they hire,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based banking analyst at
Mediobanca SpA who rates Barclays “outperform”. “Will it be
someone squeaky clean, or someone punchy who will develop the
business?”  Bid Rejected  Lucas was one of the employees whose bid to prevent their
names from being published ahead of a trial into Libor-
manipulation was rejected by Judge Julian Flaux in  London  last
month.  The Financial Times also last week reported that regulators
are examining allegations that Barclays loaned money to invest
in the bank’s own shares during the financial crisis.  The bank is seeking to hire recruitment consultants to
replace Lucas, said one of the people.  CEO Antony Jenkins is scheduled to update investors on the
bank’s strategy on Feb. 12.  When a successor is found, there could be a risk of the new
finance director “kitchen sinking” and writing down assets,
said Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London who rates Barclays a hold. “But I doubt the market will
be very surprised” at Lucas’s departure, he said.  A spokesman for Barclays declined to comment today when
contacted today by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  