-- Barclays Finance Director Lucas, Chief Counsel to Retire
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-04T15:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/barclays-finance-director-lucas-chief-counsel-to-retire.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Finance Director Chris Lucas, who is under investigation by the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority, will retire after a successor is found, as a
series of fines and probes beleaguer Britain’s second-largest
lender by assets.  General Counsel Mark Harding will also retire, the London-
based company said in a  statement  yesterday. Lucas, 52, has been
Barclays’s finance director for almost six years. His retirement
is unrelated to regulatory investigations, said John McGuinness,
a Barclays spokesman.  Lucas was one of four past and present Barclays employees
being investigated by the FSA about whether the bank adequately
disclosed fees it agreed to pay to the Qatar Investment
Authority when it sought to raise money from investors including
the sovereign-wealth fund. His departure follows that of the
company’s three top executives who stepped down last year after
the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($455 million) for
manipulating the Libor benchmark interest rate, with Antony Jenkins, 51, taking charge as chief executive officer in August.  After the departures of CEO Bob Diamond, Marcus Agius as
chairman and Jerry del Missier as chief operating officer,
“this is a complete clearing of the stables, and it will be
interesting to see who they hire,” said Christopher Wheeler, a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA who  rates  Barclays
outperform. “Will it be someone squeaky clean, or someone
punchy who will develop the business?”  Shares Fall  The shares fell 2.5 percent to 292.60 pence at 3:04 p.m. in
London. Barclays has  climbed  about 26 percent in the past year,
compared with a 10.5 percent gain in the  Bloomberg European
Banks and Financial Services Index , giving it a market value of
36.1 billion pounds.  Lucas’s retirement leaves investment banking head Rich Ricci as one of the last members of the old management team as
Jenkins seeks to revamp the bank. The CEO is scheduled to update
investors on Barclays’s strategy Feb. 12. The new plan will take
five to 10 years to execute, and Lucas and Harding want to hand
over their roles to individuals who potentially will stay for
that entire period, Barclays said.  “Chris and Mark both expressed to me late last year that
they were considering stepping down,” Jenkins said in the
statement. “The rationale which each shared with me was
consistent and, typically, grounded in wanting to do what is
best for the bank.”  Libor Trial  Lucas was one of the Barclays employees whose bid to
prevent their names from being published before a trial into
Libor-manipulation was rejected by Judge Julian Flaux in London
last month. He is also under investigation in a separate probe
into payments made to Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund.  Separately, the Financial Times last week reported that
regulators are examining allegations that Barclays loaned money
to be used for purchases of the bank’s own shares at the depths
of the 2008 financial crisis.  Lucas and Harding will remain in their positions until
successors are appointed, the bank said. Citing the seniority of
the two roles, that process is likely to take “considerable
time” to complete, it said. Harding has been the bank’s general
counsel since 2003.  When a successor for Lucas is found, there is a possibility
of him or her “kitchen sinking” and writing down assets, said
Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London who rates Barclays a hold.  “What is interesting is not that Chris Lucas and Mark
Harding are retiring after six and 10 years of service,
respectively,” Sandy Chen, an analyst at  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS) 
in London with a sale recommendation on shares, wrote in a note
to clients today. “It’s the joint timing. It’s hard for us not
to link this with last Friday’s press about the FSA and SFO
investigations into possible, illegal, loan to the Qataris.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  