-- Berlusconi Touts Tax Cuts and Fewer Lawmakers in Election Race
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-03T12:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/berlusconi-touts-tax-cuts-and-fewer-lawmakers-in-election-race.html
Silvio Berlusconi  promised to abolish
Italian property tax on the first house and reimburse the amount
paid last year as he seeks to build on his gains in opinion
polls ahead of parliamentary elections this month.  Imposing the so-called IMU tax on the first house marked
“the act that originated the crisis, spreading concerns and
fear for the future across families,” Berlusconi said today at
a press conference in Milan televised on Sky TG24.  Berlusconi is promising economic stimulus and fighting for
a relaxation of the European Union’s budget rules if Italians
give him what would be his fourth electoral victory in the Feb.
24-25 ballot. The message has resonated with voters who are
weary of recession and the fiscal austerity implemented by Prime
Minister Mario Monti.  “Austerity in  Europe  has been imposed by  Germany  and led
to 50 million unemployed or under-employed,” Berlusconi said at
a press conference Feb. 1. “We must have this showdown with
Germany. Otherwise the reality will force many countries, one
after another, to exit the euro.”  Berlusconi,  Italy ’s former prime minister, said he would
abolish the IMU on the first house in the initial cabinet
meeting following elections as an “act of peace” that would
allow for a new start. Reimbursement of the amount paid in 2012
will occur in cash or through current account and will be
concluded within a month, he said.  ‘Good Memory’  “Berlusconi never kept a promise, Italians have a good
memory,” Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in an-emailed
statement following Berlusconi’s press conference today.  The IMU abolition, valued at about  4 billion euros ($5.5
billion), will be covered through an agreement with  Switzerland 
with regard to taxation of financial activities in Switzerland
by Italian citizens, Berlusconi said. Such an agreement will
translate into proceeds of as much as 30 billion euros plus 5
billion euros a year when at full capacity, he said.  Berlusconi, 76, has gained on front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani, closing the gap to 5 percentage points in an SWG
Institute survey last week. Support for Berlusconi’s center-
right coalition rose 1.3 points in a week to 27.8 percent, while
Bersani’s center-left block fell 1.6 points to 32.8 percent,
according to the SWG poll released on Feb. 1. SWG reported 30
percent of respondents as undecided or abstentions.  Berlusconi, the most successful politician of his
generation, won the 2001 elections by making tax reductions a
centerpiece of his “Contract with Italians,” a list of
promises he signed on national television.  Corporate Tax  The abolition of the IMU on the first house will be coupled
with the reduction and then the removal of IRAP regional
corporate tax over 5 years, Berlusconi said today, adding that
no increase in VAT or introduction of property tax are planned.  Berlusconi said he would also tackle ways to cut cost of
politics, cutting by half the numbers of parliament members and
abolishing public financing for parties.  Berlusconi has gotten a boost from his appearances on
television and an accounting scandal at  Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA  that has tainted Bersani’s  Democratic Party .
Berlusconi, a billionaire, has also used his wealth to build
support. He signed Mario Balotelli to his AC Milan soccer club,
bringing the 22-year-old Italian hero in last year’s European
Championships back to his country after two years in the U.K.  Bersani’s Democratic Party has been hurt by its ties to
Monte Paschi, according to SWG. The Democratic Party controls
the bank’s biggest shareholder through its dominance of local
politics in Siena, where Monte Paschi is based. Half of voters
assign blame to the Democratic Party for Monte Paschi’s
accounting irregularities, SWG said.  Berlusconi was sentenced to four years in prison in October
for  tax fraud  and remains free pending appeal. The unrelated
sex-with-minor trial includes an abuse of power charge, and
Berlusconi has denied all wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  