-- Bulls Rewarded With Best January Rally Since 2006: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-02-04T19:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/bulls-rewarded-with-best-january-rally-since-2006-commodities.html
Speculators increased their bullish
commodity wagers for a third straight week before prices capped
the biggest January rally since 2006 on signs that the global
recovery will be sustained by central bank stimulus.  Hedge funds and other money managers raised net-long
positions across 18 U.S. futures and options in the week ended
Jan. 29 by 5.6 percent to 800,738 contracts, the highest since
Dec. 11, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  show.
Traders became the most bullish on cotton since October 2010 and
increased wagers on silver gains. Crude-oil holdings rose a
seventh week, the longest stretch, data starting in 2006 show.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
advanced 4.5 percent in January as  contracts  outstanding jumped
6.2 percent, the most in a year. Chinese manufacturing expanded
for a fourth month, and U.S. payrolls climbed, separate reports
showed Feb. 1. The  Federal Reserve  will keep buying securities
at the rate of $85 billion a month to help sustain the rebound,
policy makers said Jan. 30, while speculation grew that a new
Japanese central bank governor will boost stimulus.  “We’ve seen some better-than-expected indicators out of
China lately, and in general the global economy seems to be a
bit better than people had been forecasting coming into 2013,”
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $3.2 billion at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said in a telephone
interview. “The Fed continues to be very supportive of the
economy, and that’s good for commodities.”  Longest Rally  The GSCI Spot Index rose 2.5 percent last week, an eighth
consecutive gain and the longest rally since 1996. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities climbed 0.7 percent, while the
dollar slid 0.8 percent against a basket of six trading
partners. Treasuries lost 0.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows.  A Chinese Purchasing Managers’ Index was 50.4 in January,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. Earnings at Chinese industrial companies increased
for a fourth straight month in December, the bureau said Jan.
27.  The U.S. added 157,000 jobs in January and there were more
hirings in the previous two months than reported earlier,
government figures showed. The jobless rate increased to 7.9
percent from 7.8 percent.  Stimulus Action  While the report showed the labor market “continues to
heal,” the gain in unemployment means the Fed will “remain
engaged” in stimulus action, Mohamed El-Erian, the chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
a Bloomberg Television interview Feb. 1. Speculation that
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will pick a new central bank
governor who will boost stimulus drove the yen to the lowest in
2 1/2 years.  Global demand for commodities won’t expand fast enough to
catch up with rising supplies as four years of price gains have
spurred farmers and miners to increase production, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage about C$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion)
at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  The  U.S. economy  unexpectedly came to a standstill in the
fourth quarter as gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1
percent annual rate, weaker than any analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, the Commerce Department said Jan. 30.  Japan ’s
industrial production rose less than economists forecast, Trade
Ministry data showed the next day.  Commodity Surpluses  Output will top consumption of aluminum, copper, lead,
nickel and zinc this year, Barclays Plc forecast in a report on
Jan. 16. Supplies of sugar, coffee and cotton will also exceed
demand in 2013, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report the
following day.  “China is the only good news in the commodity story, and
that won’t be enough to lift the whole complex,” Stephenson
said. “For any materials where they can ratchet up supply to
meet demand, that’s a commodity you don’t want to be in.”  Money managers withdrew $68 million from commodity funds in
the week ended Jan. 30, according to  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metal funds
had a net outflow of $379 million.  Bets on a crude-oil rally climbed 6.2 percent to 218,604
contracts, the highest since May 1, the CFTC data show. Futures
in  New York  advanced 2 percent last week, the eighth consecutive
gain and the longest rally since August 2004. Heating-oil wagers
rose 15 percent to 33,427 contracts, the highest since Oct. 16.  Gold Holdings  China, the largest oil-consuming country after the U.S.,
accounted for 11 percent of global demand in 2011, according to
 BP Plc. (BP/)  The Asian nation, with a population of 1.34 billion,
uses about 40 percent of the world’s copper, Barclays estimates.  Investors cut gold holdings 24 percent to 82,081 contracts,
the lowest since Aug. 14. Prices fell 0.8 percent in January, a
fourth straight drop, as signs that the global economic recovery
is gaining traction reduced demand for the metal as a haven.
Bullion for delivery in April rose 0.3 percent to $1,676.40 an
ounce on the Comex today.  The gold position at Elliott Management Corp., the $21
billion hedge fund founded by  Paul Singer , lost money last
quarter after nine months of “essentially flat performance,”
the New York-based firm said in a report to investors on Jan.
28. It’s increasingly likely that prices peaked in 2011 and
“downside risks” are building as world expansion improves,  Tom
Kendall , an analyst at Credit Suisse AG in  London , said in a
report e-mailed Feb. 1.  Farm Bets  A measure of net-longs for 11 U.S.  farm goods  jumped 13
percent to 401,134 contracts, the biggest increase since July
10, CFTC data show. The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
products climbed 1.2 percent last week.  Corn positions climbed 8.5 percent to 164,434 contracts,
and those for soybeans 7.4 percent to 105,017 contracts, the
highest in five weeks.  Dry weather is curbing the outlook for soybean supplies in
 Argentina  after the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s cut
production last year. The South American country’s oilseed
production may trail a U.S. government forecast by as much as 13
percent, according to Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  The funds boosted their bullish cotton bets by 28 percent
to 53,295 contracts, the highest since Oct. 26, 2010. Futures in
New York climbed 10 percent in January, the biggest gain among
the commodities tracked by S&P, on mounting signs that a global
surplus is shrinking as Asian demand grows and farmers reduce
output in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  “The forecast for improving growth and easy money argues
that commodities should do quite well,” said Kevin Caron, a
 Florham Park , New Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $130 billion in assets.
“Demand is increasing.  China  seems to be turning the corner,
and manufacturing is moving in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  