-- Cameron Tested as Gay Marriage Splits U.K. Conservatives
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-02-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/cameron-tested-as-gay-marriage-splits-u-k-conservatives.html
Prime Minister David Cameron will
probably need support from other parties this week to win a
parliamentary vote to allow gay marriage as dissent grows among
officials and lawmakers of his U.K. Conservative party.  “More time should be afforded to debate an issue of such
gravity,” more than 20 current or former local party chairmen
wrote in  a letter  to Cameron yesterday. “Resignations from the
party are beginning to multiply and we fear that, if enacted,
this bill will lead to significant damage to the Conservative
Party in the run-up to the 2015 election.”  The controversy highlights the challenge for Cameron as he
balances conflicting views in his own party and sustains a
governing coalition with the Liberal Democrats. While a Sunday
Times opinion poll showed most Britons are in favor of allowing
gay marriage, the Sunday Telegraph said more than half of
Cameron’s lawmakers may oppose or abstain tomorrow in the so-
called free vote, in which they don’t have to follow his lead.  “It’s for them to make their own decisions, as it is when
we have votes on abortion laws or capital punishment,” Foreign
Secretary William Hague, a Conservative who supports the
measure, said on the  BBC ’s “Sunday Politics” television show.
“If we weren’t debating it now it would instead be a big issue
in the general election and we’d all have to say where we stood
then anyway.”  In the letter delivered to Cameron’s Downing Street office
in London at lunchtime yesterday, the Conservative activists
said there hasn’t been enough consultation or debate on the gay
marriage measure within the party or the country. They said
there is “no mandate” for it from their 2010 election
manifesto or in the coalition accord with the Liberal Democrats.  ‘Huge Priority’  “It wasn’t in the coalition agreement, and all of a sudden
it’s taking huge priority,” Tim Loughton, a Conservative member
of Parliament who opposes the measure, said on Sky News
television. “It’s going to take up a lot of parliamentary time.
It’s going to set MP against MP and we don’t need it.”  The Sunday Telegraph said that about 120 Conservative
lawmakers may support the gay marriage bill, leaving about 180,
including as many as four members of Cameron’s cabinet, likely
to either oppose it or abstain. They include Defense Secretary
Philip Hammond, who will vote against the bill or abstain,
according to the newspaper.  “This is a huge redefinition of something that has
survived many, many centuries,” said Loughton, a former
education minister. “Who are we, who is this government, who is
this country to determine, impose, nationalize a new definition
of marriage?”  ‘Equal Access’  Loughton spoke just after Conservative Culture Minister Ed Vaizey defended the gay marriage measure on Sky News.  “It is right that people in a loving relationship have
equal access to the institution of civil marriage,” Vaizey
said. “People’s concerns that they might be forced to do things
that they don’t want, to support particularly religious
marriages, have been protected in this bill.”  The Sunday Times poll by  YouGov Plc (YOU)  suggested that most
people agree. In the survey of 2,030 adults taken on Jan. 31 and
Feb. 1, 55 percent were in favor of same-sex marriage, with 36
percent opposed and 9 percent saying they don’t know.  Conservative Education Secretary Michael Gove, in an
article in the Daily Mail supporting the measure, sought to
reassure teachers who may hold strong convictions against it.  “Teachers will not be able to pretend that legal marriages
between same-sex couples do not exist, but there will be no
requirement to promote them,” Gove said. “That position will
not be changed by the new definition of marriage.”  Meanwhile, Cameron may seek to stop plots against his
leadership and please elements of his party by bringing back
Liam Fox to the cabinet, the Sunday Telegraph reported. Fox, a
former defense secretary who resigned in 2011, also opposes the
gay marriage bill, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in  London  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  