-- Changing the Conversation on Climate Change
-- B y   R o h i t   T .   A g g a r w a l a
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/changing-the-conversation-on-climate-change.html
Politically, environmentalism has had
a few good months in the U.S.  Hurricane Sandy  put the words
“climate change” back in the national vocabulary. Republican
attempts to attack Democrats for waging a “war on coal” failed
to win many votes in states like Virginia and Ohio on Election
Day. In his second inaugural address, President  Barack Obama 
made climate action a priority. A climate  rally  in Washington is
being planned for later this month, and the president has
committed to conducting a “national conversation” on the
subject.  Environmentalists hope all this will pave the way for their
top goal: having the Environmental Protection Agency issue
comprehensive greenhouse-gas-emission limits on existing
facilities under the  Clean Air Act .  We’ve seen this kind of momentum before: in 2009, at the
start of the failed attempt to pass comprehensive climate
legislation in Congress. In hindsight, environmentalists
underestimated the obstacles they faced. Now the risk is great
that they are making the same mistake again.  As in 2009, the main challenge will be in the Senate.
Although a regulatory approach wouldn’t require positive
congressional action -- or the 60 votes necessary to stop a
filibuster -- it could be rescinded by a majority vote.
Emissions rules might lose such a vote even in the present
Democratic-controlled Senate. And if they survived -- especially
if they survived thanks to a presidential veto -- they might
only help ensure that the Democrats lose the Senate in 2014.  Climate Change  This is because fears of a radical environmental agenda
still ring true to many Americans. It isn’t that Americans don’t
accept the reality of climate change; most do. It’s that they
aren’t always comfortable with the environmentalists’ solutions.  To many Americans, the environmental agenda often seems
tone-deaf, prone to overregulation and excessive government
spending. Whatever their merits, the climate priorities of
Obama’s first term -- a thousand-page cap-and-trade bill, loan
guarantees for green-technology companies, a high-speed rail
program, a ban on incandescent light bulbs -- only reinforced
the impression that environmentalism is all about restrictions
and subsidies.  To be successful this time around, the White House needs to
change this impression. It can do so with a couple of
counterintuitive moves -- and environmentalists need to help.  First, it has to make clear that regulation isn’t the ideal
approach -- it’s just the only one available. Say that a
revenue-neutral carbon tax would be the soundest way to lower
emissions through the marketplace, but Congress won’t enact such
a tax at the level needed to achieve meaningful reductions.
Because the Clean Air Act requires the administration to achieve
those reductions, the only option is regulation. Thus, Obama can
say that he, too, hates resorting to more red tape, but it is
his only choice.  Second, the president should offer to eliminate some
existing climate-related programs and rules once emissions
regulations are adopted. With a comprehensive regulatory
framework in place, there would no longer be a need for certain
climate initiatives -- green-tech loan guarantees, perhaps, or
tax breaks for hybrid cars. Proposing to cut some of these would
demonstrate that the administration is looking to use the best
tools available and isn’t just coming up with more and more
government programs.  Green Reformers  Obama’s third opportunity is even broader, and would
require more help from green groups. He should elevate to the
level of high priority two environmental initiatives that appeal
to business more than to the greens: reforms to the
environmental-review process to speed the progress of
infrastructure projects, and an EPA effort to streamline its
existing regulations. Because the environmentalists are often
the ones objecting to these changes, the president should enlist
them to provide their own visions for how to achieve these
goals. Making regulatory reformers out of environmentalists is
just the kind of counterintuitive move that could change
people’s perceptions of the green movement.  To be clear, this isn’t about convincing the other side. A
comprehensive package won’t make the 113th House of
Representatives vote for a carbon tax.  Nor is it about cutting deals that weaken the rules
themselves. Quite the opposite: If all that is under discussion
is a set of regulations, then negotiations will focus on
weakening targets and extending deadlines. But if more options
are on the table -- cutting programs and streamlining other
rules -- aggressive climate goals will be easier to defend.  This strategy is about refashioning the environmental
agenda into one that embraces a variety of tools, including
regulation only when necessary. This would reassure critical
swing voters who are concerned about the dangers of
overregulation and overspending. In turn, that would reassure a
few senators whose votes can make the difference between
repeating 2009’s failure and achieving a successful climate
agenda in Obama’s second term.  Above all, it would turn the battle over government
regulation into a discussion about the best tools to achieve
meaningful emissions reductions. That’s a conversation the
nation -- and the planet -- desperately needs to have.  (Rohit T. Aggarwala leads the environmental program at
Bloomberg Philanthropies and is a visiting scholar at Stanford
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Rohit T. Aggarwala at  rit@c40.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  