-- Cheap Vietnam Stocks to Extend Best Asia Rally, PXP Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-03T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/cheap-vietnam-stocks-to-extend-best-asia-rally-pxp-says.html
Vietnamese stocks  will extend a rally
that has made the VN Index the best performer in Asia this year
after its 16 percent surge failed to erase the discount to other
markets, according to PXP Vietnam Asset Management.  The Southeast Asian nation’s benchmark gauge will climb 33
percent in 2013, according to PXP Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Snowball . The money manager, whose fund  beat  92 percent of its
peers in the past month, holds  Saigon Thuong Tin Commercial JSB (STB) 
and  Ho Chi Minh City Securities Corp. (HCM)  as well as  Vietnam Dairy
Products JSC. (VNM)   The VN Index slumped 11 percent during the second and third
quarters of 2012 as the slowing economy eroded  earnings  and
banking officials were arrested. The measure rebounded after the
central bank cut interest rates and as improvement in developed
economies bolstered prospects for exports, which contribute  80
percent  of gross domestic product. The VN Index trades at 11.2
times estimated earnings, 7.4 percent below the average
valuation on the MSCI Frontier  Emerging Markets  Index.  “People started recognizing the fact that the market is
cheap rather than being worried about small micro issues,”
Snowball said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York Feb. 1. “They started looking at the market from a much
broader perspective, and globally people are taking on a bit
more risk.”  Vietnam ’s benchmark climbed 3.3 percent last week to
483.42, and reached an eight-month high Jan. 30. The measure’s
16 percent advance last month outperformed the biggest stock
indexes in Asia.  Global Rebound  A recovery in the global economy is helping support demand
for the nation’s goods and the World Bank said in a Dec. 10
report that shipments have been driven mainly by foreign
companies.  Exports, which fell to $10.1 billion in January from a
revised $10.36 billion in December, climbed 43 percent from a
year ago, according to the government statistician. Vietnam
recorded its first annual surplus since 1992 last year, easing
concern about the stability of its currency and the economy.  “Nobody has cared about Vietnam in the last five to six
years, but now confidence is starting to drive the market,”
Snowball said in the Feb. 1 interview. “It’s had a good start
to the year, and the way it’s moving is a typical early bull
market path.”  The VN Index has rallied 28 percent from a Nov. 5 intraday
low of 372.39.  Bloomberg Markets magazine ranks Vietnam as the most
promising frontier market for investors, followed by Estonia and
Kazakhstan. In compiling the rankings, greater weight was given
to macroeconomic forecasts from the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  