-- Chef Ducasse Serves Camel, No Wine, in Qatar Islam Center
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-02-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/chef-ducasse-serves-camel-no-wine-in-qatar-islam-center.html
You are one of the world’s leading
chefs and you want to create that special dish using luxury
ingredients for your new restaurant in the Middle East.  What can it be?  Alain Ducasse  has the answer.  Camel.  Braised for six days and served with foie gras, souffle
potatoes and truffle sauce, it’s the standout dish at Idam,
housed within the  Museum of Islamic Art  in the Qatari capital of
Doha. No alcohol is served and there’s no wine in the cooking.  “The camels can’t be too young or too old,” Ducasse, 56,
says in an interview in the dining room. He says the dish took
months to perfect with his executive chef, Romain Meder. At 320
Qatari riyals ($87.90) it’s the top-priced main course.  You might order it after a starter of marinated bonite fish
from the  Arabian Gulf , with lemon and gold caviar. That costs
225 riyals. Most mezze dishes cost between 45 and 90 riyals.
Idam, which can seat 60 guests, is Ducasse’s first restaurant in
the  Middle East  and took 18 months to develop.  “The camel dish is a local adaptation of a Rossini,”
Ducasse says. “We work locally with the meat, which is precious
here. It’s very, very high end. We hang it in the fridge for
three to four weeks and we slow cook it, braise it, for six days
to reach the level of tenderness: five days at one temperature
and the last day a little higher to fix the color.  “When we go somewhere, we don’t impose: We propose. It’s a
dish that the locals really like. It’s like braised spare ribs,
but there’s no red wine. There’s no wine in anything. The jus
that results from the braising is a natural jus from the meat
itself and the vegetables that accompany it.”  VIP Banquet  It’s hours before the official opening VIP banquet and
Ducasse is looking relaxed. He’s dressed in his chef’s whites
and talks happily in French through an interpreter, except when
she is called away, when he switches to English.  The restaurant is beautifully designed by  Philippe Starck ,
who is present for the opening and is in philosophical mood.  “My job is to manage the energy,” he says of the space.
“I’ve used no color, except for some glassware. It’s the people
who will bring the color. I love life, and all my life I’ve
believed in the idea of democratic design. Everyone can leave
here with a memory. What could be more democratic than that?”  It’s difficult to imagine anyone leaving the museum without
many memories. The architecture, by I.M. Pei, is spectacular in
its beauty and harmony. The museum stands on an artificial
island reached by bridges and features a five-story atrium. The
restaurant is on an upper floor, with a view into the atrium on
one side and out to the  Arabian Sea  on the other.  Good Grape  Ducasse says it was a challenge to create a restaurant
where wine isn’t served. He and his team developed a range of
drinks with different levels of sweetness and acidity to
complement the dishes. With the camel, you might try So Good, a
mix of white grape juice, tonic, iced tea and rose syrup.  Meder, his executive chef, traveled across North Africa and
the Middle East to widen his knowledge of local flavors.  “It’s contemporary French cuisine with a mix of taste and
spices from the Middle East,” Ducasse says. “In spirit, we’re
closer to the cuisine that we could imagine to do in  Monaco  than
the cuisine we do in Paris at the Plaza Athenee.”  Ducasse is very much in demand, with more than 20
restaurants worldwide. He arrived from  Chicago  for the Jan. 26
opening of Idam and he is developing a restaurant called Rivea
at the Hotel Byblos in Saint Tropez.  New York  He hasn’t given up on the idea of a fine-dining restaurant
in  New York , where he closed Adour at the  St. Regis  in November.  “Adour is over: It’s a liberation,” he says. “It was
very difficult with the restaurant and the hotel being
unionized. It was becoming impossible to operate a restaurant,
so it’s good news. We’re looking for somewhere now, but not in a
hotel.”  A few hours later, guests at the banquet are served about a
dozen dishes, including chickpeas and lentils harira; preserved
duck foie gras, date-sesame citrus; roasted Brittany lobster,
zaalouk-style courgette, stuffed flower; and camel shank.  Will camel catch on? Ducasse says he could imagine serving
it in  London , where many people travel from the Middle East. I’m
not so sure. Ducasse compares it to spare rib, and the flavor is
vaguely beefy but with more than a hint of the farmyard.  A big, bold glass of red wine might help.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater
and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Doha on 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 