-- Clariant Exit Seen Ending Leather-Chemical M&A False Starts
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-04T09:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/clariant-disposal-seen-ending-leather-chemical-m-a-false-starts.html
Clariant AG (CLN) ’s decision to sell its
leather-chemicals business is poised to spark more deals in the
$4 billion industry, potentially ending more than five years of
false starts by BASF SE and others to consolidate.  Emboldened by Clariant’s disposal announcement in November,
creditors of Germany’s TFL Ledertechnik are still holding out
for an offer close to 200 million euros ($270 million) after
receiving lower bids last year, people familiar with the
situation said. A number of buyout firms are considering buying
and merging the businesses, they said, asking not to be
identified as the talks are private.  Europe’s leather-chemicals industry -- dominated by a
handful of companies including Germany’s  Lanxess AG (LXS)  and Dutch
Stahl Holdings -- has suffered as Asian rivals added capacity
driven by local demand for luxury bags, shoes and upholstery.
Clariant tried to sell its unit in 2008, and Lanxess and  BASF SE (BAS) 
previously discussed combining their leather-chemicals assets,
said the people.  “Clariant’s disposal could be a source of momentum,” said
Bernd Schneider, a chemicals adviser at investment bank Lincoln
International LLC. “In leather chemicals, someone has to make
the first move. If there is movement with Clariant and maybe
TFL, BASF could also hope for a sale.”  Clariant’s leather services business has 12 production
sites and employs more than 700 people. The unit had sales of
265 million Swiss francs ($292 million) in 2011 and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 25
million francs. Shares of the chemical maker were little changed
at 12.68 francs as of 10:12 a.m. in Zurich today.  Fresh Impetus  TFL, the maker of tanning agents and dyestuffs for leather
bags and shoes, is being sold on behalf of creditors seeking
repayments on debt taken on during a decade of ownership by
buyout-firm Odewald & Cie.  TFL, based in Weil am Rhein,  Germany , spurned low offers
from buyout firms in the second half of 2012, one of the people
said. The sale of TFL, which stands for Together For Leather, is
now progressing with mostly buyout firms vying for the asset,
another person said. The company hired Leonardo & Co. in 2011 to
find a buyer.  With Clariant’s leather-chemicals unit also up for sale,
private-equity firms are considering buying multiple assets and
merging them to improve competitiveness, the people said.  BASF in 2011 said it failed to find a buyer for its
leather-chemicals assets as offers fell short of its own
valuation. The company at the time said it will retain the
business after management improved its performance.  Stahl M&A  Clariant, based in Muttenz, Switzerland, has hired
 Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  as an adviser on its sale process, according to
two people with knowledge of the situation.  Representatives for Clariant, TFL, Lanxess, BASF, Greenhill
and Leonardo declined to comment.  Other potential buyers include European rivals. Stahl,
owned by Paris-based buyout firm  Wendel SA (MF) , is looking at some
smaller acquisition targets to bolster its performance coatings
business. Of the six largest competitors in Stahl’s industry,
which together have more than 50 percent of the market, about
three are for sale, Wendel board member  Bernard Gautier  said in
December, adding that Stahl won’t miss out on good acquisition
opportunities if prices are attractive.  Lanxess, which has been in the leather-chemicals industry
for almost 100 years, purchased  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s chromium ore
operations in South Africa in 2006, and it remains the only
supplier with the entire value chain from the chrome ore to the
leather tanning materials.  Luxury Bags  The Leverkusen, Germany-based company, which supplies car
manufacturers such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , is investing 40 million
euros to expand chromium operations and will this year open a
leather-chemicals plant in  China .  Christian Faitz, a Macquarie analyst, said Lanxess already
has the leather-chemicals assets it needs and therefore may
refrain from taking part in the current sales.  “Lanxess is probably content with the position they
have,” he said. “I don’t think they want any more assets. You
can’t afford to forget that it’s a cyclical business.”  As well as demand for luxury bags, shoes and upholstery,
the leather-chemicals market is also tied to beef consumption
and the availability of raw hides.  Manufacturers’ needs for leather are also shifting, leading
to new product developments. Lanxess markets its X-lite brand as
capable of cutting the weight of premium leather destined for
aircraft and luxury cars by as much as 30 percent.  Anton Ticktin , a partner at investment bank  Valence Group ,
said that investors often don’t realize that leather-chemicals
assets can be more profitable than other businesses in the
industry.  “One of the biggest factors is the money and margins you
make are much better than you would be led to believe if you
looked at textile chemicals,” Ticktin said. “Look at the
automotive sector and treatments for the nice leather seats in
Mercedes cars. The margins can be pretty high, but buyers don’t
always attribute that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  