-- Defying Iran Sanctions Propels Tehran Mayor Before Vote
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-04T12:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/defying-iran-sanctions-propels-tehran-mayor-before-vote.html
After blaming trade sanctions for
delaying a new Tehran highway last month, Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf
ordered extra work shifts to meet the deadline.  “We are making all efforts to fully launch this project,”
said Qalibaf, who is mayor of the Iranian capital. “Partners
have promised to make up for two of the four months delay.”  Qalibaf, who lost to  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in the 2005
presidential vote, has been using the city of 12 million people
as a platform to foster a reputation as a politician who gets
things done. As another election looms before Ahmadinejad steps
down, Qalibaf is poised to translate that support into votes
should he run again in June.  With Iran threatened over its nuclear program and grappling
with accelerating inflation and oil output that in 2012 fell to
its lowest in more than two decades, the stakes are high for the
leaders deciding who to promote as the next premier. Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , seeking a coalition for a
third term, on Feb. 2 said stopping Iran from building nuclear
arms would be the government’s foremost challenge.  “If Qalibaf is allowed to enter the process, that speaks
volumes about what the leadership is thinking,” said Mehrzad
Boroujerdi, director of the middle-eastern studies program at
 Syracuse University  in the U.S. “What he can bring is a much
more sober and realistic assessment rather than bombastic style
of statecraft that we experienced under Ahmadinejad.”  Clerical Blessing  No candidate has yet officially registered to run and all
must first get the blessing of the ruling clerics. Other
prominent potential runners include Parliamentary Speaker  Ali Larijani , a supporter of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ,
and Ali Akbar Velayati, foreign policy adviser to the cleric.  During Ahmadinejad’s two terms, Iran has become more
isolated economically and politically.  Another set of U.S. sanctions will take effect Feb. 6,
requiring buyers of Iranian oil to pay in local currency in
escrow accounts and barring Iran from repatriating profits. The
rial fell from 20,160 against the  U.S. dollar  on the street
market in August to 36,500 in October. It settled at the end of
last year, before resuming its slide and weakened to 37,675
yesterday. Inflation was about 29 percent in January, up from 22
percent in May, according to the central bank.  Nuclear Program  The measures by the U.S. and European Union are aimed at
pushing Iran to curb its nuclear program, which they say may be
a cover for atomic weapons development. Iran maintains the
program is for power generation and medical research.  Qalibaf, 52 this year, backs a partial liberalization of
the economy and has in the past welcomed the possibility of an
engagement with U.S. President  Barack Obama .  He’s a “pragmatic modernizer, not an ideologue,” a U.S.
diplomat wrote in a 2008  cable  released by Wikileaks.org.  “At
the same time, he is not straying far from conservative ranks
inside Iranian politics.”  “By no means is he sliding over to the reformist camp,”
the diplomat wrote.  He attended the 2008  World Economic Forum  in Davos, seeking
to attract construction investments, and took part in a debate
entitled “How Cities Are Aiming for Sustainable Growth” that
featured Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, then the Mexico
state governor, and  Ken Livingstone , the then mayor of  London .  “He’s a rational player,” said Geneive Abdo, a research
fellow at the Washington-based Stimson Center, which was set up
in 1989 to promote peace. “The U.S. is more comfortable dealing
with technocrats and economists who are much less ideological
than presidents such as Ahmadinejad.”  Pilot Uniform  Qalibaf was born in the north-eastern Khorasan Razavi
province from where Khamenei also hails. A former Revolutionary
Guards air force commander and an ex-head of the security force,
he has a doctorate in geopolitics, according to his  website .  With independent opinions polls all but non-existent in
 Iran , it’s hard to tell how popular Qalibaf is compared with
when Ahmadinejad triumphed.  Tehran residents remember Qalibaf’s 2005  campaign , where he
appeared in a series of outfits including  pilot uniforms  in
contrast to his rival’s trademark beige sports jacket.  “Qalibaf is not a man of the people,” Hooman Majd, author
of “The Ayatollahs’ Democracy: An Iranian Challenge,” said in
an interview. “He’s a military man and a strong man, but he’s
not viewed as a man of the people.”  After being stung by protests in the second half of
Ahmadinejad’s tenure, Khamenei may also seek to opt for
“somebody who has the personality of a door knob,” rather than
more independent minds like Qalibaf, Boroujerdi said.  Door Knob  In the meantime, the mayor has been focusing on seeing
through urban development projects.  “If you need asphalt to be laid on the streets, I’m at
your service,” Qalibaf was quoted in the  Etemaad  newspaper
today as telling reporters when asked whether he intends to run
in the election. “For now, this is as far as I can serve.”  His office didn’t respond to a telephone call and fax
seeking an interview for this story.  Restrictions on importing materials hindered the
construction of the multi-level highway between Tehran’s west
and east that was due to be completed before the end of March,
Qalibaf said. He pledged to still inaugurate the project in the
first month of the Iranian year, which starts on March 21.  Project Manager  “Importing cranes for the project was one of our issues,
which was eventually carried out,” Qalibaf said on Jan. 7,
according to the state-run Fars news agency.  In his seven years as mayor, residents say he has changed
the city with murals, parks and cultural centers and improved
its running by constructing tunnels and bridges, extending the
metro network and establishing bus lanes.  “He’s an exceptional manager,” Mani Mortazavi, 65, a
medical engineer in Tehran who would vote for Qalibaf should he
run, said by telephone from Tehran. “When he says that a
project will end on that day he usually meets his deadline.”  Ahmadinejad, 56, whose two-year stint as Tehran mayor
preceded Qalibaf, introduced policies such as public transport
passes for seniors and marriage loans. The job is a “staging
ground for people with higher ambitions,” Boroujerdi said.  Political bickering in recent months engulfed Ahmadinejad
who’s being turned into a scapegoat by his rivals for the
country’s economic woes, with the supreme leader in November
ordering an end to the public attacks on the president.  Dodging Trouble  Qalibaf has aimed to stay clear of the arguing, even though
he hasn’t been immune to spats with Ahmadinejad. In 2011, the
president’s administration prevented Qalibaf from traveling to
the U.S. to  participate  in a ceremony after Tehran had been
nominated for an international transportation award.  “He has kept the fighting low as a way not to be in the
limelight and perhaps to envision a presidential run,”
Boroujerdi said. “He is a regime man, but one who has been
smart enough to maintain some degree of distance from the
present chaos.”  That may also help him win the vital favor of Khamenei,
Majd said. In 2009, Khamenei backed Ahmadinejad amid the mass
protests, ensuring a second term for the president who then went
on to challenge his authority.  Khamenei “had this terrible experience with Ahmadinejad,”
said Abdo at the Stimson Center. “This will be a risk free
election. No more Ahmadinejad or similar personality types.
There’s too much at stake to take risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  