-- Dijsselbloem Balanced Budget Vow Shaken by SNS Rescue
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-02-04T12:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/dijsselbloem-balanced-budget-vow-shaken-by-sns-rescue.html
The Dutch-government rescue of  SNS
Reaal NV (SR)  will put a vow from Jeroen Dijsselbloem, head of the
group of euro-area finance ministers, to uphold budgetary
discipline to the test days after he got the job.  The Dutch finance minister, appointed for a two-and-a-half-
year term as chairman of the eurogroup on Jan. 21, called
sustainable public finances a prerequisite for durable growth in
a letter to ministers on Jan. 20. He also advocates European
rules for unwinding failing banks.  “We are struggling with a budget deficit, partly because
of these SNS costs,” Dijsselbloem said in an interview in Dutch
television program “Buitenhof” yesterday. “Our financial
industry is not yet in order. We have large problems in our
housing and real estate markets. So in a lot of ways we are
comparable to other countries.”  SNS Reaal, the fourth-largest Dutch lender, was
nationalized last week after real estate losses brought the
company to the brink of collapse. The move will cost taxpayers
3.7 billion euros ($5.1 billion) as capital is injected into the
bank and an earlier aid package is written down. The
Netherlands’  budget deficit  will widen by 0.6 percentage point
in 2013, Dijsselbloem said on Feb. 1.  Economic Forecasts  The government’s central planning agency, CPB, had forecast
a shortfall equivalent to 3.3 percent of gross domestic product
this year, exceeding a European threshold of 3 percent. The CPB
is expected to release new economic forecasts on Feb. 28 and the
government will decide on possible budget measures in March,
Dijsselbloem said last week.  “At the beginning of March we will be able to oversee all
financial breaks and setbacks,” Dijsselbloem said after
announcing the rescue. “Based on those, and latest growth
estimates, we’ll decide what the consequences are for the
budgets of 2013 and beyond.”  The Dutch economy, the euro area’s fifth largest, shrank 1
percent last year, the CPB estimated. The government, led by
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , 45, has committed to about 16 billion
euros of cuts to bring the deficit below 3 percent.  Some economists say further budget measures after SNS
Reaal’s rescue would be a mistake.  “It is completely idiotic to plan extra budget cuts
because of the nationalization and I don’t expect it to
happen,” Sweder van Wijnbergen, a professor of economics at the
University of Amsterdam, said in an interview. “It is a one-off
loss.”  Economic Harm  Lowering the deficit in one year would unnecessarily harm
the economy, said Bas Jacobs, a professor of economics at the
 Erasmus University  of Rotterdam.  “If the private sector is deleveraging it would be wise
for the government to slow down fiscal consolidation,” Jacobs
said. “From a macro-economic point of view, not all sectors in
the economy can simultaneously deleverage without triggering a
collapse in aggregate demand.”  SNS, which acquired  ABN Amro  Holding NV’s property-finance
unit in 2006, has been hurt by losses on real estate loan losses
that left it struggling to repay a government bailout and
depleted its financial buffers just as regulators imposed higher
capital demands.  SNS Reaal failed to meet a Dutch central bank deadline to
present a viable plan to handle a 1.9 billion-euro capital
shortfall, Dijsselbloem said on Feb. 1.  Systemically Important  The bank is the smallest of four lenders designated as
systemically important, or “too-big-to-fail” by the Dutch
central bank.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Rabobank Groep and ABN Amro Group NV
are its three largest competitors.  The Dutch for centuries have been among leaders in global
trade, giving the nation of 16.75 million people a banking
industry that dwarfs the economy. The financial industry
measures about 4.8 times gross domestic product, making it one
of the largest in the world on that basis, according to the
country’s central bank.  The industry’s size was reflected in the cost of bailouts
during the financial crisis following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That year, the Netherlands
bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance units and its stake
in ABN Amro for 16.8 billion euros. The government also provided
aid to ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, and
 Aegon NV (AGN)  at the time, and reimbursed Dutch depositors of
Landsbanki Islands hf’s Icesave unit after the firm collapsed.  Taxpayer Burden  In order to limit the chances of burdening taxpayers in
future, the Netherlands last year adopted the Intervention Act
legislation to allow regulators to transfer banks’ assets and
liabilities without shareholders’ approval.  SNS Reaal’s nationalization raises questions about the
effectiveness of the enhanced banking supervision and legal
tools.  The central bank said in the case of SNS Reaal, the
legislation allowed it to transfer assets from the bank or the
insurer, while it couldn’t touch the holding company. Its units
were too interdependent to rescue one, while leaving the others
in the hands of shareholders.  “An important question I still have is when did the
central bank realize it had a toy gun rather than a forceful
instrument?” Lex Hoogduin, professor of economics at the
University of Amsterdam and a former central bank director, said
on Dutch radio show “TROS in bedrijf” on Feb. 2. “Did it
alert the finance minister that it lacked the instruments?”  Investors Rattled  Dijsselbloem’s actions rattled European investors by wiping
out SNS Reaal equity and some subordinated debt holders, while
forcing other banks to contribute 1 billion euros in a one-time
levy.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the subordinated bonds of 25 banks and insurers jumped as
much as 15 basis points on Feb. 1, the most since Sept. 26, to a
more than seven-week high of 265, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dijsselbloem said his central bank warned him that forcing
bondholders to share in the losses would endanger financial
stability as Dutch banks’ financing costs could have soared.
Almost half of Dutch lenders’ market funding, or more than 400
billion euros, consists of senior unsecured debt, according to
the regulator.  Trading in non-exproportionated bonds of SNS Reaal and
units including SNS Bank NV and Reaal NV were resumed this
morning at 9 a.m. in Amsterdam after trading was suspended last
week.  Dijsselbloem advocates introducing European Union-wide
rules allowing all bondholders, including senior debt investors,
to share in losses when a bank fails.  While Spanish banks could retroactively directly apply for
a loan out of the European Stability Mechanism once it is
operational, SNS will not be able to do so. Dijsselbloem told
Dutch lawmakers in  The Hague  on Jan. 24 this facility is limited
to countries with an aid program.  “Perceived risks increased because of the move” to
expropriate subordinated bond holders, said Jan Willem Weidema,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV. The decision to
make other banks contribute 1 billion euros may also have caused
“some uncertainty for investors in Dutch financial
institutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  