-- Dubai Group Banks Said to Reject Debt Deal Offer Made to RBS
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-02-04T06:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/dubai-group-lenders-said-to-decline-offer-made-to-rbs-standard.html
About 20 lenders to Dubai Group LLC,
which is restructuring $6 billion of debt, declined an offer to
receive 18.5 cents on the dollar in favor of full repayment over
12 years, according to two bankers familiar with the plan.  None of the lenders decided to take the offer before the
deadline expired last month, the bankers said, asking not to be
identified as talks aren’t public. The terms were made to the
group after four lenders including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  had agreed to them earlier to
end an arbitration case they had started against Dubai Group.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the emirate seeking to restructure loans as
property and asset prices slumped and credit markets froze after
the 2008 global credit crisis. RBS and the other three lenders
split from the negotiating group in July and started separate
arbitration proceedings, settling earlier this year in favor of
the 18.5 cents on the dollar offer. The group of 20 banks were
then offered those terms or to wait 12 years for full repayment.  Documentation is currently being worked on to conclude the
total debt restructuring accord that includes about 35 lenders
and $6 billion of loans, according to one of the bankers.  A spokesman for Dubai Group, who asked not to be identified
because of company policy, declined to comment.  The 20 banks were part of a group that provided Dubai Group
$1.5 billion in an Islamic murabaha loan in 2008 and included
lenders such as Noor Islamic Bank PJSC and  First Gulf Bank PJSC. (FGB)   Investments  Dubai Group, which also owes another $4 billion to
shareholders, holds stakes in companies including Dubai-based
investment bank  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , Cairo-based investment bank
 EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  and  BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB) , Oman’s biggest bank
by assets. Dubai World, one of the sheikhdom’s three main state-
controlled holding companies, reached a deal in March 2011 with
about 80 banks to delay payments on about $15 billion of loans.  Dubai Group’s debt restructuring began about two years ago
and the company will be able to preserve cash after the 20 banks
decided against the cash offer, one of the bankers said.  The company last year proposed paying banks interest of 1
percent to 2.5 percent on the restructured loans and full
repayment of principal over 12 years as part of the debt
makeover. Secured creditors would be repaid in three years,
while partially secured and unsecured loans will mature in 12
years with additional interest paid at the end of the term.  Unsecured Creditors  The original restructuring proposal was in three parts, one
for a $300 million fully secured Islamic syndicated facility
managed by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , another $1.1 billion secured facility
provided by Natixis and a third for the $4.6 billion owed to the
partially secured and unsecured lenders, a person familiar with
the plans said in April. Banks with the most assets backing
loans would receive the highest interest, the person said.  In 2011, Dubai Group appointed eight banks to two
committees representing creditors. Paris-based Natixis SA’s
Nexgen unit and  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  of Dubai represented the secured
lenders. RBS and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  were leading the group of
partially secured and unsecured lenders.  RBS stepped down as co-chair of the coordinating committee
of mostly unsecured lenders in the debt talks with Dubai Group
in July after 18 months of negotiations failed to progress
satisfactorily, two people familiar with the matter said.  Law firm Linklaters LLP, which represents the co-ordinating
committee of creditors, is drafting the debt restructuring
accord, four bankers familiar with the matter said in November.
Financial advisers  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , law firm Clifford Chance LLP and
accounting firm  KPMG  are also advising on the deal.  The debt restructuring has led to loan losses at banks.
Emirates NBD, the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets,
said Jan. 31 it had set aside 54 percent of the value of Dubai
Group’s loans, or 2.51 billion dirhams ($683 million), to cover
for losses as a result of the debt restructuring.  Dubai Group’s debt restructuring proposals are “near
final” and an agreement is probable in the next few months, Ben Franz-Marwick, Emirates NBD’s head of  investor relations , said
on an earnings conference call Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  