-- Egypt Receives F-16s as Part of Aid Questioned by U.S. Lawmakers
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-02-03T14:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/egypt-receives-f-16s-as-part-of-aid-questioned-by-u-s-lawmakers.html
Egypt  and the U.S. marked the
delivery of new F-16 aircraft to the North African country,
part of military aid that some U.S. lawmakers are questioning.  The four aircraft are among 20 F-16s that will arrive in 
Egypt over the course of the year, the U.S. Embassy in Cairo 
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The F-16s are part of the 
$1.3 billion in the Foreign Military Financing program from the 
U.S. in annual military and security assistance to Egypt, to 
improve Egypt’s defensive capabilities and support Egypt’s 
contributions to regional security that counter terrorist 
threats,” it said.  “Today’s ceremony demonstrates the firm belief of the
 United States  that a strong Egypt is in the interest of the
U.S., the region, and the world,” U.S. Ambassador to Egypt Anne W. Patterson was cited as saying in the statement. “We look to
Egypt to continue to serve as a force for peace, security, and
leadership as the Middle East proceeds with its challenging yet
essential journey toward democracy.”  U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether to continue sending
aid to Egypt, setting the stage for possible cuts or conditions.
Egypt’s transition since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  has been marred by political tensions and bouts of
violence. It gave rise to a constitution that the opposition
says fails to guard rights. The second anniversary of the Jan.
25 uprising brought a new wave of deadly clashes between
protesters and security forces.  The turmoil in Egypt, where the Muslim Brotherhood’s
candidate won the presidential election last year, coincides 
with intense pressure on Congress to cut federal spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  