-- El Al Gains on Talks of Fimi Premium Investment: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-03T14:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/el-al-gains-on-talks-of-fimi-premium-investment-tel-aviv-mover.html
El Al Israel Airlines Ltd. (ELAL)  advanced
the most in a decade after the country’s flagship carrier said
 Fimi Opportunity Funds  is in talks to pay a premium of as much
as 36 percent for a stake.  The shares of the Lod, Israel-based carrier, first listed
on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange in 2003, advanced 21 percent to
0.552 shekel at the close in Tel Aviv, bringing the company’s
market value to 274 million shekels ($75 million). The TA-25
benchmark index advanced 1.5 percent, the most in a month.  Tel Aviv-based Fimi, a private equity fund which has
investments in  Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. (GILT)  and  Ormat
Industries Ltd. (ORMT) , has signed a term-sheet for the investment of
as much as $60 million for as much as a 42 percent stake in the
airline, according to a bourse filing on Jan. 31 after markets
closed. Part of the stake will be bought from controlling
shareholder  Knafaim Holdings Ltd. (KNFM)  The investment would be made
in several stages, with the second one conditional on the
renegotiation of El Al employee contracts, the filing said. Fimi
would pay a price of 0.625 shekel a share, a 36 percent premium
to the company’s closing price of 0.458 shekel on Jan. 31.  “Fimi could implement efficiency measures helping the
company cut costs,” Guy Cordovi, head of international trading
at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based Excellence Nessuah Brokerage Ltd.,
said today by phone. “The airline is known for its strong labor
unions and for its low worker output.”  Increased Competition  Fimi’s investment comes as the carrier’s shares sunk to  a
record low  last year as higher global  oil prices  increased
 operating costs  and competition intensified as discount European
carriers such as EasyJet Plc. expanded in the local market. The
company is also struggling to boost profitability,  posting
losses  in three out of the last four years.  Global air passenger traffic last year grew 5.3 percent,
lower than 2011’s 5.9 percent figure, the  International Air
Transport Association  said Jan. 31. Negative factors weighing on
earnings include high fuel costs and sluggish economic growth
projected at 2.3 percent, it said.  Israel is in talks with the European Union over the signing
of an “open skies agreement” that will allow carriers to fly
to more destinations. El Al said in July this agreement may
negatively affect the company. In February last year the
Histadrut labor federation declared a work dispute over the
government’s open skies policy. El Al said in December it lost
as much as $17 million in sales due to an eight-day military
operation in the  Gaza Strip  the previous month.  Knafaim, which has a 39.33 percent stake in El Al fell 2.8
percent to 9.813 shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  