-- Emperors of Banking Have No Clothes
-- B y   A n a t   A d m a t i   a n d   M a r t i n   H e l l w i g
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/emperors-of-banking-have-no-clothes.html
In Hans Christian Andersen’s famous
tale “The Emperor’s New Clothes,” two tailors offer to provide
the emperor with beautiful and very special clothes. They claim
the clothes will be invisible to people who are stupid or unfit
for their jobs. The emperor orders a full set.  When he sends his ministers to monitor the tailors, the
ministers don’t see anything, but out of fear of being
considered incompetent, none of them admits this and instead
they extol the splendors of the invisible clothes. The emperor
finds his new attire invisible, yet not wanting to appear
stupid, praises the nonexistent items. When he tours his capital
wearing the “clothes,” onlookers also admire them, even though
they don’t see anything. Only when a child shouts: “The emperor
has no clothes!” does everyone admit that the emperor is, in
fact, naked.  Banks have a similar mystique. There is a pervasive myth
that banks are different -- special, somehow -- from all other
companies and industries in the economy. Anyone who questions
this is at risk of being declared incompetent.  In fact, many claims made by leading bankers and banking
experts, including academics, have as much substance as the
emperor’s new clothes. But most people don’t challenge these
claims, even as the claims affect policy. The specialists’
confidence is too intimidating. Even people who know better fail
to speak up. The public is taken in.  “Costly” Regulation  Some bankers may admit to mistakes leading to the financial
crisis that began in 2007, but they portray the crisis as a
fluke or as an accident that is highly unlikely to recur in our
lifetimes. It would be costly and wasteful, they claim, to
tighten regulation to forestall an event that might happen once
in 100 years. Tighter regulation, we are warned, would interfere
with what banks do to support the economy, and this would have
serious, unintended consequences.  Take bank borrowing. Excessive borrowing was identified as
a major factor in the financial crisis. Bankers sometimes admit
this. Nevertheless, the banking industry fights aggressively
against tighter restrictions on bank borrowing. The constant
refrain is that too much tightening would harm economic growth.  This is a typical bugbear, suggesting that we must choose
between economic growth and financial stability. After all, who
would be in favor of a regulation that reduces growth and
therefore might have negative effects for all? In fact, the
history of financial crises and instability, including the
recent crisis, has shown that the greatest damage to bank
lending and growth occurs when banks become distressed from
having borrowed too much and lost on their investments.  Why would restrictions on bank borrowing have any effect on
bank lending whatsoever? One argument was given in 2010 by the
 British Bankers’ Association , which claimed that new regulations
would require U.K. banks to “hold an extra 600 billion pounds of
capital that might otherwise have been deployed as loans to
businesses or households.” To anyone who doesn’t know what the
regulation is about, this argument may sound plausible. In fact,
it is nonsensical and false.  The nonsense is due to the misuse of the word “capital.”
In the language of banking, this word refers to the money the
bank has received from its shareholders or owners. This is to be
distinguished from the money it has borrowed. Banks use both
borrowed and unborrowed money to make their loans and other
investments. Unborrowed money is the money that a bank has
obtained from its owners if it is a private bank, or from its
shareholders if it is a corporation, along with any profits it
has retained.  Unborrowed Money  Elsewhere in the economy, this type of funding is referred
to as equity. In banking, it is called capital. Capital
regulation requires that a sufficient fraction of a bank’s
investments or assets be funded with unborrowed money. This is
similar to the requirement that a homebuyer make a minimum down
payment when buying a house. Having a minimal ratio of
unborrowed funds relative to total assets is a way to limit the
share of assets that is funded by borrowing.  Because unborrowed funds are obtained without any promise
to make specific payments at particular times, having more
equity enhances the bank’s ability to absorb losses on its
assets. From the statement of the British Bankers’ Association,
however, we wouldn’t guess that  capital requirements  are about
how much a bank borrows. The statement makes it appear as if
capital were a cash reserve -- a pile of cash that banks hold
that can’t be used to make loans.  In fact, capital regulation does not tell banks what to do
with their funds or what they should hold. It tells banks only
what portion of the funds they use that must be unborrowed.
Saying that new regulations would require U.K. banks to “hold an
extra 600 billion pounds of capital” is nonsense. The
implication that loans to businesses or households are
automatically reduced by that 600 billion pounds is false.
Capital is not a rainy-day fund.  The confusion about the term “bank capital” is pervasive.
Numerous media reports say that banks must “set aside” capital
to satisfy new regulations. References to capital reserves
suggest that the regulation forces banks to hold cash that sits
idly in the bank’s tills without being put to work in the
economy. A bank lobbyist is quoted as saying, “A dollar in
capital is one less dollar working in the economy.”  Another line of argument against increased capital
requirements is that capital -- that is, equity -- is expensive
and that if banks must have more equity, their costs would
increase. This mantra is so self-evident to banking specialists
that they usually see no need to justify it.  Hating Equity  But why do banks hate equity so much and view it as
expensive? In what exact sense is it expensive, and what does
this mean for society and for policy?  We can test this argument by comparing banks to other
corporations. Corporations in most industries are free to borrow
as much as they want if they can find a lender. Yet there is no
other sector in which corporations borrow nearly as much as
banks do. For the vast majority of nonfinancial corporations in
the U.S., borrowing represents less than 50 percent of assets.
Some highly successful companies don’t borrow at all.  By contrast, debt often accounts for more than 90 percent
of bank assets. For some large European banks, the fraction is
even higher, above 97 percent. It was that high for some major
U.S. investment banks before 2007, as well as for the mortgage
giants  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which were bailed out. The
new regulations that the banking industry complains about would
still allow debt to fund 97 percent of bank assets.  If a company can count on being bailed out by the
government when it can’t pay its debts and if its creditors
don’t worry much about a default, creditors would be happy to
lend to the company. The company would find that borrowing is
cheap and, by comparison, other ways to fund investments, such
as equity, would be expensive.  The interest that the company would have to pay on its debt
wouldn’t reflect its true  default risk  because that is partly
borne by the taxpayer. From the perspective of the banks,
therefore, borrowing is cheap.  Among the lobbying cries is the suggestion that regulation
should not harm “our” banks in global competition and thus
cannot be tighter than regulations elsewhere. This, too, is an
invalid argument.  A country’s public policy shouldn’t be concerned about the
success of banks or other firms if that success is achieved
through taxpayer subsidies or by exposing the public to
excessive risks -- for example, the risk of pollution or a
financial crisis.  Systemically Important  Why should we care so much about the safety of banks and
about how much banks borrow? The damage from a bank’s getting
into difficulties from excessive borrowing can be great,
affecting many beyond those directly involved.  The potential damage is especially large when the bank is a
systemically important financial institution like JPMorgan Chase
& Co. or Deutsche Bank AG, with massive operations all over the
globe. Excessive borrowing by such banks exposes all of us to
risks, costs and inefficiencies that are entirely unnecessary.  The too-big-to-fail problem for banks is greater today than
it was in 2008. Since then, the largest U.S. banks have become
much larger. On March 31, 2012, the debt of JPMorgan Chase was
valued at $2.13 trillion and that of Bank of America Corp. at
$1.95 trillion, more than three times the debt of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The debt of the five largest U.S. banks
totals about $8 trillion. These figures would be even larger
under European accounting rules.  This situation makes it all the more important to prevent
scenarios in which governments must choose between letting a
major institution fail or committing to an expensive bailout.
One approach is to try to create mechanisms that would allow
large banks to fail without disrupting the economy or requiring
public support. Although useful efforts have been made in this
direction, this remains a challenge for global banks. Even the
best resolution mechanism is likely to be disruptive and costly.  The present situation is perverse. It is as if we were to
subsidize the  chemical industry  to intentionally pollute rivers
and lakes. Such subsidies would encourage additional pollution.
If the industry were asked to limit the pollution, it would
complain that its costs would increase. Would such complaints
make us tolerate the pollution?  Subsidizing banks to borrow excessively and take on so much
risk that the entire banking system is threatened is just like
subsidizing and encouraging companies to pollute when they have
clean alternatives.  (Anat Admati is a professor of finance and economics at the
Stanford Graduate School of Business and Martin Hellwig is a
director at the Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective
Goods in Bonn. This is the first in a series of three excerpts
from their new  book , “The Bankers’ New Clothes: What’s Wrong
With Banking and What to Do About It,” to be published Feb. 24
by  Princeton University Press . The opinions expressed are their
own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Anat Admati at  admati_anat@gsb.stanford.edu 
Martin Hellwig at  hellwig@coll.mpg.de   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  