-- Ethics at Barclays Went Into the Shredder
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/ethics-at-barclays-went-into-the-shredder.html
There are two ways to look at the
news that  Antony Jenkins , the chief executive officer of
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , will  turn down  his $1.6 million bonus this year.  One is that it is another positive step to reforming the
embattled bank, which among other scandals was fined half a
billion dollars in June for trying to manipulate the London
interbank offered rate. The alternative explanation is that this
is a public relations gambit intended to mute public outrage and
get back to business as usual as soon as possible.  After all, coming off its annus horribilis of 2012, the
last thing Barclays wants is any discussion of the recent
disclosures about the absolutely shocking behavior of Andrew Tinney, the former chief operating officer of the bank’s high-
end investment division, then known as  Barclays Wealth . Never
heard of the 46-year-old Tinney? Well then, you’re in for a real
treat.  A year ago, Tinney, who made about $8 million a year
helping to run a division with nearly $300 billion under
management, commissioned an outside report of the workplace
culture at his division by the consultancy Genesis Ventures. It
was a response to a 2011 Securities and Exchange Commission
finding of “deficiencies and weaknesses” at the U.S. unit of
Barclays Wealth, known as BWA, and its compliance with banking
laws. No small matter.  The U.S. business, run by former Merrill Lynch banker Mitch Cox, who joined Barclays in 2009, is at 200 Park Ave. At
Tinney’s direction, two investigators from Genesis interviewed
more than 50 U.S. employees and discovered a business more than
a little out of control, thanks in large part to Cox’s boorish
management style.  Blind Spots  “The senior team portray themselves as all-powerful and
all-knowing,” Genesis found. “And people chose to disagree
with them at their own peril. It is a mentality of superiority
which, when combined with other deficiencies, stops the team
from tackling their blind spots. When those deficiencies are in
compliance, this results in serious issues that no one else has
the power to address.”  The report continued: “Stories circulate of individuals
who have been fired because they brought issues to the
management’s attention. It is culturally acceptable at BWA, from
the top of the organization down, to ignore, put off, and even
deride risk and compliance issues.” One Barclays employee told
Genesis that when he presented a risk report to his superior,
the executive called it a, well, piece of excrement and threw it
across the room.  As  reported  first by the Daily Mail of  London , Tinney had
the Genesis report messengered to his Surrey estate last April.
(At that point, the bank’s CEO was Robert Diamond.) Horrified by
what he read about the business he was supposed to be managing,
he fed what he thought was the only copy into a shredder and,
according to the paper, “denied all knowledge of it ever having
existed.”  That might have been the end of the story, except that in
September an anonymous whistle-blower -- probably a Barclays
insider -- e-mailed Jenkins, who had just replaced Diamond, and
Marcus Agius, then Barclays’s chairman, and told them the wealth
division was “deeply flawed,” had a “corrupt culture” and
oh, by the way, why don’t you see if you can get your hands on
the Genesis report. Thinking he was still getting away with his
scheme, in early October, Tinney authored a portion of another
report to Jenkins about the wealth business but omitted any
mention of the damning Genesis report.  On Oct. 29, Barclays told the Financial Services Authority,
its U.K. regulator, about the whistle-blower e-mails and hired a
law firm to investigate whether there was a Genesis report.
Dubbed Project Helium, Barclays gave the law firm access to more
than 60,000 documents and e-mails on the Barclays computer
system.  Project Helium  Eventually, the law firm found the Genesis report. When it
interviewed Tinney in December, he insisted it was “not a
report” at all and therefore didn’t need to be disclosed. But
he admitted he shredded the document. Barclays put him on
indefinite leave. In early January, the full Project Helium
report was given to Barclays. On Jan. 14, Tinney resigned. When
the Daily Mail spoke with him that week, Tinney said, “I’m
sorry but I shouldn’t be having this conversation with you. Can
you speak with the company?”  Yet Tinney’s story has barely caused a ripple on Wall
Street or in the financial press. Barclays offered a typically
bland statement about Tinney’s departure. Jenkins sent a holier-
than-thou  memo  to the bank’s 140,000 workers filled with high-
minded platitudes on “respect,” “integrity” and
“stewardship,” and said everyone must sign a new code of
conduct. Now, according to the Financial Times, U.K. regulators
are looking into whether Barclays  fraudulently loaned  Qatar
money to invest back in the bank to help it avoid a government
bailout in 2008. Between this revelation and the continuing
Libor saga, Jenkins is going to run out of bonuses to give back.  While the revelations about insufferably bad behavior on
Wall Street continue unabated, the public seems to have grown
tired. The banks, meanwhile, continue to water down the new
regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial reform package
designed to govern them.  All the while, Wall Street CEOs fly off in their private
jets to Davos, Switzerland, where they work hard to convince the
media elite they are changing the corrupt culture at their
firms. Frankly, it’s all a pathetic sham.  This is how we end up with a world where overpaid bankers
such as Andrew Tinney think nothing of destroying the evidence
of extreme malfeasance at one of the world’s leading banks and
then lying to their bosses about it. Have we reached the tipping
point yet?  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 