-- Europe’s Banks Urged to Cut Down All Capital-Heavy Units
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-04T11:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/europe-s-banks-urged-to-cut-down-all-capital-heavy-units.html
The president of the European Banking
Federation is urging lenders in the region to reinvent
themselves and discard the areas of their business that place
too large a capital burden on their balance sheets.  “Banks need to be more efficient, that’s very simple,”
EBF President Christian Clausen said in an interview in
Stockholm last week. “Everything that can be done will be done
in terms of moving business.”  Job losses in the financial industry were close to their
highest in four years at the end of January, with European banks
leading the cuts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS
AG (UBSN)  said in October it will eliminate 10,000 jobs over three
years as Switzerland’s biggest bank adjusts to stricter capital
rules.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , based in  London , and  Germany ’s No. 2
lender,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , are also terminating thousands of
positions to stay competitive in the new regulatory environment.  Even banks in  Scandinavia , which emerged from the debt
crisis largely unscathed, are cutting jobs. Clausen, who is also
the chief executive officer of Nordea Bank AB, the Nordic
region’s largest lender, said Jan. 30 management has cut back 8
percent of its staff as it targets reducing headcount by at
least one tenth. Denmark’s biggest bank,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , is
decreasing its workforce by 3,000, it said last year.  ‘Less Capital’  “The most important thing is capital-light products, where
we will serve customers using less capital,” Clausen said.  The EBF, based in Brussels, is an umbrella organization for
 Europe ’s bankers groups. Its 31 members include the Swiss
Bankers Association in Basel and the British Bankers’
Association in London.  Stockholm-based Nordea, which has lagged behind its Swedish
rivals  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in boosting
capital buffers, said it managed to increase profit last quarter
even as demand for banking services was “constrained” by a
tough economic climate. Nordea’s net income rose 7 percent to
840 million euros ($1.13 billion) in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, it said Jan. 30.  Clausen said the traditional branch network structure that
banks once used is unlikely to survive the current regulatory
overhaul.  “We are closing branches,” he said. “The old big branch
that did everything we are getting rid of, so instead we have
advice branches for our relationship customers and service
branches for when you just want to do a banking service.”  Branch Closures  Of the 770 Nordic branches Nordea had at the end of last
year, 65 percent were in so-called “focused formats,” which
specialized in either advisory or service functions. In Sweden,
Nordea closed 17 branches that still had manual cash handling
last quarter. The bank plans to complete similar steps at its
units in the Baltic countries and  Poland  by the end of the year.  Shares in Nordea gained as much as 1.1 percent today and
traded 0.9 percent higher as of 11:58 a.m. in Stockholm at 71.2
kronor. The 40-member Bloomberg index of European financial
stocks slipped 0.4 percent.  The capital requirements set by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision are forcing banks to realign or lose money.
Capital-heavy services such as corporate lending are being cut
back while alternatives such as debt underwriting are taking its
place.  UBS has said its job cuts reflect a retreat from capital-
intensive trading businesses as the bank instead focuses on
wealth management services.  ‘Quite Different’  The industry’s response is one that regulators had
targeted, Axel Weber, UBS chairman and former European Central
Bank Governing Council member, said at the World Economic Forum
in Davos, Switzerland, last month. Banks face a “quite
different” future from the business model they followed before
the crisis, he said.  Clausen at the EBF urged national regulators to ensure bank
rules are harmonized across borders. In  Sweden , where Nordea is
based, Finance Minister Anders Borg has ensured lenders face
stricter rules than those set elsewhere.  Nordea, which is the product of a state-engineered merger
following Sweden’s 1990s banking crisis, is 13.5 percent owned
by the state. The Swedish government has defended its stricter
regulatory approach arguing the measures are needed to protect
taxpayers from potential bank industry losses.  ‘Not Harmonized’  Nordea and Sweden’s three other major lenders,
Handelsbanken, Swedbank and SEB AB, must meet a minimum core
Tier 1 capital ratio of 10 percent of risk-weighted assets this
year. The requirement rises to 12 percent in 2015. All four
already comply with the 2015 rules. Basel sets a 7 percent
minimum requirement, effective from 2019.  “We are creating a structure which is not harmonized,
where competition is not as efficient, where all sort of taxes
and fees and regulations are different,” Clausen said.  “This is not according to the thinking behind the one
market and all the efficiency and competition we want to create,
so I think it is pretty important,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  