-- European Snub of 4G Prices Spurs Rate Cuts
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-04T22:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/european-snub-of-4g-prices-spurs-rate-cuts.html
Europe’s wireless carriers are
falling behind their U.S. rivals in efforts to boost tariffs as
they introduce faster service, with price cuts in  France  and
Britain indicating phone bills will shrink further.  EE, the U.K. mobile-phone company owned by  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , last month reduced rates for its
fastest fourth-generation services, and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR unit
slashed prices in France by as much as 25 percent on packages
built around quicker data transfers. In  Germany , the first major
western European market with 4G,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has cut the
cost of its most expensive plans.  The discounts, announced just a few months after EE and SFR
began offering 4G, suggest that carriers may be giving up on a
bet that European consumers will pay more for faster downloads
of music, YouTube videos, and other data-heavy content.  “European telecoms are deflationary,” said Benoit Maynard, a telecommunications analyst at Natixis in Paris.
“We’ve never seen revenue per user increase for more than a
quarter or two in the main European markets. 4G isn’t going to
change that very much.”  After years of sliding prices for wireless packages,
executives including the chiefs of  France Telecom  and Vodafone
have said they hoped 4G premiums would push customer bills up to
levels comparable to the U.S. But heavy regulation in the region
and stiff competition have made that goal more difficult to
achieve, said Maynard.  Shrinking Bills  In the U.S., mobile-phone bills have risen to an average of
almost $50 a month from $41 five years ago, according to
research from Sanford C. Bernstein. During the same period in
Europe, that number declined to $32 from $41.  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile-phone company,
was able to charge an average of $147 a month in the fourth
quarter of 2012 for its shared data plan, which can include
multiple devices.  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s individual plans brought in an
average $65 a month in the same period.  As mobile traffic has grown exponentially with the spread
of smartphones such as  the iPhone , wireless carriers have had to
invest to increase capacity. But the additional traffic hasn’t
translated into revenue.  Capital expenditure, including network investments, will
grow 6.8 percent this year at Europe’s largest carriers --
Vodafone,  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom --
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Revenue will decline 2.8
percent in the same period, the average of analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Price Trap  European carriers last year vowed to spend billions to
bolster their networks. Falling into a price trap now could mean
they’ll risk repeating the mistakes they made last decade on 3G,
the technology that powers older networks.  “It’s difficult for operators to charge a premium for 4G
in the future as they don’t really charge a premium for 3G
today,” said James Crawshaw, an analyst with S&P Capital IQ in
 London . Customers in  Europe  have shown that while they won’t pay
for higher speeds, they are ready to ditch service providers
that don’t offer them, he said.  In Germany, Vodafone has moved 410,000 of its 35 million
clients to 4G since March, when the service was rolled out,
spokesman Kuzey Esener said. The faster technology hasn’t yet
been a major factor in increasing user revenue, he said.  Lagging Stocks  Vodafone Germany eliminated a 10-euro ($13.60) 4G surcharge
for its most expensive tariffs when it overhauled its pricing
structure in October. Now, customers get access to the faster
network for 80 euros, versus 100 euros plus the extra 10 euros
previously for a comparable tariff. The surcharge still applies
to cheaper contracts. Deutsche Telekom and Telefonica’s German
division also charge an extra 10 euros per month for 4G.  Vodafone fell 1.7 percent in London today, after sliding as
much as 2.5 percent for its steepest decline in seven weeks.
France Telecom slid 4.1 percent to the lowest level in two
months. Telefonica fell 3.9 percent in  Madrid , and Deutsche
Telekom lost 2 percent on the Frankfurt exchange.  Europe’s biggest phone companies have  trailed  the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which rose 7.3 percent in the past 12 months.
France Telecom dropped by 30 percent, Telefonica lost 25
percent, Vodafone slid 2.6 percent and Deutsche Telekom was
little changed.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which co-owns Verizon Wireless
with Vodafone, and AT&T each rose about 17 percent in the same
period. Today, AT&T slipped 0.8 percent at the close in New
York, while Verizon Communications lost 0.1 percent.  Hutchison Attacks  Three, the EE rival owned by  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) , today  said  it will offer 4G this year without a
price premium across all smartphone packages.  “It will be negative for the U.K. operators if Three does
undermine their efforts to extract a premium from 4G,” Espirito
Santo analysts wrote in a note today. “As with 3G, it is likely
to attract a disproportionate number of unprofitable, data-
hungry customers which we do not think would be sustainable
without compromising the quality of its network.”  EE said it believes it can maintain a premium for 4G
services and that some of the cheaper plans, such as the 31-
pound ($49) contract, come with higher upfront costs for
devices. The U.K., which charges less for plans than other parts
of the world, has more room for increases, said a spokesman who
asked to be named citing company policy.  French Cuts  In France, SFR CEO Stephane Roussel said on Jan. 22 the
company will lower prices, a shift from two months earlier when
he predicted that speedier packages would bolster 2013 sales and
help average revenue per user rebound next year.  SFR’s cuts put extra pressure on France Telecom, which has
said it will charge an extra 5 to 10 euros a month for 4G when
it starts offering the service in April. France Telecom CEO
Stephane Richard said the introduction of 4G, which will cost 1
billion euros over six to seven years, is vital to winning more
customers. “Customers will pay,” he said in an interview in
October.  Auctions for the airwaves that carry 4G signals have shown
that the spectrum also bears a hefty price tag. Spain raised
1.65 billion euros and France received 3.5 billion euros from
spectrum sales in 2011. In December, four carriers paid the
Dutch government a total of 3.8 billion euros -- more than
expected -- sinking KPN and Vodafone’s shares and prompting KPN
to cancel its dividend.  In the U.K., EE has a head start on 4G because it is the
only carrier already with the necessary airwaves. The company is
vying for additional spectrum with carriers including Vodafone,
Hutchison and  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  in an auction that started last
month, with the U.K. government projecting proceeds of 3.5
billion pounds.  “There are still questions being asked around the return
on investment for 4G,” said  Mark Newman , an analyst at
researcher  Informa Plc. (INF)  “The big issue is, does 4G generate
incremental revenues?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  