-- Mexico Still Seeking Answers Days After Deadly Pemex Blast
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z ,   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-02-03T15:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/mexico-still-seeking-answers-days-after-deadly-pemex-blast.html
The search for the cause of a blast
that destroyed three floors of a building at Petroleos
Mexicanos’s headquarters and killed at least 34 people entered a
fourth day, as investigators toiled ahead of a self-imposed
deadline for finding an answer.  Federal agents are reviewing tapes from banking facilities,
such as Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer SA, in the complex as
well as forensic, chemical and explosive evidence for clues to
the cause of the Jan. 31 explosion.  “In a few hours, a day or two, but no later,” we’ll have
update on the certainty of the cause of the blast, Attorney
General Jesus Murillo Karam, said Feb 1.  The nation’s deadliest explosion since a mine accident in
2006 comes as President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office
Dec. 1, plans to submit a bill to increase private investment in
the  energy industry  and lower taxes on Pemex, the nation’s
largest company by revenue and the world’s fourth-biggest crude
producer.  The initiative is set to be the biggest energy-industry
overhaul since the nation seized  oil fields  from British and
U.S. companies 75 years ago. Unrelated to the bill, Pemex’s
management was due to conduct a review of a plan this month to
merge some or all of its units in a move that, according to El
Universal, may reduce as many as 15,000 non-unionized jobs.  Security Boosted  Murillo said there weren’t signs of any fire sparked by the
explosion. “The federal government is determined to find the
truth of this incident whatever it may be, whether it involves
an accident, whether it involves negligence, whether it involves
an attack,” he said.  Pemex has stepped up security at oil production facilities
during the investigation, the company said.  Investigators from the attorney general’s office, the
Defense Ministry and Navy are inspecting about 1,300 square
meters (14,000 square feet) of rubble from the basement, first
and second floor.  The basement of the B2 building held storage for documents,
polishing machines and a water-treatment plant, a Pemex
official, who declined to be identified, citing corporate
policy, said yesterday in an interview. The union office was on
the first floor, as well as management offices for human
resources and administration, which also occupied space on the
second floor.  Pemex Output  Pemex Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya, who took the
helm of the oil producer two months ago, told reporters Feb. 1
that the incident didn’t hinder Pemex output. The company, he
said, is producing about 2.57 million barrels of oil daily and
the headquarters will reopen Feb. 5 after a three-day federal
holiday weekend commemorating Constitution Day.  The blast also injured 121 at the complex where about
10,000 work or visit daily, Lozoya said. Yesterday, he visited
several of those who were injured and attended the funeral
services of many of the fatalities.  Milenio TV reported that the incident may have been caused
by an implosion due to halon gas, a fire-suppressant chemical
that the network said Pemex was storing after taking the gas
offline amid global bans because of the threat it poses to the
environment. Milenio didn’t say where it got the information.
Murillo said that while he couldn’t confirm whether halon was
found at the scene, an implosion has been ruled out.  Shattered Windows  Footage on Milenio TV showed shattered windows and gaping
holes in walls on several floors after the blast rocked the B2
building adjacent to the company’s main office, the second-
tallest tower in the country, between 3:40 p.m. and 3:45 p.m.
local time on Jan. 31. Security personnel surrounded the complex
and roped off the area outside, where dozens of ambulances were
parked and a bust of the late President  Lazaro Cardenas , who
nationalized  Mexico ’s oil industry in 1938, stood intact.  Employees were evacuated from the scene of the blast, some
on stretchers. The Army cordoned off the complex and sent in
search parties with dogs to seek survivors.  The explosion won’t have any financial or economic impact,
Lozoya said in an interview Feb. 1 after the news conference
with journalists in Mexico City.  The cost to protect Pemex debt against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 115 basis
points Feb. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  Bond Yields  Yields on Pemex dollar bonds due 2022 rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.53 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The Mexican peso erased earlier
losses to rise 0.8 percent to 12.6062 per  U.S. dollar .  Leticia Vigueras, who was working on the second floor of
the adjacent B1 building, said she felt a burst like a shockwave
as the windows shattered.  “From the magnitude of the damage, it’s hard for me to
think it was an accident,” said Vigueras, 38, a finance
department employee who said one of her co-workers was killed
and another is missing. “The whole structure of the first floor
and mezzanine was destroyed.”  The explosion “seriously” damaged the basement and the
first two floors of building B2, Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told reporters on Jan. 31.  Possible Deficiencies  The blast may have been related to maintenance deficiencies
in the boilers used for power generation and air conditioning,
Mexico City-based newspaper El Universal reported,  citing Moises
Flores , the leader of one of Pemex’s unions.  Pemex said on its Twitter account on Jan. 31 that an
electrical failure had prompted a preventive evacuation of the
headquarters. Lozoya declined to comment on the bad equipment
report.  “We’re going to dedicate ourselves as much as possible to
first know what happened,” Pena Nieto said from the explosion
site, when he toured the area hours after the blast. “If there
are people who are responsible in this case, we’ll put the full
weight of the law on them.”  Pena Nieto on Jan. 30 spoke at a conference for his
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , promoting his proposed
energy-industry overhaul in a bid to stem production declines at
Pemex. While he’s promised not to privatize Pemex, he’s also
pledged to forge ahead on a modernization that would allow more
non-government investment and boost competitiveness.  Overhaul Efforts  The government undertook some overhaul efforts with Pemex
under the previous administration. In 2008, then-president
 Felipe Calderon  pushed through a bill that allowed outsourcing
production projects through performance-based contracts.  “At this point, I don’t think it will have any impact” on
the overall discussion of an energy sector overhaul, Alejandra
Leon, a Mexico City-based analyst at IHS CERA, said in an
interview. “Especially if this is just an accident, which is
the most likely cause.”  At least three other incidents have caused significant
casualties at Pemex in the past five years. A fire at a gas
distribution hub near the U.S. border left at least 30 dead last
year, and 21 workers were killed in 2007 when an oil rig hit a
drilling platform in the  Gulf of Mexico .  In addition, an explosion prompted by a criminal gang
attempting to steal oil from a pipeline in the state of Puebla
killed 28 in 2010. Mexico has been wracked by drug violence
since Calderon sent troops to fight the nation’s organized crime
groups after taking office in December 2006. The drug war
resulted in more than 58,000 deaths during his term, and his
government estimated it shaved one percentage point annually off
gross domestic product.  Equipment Funds  Milenio newspaper  reported  that between 2008 and 2011 Pemex
requested funds to update disaster-prevention equipment, such as
smoke detectors, at its headquarters. The government repeatedly
denied those requests, Milenio said.  The explosion could have been even deadlier at other times
of day. “At the time of the blast many Pemex employees,
including my staff and those of other board members, were out”
board member Fluvio Ruiz said in an interview on Jan. 31. “It
was lunch hour.”  The Pemex facilities are “very well maintained,” leaving
a “low probability” of accidents at the site, Sergio Flores, a
former Pemex employee who teaches architecture at Mexico’s
National Autonomous University in Mexico City, said in an
interview.  Barclays Note  Barclays Plc said in a note to clients that the explosion
is “very unlikely” to have been caused on purpose.  “We believe that if the blast is proved to have been an
accident, it should not affect discussions on Pemex reform,”
Marco Oviedo, Barclays analyst, wrote in the note.  Tomas Torres, vice-coordinator of the  Green Party  in the
lower house of congress, said the incident will probably
intensify debate over Pena Nieto’s plans to overhaul the oil
industry.  “Positions may harden,” Torres said in a telephone
interview from the central state of Queretaro. “It could be an
element that strengthens the argument to invest in, modernize
and take care of” Pemex, although those opposing changes may
lobby against “using the pain of the families who died there
for political reasons,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 