-- French Air Force Strikes Mali Rebels After Hollande Visit
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-03T13:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/french-air-force-strikes-mali-rebels-after-hollande-visit.html
The French  air force  struck rebel
sites in the far north of Mali overnight as President  Francois Hollande  returned to Paris following a visit to the country.  Arms depots and training camps near the Algerian border
were attacked by French warplanes, Colonel  Thierry Burkhard , a
military spokesman, said by telephone today from Paris. The
sorties came hours after Hollande said in the Malian capital
that French troops would battle on to eradicate terrorists from
the West African nation.  “Terrorism was pushed back, chased, but it hasn’t yet been
vanquished,” Hollande told a jubilant crowd in Bamako. “France
will stay with you as long as it takes, until the time for
Africans themselves to replace us. Until then we will be beside
you to the end, as far as north  Mali .”  French and Malian troops have retaken most of the territory
held by Islamic militants who overran the region last year. A
push by insurgents to take a key government-held town last month
prompted the French military move amid concern the rebels were
advancing toward Bamako.  Hollande, accompanied by Mali’s interim president,
Dioncounda Traore, spoke to French troops and also visited
Timbuktu, where fleeing Islamic militants burned historic
manuscripts before the ancient city was captured Jan. 28.  Military Coup  Separatist Touareg rebels and Islamic militants overran
northern Mali following a March military coup in Bamako, which
was prompted by soldiers who said they weren’t equipped to fight
the growing insurgency. The Islamists gained dominance after
clashing with the Touareg group and began implementing a strict
version of Shariah law. European and U.S. officials expressed
concern the region may become a haven and training ground for
militant groups intent on attacking Western targets.  The French president pledged to support Mali’s economy and
help with the reconstruction of public services, education,
health, security and cultural heritage.  Hollande also urged citizens of the former French colony to
carry out exemplary elections in July and refrain from extra-
judicial recrimination against local people who had cooperated
with terrorist groups. In a speech, Traore urged the population
not to resort to “vengeance, hate and settling of accounts.”  France “doesn’t want to meddle in the political affairs of
Mali,” Hollande said. The landlocked nation’s territorial
integrity would be placed under the “legitimate authority” of
Traore until elections can be held, he said.  Just before the French campaign, Malian troops killed
civilians suspected of siding with Islamic militants, while the
insurgents executed captured soldiers and used children as
fighters,  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch  said Feb.
1 in separate statements.  Traore has said he would negotiate with the National
Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, the main Touareg rebel
group, provided it drops claims for a separate homeland. He
rejected talks with Islamic groups such as Ansar ud-Din and al-
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  