-- Gillard Sees Poll Support Slump Ahead of Australian Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-04T05:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/gillard-sees-poll-support-slump-ahead-of-australian-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard , who last week announced an election on Sept. 14, has
seen support for her ruling Labor party slump as a scandal
involving a former Labor lawmaker and the resignation of senior
ministers dent her government’s credibility.  Labor fell 5 percentage points to 44 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition
surging 5 points to 56 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper today. The measure is
designed to gauge which major party is likely to win the seats
required to form a government.  A day after  Australia ’s first female prime minister broke
with tradition by announcing an eight-month run in to the
election, former Labor parliamentarian Craig Thomson was
arrested over 150 fraud charges. On Feb. 2, Gillard said
Attorney General  Nicola Roxon  and party Senate leader  Chris
Evans  had resigned from cabinet, forcing a ministry reshuffle.  “Every time Gillard attempts to deliver a positive message
it gets overwhelmed by events she doesn’t appear to be able to
control,” said John Wanna, a professor of public administration
at the Canberra-based  Australian National University . “She
needs to calm her party and try to put pressure back on the
opposition to deliver some real policies.”  The Feb. 1-3 telephone survey of 1,163 people had a margin
of error of plus or minus three percentage points. On the
question of who would make the better prime minister, Gillard’s
lead over Abbott narrowed from 12 percentage points to 2. She
now leads 41 percent to 39 percent. The  previous poll  was held
Jan. 11-13  New Year  Gillard’s new ministry was sworn in today ahead of
 parliament  sitting in Canberra tomorrow for the first time this
year. Communications Minister Stephen Conroy was elected Senate
leader.  Mark Dreyfus, parliament secretary for  climate change , will
become attorney general and minister for emergency management,
replacing Roxon, who quit both posts for family reasons.
Immigration Minister  Chris Bowen  will be sworn in as minister
for tertiary education, skills, science and research to replace
Chris Evans, who also cited family for his exit.  Brendan O’Connor will be sworn in as minister for
immigration and citizenship, replacing Bowen. Jason Clare, home
affairs and justice minister, will replace Dreyfus as cabinet
secretary.  Carbon Pledge  The departures of Roxon and Evans suggest instability in
the government, Abbott said. He’s vowed to scrap Labor’s taxes
on carbon and mining profits should he win power in September.  “It is going to be very important in the days and weeks
ahead that there is a strong and stable government in Canberra
and I regret to say that just at the moment, that doesn’t appear
to be the case,” Abbott told reporters in Queensland state on
Feb. 2.  Thomson, a former national secretary of the Health Services
Union, faces 150 fraud charges in Victoria state related to
allegations he misused a union credit card to pay for
prostitutes,  air travel  and cash advances between 2002 and 2007.
The alleged misconduct occurred before he entered parliament.  In New South Wales, the nation’s most populous state, an
anti-corruption inquiry has been hearing allegations that former
Labor lawmaker Eddie Obeid earned millions of dollars from
illegal property deals.  Coalition Attacks  Gillard’s re-election chances have also been undermined by
coalition attacks on her integrity linked to her reneging on a
pledge not to implement a carbon tax, in return for support from
the Australian Greens party that she needed to form a
government. Three months after winning the prime minister’s job
in a party coup against  Kevin Rudd  in June 2010, Gillard
assembled a minority government with support from the Greens and
independents.  Details on the scandals come even as economic data shows
Australia is performing well compared with other developed
nations. Gross domestic product will rise 3 percent this year,
compared with 1.54 percent for advanced economies as a group,
according to October forecasts from the  International Monetary
Fund .  “We’re behind but we can win it,’ Minister for Regional
Australia  Simon Crean  said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp.
radio interview today. ‘‘It’s difficult. We’ve got to hold our
nerve, our conviction and our belief in not just what we’ve done
but what we plan to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  