-- Gillard Replaces Departing Ministers to Steady Ship
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-03T21:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/gillard-rallies-support-after-losing-ministers-before-elections.html
Australia will swear in replacements
for two exiting government ministers today as Prime Minister
Julia Gillard tries to minimize disruption caused by twin
resignations within a week of setting the date for an election.  Mark Dreyfus , parliament secretary for climate change, will
become attorney general and minister for emergency management,
replacing Nicola Roxon, who quit both posts for family reasons.
Immigration Minister Chris Bowen will be sworn in as minister
for tertiary education, skills, science and research to replace
Chris Evans, who also cited family for his exit.  Gillard, whose minority Labor Party government has trailed
the Liberal-National opposition coalition in opinion polls for
more than 20 months, made public the resignations on Feb. 2,
three days after announcing  parliament will be dissolved Aug.
12 for a monthlong campaign before the election. The twin
departures suggest instability in the Gillard government, said
Tony Abbott, leader of the opposition coalition.  “It is going to be very important in the days and weeks
ahead that there is a strong and stable government in Canberra
and I regret to say that just at the moment, that doesn’t appear
to be the case,” Abbott, also the Liberal Party leader, told
reporters in Queensland state on Feb. 2.  Gillard’s early announcement of the Sept. 14 poll broke
with convention that usually sees leaders give just a few weeks
notice. Treasurer Wayne Swan defended the prime minister’s move
in his weekly economic note yesterday.  “In an election year, the community loses out if hours of
television and pages of newspapers are consumed by fevered
speculation over the date of the election,” Swan said.
“Announcing the election date gives business and individuals
certainty and gives shape and order to the year.”  Newspoll Survey  Labor fell 5 percentage points to 44 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
surging 5 points to 56 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper today. The measure is the
best gauge of which major party is likely to win the seats
required to form a government.  While Evans, who also quit as senate leader, and Roxon both
said they are leaving for family reasons, the timing gives the
impression they’re abandoning the government, said Bruce Hawker,
a former Labor strategist, in an interview on Sky News
television.  Transport Minister Anthony Albanese said yesterday the
resignations are understandable.  “Let’s get real, we have had a couple of people step down
for family reasons,” Albanese said in an interview on ABC TV’s
‘Insiders’ program. “There is no suggestion that there is any
reason other than personal ones.”  Rallying Support  “I’m looking to you to be out there in your communities
explaining to them that this is the work of governing and we are
not done yet,” Gillard said yesterday in a speech to rally
support among Labor Party members in Canberra.  Brendan O’Connor will be sworn in as minister for
immigration and citizenship, replacing Bowen. Jason Clare, home
affairs and justice minister, will replace Dreyfus as cabinet
secretary. The replacement for Evans as senate leader will be
decided at a ballot of the Labor Party caucus today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  