-- Glencore’s CEO Seen Eyeing Anglo After Xstrata: Real M&A
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-02-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/glencore-s-glasenberg-seen-eyeing-anglo-after-xstrata-real-m-a.html
What will Ivan do next?  That’s the question likely to percolate amid seaside
cocktails in  Cape Town  this week as mining executives gather for
a four-day industry confab of speeches and discreet meetings.  Ivan, as everyone calls him, is billionaire Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive officer of  Glencore International
Plc. (GLEN)  Next month he’s due to close a $37 billion takeover of
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , creating the world’s fourth-largest mining company.
While he isn’t scheduled to address the annual Investing in
African Mining Indaba conference, his outsized role in the
industry almost guarantees speculation about his next move.  It could be a whopper. Glasenberg, 56, may consider a long-
speculated takeover of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , according to people
familiar with his thinking. The $43 billion mining giant trades
at the cheapest level relative to profit of any rival, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Also on his mind: Smaller deals such
as a purchase of  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , which has
operations in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo that complement
Glencore’s, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  is
also a candidate, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “I don’t see why Glasenberg shouldn’t try this again with
another target,” said Paul Gait, a mining analyst at Bernstein
in  London . “If Glasenberg wants to continue expanding, he has
two choices: double down on the Congo via the ENRC or First
Quantum route and be a third-world miner, or set up a lower
political-risk entity by merging the Anglo and Xstrata operating
assets.”  CEO Exits  Representatives for Glencore, Anglo, ENRC and First Quantum
declined to comment.  Speculation about Glasenberg has taken on more resonance
than usual as his chief rivals in the mining industry have
fallen by the wayside. In recent weeks, Anglo CEO Cynthia Carroll and  Rio Tinto  Group’s Tom Albanese resigned after both
left a trail of writedowns at struggling projects and disastrous
acquisitions.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  CEO Marius Kloppers is also on
the way out, and Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis  is leaving the combined
company after Glasenberg insisted on running it himself and
investors revolted over a pay package proposed for Davis and
other executives.  That leaves Glasenberg, a commodities trader soon to
preside over a company with combined revenue of $209 billion and
with a long record of successful deals, as the most powerful man
in the industry.  “It reminds me of that Chinese saying, if you wait by the
banks of the river long enough you’ll see the bodies of your
enemies float past: Marius, Cynthia, Mick, Tom. All gone or
going,” said Gait.  Exploiting Prices  The Glencore-Xstrata deal creates a one-of-a-kind firm,
combining Glencore’s global trading operations in metals, energy
and agricultural products with Xstrata’s coal, copper and zinc
 mines . The combined group will play a central role in the lives
of consumers everywhere, supplying grains in cereal, fuel for
cars, cotton for shirts and power for homes, along with a range
of metals.  Its reach as a trader means the new company will be able to
exploit, not just endure, volatility in commodity prices in a
fashion that can’t be matched by its rivals anytime soon.  The merged firm “can control the flows and the stocks
better than anybody else,” said Tomasz Nadrowski, a New York-
based adviser to commodity trading and mining companies. While
rival mining groups are likely to respond by expanding their
modest trading operations, none will be operating at Glencore’s
scale for the foreseeable future, Nadrowski added.  South Africa  A merger with Anglo would give Johannesburg-born Glasenberg
a more prominent role in  South Africa , where the London-based
firm was  founded  in 1917 and still derives about half of its
 operating profits . Anglo helped lead the development of South
Africa’s modern mining industry, building the fortune of wealthy
citizens like the Oppenheimer family in the process.  The company has experience fighting off acquisition
attempts, rebuffing in 2009 a hostile proposal from then-
independent Xstrata.  Its  iron ore , copper and coal assets, which are some of the
world’s biggest, could benefit Glencore, said  Richard Knights ,
an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. Such a deal would
also bring Glencore’s size in line with Rio Tinto and  BHP
Billiton , creating a third truly global mining firm.  Anglo has been weakened by development troubles in
megaprojects like the Minas-Rio iron-ore mine in  Brazil , where
it booked a $4 billion writedown. As it sought to contain cost
overruns, the shares have  plunged  29 percent in the last year,
leaving Anglo trading at an  enterprise value  that’s 4.9 times
its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  Cheapest Miner  That’s less than half of the company’s multiple two years
ago and the cheapest among base metal mining companies and raw
materials suppliers with more than $20 billion in value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Anglo “is an unloved asset,” Knight said. “Glencore
tends to go for things that other people aren’t looking at.”  Anglo’s South African platinum mines could complicate any
takeover plans. They have been among those affected by violent
strikes over pay and working conditions that have also hit
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) , in which Xstrata has a 25 percent stake.  Those platinum mines could present an obstacle to
Glasenberg, both for their operational risks and the difficulty
of integrating light, easy-to-transport platinum into Glencore’s
trading operations, which thrive on the price imbalances created
by uneven global supplies. That could lead him to seek to spin
Lonmin and Anglo’s platinum operations into a new company, with
a stake offered to the South African government, as a prelude to
a merger, one of the people familiar with his thinking said.  ENRC Deal  While much smaller, a deal with London-based ENRC, a $6.8
billion producer of ferroalloys along with iron ore and power,
would also be complex. Glencore would need to secure the
agreement of the firm’s three Kazakh founders, who  own  45
percent of the company. Any change of control would require the
approval of Kazakhstan’s mercurial government.  Vancouver-based First Quantum, whose operations include the
Kansanshi copper mine in  Zambia , near the Congolese border,
would be an alternative target, said Bernstein’s Gait. The
company trades at 11 times earnings, a 32 percent discount to
the median for base metals companies larger than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The challenges of absorbing a large company like Anglo may
be well-suited to Glasenberg, who has a reputation as an astute
trader, fierce negotiator and charismatic dealmaker -- traits
honed over almost 30 years in the commodity trading business
since he joined a predecessor firm, Marc Rich & Co., in 1984. He
was part of a $1.2 billion  management buyout  from Rich in 1994,
which saw the company renamed Glencore.  Glasenberg’s Wealth  Glencore’s May 2011 initial public offering made Glasenberg
a billionaire on paper, his 16 percent now worth about $7
billion, down from $9.3 billion.  To be sure, Glencore isn’t immune to broader problems
facing the  mining industry , which has gone on a $1.1 trillion
takeover binge in the last decade. It may write down as much as
$2 billion from the value of Xstrata assets once the merger is
completed, according to Liberum’s Knights. And trading isn’t a
guarantee of financial stability; in 2011, bad bets on cotton
swung Glencore’s entire  agricultural trading  unit to a loss from
a $659 million profit a year earlier.  Glencore’s shares have also retreated 25 percent since the
company’s IPO, more than  double  the decline for the MSCI World
Index of 146 material companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yet there’s little doubt that this week in Cape Town, rival
executives will be envious of Glasenberg, a former Olympic-
standard race walker who can often be seen jogging before dawn
in London’s Hyde Park. The global commodities landscape is
increasingly volatile, said Nadrowski, playing to his strengths.  “All of this, in a way, gives an advantage to people whose
profit and loss is dependent on flexibility: the traders,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Cape Town at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in Cape Town at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  