-- Global Stocks Signal No Loss of Better World to Come
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-02-04T21:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/global-stocks-signal-no-loss-of-better-world-to-come-like-12.html
Stocks in the world’s developed
nations posted the best start to a year in two decades, a sign
the global economy is poised to accelerate after contractions in
Japan, the U.S. and Europe, if history is a guide.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks in 24 markets rose 5 percent
in January, the most since 1994, as individual investors pumped
record deposits into mutual funds, U.S. profits increased for an
11th quarter, central banks kept  interest rates  at record lows
and growth from Europe to China improved. The last two times
stocks gained this much in January, world gross domestic product
expanded at least three times the 2.4 percent that economists
forecast for 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While market strategists say that equities have already
recorded most of this year’s gains, bears who predicted declines
at this point in 2012 only to see the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  close up 13 percent, are being overlooked. Bulls say the
rally is just getting started after U.S. investor sentiment rose
to a two-year high and billionaire  Warren Buffett  offered to buy
the parent of the New York Stock Exchange.  “People are just positive that the economy is really going
and now they’re putting money in the stock market,” Jerome Dodson, whose Parnassus Fund has beaten 99 percent of its peers
in the past five years, said in a Jan. 29 phone interview. He
oversees about $7.3 billion in San Francisco. “There’s much
more confidence that the economy’s on stronger ground now.”  Global Rally  Shares in Portugal have beaten every developed market this
year as investors bet Europe’s debt crisis is subsiding. Chinese
stocks entered a bull market, signaling the world’s fastest-
growing major economy is gaining traction following seven
consecutive quarters of slowing growth.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average surged to the highest
level since April 2010 as new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
succeeded in depreciating the yen by 7 percent against its
biggest trading partners, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. In the U.S., the S&P 500 rose to within 4
percent of an all-time high as the  Federal Reserve  keeps
interest rates near zero and continues to buy government bonds
with the  jobless rate  at 7.9 percent.  U.S. stocks rose last week, with the S&P 500 adding 0.7
percent to 1,513.17, led by Valero Energy Corp. and Hess Corp.,
and the Dow Jones Industrial Average exceeding 14,000 for the
first time since October 2007. The MSCI World Index and the  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD) , which also includes  emerging markets ,
each climbed 0.8 percent. In 11 recessions from 1938 through
2009, U.S. stocks rebounded an average of five months before a
recovery in earnings, Bloomberg data show.  January Gains  The S&P 500 slipped 1.2 percent to 1,495.71 today for the
biggest drop of the year. The MSCI fell 1.1 percent.  January equity rallies of this size have come in years when
the world economy expanded more than average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The MSCI World advanced 6.4 percent at the start
of 1994, and gross domestic product increased 7.7 percent that
year, 1.2 percentage points more than the average since 1980. In
1987, stocks were up 12 percent in the first four weeks, and the
economy grew 14 percent.  “I’ve been saying to my co-workers it’s the first time in
years that I’ve felt like I could sleep at night and not worry
because the underlying tone to the market and underlying
fundamentals are OK,” said Jeffrey Burchell, a fund manager
with Toronto-based  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF) , which oversees
C$6.4 billion ($6.42 billion) in North America. “The unknowns
and things we’re afraid of are getting less every day.”  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.2 percent in 2012, compared
with the 2.1 percent that was forecast at the start of the year
in a Bloomberg survey. Growth around the world is forecast to be
2 percent this quarter and 2.4 percent in the following three
months, based on the median estimate from economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with average 2.6 percent expansion
since 1996.  Jerome Forneris at Banque Martin Maurel bought shares in
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, to benefit
from last month’s 7.2 percent rally in the FTSE MIB Index. David Herro, the Chicago-based manager of the $12.9 billion Oakmark
International Fund, said he has favored Japanese stocks such as
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Canon Inc. (7751) 
as the Nikkei 225 also jumped 7.2 percent in January.  Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. made an offer for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , the New York-based owner of the largest U.S. equity
exchange, on Nov. 28. The bid, though rejected, indicates the
world’s most successful investor expects trading to increase
after individuals fled the market following the 2008 crash,
according to E. William Stone, who helps oversee $112 billion as
chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management.  Fund Flows  Investors have poured $10.4 billion into developed equity
mutual funds around the world this year, compared with outflows
of $2.5 billion last year, according to data from EPFR Global,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm. They withdrew
about $250 billion from U.S. funds in the past four years,
scarred by the 2008 financial crisis that wiped out $11 trillion
in American equity market value.  Bullishness reached a two-year high last month, a survey
from the American Association of Individual Investors showed on
Jan. 24.  With so many indicators pointing higher, some analysts see
signs the bull market that started in March 2009 is closer to
the end than to the beginning. The gauge of individual investor
sentiment is near to registering a sell signal, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief U.S. equity strategist,  Thomas Lee .  Stock Volatility  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is down
28 percent to 12.9 this year, near the lowest level since April
2007. The slump in the  VIX (VIX) , a gauge of options prices on the S&P
500, suggests investors are growing complacent, Myles Zyblock,
chief institutional strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, said in
a research report last week.  The last time the VIX fell below 15 was in October
following a 15 percent rally in the S&P 500. Stocks lost 7.4
percent the next month. A five-year bull market pushed the
options gauge below 15 for most of 2007. The S&P 500 peaked that
year and plunged 57 percent through March 2009.  This year still may be a  repeat of 2012 , when January’s
gain in the MSCI World index was followed by a 5 percent slide
during the next four months, according to Binay Chandgothia, a
money manager at Principal Global Investors who sold stocks in
the past two weeks and plans to keep reducing holdings as the
market rallies.  ‘Biggest Risk’  “The biggest risk is that there’s been too much short-term
 momentum ,” Chandgothia, who helps oversee more than $250
billion, said in a Jan. 30 phone interview from Hong Kong. “Our
risk-environment indicator is almost getting into frothy
territory. A couple of significant data points that disappoint
can cause the market to correct.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped for a fourth
straight week in the period ended Jan. 27 as Americans’ outlook
on spending soured, a sign increased taxes are already starting
to ripple through the economy. A U.S. worker earning $50,000 a
year is taking home about $83 less a month because of the
payroll tax increase that took effect last month.  Investors should also be “cautious” because U.S.
lawmakers face March deadlines on spending plans and Italy is
preparing to hold elections, said Emmanuel Soupre, a fund
manager who helps oversee $4 billion at Neuflize Private Assets
in Paris. The  world’s largest economy  unexpectedly contracted
0.1 percent last quarter after the biggest drop in defense
spending in four decades.  ‘Speculative Euphoria’  “The market has gained quite a bit, so it’s best to wait
until we can see more clearly,” Soupre said on Jan. 29. “There
has been a lot of speculative euphoria. The crisis isn’t over.”  A. Gary Shilling, the U.S. economist who predicted a year
ago that stock investors would face a difficult year as America
headed back into a recession, now says confidence could quickly
evaporate. In a Jan. 31 essay for Bloomberg View, he said
bullish investors will probably be forced into an “agonizing
reappraisal by a shock,” such as a slowdown in China or a jump
in the price of oil triggered by an Iran-related incident.  The S&P 500 will rise 2 percent to 1,543 by the end of
2013, according to the average projection of 15 Wall Street
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Corporate earnings in the U.S. are too healthy for the
rally to end, said  Michael Shaoul , the chairman and chief
executive officer at Marketfield Asset Management LLC in New
York. Some 73 percent of the 254 companies in the S&P 500 that
have released results since Jan. 8 have topped analysts’  profit
projections , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings Season  Profits in the S&P 500 will increase 7 percent in 2013 and
executives are the most optimistic at the start of a year since
2011, according to data on revised guidance compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio of U.S. companies  raising  forecasts
compared to those lowering them increased to 0.85 last month,
according to data on the 20-day average. Last year, the ratio
fell to 0.3, the lowest since April 2009.  “We might have seen the best month for the year, but I
think that we are entering the mature phase of the equity
market, which involves a lot more participation and upside
volatility,” Shaoul, whose firm oversees more than $5 billion,
said Jan. 29. “Most encouragingly, this has largely been a
bottom-up rally with individual stocks reacting to earnings that
have generally beaten expectations.”  Correlation Declines  The lockstep moves in global stocks that dominated markets
for the past six years are breaking down at the fastest rate
since at least 1993, a sign investor confidence is returning. A
measure of how much the 2,073 companies in the FTSE All-World
Developed Index swing in unison dropped 31 percent in the six
months through Jan. 25, according to data compiled by Societe
Generale SA and Bloomberg.  Increased levels of debt and more hiring are also giving
investors reasons to be bullish. U.S. loans totaled more than
$460 billion in the last three months of 2012, the most since
the second quarter of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
American employers added 157,000 workers last month while the
unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent, a government report
showed last week.  An acceleration in loans “reflects more confidence by
lenders as well as by borrowers,” Ed Hyman, founder and lead
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group in New
York, wrote in a report e-mailed Jan. 29. “Increased confidence
by lenders is the same animal spirit that would be associated
with hiring.”  Missed Rally  Stock gains are likely to continue as pressure to increase
allocations mounts for investors who stayed out of the market,
said  Daphne Roth , the Singapore-based head of Asia equity
research at ABN Amro Private Bank, which oversees about $207
billion. A net 51 percent of global fund managers had bullish
positions on equities in January, four times the level at the
start of 2012, according to a Bank of America Corp. survey of
190 investors overseeing about $586 billion.  “There are lots of people that have missed this rally,”
Roth said in a Jan. 30 phone interview. “Everyone is starting
to recognize that the world is slowly but surely recovering,
that equities aren’t expensive and earnings are improving.”  Economic confidence  in the euro region rose to a seven-
month high in January, adding to signs that the 17-nation
currency bloc may be emerging from a recession.  Bonds of bailed-out euro-area members and debt-laden Italy
have posted bigger gains this year than the securities of
countries outside the single currency. Greece’s debt rallied 17
percent, the best performance among indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Ireland’s bonds jumped 8.4 percent, Spain’s notes
gained 8.2 percent and Italy’s increased 7.7 percent.  Rally Prospects  “The rally can continue,” Forneris, who helps manage $8.5
billion at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille, said in a Jan. 29
interview. “We are very bullish on equities. The economic
environment in Europe is improving and so is confidence.”  Forneris said he started buying Italian stocks last year,
and holds shares in Intesa Sanpaolo and Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI) , the
nation’s largest oil producer.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  entered a bull market on
Jan. 29, rebounding 20 percent since dropping to the lowest
level in almost four years on Dec. 3. The nation’s exports rose
more than forecast last month, while a broad measure of credit
surged 28 percent.  Around the world, stocks have traded at an average 17.6
times reported earnings since the bull market began, and the
MSCI index’s  multiple  was 16.6 last week. That’s still 22
percent below its average since 1995, Bloomberg data show.  “Who knows what the future holds,” Herro, Morningstar
Inc.’s international fund manager of the decade, said in a Jan.
29 interview. “But stocks still look undervalued on an absolute
basis and a screaming bargain compared to bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  