-- Gulf Banks Replace Europeans as Buyers in Middle East, S&P Says
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-02-03T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/gulf-banks-replace-europeans-as-buyers-in-middle-east-s-p-says.html
Gulf banks will remain big buyers of
financial assets in the  Middle East  and North Africa, attracted
by lower prices and opportunities for growth, according to
Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services.  Banks in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, which
includes Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, are taking
the place of European banks that are shoring up their balance
sheets in the aftermath of financial and sovereign-debt crises,
S&P said in a report published yesterday.  “Banks in the Gulf have capital to spare,” credit analyst
Timucin Engin said in the report. They “are literally
capitalizing on their traditional strengths such as strong
capital positions, healthy liquidity, and supportive
shareholders to pursue acquisitions in MENA emerging-market
countries, where opportunities for long-term growth exist.”  Investors from the Gulf are boosting their holdings in
countries like Egypt and  Turkey , attracted by rising profit and
growth in loans.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, in
December agreed to sell its Egyptian unit to Dubai-based
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  in a $500 million deal. Earlier that month
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank by market
value, agreed to sell a majority stake in its Egyptian unit to
 Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  for $1.97 billion.  ’Longer-term Growth’  These transactions are opportunities for diversification
into markets with large “unbanked” populations, which can
provide for longer-term growth, S&P said. Banks are seeing
growth opportunities in young populations in Turkey, Egypt, and
in some Asian countries such as Indonesia, it said.  Commercial Bank of Qatar is continuing talks to acquire 75
percent of  Alternatifbank AS (ALNTF)  and plans to complete discussions
in March, the company said on Jan. 17. Finansbank AS, owned by
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , will probably be a target for Qatar
National Bank SAQ as the Middle East’s biggest bank studies
buying a Turkish lender, Ovunc Gursoy, an analyst at Yapi Kredi
Yatirim Menkul Degerler has said.  “Potential rating movements depend on a conflux of
factors, such as how well capitalized the acquirers will be
post-acquisition, how well they will manage the credit exposures
arising from these expansions, and whether they will be able to
reap potential benefits of diversification,” Engin said.  A “significant risk factor” for such acquisitions is that
most banks in the Gulf lack lending and credit underwriting
experience outside their region, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  