-- India May Reduce Norm That Shields Banks From Bond Price Changes
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-03T18:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/india-may-reduce-norm-that-shields-banks-from-bond-price-changes.html
India’s central bank is considering
reducing the proportion of lenders’ bond holdings that is
shielded from market fluctuations as it seeks to boost trading
in government securities.  Banks can hold as much as 25 percent of their deposits to
maturity without valuing them at the latest market prices.
Lenders have to invest at least 23 percent of their deposits in
securities issued by the finance ministry and other approved
notes under the so-called Statutory Liquidity Ratio.  The hold-to-maturity norms protect banks from losses and
encourage them to buy government debt. Yields on India’s 10-year
government bonds fell 52 basis points last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest drop in yields in four
years may make it easier for the central bank to change the
rules, according to Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor Harun Rashid Khan.  “We are trying to phase out” the accounting rule of
holding debt to maturity, Khan said in an interview in Colombo
on Feb. 2 . “This may be right time to do it as bond market has
rallied and many of them are in the money.”  India’s 10-year bond  yield  declined 14 basis points last
month, the most since June, to 7.91 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as the central bank cut interest  rates 
for the first time in nine months.  “We will take market participants into confidence and draw
up a plan that is quite non-disruptive,” said Khan.  The rule may spur activity as investors “book profit,”
said Arvind Sampath, treasury head at Fullerton India Credit
Co., owned by a unit of Singapore’s state-owned Temasek Holdings
Pte. “The usage of hedging products, primarily interest rate
futures and swaps will also increase.”  Need to Hedge  While foreign banks mostly value their investments at
prevailing prices due to global accounting rules, state-owned
banks make most of the relaxation provided under the hold-to-
maturity category to keep losses from reflecting in their
balance sheets, which also discourages any need to hedge,
according to Harihar Krishnamoorthy, treasurer at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) 
in Mumbai.  State-owned banks, which manage 74 percent of bank assets
in India, account for less than 2 percent of of the interest
rate swaps market, central bank data show.  Private sector
banks, which manage about 19 percent of total assets, account
for 18 percent of swaps outstanding, and foreign banks, which
manage about 7 percent, account for 80 percent.  Apart from held-to-maturity, Indian lenders also hold debt
in the held-for-trading category, where the assets have to be
valued at current prices at least every month. Such securities
must be sold within three months after they were bought.  Investments in the so-called available-for-sale grouping
need to be valued every quarter. There is no compulsion to sell
the securities marked under this category.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  