-- Iran Open to U.S. Offer, Sees Feb. 25 Atomic Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-03T20:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/iran-welcomes-u-s-offer-sees-feb-25-atomic-talks-with-powers.html
Iran considers an offer to negotiate
directly with the U.S. over its nuclear program a “step forward” 
and expects to resume meetings with world powers later this 
month, the Persian Gulf nation’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said.  Talks to defuse tension over Iran’s nuclear work will be
held in Kazakhstan Feb. 25, Salehi said yesterday at the Munich
Security Conference. The U.S. will offer bilateral negotiations
if the Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
is prepared for “serious” discussions, U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said the day before at the same event.  “We have no such thing as red lines with bilateral
negotiations with the U.S.,” Salehi said. “The leader has said
it over and over, that negotiation with the U.S. has meaning
only when it comes on equal footing.”  The Persian Gulf nation, under dozens of sanctions and a
decade-long investigation, insists its nuclear program is
peaceful. Israel and the U.S. say Iran is pursuing atomic
weapons and haven’t ruled out military strikes against nuclear
installations.  “No option should be removed from the table,” Israeli
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said at the same conference. “When
we say it we mean it and we expect others to mean it as well.”  U.S. Strategy  The U.S. will do whatever it must to prevent Iran from
achieving a nuclear weapons capability, former U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said in her final interview before leaving
office last week, underscoring one of the challenges facing her
successor  John Kerry .  While engagement remains a “central pillar” of the Obama
administration’s strategy, “at some point the window for
engagement has to close,” Clinton said, declining to give a
specific deadline by which Iran must comply or face military
consequences. She said maintaining  “ambiguity” is beneficial
in the negotiations.  Clinton also said there has been disagreement within the
Iranian leadership on “how to maximize the leverage they
have,” and when it’s “in their interest to settle” on talks.
There’s political “jockeying” going on ahead of  Iran ’s
elections in June, Clinton said in the Jan. 31 interview.  Clinton said U.S. sanctions have led to a sharp drop in
Iranian oil exports. While Iran may be trying to dodge
restrictions, she said, the U.S. is satisfied with compliance by
nations such as  China , India and  Turkey  that earned 180-day
renewable exemptions by cutting purchases of Iranian crude.  She downplayed a media report that Iran’s oil exports rose
in December, saying that monthly numbers shouldn’t be taken at
“face value” because numerous factors are behind any figures.  Stalled Talks  The meeting in Kazakhstan would be the first round of talks
since the breakdown of negotiations between Iran and the so-
called P5+1 -- which includes China,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia ,
the U.K. and the U.S. -- last June in Moscow. The sides had met
for over a year without result before talks stalled. While
Salehi said publicly that the Feb. 25 meeting in Kazakhstan will
take place, the Iranians haven’t officially confirmed it with
the P5+1, a U.S. official said yesterday, speaking anonymously
to discuss diplomatic matters.  “When the Iranian supreme leader is serious, we have made
it clear at the outset that we would be prepared to meet
bilaterally with the Iranian leadership,” Biden said at the
Munich conference. “We would not do it in secret. That offer
stands. It is real and tangible.”  Fear of Failure  It is unlikely that Iranian negotiations with the U.S. and
other powers will go anywhere over the next year, said  Vali Nasr , dean of the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International
Studies at  Johns Hopkins University , who sat on the panel with
Salehi.  “These are good statements but there have to be some ideas
about how to get them to the table in a credible way,” said
Nasr, an Iranian-born adviser to the U.S. government. “What
would be even worse would be to get them to the table and then
see them fail.”  The Moscow talks broke down after the P5+1 urged Iran to
stop nuclear work and shutter facilities while  International
Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors cleared it of suspicion. Iran
said it wanted broader regional-security issues, including
violence in Syria and Bahrain, included on the agenda.  “No prudent person looks for conflict,” Salehi said. “We
are for engagement but we value very dearly our independence. We
are ready for engagement but only on an equal footing.”  ‘Pussy Cat’  Saudi Arabia ’s former intelligence chief, Prince Turki al- Faisal, criticized both Iranian and U.S. actions in the  Middle
East . Iran is “interfering” in Arab affairs while the U.S. is
acting like a ‘‘pussy cat’’ in trying to resolve regional
problems, he said.  “The only way we can reach a fair and workable solution to
the issue is through a Middle East zone free of weapons of mass
destruction,” Turki said. “Sanctions against Iran are not
enough. The zone free of weapons of mass destruction is the only
way that we can deal fairly with this issue.”  A Middle East free of atomic, chemical and biological
weapons would need to apply to all the region’s countries and
would need to come with security guarantees from recognized
nuclear powers, Turki said.  Israel  neither confirms nor denies its reputed nuclear
weapons arsenal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Munich at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  