-- Jakarta 4:30 A.M. Flights Show Budget Carriers Outgrow Airports
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-02-03T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/jakarta-4-30-a-m-flights-show-budget-carriers-outgrow-airports.html
Asia ’s discount carriers are so
optimistic about surging  travel demand  in the region that they
plan to add 750 new airplanes over the next decade. The airports
aren’t ready.  About 50 low-fare airlines are competing with full-service
carriers to boost their share of traffic in Asia-Pacific.
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s Scoot and Qantas Airways Ltd.’s
Jetstar Airways Pty are among those that have ordered aircraft
worth about $47 billion from  Boeing (BA)  Co. and Airbus SAS for
delivery over the next 10 years.  With discount carriers having secured about a quarter of
the region’s air travel market in the past decade, governments
and airport operators across Asia must build new airfields,
runways and parking bays. The region will account for 33 percent
of global passengers in 2016, according to the  International Air
Transport Association , and HSBC Holdings Plc has said four out
of five airports in Asia are operating at or above their
designated capacity.  “Growth has been far greater than what the authorities
envisioned,” said K. Ajith, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Research
Ltd. in  Singapore . “Infrastructure is lagging. They are moving
quite slowly.”  Some countries have already responded:  Indonesia ,  Thailand 
and Singapore have announced airport expansion plans.  Still, Indonesian discount carrier PT Mandala Airlines,
part owned by  Tiger Airways Ltd. (TGR) , starts flights at 4:30 a.m. in
Jakarta because the carrier can’t get any airport slots later in
the day, said Paul Rombeek, its president director. Planes don’t
return to the city until after 8 p.m. because of the congestion,
he said.  Beijing to Tokyo  The carrier also struggles to find parking bays, he said.
“One of the big and crucial things in Indonesia is
infrastructure -- getting the right slots, getting the right
access to airports, getting access to pilots,” Rombeek said in
an interview. “So everybody is fighting each other over those
very rare resources.”  Carriers in the region are contending with congestion at
 Manila  and face slot constraints in cities from Beijing to
 Tokyo  as airport infrastructure trails expanding demand,
according to Garry Kingshott, chief executive adviser of  Cebu
Air (CEB)  Inc, the  Philippines ’ biggest budget airline.  Budget carriers’ market share in the Asia-Pacific region
rose to 24 percent last year from 1.1 percent in 2001, according
to the  CAPA Centre for Aviation , an industry consultancy.  Total traffic for the region will expand 6.4 percent a year
during the next 20 years, according to jet maker Boeing. In that
period, almost half of the world’s air traffic growth will be
driven by travel to, from or within the Asia-Pacific,  Boeing
said.  Biggest Market  Asia Pacific overtook  North America  as the world’s biggest
aviation market in 2009, according to IATA. The region’s
passenger growth, both domestic and international, is expected
to add about 380 million travelers between 2012 and 2016 to 1.2
billion, IATA forecast in December.  That potential prompted Indonesia’s PT Lion Mentari
Airlines, the nation’s biggest budget carrier, last year to sign
a deal to buy 230 Boeing 737 planes worth $22.4 billion at list
prices. In December,  AirAsia Bhd (AIRA) , the region’s biggest discount
carrier, ordered 100 Airbus A320s valued at $9.4 billion, in
addition to the 200 it had agreed in 2011 to purchase.  787s Grounded  IndiGo,  India ’s biggest discount carrier, ordered 180
Airbus A320 planes in 2011. Scoot, which operates long- and
medium-haul budget flights, has contracted 20 Boeing 787s, the
jet now grounded as authorities in the U.S. and Japan
investigate battery fires that caused the emergency landing of
one operated by All Nippon Airways Co.  Low-fare carriers in Asia are expected to have about 1,000
aircraft in their fleets by the end of 2015, up from about 600
now, said Brendan Sobie, chief analyst at CAPA, which advises
airlines.  “If you think about the number of people that want to
travel in Asia Pacific, there will be bottlenecks at the
airports because of the infrastructure,” said Maunu von
Lueders, regional vice president at IATA.  Timely development of sufficient and cost-efficient
aviation infrastructure must be a priority for the region, IATA
Director General  Tony Tyler  said in November.  Northern Edge  “Asia-Pacific is not immune to air traffic congestion
issues,” Tyler said in a statement. “These will grow acute if
they are not well-managed with a regional perspective.”  Some nations have begun to act. In June, Thailand’s cabinet
approved a plan to develop Don Mueang airport on Bangkok’s
northern edge to reduce congestion at the city’s main
Suvarnabhumi airfield, which handles about 47 million travelers
a year.  Singapore has said it will build a fourth terminal at
Changi airport that will help boost its capacity to 85 million
passengers in 2017 from 66 million now. The airport handled 51
million passengers last year, 10 percent more from 2011.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the Philippines’ largest conglomerate,
said in September it may construct a $6 billion airport in the
Manila area. The airport may take as long as three years to
build, San Miguel president Ramon Ang said.  The state-owned Ninoy Aquino Airport is operating “near
capacity,” IATA has said, as passenger numbers surged more than
60 percent in the past five years.  Indonesia also said in August it may invest 26.2 trillion
rupiah ($2.7 billion) to triple the capacity at its main airport
near capital Jakarta by the end of 2014. The development plan
includes adding more runways and expanding cargo terminals at
the facility.  Those plans alone won’t be enough, analysts say.  “There will be a serious gap over the next eight years as
most of the airports in the region have not decided on a
specific strategy yet,” said Caspar Baum, head of aviation in
Asia at EC Harris LLP. “There is a big mismatch between airline
development and orders versus airport infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  