-- Japan Pension Fund Has Too Many Bonds on Abe Plan
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a ,   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-02-04T07:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/japan-pension-fund-s-bonds-too-many-if-abe-succeeds-mitani-says.html
Japan ’s public pension fund, the
world’s biggest manager of retirement savings, is considering
the first change to its asset balance as a new government’s
policies could erode the value of $747 billion in  local bonds .  Managers of the Government Pension Investment Fund, which
oversees about 108 trillion yen ($1.16 trillion) in assets, will
begin talks in April about reducing its 67 percent target
allocation to domestic bonds, President Takahiro Mitani said in
a Feb. 1 interview in  Tokyo . The fund may increase holdings in
emerging market stocks and start buying alternative assets.  The GPIF, created in 2006, didn’t alter the structure of
its holdings during the worst global financial crisis in 80
years or in response to the 2011 earthquake and nuclear
disaster. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  have
pledged to restore economic growth and spur inflation, which
will mean higher interest rates, Mitani said.  “If we think about the future and if interest rates go up,
then 67 percent in bonds does look harsh,” said Mitani, who was
appointed in 2010 after serving as an  executive director  at the
Bank of Japan. “We will review this soon. We will begin
discussions for this in April-to-May. Any changes to our
portfolio could begin at the end of the next fiscal year.”  GPIF, one of the biggest buyers of Japanese  government
bonds , held 69.3 trillion yen, or 64 percent of total assets, in
domestic debt at the end of  September , according to its latest
quarterly financial statement. That compares with 12 trillion
yen, or 11 percent, in  Japanese stocks ; 9.6 trillion yen, or 9
percent, in foreign bonds; and 12.6 trillion yen, or 12 percent,
in overseas stocks.  Relative Yield  The fund, which took over management of government employee
retirement savings when it was set up, returned to profit in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from a 1.4 percent loss in the first
six months of the fiscal year, Mitani said. He declined to be
more specific. It needs to raise about 6.4 trillion yen this
fiscal year through March 31 to meet payments.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond climbed 3.5
basis points to 0.8 percent as of 4:35 p.m. in Tokyo today. By
comparison, the projected dividend yield for the  Topix Index (TPX) ,
the country’s broadest measure of equity performance, is 2.05
percent. The Topix added 1.4 percent today.  Japan’s bonds handed investors a 1.8 percent return in
2012, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index,
 compared with  the 18 percent surge in the Topix.  Even as shares jumped amid optimism surrounding Abe’s
stimulus plans, benchmark Japanese government bond yields have
remained below their five-year average yield of 1.18 percent.
Benchmark 10-year yields are the lowest in the world after
Switzerland and are less than half the level in the U.S.  Rates Outlook  “JGBs were how we made money over the past 10 years,”
Mitani said. “The BOJ said that they are increasing buying
bonds, but they’re also putting power into lowering  interest
rates . If the economy gets better, then long-term interest rates
like a 10-year yield at less than 1 percent are unlikely.”  The five-year JGB rate touched a record low 0.14 percent
last month amid speculation the Bank of Japan will expand bond
purchases as part of the monetary easing advocated by Abe.  The comments by Mitani show the pension manager needs to
consider higher-risk, higher-yield assets to help fund
retirements of the world’s oldest population. About 26 percent
of the nation is older than 65, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Under Mitani’s leadership, the GPIF began buying emerging-
market assets in September 2011 and started purchasing shares in
countries included in the  MSCI Emerging Market Index (MXEF)  last year.
Mitani said in July 2012 that the fund was selling JGBs to pay
for people’s entitlements and might consider alternative
investments as it seeks  better returns .  100 Years  “We haven’t changed the core portfolio for a long time so
it was thought that it’s about time to review this,” Mitani
said. “The portfolio was based on a prerequisite of things such
as long-term interest rates at 3 percent on average for the next
100 years. Whether this is good will be a possible point of
discussion.”  Holdings have been broadly unchanged since inception, when
the fund was formulated with an outlook for consumer prices to
rise 1 percent annually. Instead, the nation’s headline CPI has
fallen an  average  0.1 percent each month since the start of
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Japan last month doubled its inflation target
to 2 percent, a level last seen in 1997, when a  sales tax  was
increased, with no sustained price gains of that magnitude in
two decades. Falling prices reduce incentives to borrow and
invest in new business projects, erode tax receipts and increase
the attractiveness of saving in cash rather than spending or
putting money into stocks or bonds.  Topix Surge  GPIF is the biggest pension fund in the world by assets,
followed by  Norway ’s government pension fund, according to the
 Towers Watson Global 300 survey  in August.  Japan’s Topix Index surged 30 percent from Nov. 14, when
elections were announced, through Feb. 1 on optimism the  Liberal
Democratic Party  will lead the economy out of recession and end
deflation. The yen weakened almost 14 percent against the dollar
in that time, and touched its lowest level since May 2010 last
week.  Even after 12 straight weekly advances, the longest streak
in 40 years, the Topix is still 67 percent below its December
1989  record  high.  Relative Value  The measure trades for 1.1 times the value of net assets.
That compares with  2.3 times  for the  S&P 500 , 1.6 times for the
 Hang Seng Index  and 1.9 times for the MSCI World Index. A
reading above one means investors are paying more for a company
than the value of its net assets.  The yen dropped 11 percent last year versus the dollar, the
most since 2005. A weaker yen increases the value of exports and
typically raises import costs, boosting consumer prices.  “Japanese stocks do not look expensive,” Mitani said.
“We’re still in the middle of a rising stocks, weakening yen
trend. It will continue for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  