-- Japan Finance Minister Models Policy After 1930s Stimulus
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-02-04T04:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/japan-finance-minister-models-policy-after-1930s-stimulus.html
 Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said the government is imitating his Depression-era predecessor,
Korekiyo Takahashi, who told the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to underwrite
government debt to fund deficit spending.  “There is no one in the government, the bureaucracy or the
BOJ who has experience in anti-deflation policy,” Aso said
yesterday in an interview on NHK television. “We can only learn
from history,” he said, adding that the new administration is
looking to Takahashi’s example.  Emulating Takahashi’s policies of monetary expansion and
government-financed spending has a chance of helping  Japan  beat
deflation, said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co., who used to work at the central bank. Yet
lobbying by interest groups empowered by increased spending,
such as the  construction industry , could make it difficult for
leaders to tighten policy once growth is achieved, he said.  “If it is just a one-off and temporary, then it’s OK,”
Kanno said. “But if the government loses fiscal discipline,
then it will distort politics.”  The yen fell to a 2 1/2 year low on Feb. 1 amid bets Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will select a new BOJ governor who will
boost monetary stimulus. The currency was little changed at
92.77 per dollar as of 1:04 p.m. in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average was 0.7 percent higher, heading for a five-day advance.  The yield on benchmark 10-year government bonds rose to a
three-week high of 0.795 percent.  ‘Brilliantly Rescued’  As finance minister in 1932, Takahashi increased fiscal
spending by 34 percent, doubled bond issuance and instructed the
BOJ to underwrite government debt, according to a  report  by the
Japan Center for Economic Research. While the effort helped end
deflation and boost growth, Takahashi made enemies in the
military when he later attempted to rein in spending. He was
assassinated in 1936.  Takahashi “brilliantly rescued Japan from the Great
Depression through reflationary policies,” Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a  speech  in 2003. His policy
package increased the fiscal deficit, depreciated the currency
and expanded the money stock, with robust growth and mild
inflation for the five years from 1933, according to a  research
paper  co-authored by  Masato Shizume , an economist working for
the BOJ.  “If a central bank starts to underwrite government bonds,
there may be no problems at first, but it would lead to a
limitless expansion of currency issuance, spur sharp inflation
and yield a big blow to people’s lives” and the economy, as has
happened in the past, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said in
2011. The central bank took the step in the 1930s because the
 debt market  was “very immature,” Shirakawa said.  Bond Buying  Under Takahashi’s initiative, the BOJ’s underwriting
continued for 14 years until the end of World War II, with the
ratio of bonds bought by the central bank peaking in 1933 at
89.6 percent, according to a 2001 paper by the central bank.  Now, the BOJ purchases  government bonds  through the
secondary market, and includes the securities in its 76-trillion
yen asset-purchase program.  Since taking office in December, Abe’s government has
announced fiscal stimulus to boost an economy in recession, with
the BOJ agreeing to a 2 percent inflation target requested by
the government and announcing open-ended asset purchases in a
bid to stop more than a decade of falling prices.  Aso told lawmakers in Parliament today that the government
will try to maintain trust in its fiscal management.  Public Approval  Abe’s approval rating rose 11 percentage points from
December when he took office to 63 percent, according to a
Mainichi newspaper poll published today. Almost seven in 10
voters have positive expectations for his administration’s
economic policy, according to the poll. The newspaper surveyed
921 people and gave no margin of error.  The government is not aiming to depreciate the yen, and
weakness in the currency is a result of policies aimed at
getting Japan out of a deflationary recession, Aso also said on
the TV program yesterday. The currency has depreciated more than
13 percent against the dollar in the past three months.  The challenge for Abe’s government is to fund growth
without worsening Japan’s fiscal position. The nation’s public
debt will expand to 245 percent of gross domestic product this
year from 237 percent in 2012, according to International
Monetary Fund  estimates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  