-- Koch Name Memorialized on N.Y.’s 77th St. Subway Station
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-02-03T22:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/koch-name-memorialized-on-n-y-s-77th-st-subway-station.html
New York ’s 77th Street Metropolitan
Transportation Authority station will be renamed in honor of
Edward I. Koch, the outspoken three-term New York mayor who died
last week, U.S. Representative Carolyn Maloney said.  Maloney met Koch when he was campaigning in that station,
which he called his “lucky corner, his favorite subway stop”
and which was the birthplace of his catchphrase “How’m I
doing?” she said.  While campaigning, “people used to just run by him and
never stop to talk to him,” so he started asking them how he
was doing, and “people would stop and tell him what was on
their mind,” Maloney said in a telephone interview. “He loved
that subway stop. He’d walk around and talk to people and find
out what they were thinking.”  Maloney, a Democrat who was first elected to Congress in
1992, and city officials will hold a press conference at 1:45
p.m. tomorrow at the station at 77th Street and Lexington
Avenue.  Koch, 88, died Feb. 1 of heart failure at New York-
Presbyterian Columbia Hospital. Serving from 1978 through 1989,
he presided over the Wall Street-fueled economic boom of the
1980s, turning a $1 billion  budget deficit  into a $500 million
surplus in five years.  He restored the city’s credit, doubled the annual budget to
$26 billion and oversaw $19 billion in capital improvements. His
subsidized housing plan produced more than 156,000 new and
renovated units.  Funeral Tomorrow  Koch’s funeral is tomorrow at Temple Emanu-El in  Manhattan ,
and former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  will speak. New York
Police Department helicopters will conduct a flyover at noon. A
shiva will be held Feb. 5 for family and friends at Gracie
Mansion, the mayor’s residence.  A documentary about the former mayor by Neil Barsky,
“Koch,” opened the day he died in Manhattan, which is “just
like Mayor Koch -- he always had good timing,” Maloney said.  George Arzt, Koch’s press secretary, visited the hospital
the day before Koch died and said he was going to see the film,
Arzt said, “and even though he was in a great deal of
discomfort, he said to me, ‘Don’t tell me the plot.”’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  