-- To Get a Bailout, Cyprus Needs to Launder Its Reputation
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/to-get-a-bailout-cyprus-needs-to-launder-its-reputation.html
For months now, the euro area and
other international creditors have been debating whether to bail
out tiny Cyprus, which accounts for just 0.2 percent of the
currency zone’s  economy . Why the holdup?  International creditors have said the stumbling block is
that they are looking for a way to bail out the country without
putting it on an unsustainable debt path. The real problem,
though, is German elections in September: Many Germans believe
Cyprus is one big money laundromat for Russian crooks, and
proposing to bail them out is not a vote winner.  The debt implications of a Cyprus rescue certainly look
alarming. Unless the country gets financing by June, when the
government has to pay a 1.4 billion-euro ($1.9 billion) bond
redemption, it will default. By most estimates, preventing this
would require a bailout of about 17 billion euros, from which 10
billion euros would go to recapitalizing the island’s banks.  Spread out over four years, lending Cyprus this amount of
money would push the country’s public-debt burden to a whopping
140 percent or 150 percent of gross domestic product in 2016,
from 84 percent of GDP last year.  Trim Bailout  Concerned about the sustainability of such a burden,
international creditors have been looking for ways to reduce the
size of the bailout. One option mooted is to reduce the state’s
funding needs by writing down private creditors’ holdings of
Cypriot sovereign bonds. Another is to reduce the funding needs
of commercial banks, by writing down uninsured deposits.  Both ideas are  problematic . Most Cypriot government bonds
are held by domestic banks that already need recapitalizing, so
forcing a debt writedown would simply rob Peter to pay Paul. And
trying to trim the size of a bailout by gunning for bank
depositors is a high-risk strategy -- if depositors elsewhere in
the euro area feel the same could happen to them, they will
withdraw their money, risking renewed havoc for weak banking
systems, such as those in Ireland, Spain and  Italy .  More important, the proposed remedies are unnecessary.
Their starting assumption -- that a bailout would put Cyprus on
an unsustainable debt trajectory -- is wrong.  The difference between Cyprus having a public debt-to-GDP
of 150 percent versus 122 percent -- the target that creditors
have set for  Greece  -- would be about 5 billion euros.
Conservative estimates for privatization revenue over the next
few years are roughly 1.5 billion euros, so the financing gap
would be smaller still. Greece has been granted until 2020 to
reduce its debt to 122 percent of GDP. If Cyprus were granted
the same leniency, it could surely generate the savings to plug
this gap.  Furthermore, Cyprus is relatively well placed to start
bringing its debt levels down. For 2012, its primary budget
deficit is estimated to come in at about 2 percent of GDP. To
stabilize its public-debt burden at 150 percent of GDP in 2016,
Cyprus would need to generate a primary surplus of about 3.5
percent of GDP that year. This should be achievable. According
to a November 2012 draft  memorandum  of understanding between
Cyprus and international creditors, Cyprus agreed to implement
measures that would produce a primary surplus of 4 percent of
GDP by 2016.  Germany’s election campaign presents a much tougher
obstacle to bailing out Cyprus. Last November, the popular
German publications Der Spiegel and Bild ran  articles  presenting
Cyprus as a center for Russian money laundering and tax evasion.
The main German opposition parties -- the Social Democrats and
the Greens -- saw an opportunity to grab votes by claiming to
defend German taxpayers from having to bail out Russian
oligarchs. Germany’s government may need the support of these
two parties to get a bailout for Cyprus through parliament.  Systemic Risk  The ruling Christian Democratic Union has been sounding
tough on the issue, too, no doubt also with a view to the
September poll. Last week, Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
said  Germany  was looking for answers as to why capital flows
between Cyprus and Russia are so large. He also questioned
whether Cyprus was of enough systemic importance to the euro to
be worth rescuing.  The best way to find a solution for Cyprus is to address
German concerns about Russian money in Cypriot banks, admittedly
not an easy task. Still, it should be possible. According to the
Council of  Europe ’s Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of
Anti-Money Laundering Measures and the Financing of Terrorism,
Cyprus was already  more compliant  on anti-money-laundering
measures than Germany in 2011. In its negotiations with
international creditors, Cyprus has agreed to further strengthen
its anti-money-laundering framework.  In addition, pressure on Germany from other euro-area
countries and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to
fall into line and agree to a bailout is growing. And  Russia ,
which already lent Cyprus 2.5 billion euros in 2011, may be
willing to do more, assuaging concerns that a euro-area bailout
would give the Russians a free ride.  If Cyprus wants a bailout, the best thing it could do is
come up with a grand political gesture to address the perception
that it is being used for money laundering and tax evasion. It
is in everyone’s best interests that this happens, preventing a
messy default or a bailout that sets dangerous precedents.  (Megan Greene is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. Until 2012, she was director
of European economic research at Roubini Global Economics LLC.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  