-- To Reduce Medical Errors, Make Them Public
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/to-make-doctors-errors-less-common-keep-a-public-record.html
Surgeons have an encouraging term for
their mistakes: “never events,” because they should never
happen. Yet they do, with startling frequency.  At least 4,000 times a year in the U.S., surgeons leave a
sponge or instrument inside a patient, perform an incorrect
procedure, or operate on a wrong body part or even a wrong
patient, according to a  recent study  from the  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine . That estimate is probably low,
based as it is on malpractice claims, because many errors don’t
turn into legal actions. Some go undetected altogether.  In one in 15 cases, the mistake leads to a patient’s death.  Why can’t preventable mistakes be prevented? Studies have
long  established  the value of operating-room checklists and
other simple strategies such as marking the surgery site with
indelible ink. Evidently, they aren’t universally employed. Some
surgeons may think that they take too much time, or that it’s
enough to rely on their own caution and competence.  To change that, what’s needed is an accurate, public
accounting of surgical errors. As Martin Makary, the leader of
the Johns Hopkins study and the author of the new book
“Unaccountable,” said, “To fix a problem, you need to measure
it.”  Inaccurate Counts  Hospitals’ own voluntary reporting systems miss most errors
-- in fact, almost all of them, according to a  study  of “adverse
events,” a term that also includes unanticipated but less easily
preventable problems such as infections. Software from the
federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality can screen
patient discharge records for “ patient safety indicators ”
(complications), and states and Medicare and Medicaid use it to
gauge hospitals’ performance. This approach isn’t much better,
though: It fails to account for nine out of 10 adverse events.  Far more effective, the study found, is third-party review
of medical charts. The idea is to find “triggers” that indicate
something went wrong -- a change in surgical procedure, say, or
a postsurgical patient’s being returned to the operating room or
sent to the intensive-care unit. When a trigger is spotted, the
case is investigated. In the adverse-events study, the Institute
for Healthcare Improvement’s  Global Trigger Tool  detected more
than 90 percent of hospitals’ adverse events.  This approach can require time and effort, but in hospitals
with digital patient records, it can be programmed to work
automatically. Several large hospitals have already begun using
the trigger tool this way. It’s fast and accurate, according to
David Classen of Pascal Metrics, a patient safety organization
based in  Washington , who led the adverse-events study.  Some states require hospitals to report their mistakes.
That’s good, but a national reporting system would be better.
All hospitals should report using the same standards of data
collection and the same definitions of procedures and errors.  With public accounting, hospitals would be answerable for
patterns of recurring error. Consider: Of the 9,500 doctors in
Makary’s study who had been involved in one surgical mistake, 12
percent had at least one more. Hospitals would have a new
incentive to improve by, for example, mandating checklists,
instituting safety training and making sure the workplace
culture supports members of surgical teams who speak up when
they see something amiss. Lack of good communication is a root
cause of surgical never events, the Joint Commission, a
nonprofit health-care accreditation organization,  has found .  Finally, accurate reporting could bolster the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services’ strategy of denying
reimbursement for costs due to errors. In 2008, it stopped
paying for incidents in which a foreign body is left in a
surgical patient. Almost immediately, reported cases dropped by
half, according to an  article  in the Jan. 23 Journal of the
 American Medical Association . Unfortunately, under the current
arrangements fewer reports needn’t mean fewer incidents.  Considering that medical errors of all sorts -- inside and
outside the operating room -- cost Medicare alone an  estimated 
$17.1 billion a year, making them rarer would not only prevent
injury and save lives. It would also put a significant dent in
health-care costs.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 