-- Hollande Tells Malians That France Will Continue Battle
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/hollande-tells-malians-that-france-will-continue-battle.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
said troops would battle on to eradicate terrorists from Mali,
three weeks after his forces began driving rebels out of most
major towns in the West African nation’s north.  “Terrorism was pushed back, chased, but it hasn’t yet been
vanquished,” Hollande told a jubilant crowd in the capital,
Bamako, yesterday. “France will stay with you as long as it
takes, until the time for Africans themselves to replace us.
Until then we will be beside you to the end, as far as north
Mali.”  Earlier in the day Hollande, accompanied by Mali’s interim
president, Dioncounda Traore, spoke to French troops and visited
a library and Grande Mosque during a walking tour of the ancient
city of Timbuktu, where fleeing Islamist militants burned
historic manuscripts before the city was captured on Jan. 28.  “The fight is not over,” Hollande said, even as  France ,
backed by Malian and African troops, “has finally given back to
Mali its unity, integrity and strength.”  The French president pledged to support the Malian economy
and help with reconstruction of public services, education,
health, security and cultural heritage.  Hollande urged Malians to carry out exemplary elections in
July and refrain from extra-judicial recriminations against
locals who had cooperated with terrorist groups. In a speech,
Traore urged the population not to resort to “vengeance, hate
and settling of accounts.”  Popularity  Hollande, whose popularity improved for the first time
since he took office in May after the Mali intervention,
recalled in Bamako his “grave decision” to engage French
troops in battle and thanked Malians for their “exceptional
welcome,” fervor and gratitude during his one-day visit.  “I have just lived through the most important day of my
political life,” he said under heavy security to a cheering
crowd waving the French red, white and blue colors and holding
portraits of the president.  French and Malian troops have now retaken most of the
territory held by Islamist militants who overran the region last
year. A push by insurgents to take a key government-held town
earlier this month prompted the French military move amid
concern the rebels were advancing toward Bamako.  France “doesn’t want to meddle in the political affairs of
 Mali ,” Hollande said. The landlocked nation’s territorial
integrity would be placed under the “legitimate authority” of
Traore until elections can be held, he said.  Camel Gift  Hollande was greeted in Timbuktu by Malians sporting shirts
with the flags of both countries and banners reading “Thank You
France” before being presented with a camel and wading into a
crowd in the desert city. He was accompanied by French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius, Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and
Development Minister Pascal Canfin.  Fabius told reporters in Paris on Feb. 1 that France is
“advancing positively” against the insurgents. After seizing
control of the towns of Gao and Timbuktu, French troops occupied
the airport in Kidal, the last major rebel stronghold.  Just before the French campaign, Malian troops killed
civilians suspected of siding with Islamist militants, while the
insurgents executed captured soldiers and used children as
fighters,  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch  said
yesterday in separate statements.  Separatist Touareg rebels and Islamist militants overran
northern Mali following a March military coup in Bamako, which
was prompted by soldiers who said they weren’t equipped to fight
the growing insurgency. The Islamists gained dominance after
clashing with the Touareg group and began implementing a strict
version of Shariah law. European and U.S. officials expressed
concern the region may become a haven and training ground for
militant groups intent on attacking western targets.  Traore has said he’d negotiate with the National Movement
for the Liberation of Azawad, the main Touareg rebel group known
as the MNLA, provided it drops claims for a separate homeland.
He rejected talks with Islamist groups such as Ansar ud-Din and
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  