-- Manchester United Opens 12-Point Lead Atop Premier League Soccer
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-11T00:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/tottenham-wins-1-0-at-10-man-west-brom-in-english-premier-league.html
Manchester United beat Everton 2-0
to extend its lead atop English soccer’s Premier League to 12
points with 12 games left. Aston Villa defeated West Ham 2-1 to
move out of the relegation zone.  Ryan Giggs  and  Robin van Persie  got United’s goals at Old
Trafford yesterday, lifting the Red Devils to 65 points through
26 matches. Defending champion Manchester City remains on 53 in
second place after losing 3-1 at Southampton two days ago.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  said he’d considered making
several team changes in preparation for the Champions League
round-of-16 game at Real Madrid in two days. Instead, he chose a
strong lineup to try to take advantage of City’s slip.  “I thought I’d make about seven changes, but when I saw
the result yesterday I knew how important the game would be for
us,” Ferguson told Sky Sports. “We knew if we could get a good
result today it would put us in a fantastic position.”  Last season, United’s title challenge faltered with a 4-4
home draw with Everton in which the visitors recovered a two-
goal deficit. Ferguson said the memory of that setback made his
team more determined yesterday.  “They must remember their bad experiences,” Ferguson
added. “We showed a steely determination this time.”  Everton’s defeat meant it lost ground in the chase for a
Champions League berth next season. Third-place Chelsea has 49
points, Tottenham 48, Arsenal 44 and Everton 42 in sixth spot.  Everton was destabilized by a late team change as  Sylvain Distin  was taken ill just before the game and replaced by  Johnny Heitinga .  Giggs Scores  With Real Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  among the spectators,
United had an early chance when  Van Persie  was sent clear by
 Wayne Rooney . The Dutch striker took the ball around goalkeeper
 Tim Howard , though hit the post from a tight angle.  Giggs opened the scoring in the 13th minute, Van Persie
setting up the chance for the 39-year-old to score from close
range after indecision from Heitinga. Giggs has now scored in 23
straight seasons, including every year of the Premier League,
which started in 1992.  Everton withstood pressure from United and came back into
the match.  Leon Osman  tested  David de Gea  with a left-foot shot
but the goalkeeper dived to his left to save.  United doubled its lead just before halftime. Van Persie
beat the offside trap, went past Howard and slotted the ball
into the net. Heitinga, running back to cover, could only help
it over the line. It was Van Persie’s 23rd goal for United this
season after he joined from Arsenal.  Goalmouth Scramble  Jonny Evans  almost made it 3-0 in the 66th minute as Howard
and Nikica Jelavic each denied the United defender in a
goalmouth scramble. Jelavic almost put Everton back in the game
in the last 10 minutes, forcing De Gea to push a shot away to
maintain the shutout.  “We had to have the concentration, we knew what happened
here against Everton last year,” Giggs told United’s website.
“The main thing was obviously getting the result. The
performance wasn’t as important, but I think we played well.”  At Villa Park, Andreas Weimann should have given the home
team a second-minute lead, though blasted the ball wide of the
goal from close range in the best chance of the half.  Villa’s  Charles N’Zogbia  missed a chance after the break
before  Darren Bent  cleared in front of goal for the home team.  Villa took the lead in the 74th minute when Christian
Benteke converted a penalty kick after N’Zogbia was fouled by
 Mark Noble . N’Zogbia made it 2-0 four minutes later, curling a
free kick over the defensive wall and into the net.  Ashley Westwood ’s headed own goal made it 2-1 before home goalkeeper
Brad Guzan made two injury-time saves to seal the victory.  Villa now has 24 points, ahead of Reading (23), Wigan (21)
and last-place Queens Park Rangers (17).  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Wigan 4-1, Norwich and Fulham
drew 0-0, Stoke defeated Reading 2-1 and Arsenal won 1-0 at
Sunderland. QPR lost 4-1 at Swansea and Tottenham beat Newcastle
2-1. Liverpool hosts West Brom tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  