-- Panetta Says Hagel Prepared for Defense Secretary Job
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/panetta-says-hagel-prepared-for-defense-secretary-job.html
Republicans grilling U.S. Defense
Secretary nominee Chuck Hagel last week focused too much on the
past instead of addressing more pressing military issues,
departing defense chief  Leon Panetta  said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.”  “It’s pretty obvious the political knives were out for
Chuck Hagel,” Panetta said in the interview, broadcast
yesterday.  Hagel, a 66-year-old former Nebraska senator selected for
the job by Democratic President  Barack Obama , faced an onslaught
of criticism from fellow Republicans during a Jan. 31
confirmation hearing. He answered questions about why he opposed
the 2007 U.S. troop surge in  Iraq  and about his stances on
nuclear arms reduction and Israel policy.  “What disappointed me is that they talked a lot about past
quotes, but what about what a secretary of defense is
confronting today?” Panetta said, pointing to current issues
such as  Afghanistan , terrorism, defense spending cuts, cyber
attacks and turmoil in the  Middle East . “All of the issues that
confront a secretary of defense, frankly, we just did not see
enough time spent on discussing those issues.”  Panetta, 74, said he is “absolutely” confident Hagel is
prepared to take on the job.  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff,  declined to discuss whether he has confidence in a man
“who could be my boss.” Hagel has “great credentials,”
Dempsey said on the same NBC program. In a separate interview on
CNN’s “ State of the Union ,” Dempsey said Hagel is “very
thoughtful and very well prepared and very interested.”  Close Relationship  “If he’s confirmed, I’m sure that we’ll establish a very
close working relationship,” Dempsey said on CNN.  Panetta, asked about military spending on NBC, said, “If
Congress stands back and allows sequester to take place, I think
it would really be a shameful and irresponsible act.”  “In a world of responsible politics, it should not
happen,” he said.  Reduced funding for the military received renewed attention
last week after a 22.2 percent drop in defense spending helped
bring the growth of the nation’s gross domestic product to a
minus 0.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the first
contraction since the recession ended in 2009. The decline in
defense purchases was the biggest since 1972, when military
spending slumped in the closing years of the  Vietnam War .  Civilian Employees  Automatic spending cuts that would reduce the  defense
budget  by $45 billion this fiscal year will kick in on March 1
unless the Obama administration and Congress work to stop them.
The Defense Department has said 800,000 civilian employees may
have to be furloughed, losing two days per pay period.  “There’s this notion that that’s probably OK, because
they’re just a bunch of white-collar bureaucrats,” yet 86
percent of those affected will be outside  Washington , Dempsey
said on NBC. “This will affect the entire country, and it will
undermine our readiness for the next several years.”  Panetta said he couldn’t verify whether Iran was pursuing
nuclear weapons.  “Every indication is they want to continue to increase
their nuclear capability,” he said. “And that’s a concern. And
that’s what we’re asking them to stop doing.”  Were Iran to pursue a nuclear weapon, Dempsey said on NBC,
the U.S. military could “destroy their capability.”  Vice President  Joe Biden  said over the weekend that the
U.S. is ready for direct talks about the contested nuclear
program as soon as the Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  makes a commitment to negotiate. U.S. and
Iranian diplomats haven’t acknowledged bilateral meetings since
October 2009, when they came together at a nuclear gathering in
Geneva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in  New York  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  