-- Paraguayan Presidential Candidate Lino Oviedo Dies in Crash
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-02-04T19:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/paraguay-presidential-candidate-oviedo-dies-in-helicopter-crash.html
Paraguayan presidential candidate
Lino Oviedo, a former army chief who led a failed coup in 1996,
died Feb. 2 in a helicopter accident.  The wreckage was found in the Presidente Hayes department
in central  Paraguay , police officer Benito Almiron, a member of
the Paraguayan police’s press office, said in a telephone
interview from Asuncion. Police are working at the site of the
accident, which also killed the pilot and Oviedo’s bodyguard.  Oviedo, 69, was running with the opposition Unace Party in
April’s presidential vote. Congress ousted Fernando Lugo from
the presidency in June, claiming he encouraged land seizures and
fomented violence. Two months later, the electoral tribunal  set
a date  for the election.  Vice President Federico Franco was named to temporarily run
the landlocked nation until the vote. Lugo’s swift ousting
prompted Brazil,  Argentina  and Uruguay to suspend Paraguay, the
world’s fourth-largest soybean producer, from the Mercosur trade
group until the elections.  Oviedo was army chief in 1996 when he attempted to remove
Juan Carlos Wasmosy from the presidency. After the coup failed,
Oviedo ran for the presidency in the 1998 election. The Supreme
Court blocked his attempt due to charges related to the coup.  Prison Sentence  He moved to  Brazil , and returned to Paraguay in 2004 to
serve a prison sentence. Running with the Unace Party, he came
in third in the 2008 presidential elections, which Lugo won,
ending 61 years of Colorado Party rule.  Oviedo was unlikely to win in the April 21 elections,
Michael Shifter, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, said
in a telephone interview yesterday from  Washington .  The two leading presidential candidates are Efrain Alegre
of the Liberal Party and Horacio Cartes of the Colorado Party,
according to a Feb. 1 study by pollster Ati Snead, reported by
 Paraguay.com .  Unace has yet to decide what steps the party will take in
the presidential campaign, Senator Jorge Oviedo Matto said in a
 press conference  yesterday, according to Paraguay.com.  Paraguay last month sold $500 million in global bonds, its
debut issuance. The 10-year debt has a 4.625 percent coupon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  