-- Mickelson Gets First Win in a Year on Second-Best 72-Hole Score
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/phil-mickelson-wins-phoenix-open-by-four-shots-at-28-under-par.html
Phil Mickelson won golf’s Phoenix
Open with a four-round total of 28-under par 256, securing his
first victory in almost a year with the second-best score for a
72-hole event in U.S. PGA Tour history.  Mickelson, 42, started the tournament at TPC Scottsdale’s
Stadium Course by shooting a first-round 11-under par 60, one
stroke off the lowest score in an official PGA Tour event. He
finished it with his 41st career victory, four shots better than
runner-up Brandt Snedeker.  Mickelson’s total was two off the PGA Tour’s record score
of 254 for a 72-hole event set by Tommy Armour III at the 2003
Texas Open. Mickelson matched Mark Calcavecchia’s 28-under 256,
which was also set at the Phoenix Open in 2001.  “It’s been a very fun and special week,” Mickelson said
after shooting a 4-under-par 67 during yesterday’s final round.
“All I cared about was getting a win because I hadn’t won in a
while and hadn’t been in contention. To hit the shots that I hit
on the back side, which was enough to win the tournament, that’s
what I take away more than any of those records.”  Mickelson now has at least one PGA Tour title in 20 of the
past 23 years and moved within four of Walter Hagen for the
eighth-most wins in history. Only Sam Snead (24) and Jack Nicklaus (21) have won at least one PGA Tour event in more years
than Mickelson, who last went without a victory in 2003, the
longest active streak on tour.  An  Arizona  State graduate, Mickelson now has six PGA Tour
titles in Arizona, matching Johnny Miller for the most all-time
wins in the state.  Missed Birdies  Mickelson jumped atop the leaderboard with an opening-round
60 on Jan. 31, when he just missed birdie putts on the final two
holes and fell short of becoming the sixth golfer to shoot a
round of 59 in an official PGA Tour event.  Mickelson followed that with rounds of 65 and 64 to take a
six-shot lead into the final day. He had five birdies and a
bogey yesterday to join Steve Jones (1997) as the only golfers
since 1970 to lead the Phoenix Open from start to finish.  Mickelson receives $1.1 million for his latest win, which
comes just over a week after he apologized for his complaints
about income taxes that drew public criticism. The winner of
four major golf titles, Mickelson had said during last month’s
Humana Challenge in La Quinta,  California , that he’d have to
make “drastic changes” due to new U.S. and California tax
laws. He apologized before last week’s PGA Tour event in La
Jolla, California, saying finances and taxes are a personal
matter.  The PGA Tour now moves to the Monterey Peninsula in
California for the $6.5 million Pebble Beach National Pro-Am,
where Mickelson is the defending champion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  