-- Qantas Plans Earlier Asia Arrivals Amid Business Class Push
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-04T06:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/qantas-plans-earlier-flights-to-asia-amid-business-class-push.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
largest carrier, will fly seven Asian routes earlier in the day
as a partnership with Emirates gives it more scope to run
flights at times that appeal to business class passengers.  The  carrier  will also look at whether to run direct flights
from Australia to Beijing, Delhi and Mumbai from 2016, when it
can exercise options to buy as many as 50  Boeing Co. (BA)  787-9
Dreamliners, it said in a regulatory statement. More 787 flights
may be added to Seoul and  Tokyo , Sydney-based Qantas said, where
four of five direct routes are operated by its budget arm
Jetstar and code-share partners.  Qantas international chief Simon Hickey wants to reschedule
flight times to deliver better service to Asian destinations and
win major corporate customers. The airline has spent A$9 million
($9.4 million) upgrading lounges in  Hong Kong  and Singapore and
is considering refurbishing its Airbus SAS A330 aircraft to
include lie-flat beds in business class, it said.  “There’s still some work to be done on this,”  Russell Shaw , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, said by
phone. “I’d think this will be the first announcement of
several as they ramp up these connections.”  Qantas  shares  were unchanged at A$1.54 at the close of
trading in Sydney, while the  S&P/ASX 200 index  slipped 0.3
percent.  More Connections  Flights into Hong Kong, Singapore and Bangkok will be
brought forward by as much as about four hours using capacity
freed up by the agreement with Emirates. Service to  Frankfurt 
will stop operating April 15, six months earlier than originally
announced on April 15, Qantas said.  Trips from  Melbourne  to Singapore and Hong Kong, which
currently arrive at 9 p.m. and 7:20 p.m., local time, will be
moved to 5:10 p.m. and 3:55 p.m. to allow more connections into
 Asia  and save passengers from having to stay overnight en route,
according to a table provided with the announcement.  “The joint Qantas-Emirates network into Asia gives our
customers a fresh set of options,” Hickey said in the
statement. “Through a combination of Qantas, Jetstar and our
partners we aim to provide the best travel options between
 Australia  and Asia.”  The carrier is partnering with Emirates in a bid to end as
much as A$450 million ($469 million) of annual losses on
international routes. The so-called kangaroo route to  Europe ,
which had previously transferred through Singapore, Hong Kong,
and Bangkok, will be moved to the Gulf carrier’s Dubai hub and a
17-year alliance with British Airways on the long-haul routes
will be dropped as a result.  Battery Malfunctions  Qantas canceled an order last August for 35 787-9
Dreamliner models worth about $8.5 billion at list prices. It’s
also canceled one of the 15 shorter 787-8 models which its
budget arm Jetstar is due to start receiving in the second half
of this year, becoming the first carrier to drop an order since
a series of battery malfunctions last month on flights operated
by Japanese carriers.  Qantas’s announcement that it’s evaluating whether to
extend routes to new destinations using the 787-9 doesn’t mean
they’re any more likely to acquire the aircraft, Shaw said.  “They just say they’re examining it,” he said. “I’d hope
they’d be doing that as part of their ordinary course of
business.”  Qantas will also look at whether it can expand its Asian
network through existing partners including  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ,
 China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670) , Jet Airways India Ltd., Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd., and Malaysian Airline System Bhd., the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  