-- Nadal Denies IMG Cut of Earnings as Career Resumes
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-02-04T17:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/rafa-nadal-denies-img-cut-of-earnings-as-career-resumes.html
Rafael Nadal is starting over with
his tennis career, and his business affairs.  The 11-time Grand Slam champion, who returns to competition
tomorrow in Chile after a seven-month hiatus because of injury,
let his contract with management agency  IMG Worldwide Inc. 
expire Dec. 31. He “wanted to set up his own company,”
Fernando Soler, head of tennis at New York-based IMG, said in a
telephone interview.  Agencies such as IMG typically take a cut of as much as 15
percent for arranging endorsement deals, according to Marc Ganis, president of Chicago-based consultancy Sportscorp Ltd.
Nadal made $25 million in endorsements last year according to
Forbes magazine, so he may be saving himself as much as $3.8
million. That’s about half of the prize money he made in 2011,
his last full season on the men’s tour.  “Nadal doesn’t need to look for corporate sponsors any
more, they will come to find him,” Ganis said.  Nadal and 17-time major singles champion Roger Federer, the
sport’s top moneymaker with annual earnings in deals and prize
money of $52.7 million who left IMG in June last year, are among
the fewer than 10 athletes who are so well known they don’t need
IMG’s 130-office global infrastructure to chase down deals
around the world, Ganis said.  Carlos Costa, Nadal’s IMG handler for 12 years, is now
managing him independently and has started a company with
Nadal’s father, Sebastian, German newswire DPA reported Jan. 30.  Injuries  Nadal’s spokesman Benito Perez-Barbadillo declined to
comment on the move and Costa didn’t return a message left on
his mobile phone.  The 26-year-old has been suffering from a partial torn
patella tendon and knee inflammation and hasn’t played since
losing in the second round at Wimbledon last June. Nadal, the
most dominant clay-courter of his generation with 36 titles
including a men’s record seven French Open championships, is
shunning hard courts for now.  Equipped with a new version of his old Babolat racket that
will give him more power and spin, he’ll play doubles with Juan Monaco of Argentina tomorrow at a tournament in Vina del Mar,
Chile, before making his singles return the following day,
against a qualifier or 92nd-ranked Argentine Guido Pella. The
former world No. 1, who missed the London Olympics, the U.S.
Open and the Australian Open, will play in Brazil next week and
in Mexico the week after that.  ‘Weeks of Working’  Nadal told reporters in Chile yesterday he’s not set
himself high expectations after the longest break in his career.  “I need weeks of working on the circuit,” said Nadal, who
met with Chile President Sebastian Pinera shortly after his
arrival in Santiago four days ago. “This is my first week and I
don’t think the goals are the same that the ones I will have in
two more months. I have to take it slowly and be humble to know
that things won’t be as good as they were before my injury. I
need to be patient.”  Staff at IMG’s office in Barcelona said Costa no longer
works there and provided an e-mail address with a domain name of
Goramendi. Goramendi Siglo XXI SL handles Nadal’s image rights
among other business ventures such as real estate investments
and his father’s glass business.  The company’s office is above a sports store that stocks
Babolat rackets a short walk from Nadal’s home in Manacor, a
town on the Spanish island of Majorca. According to its latest
financial filing, Goramendi generated 39.8 million euros ($54.6
million) in revenue in 2009 and 2010.  Tax Inquiry  Nadal moved the company’s domicile from the northern city
of San Sebastian in December 2011 after Spanish authorities
opened an inquiry into why he was paying taxes in a region that
allows companies to pay as little as 1 percent on income, El
Pais newspaper reported in February 2012.  The player then told Television Espanola he hadn’t been
paying 1 percent tax and had contributed some 40 million euros
in taxes during his career. His father said in a 2009 interview
that Nadal had companies domiciled in San Sebastian because his
financial adviser was from there.  Even amid concerns about his knee injury and after dropping
three spots to No. 5 for the first time in eight years while out
of action, Nadal remains attractive for endorsements. His fame
and his reputation for being helpful with sponsors “counts for
a lot,” Ganis said. In Spain, Nadal’s character means he
features in school text books about good citizenship.  Recovery Updates  Last year, Nadal added online gambling company PokerStars
to a group of sponsors including  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and carmaker  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)   During his time away from the tour, Nadal has been keeping
his 11 million fans on Facebook up to date on his recovery
almost on a daily basis, with pictures of him working out in the
swimming pool, in the gym or on the tennis court.  “His positioning as a sporting superstar is confirmed and
won’t change, he’s one of the all-time greats,” Nigel Currie,
director of London-based sports marketing agency brandRapport
said in an interview. “And there’s not been a bright new star
that has come up in his absence.”  Costa, a former pro, took on 14-year-old Nadal as a client
shortly after starting to work for IMG in 2001. He is so close
to the player’s family that he stays at their house on Majorca
when visiting, Nadal’s coach and uncle Toni Nadal said in a 2009
interview.  ‘Disappointing’  Federer’s agent Tony Godsick left IMG last June to handle
the Swiss player’s affairs independently. The departures of the
two top moneymakers in men’s tennis are coincidental and “don’t
mean anything in terms of our commitment to player management,”
IMG’s Soler said. Tiger Woods, a 14-major winning golfer, left
the agency in 2011 when his representative Mark Steinberg
departed.  In December, IMG signed an agreement to represent top-
ranked Novak Djokovic of Serbia and the company also manages 100
other tennis players including French Open winner Maria Sharapova of Russia, Soler said. He added he has no complaints
with Nadal’s decision.  “We feel very fortunate we were with Nadal for 12 years,”
Soler said.  “It must be disappointing for them,” Currie said.
“Traditionally, IMG have been so massive in tennis that they
always expected to have the top players in that sport. And if
you’re working with the top players, their earning potential is
absolutely massive. It’s a pretty lucrative area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  