-- Raizen Sees Brazilian Millers Favoring Ethanol at Harvest Start
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-03T07:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/raizen-sees-brazilian-millers-favoring-ethanol-at-harvest-start.html
Millers in Brazil, the world’s
largest sugar producer, will favor ethanol output at the
beginning of this year’s cane harvest because sugar prices are
low, according to a joint venture of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
Cosan Industria & Commercia SA.  Measures taken by Brazil’s government to increase fuel
prices and raise the amount of ethanol blended into gasoline
will help boost biofuel demand, said Ivan Melo, a commercial
director at the joint venture known as Raizen. Sugar fell 16
percent last year and 27 percent in 2011, the biggest two-year
drop since 1999. Raizen produces sugar and ethanol.  “With gasoline prices rising 6.6 percent, hydrous ethanol
is now more competitive,” Melo said in an interview at the
Kingsman sugar conference in Dubai yesterday, referring to the
100 percent ethanol fuel used in flex fuel cars. “If the
harvest starts with sugar prices at current levels, we will
begin the season with more incentive to make ethanol.”  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, increased gasoline prices at refineries by 6.6 percent
last week. The government also said it will raise the amount of
anhydrous ethanol blended into gasoline to 25 percent in May
from 20 percent now. Brazil’s control over gasoline prices in a
bid to limit inflation had made ethanol uncompetitive.  Millers in Brazil directed 49.59 percent of all their sugar
cane in the 2012-13 season to make sugar, as prices for the
sweetener were still more favorable,  data  from industry group
Unica showed. That was up from 48.44 percent a year earlier. The
allocation of raw material to ethanol is likely to change this
year, as the increase in the blend will generate additional
ethanol demand of 1.2 billion liters (3.2 billion gallons), Melo
estimates.  Record Crop  Brazil  will harvest a record 585 million metric tons of
sugar cane in the 2013-14 season that starts in April there,
according to Raizen. That’s up from 531.9 million tons in
2012-13, Unica data show. Sugar output is currently estimated at
36.3 million tons, Melo said. That could still change depending
on how the government’s measures affect ethanol consumption, he
said.  Millers in the South American nation have been holding back
sales of this year’s crop in the futures market due to
uncertainty over what will happen to ethanol demand, Melo said.
Sales are currently estimated at 30 percent to 40 percent of
output, he said. At this time of year, millers would usually
have sold about 50 percent, according to Armajaro Trading Group
Ltd., a London-based supplier of sugar, cocoa and coffee.  Harvest Scenarios  With the outlook for sugar’s crop “good,” Brazil probably
hasn’t sold enough sugar in the futures market, Melo said.  If
the harvest is disrupted, and sugar supplies are lower than last
year, then Brazil was “just about right” to hold back on
sales, he said.  Sugar, the third worse performing commodity in the Standard
& Poors GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials last year, will trade at
17 cents and 20 cents a pound during this year’s harvest in
Brazil, which runs from April to December, Melo said. Sugar is
down 3.2 percent this year, with speculators boosting bets on
lower prices by 28 percent, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. Net-short positions were 75,108 lots
as of Jan. 29, up from 58,621 contracts at the end of last year.  “Who said the current measures are the only ones the
government will take?” Melo said. “If the government takes
more steps that give the incentive for hydrous ethanol
consumption, the shorts will need to start getting worried,
though any measure taken by the government will not be enough to
erase the world’s sugar surplus.”  Sugar supplies will be about 8 million tons higher than
demand in the 12 months starting in April, Raizen estimates. Raw
sugar for March delivery rose 0.6 percent to 18.89 cents a pound
on Feb. 1 on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in Dubai at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  