-- Service Industries in U.S. Probably Maintained Momentum
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-03T05:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/service-industries-in-u-s-probably-maintained-momentum.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably grew in January at about the same pace as in the prior
month, showing the biggest part of the economy is weathering
 Washington  budget battles, economists said before a report this
week.  The projected 55 reading in the Institute for Supply
Management’s  non-manufacturing  index would follow December’s
55.7, the highest level in 10 months, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Feb. 5
figures from the Tempe, Arizona-based group. Another report may
show the  trade deficit  narrowed in December.  A pickup in  consumer spending  and a rebound in housing will
probably keep benefitting non-manufacturers such as  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , helping the world’s largest economy
strengthen after it stalled in the fourth quarter. A job market
that continues to heal will also support households trying to
manage a tighter budget after the  payroll tax  increased.  The economy has “gotten through this period of uncertainty
reasonably well,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . The data are
“consistent with moderate business expansion.”  Readings greater than 50 signal expansion for the ISM
services index, which includes industries ranging from utilities
and retailing to health care, housing and finance.  Household purchases  expanded  at a 2.2 percent annual rate
in the final three months of 2012 following a 1.6 percent
advance in the third quarter, according to Commerce Department
figures released last week.  Beat Estimates  MasterCard, the second-biggest U.S. payments network,
posted fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
customers shopped more. Nonetheless, the Purchase,  New York- 
based business is cautious about the first-quarter outlook.  “Any optimism that we have about the economy, however,
will be tempered until we see what happens to  consumer
confidence  and spending” as  federal budget  negotiations
continue, Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  said on a Jan. 31
conference call with analysts.  An added levy on income may yet damp spending. The fiscal
pact passed by Congress on Jan. 1, while avoiding sweeping tax
increases, let the payroll tax used to pay for Social Security
benefits return to the 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2
percent. That reduces the paycheck by about $83 a month for
someone who earns $50,000.  D.R. Horton , the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume, last
week said fiscal first-quarter profit more than doubled as
demand for new houses climbed. Orders jumped 39 percent to 5,259
homes. The company’s contract backlog, an indication of future
sales, rose 80 percent to $1.76 billion.  Manufacturing Accelerates  A report last week showed manufacturing improved at a
faster-than-expected pace. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory gauge  advanced to 53.1 last month from December’s 50.2,
exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Exports  grew  in January for a second month after
contracting since June, which signals overseas demand may
continue to benefit American companies and contribute to a
narrowing in the  trade deficit .  The gap shrank to $45.8 billion in December from $48.7
billion the prior month that was the largest since April,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed before
the Commerce Department’s report on Feb. 8.  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, reported  growth 
accelerated in the fourth quarter for the first time in two
years. Developing nations are projected to expand 5.5 percent in
2013, more than last year, while  Europe  stabilizes, according to
projections from the  World Bank .  Oil Prices  At the same time, declining oil costs probably helped keep
import expenses low. The cost of imported petroleum decreased
0.8 percent in December from the prior month, according to Jan.
11 figures from the Labor Department. For all of 2012,  import
prices  fell 1.5 percent, the first annual drop since they
retreated 10.1 percent in 2008.  Progress in the labor market may help boost demand.
Payrolls rose 157,000 following a revised 196,000 advance in the
prior month and a 247,000 surge in November, Labor Department
figures showed last week. The revisions added a total of 127,000
jobs to the employment count in November and December. The
jobless rate increased to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  The jobs gains are short of levels that Federal Reserve
policy makers have said would convince them to halt
unprecedented easing measures. The central bank will keep
purchasing securities at the rate of $85 billion a month after
the economy “paused” because of temporary forces, the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in a Jan. 30 statement at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in Washington.  The Fed also left unchanged its statement that it plans to
hold its target interest rate near zero as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains no more than 2.5
percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  