-- Spain’s Disappearing Economy Demands a Bold New Approach
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/spain-s-disappearing-economy-demands-a-bold-new-approach.html
If you catch yourself feeling a
little more optimistic about  Europe ’s economic prospects now
that the cost of  government borrowing  has eased, take a look at
Spain. With an unemployment rate of 26 percent -- about one in
three of all jobless people across the euro area -- Spain is
entering its fifth year of recession and the pace of contraction
is actually accelerating. The country’s austerity-first approach
to budget policy is a main reason.  Nobody doubts that Spain needs further economic reform,
especially in its notoriously dysfunctional labor market. Its
fiscal position is unsustainable, too. Spending cuts and tax
increases will be needed to balance the books long term.  Spain, however, stands as the classic example of self-
defeating fiscal stringency: Its efforts to curb deficits too
much, too soon have squeezed demand to the point that budget
targets have been missed and the economy keeps shrinking.  Gross domestic product fell 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, a bigger drop than the Bank of  Spain  and most private
forecasters had expected. When comparing fourth quarter over
fourth quarter, Spain’s GDP fell 1.8 percent in 2012. Domestic
demand dropped more abruptly last year than in 2011, mostly
because of repeated rounds of budget cutting. Retail sales were
11 percent lower in December 2012 than the year before.
Unemployment, in other words, is headed even higher.  Missed Targets  Despite increased taxes, spending cuts and public-sector
firings, the government keeps missing its deficit targets. The
government says it probably did so again last year, when its
deficit goal was 6.3 percent of GDP. For now, though, it stands
by its promise to the European Union that the deficit will fall
to 4.5 percent of GDP in 2013. With the economy shrinking at its
present rate, that isn’t going to happen.  Last week,  Olli Rehn , the EU’s economic and monetary
affairs commissioner and chief budget enforcer, hinted that
Spain’s deficit targets could be eased. An assessment of its
fiscal program is scheduled for this month. Some further
relaxation is necessary, just as it was last year, but merely
accommodating some of the inevitable slippage doesn’t go far
enough. What’s needed is a deliberate EU effort to extend
collective fiscal support to Spain.  The country is experiencing such intolerable economic
stress that its political stability is surely in doubt. The
danger of collapse in that sphere just increased significantly:
A widening corruption scandal is implicating  Mariano Rajoy , the
prime minister. The newspaper El Pais is running articles saying
that Rajoy received regular payments from an undisclosed party
slush fund. Rajoy denies the allegations; inquiries are under
way. With Spaniards struggling to get by in a new age of
sacrifice, the last thing they want to read is that their
leaders may have been living it up with the help of under-the-
table funds.  Falling Yields  Government bonds of distressed EU countries have rallied
since the  European Central Bank  pledged to avoid a euro-area
crackup last summer. This has aroused fears that the pressure
for economic reform will ease.  In the case of Spain, whose 10-year bond yield has fallen
from more than 7 percent at the peak to a little over 5 percent,
the greater danger is just the opposite. This pause in
financial-market stress may convince the government that Spain
can avoid seeking a full international bailout and the fiscal
relief that would come with it.  Yet fiscal relaxation is exactly what Spain needs. With
support from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund , Spain
should suspend its budget squeeze until its economy shows signs
of reviving.  Supply-side reforms can’t happen too soon, but new plans
for fiscal consolidation should be delayed. Adopt them now, but
execute them only once the country’s crippling rate of
unemployment has declined. Far from consenting reluctantly to
such a course, the EU and the IMF should be aggressively
advocating it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 