-- Spring Airlines May Halt Flights to Japan on China Protests
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-02-04T05:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/spring-air-considers-halting-flights-to-japan-on-china-protests.html
Spring Airlines Co.,  China ’s biggest
carrier outside government control, is considering ending
flights to  Japan  after a territorial dispute between the Asian
countries last year emptied planes and caused losses.  Spring hasn’t decided on the 12 weekly flights between
China and Japan, Chairman Wang Zhenghua said in an interview in
 Singapore , adding his “Japanese friends” are asking him to
continue. Shanghai-based Spring has put on hold plans to add
more Japan services as it’s filling less than 50 percent of the
seats on those flights, compared with an average 92 percent
occupancy on other sectors.  While Japan is only 2 percent of the airline’s capacity,
the Chinese carrier had planned to make the nation its
biggest overseas hub, Wang said. The closely held airline was
relying on setting up foreign bases in  Hong Kong  and  South Korea 
to fuel its expansion amid competition with three large,
government-controlled carriers in the domestic market.  “We’ve never had such empty flights in Spring’s history,”
Wang said Feb. 1. “The political limbo is giving us a tough
time, as we don’t know when the market can recover. I hope the
tensions can be eased as soon as possible.”  The decades-long territorial dispute, involving a group of
islands called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, was
reignited in April, when then-Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara,
a longtime critic of China, proposed buying the territories.
That led former Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration
to purchase the islets in September, escalating tensions between
the two nations and sparking violent protests across China.  Toyota, ANA  That led to a plunge in sales for Japanese carmakers Toyota
Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. While the
carmakers have yet to fully recover, the sales decline have
since eased.  Two Chinese maritime surveillance vessels entered Japan’s
waters around the disputed islands this morning, Kyodo reported
today, citing Japan’s Coast Guard. Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe said last week stationing officials on the islands
remains an option.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Japan’s largest airline, had 46,000
seat cancellations on flights between September and November
because of the dispute, the carrier said last month. ANA had
then forecast the row will cut sales by about 10 billion yen.  Fearing attacks from anti-Japan protesters, Fast Retailing
Co., seller of the Uniqlo casual wear brand, temporarily shut 60
of its 169 stores in China from Sept. 14-24, according to
spokeswoman Yukie Sakaguchi.  Sino-Japan tension is the biggest worry for Spring Air’s
overseas expansion, Wang said. The carrier started flights to
Japan in 2010 and flies to three destinations in the country --
Ibaraki, Fukuoka and Takamatsu.  A new route, between Shanghai and  Osaka , was approved by
the Japanese authorities and was due to start last year. That
plan has now been suspended, Wang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  