-- Syrian Violence Threatens Mideast ‘Volcano’ of War, Qatar Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-03T13:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/syrian-violence-threatens-mideast-volcano-of-war-qatar-says.html
The Syrian conflict threatens to
consume the Middle East in a “volcano of violence and war,”
Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani told
world leaders today in  Germany .  An Israeli air strike inside Syria, the first since the
unrest began, “is likely to add fuel to the fire,” al-Thani
said. It isn’t in the interest of Qatar, which has armed rebels
trying to topple President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, “to bet on
a particular faction” inside the country, he said.  Assad warned on state television that the reported Jan. 30
Israeli strike showed the Jewish nation was trying to
destabilize his government and that Syrian forces were prepared
to respond. Assad spoke after meeting with Saeed Jalili,
secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council and a key
Syrian ally.  The conflict has killed more than 60,000 people and forced
hundreds of thousands of refugees to flee to neighboring
countries. The Assad regime’s use of air attacks against
civilians has provoked international outcry. The United Nations
hasn’t been able to provide relief inside the country because of
gaps between Russian, U.S. and European positions.  “The UN Security Council has failed,” al-Thani said. “We
consider the Security Council directly responsible for the
bloodshed that continues in  Syria .”  Security Council  UN special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, underscoring his Jan. 29
report to the Security Council that Syria is unraveling, told
the Munich conference Feb. 1 that the council is “all that’s
left” to resolve the turmoil. He sat on a panel beside
opposition leader Moaz Al-Khatib, who told defense officials
that while he was willing to negotiate he would call for a
military solution if all other avenues were exhausted.  Assad’s fall “would be a major blow to the Iranians and
Hezbollah as well,” Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak said
today at the conference. “Even in a tough neighborhood like
ours, I don’t understand how these guys in  Iran  are supporting
him.”  Israel  is concerned by an estimated 10,000 warheads in
Syria as well as Iran’s continued supply of weapons to Assad’s
fighters, Barak said.  Iran’s Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi, also in Munich,
said that while Assad’s regime has made mistakes it would be a
mistake to overthrow him. “Let the UN settle the issue,”
Salehi said, adding that Iran was ready to participate in
Brahimi’s plans for negotiations.  “President Assad, a tyrant hellbent on clinging to power,
is no longer fit to lead the Syrian people and he must go,”
U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden told an audience yesterday in
Munich. He met Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Brahimi
and Al-Khatib while in the German city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  