-- U.S. Reaches Deal With Mexican Growers on Tomato Imports
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-03T18:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/u-s-reaches-agreement-with-mexican-growers-on-tomato-imports.html
The U.S. Commerce Department and
tomato growers from  Mexico  agreed to revive a 17-year-old pact
governing prices for the goods, potentially averting a trade war
between the two nations.  The agency and Mexican producers yesterday signed a draft
agreement to prevent imports of fresh or chilled tomatoes from
Mexico from being sold in the U.S. below production costs. The
Commerce Department in September issued a preliminary decision
to end the pricing accord, in place in various versions since
1996, after a complaint from U.S. tomato growers.  The agreement “restores stability and confidence to the
U.S. tomato market and meets the requirements of U.S. law,”
Francisco Sanchez, the Commerce Department’s undersecretary for
international trade, said in a statement.  U.S. tomato producers led by the Florida industry have said
the trade accord, which sets a minimum price for U.S. tomato
imports from Mexico, is outdated and easily circumvented. U.S.
importers of the products wanted to keep the pact in place,
saying that removing it would eventually cause domestic prices
to rise. Mexican officials have said their government would
consider retaliatory action if the agreement were terminated.  The proposal announced yesterday raises reference prices
for the imports, covers more goods and strengthens enforcement
measures, according to a Commerce Department fact sheet.  Mexican Growers  Preserving the agreement “is critical to the interests of
U.S. consumers, as well as workers and businesses on both sides
of the border,” Martin Ley, a representative of a consortium of
Mexican tomato growers, said in a statement.  Edward Beckman, president of Certified Greenhouse Farmers,
a Fresno, California-based trade association, said in a
statement that “much work remains to have the agreement fully
and faithfully implemented and continuous monitoring and
enforcement will be critical.”  Public comments on the draft agreement are due by Feb. 11,
the Commerce Department said. The agency expects a final
agreement to be in place by March 4.  The U.S. imported $1.8 billion worth of fresh or chilled
tomatoes from Mexico in 2011, a 58 percent increase from 2008,
according to the Census Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  