-- Vikings’ Peterson Wins NFL MVP Award After Missing Rushing Mark
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-03T05:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/vikings-peterson-wins-nfl-mvp-award-after-missing-rushing-mark.html
Adrian Peterson of the Minnesota
Vikings became the first running back in six years to win the
National Football League’s Most Valuable Player award following
a season in which he fell nine yards shy of breaking Eric Dickerson’s 28-year-old rushing record.  Peterson also was named NFL Offensive Player of the Year
last night at the Second Annual NFL Honors ceremony in New
Orleans, the site of today’s Super Bowl between the Baltimore
Ravens and San Francisco 49ers.  Peterson, 27, finished ahead of Denver Broncos quarterback
Peyton Manning, who was seeking to win the NFL’s top individual
award for the fifth time. After missing the 2011 season because
of neck fusion surgery, Manning returned to pass for 4,659 yards
and 37 touchdowns, the second-highest totals of his 15-year
playing career, in his first season with the Broncos.  “It’s truly an honor to be recognized as the league’s most
valuable player,” said Peterson in a statement. “While the
award is considered an individual achievement, I couldn’t have
had the success that I did without my teammates, my coaches and
the Vikings organization.”  Peterson’s Performance  Like Manning, Peterson returned from injury this season,
coming back from a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his knee
to rush for 2,097 yards. It was the second-highest total in NFL
history behind Dickerson’s 2,105 yards rushing in 1984.  Peterson’s performance helped the Vikings make the playoffs
and came at a time when most NFL offenses have put more focus on
the passing game. Eight of the top 11 single-season passing
yardage totals have come in the past two years, while no running
back was within 400 yards of Peterson’s rushing total in 2012.  He is the first running back to win the NFL MVP award since
LaDainian Tomlinson and Shaun Alexander won in consecutive years
in 2005 and 2006. The only other running backs to win the award
since 1980 are Marshall Faulk, Terrell Davis, Barry Sanders,
Emmitt Smith, Thurman Thomas and Marcus Allen.  Manning, 36, was named Comeback Player of the Year after
he helped lead Denver to the best record in the American
Football Conference this season.  The Broncos quarterback received 31 1/2 votes while
Peterson got 17 ½ votes.  Rookie Griffin  Washington Redskins Robert Griffin III beat out fellow
quarterbacks Andrew Luck and Russell Wilson to win NFL Offensive
Rookie of the Year award.  “It’s truly a blessing to be up there -- to be able to
stand, first and foremost,” said Griffin, who underwent knee
surgery after the season.  Carolina linebacker Luke Kuechly, the league’s leader in
tackles with 164, won the top defensive rookie award.  Bruce Arians, who took over coaching the Indianapolis Colts
when Chuck Pagano was diagnosed with leukemia, became the first
interim coach to win NFL Coach of the Year honors. Under the
direction of Arians, who is now head coach in  Arizona , the Colts
were 9-3.  “It’s hard to put into words the feelings of this past
year,” said Arians. “This was kind of the cherry on the top,
whipped cream and everything else you put on top.”  Houston end J.J. Watt was named Defensive Player of the
Year after receiving all but one of the 50 votes cast by members
of the media who cover the league.  “In my plans it was there,” said Watt who led the NFL
with 20 1-2 sacks. “It sets the bar for me. I want to go out
and do even better. I want to do even bigger things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  