-- Who Decided U.S. Megabanks Are Too Big to Jail?
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-02-03T23:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/who-decided-u-s-megabanks-are-too-big-to-jail-.html
Tom Hanks has a knack for playing the
roles that define American generations. In “Saving Private
Ryan,” he embodied the courage of the men who landed on the
Normandy beaches under heavy fire. In “Apollo 13,” he conveyed
calm and ingenuity under intense pressure: “Houston, we have a
problem.” And Forrest Gump revealed much about America before,
during and after the Vietnam War.  If Hanks turns his attention to our most recent decade,
which character should he choose? My suggestion is Assistant
Attorney General Lanny Breuer, the head of the criminal division
at the Justice Department and the man responsible for
determining whether anyone should be prosecuted for the
 financial crisis  of 2008.  In an on-camera interview, which aired recently, Breuer
stated plainly that some financial institutions are too large
and too complex to be held accountable before the law.
Bipartisan pressure is now being applied on the Justice
Department to reveal exactly how this determination was made.
Breuer, however, has announced he will leave government March 1.
Good luck unraveling the cover-up that must already be in place.  Breuer made the comments for a documentary aired by the PBS
program “Frontline.” The investigative report, titled “The
Untouchables,” asked why no senior Wall Street executive has
been prosecuted for apparently well-documented illegal acts,
such as authorizing document forging, misleading investors and
obstructing justice. Breuer was  shockingly candid .  ‘Pursuing Justice’  “Well, I think I am pursuing justice,”  he said . “And I
think the entire responsibility of the department is to pursue
justice. But in any given case, I think I and prosecutors around
the country, being responsible, should speak to regulators,
should speak to experts, because if I bring a case against
Institution A, and as a result of bringing that case, there’s
some huge economic effect -- if it creates a ripple effect so
that suddenly, counterparties and other financial institutions
or other companies that had nothing to do with this are affected
badly -- it’s a factor we need to know and understand.”  Attorney General Eric Holder expressed similar views in the
context of discussing why more severe charges weren’t brought
against Zurich-based UBS AG last year for manipulating the
London interbank offered rate. And  Neil Barofsky , a onetime
senior prosecutor and former inspector general of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program that administered the bank bailouts,
provided a  scathing assessment  of Justice Department policy.  The Justice Department likes to quote Thomas Jefferson:
“The most sacred of the duties of government [is] to do equal
and impartial justice to all its citizens,” a line that appears
in its latest  budget documents .  This sentiment is hardly consistent with saying that some
companies have characteristics that put them above the law.
Jefferson himself was very worried about the concentrated power
of financiers -- he would have seen today’s problems much more
clearly than do Holder and Breuer.  Last week, Senators Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat who
serves on the Banking Committee, and Charles Grassley of  Iowa ,
the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee,  wrote  to
Holder, seeking more details about this policy.  Their requests are entirely reasonable, centering on the
question: Who are the experts with whom the Justice Department
consults?  Justice recently asked Treasury for its view on prosecuting
a large financial institution. Yet David Cohen, Treasury’s
undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, told
the  New York Times : “We did not believe we were in a position
to offer any meaningful assessment. The decision of how the
Justice Department exercises its prosecutorial discretion is
solely theirs and Treasury had no role.” And it would seem that
then Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner didn’t meet with Holder
on this issue.  Treasury Experts  Treasury is possibly being economical with the truth -- and
Cohen should testify to the details under oath. And if Justice
isn’t talking to Treasury, who are the “experts” involved? It’s
safe to assume that it isn’t the  Financial Stability Oversight
Council , the panel of financial regulators created by the  Dodd-
Frank Act , because the chairman of that body is the Treasury
secretary.  The line of questioning from Brown and Grassley is
compelling. Is there a written list of too-big-to-jail banks, or
is that status conferred on the fly? Are there objective
criteria that could be reviewed by the Government Accountability
Office or another responsible government body?  Is the Federal Reserve involved? Is it the  New York  Fed or
some other part of the Fed system?  Maybe the only experts are those retained by the banks
under investigation? That is certainly how it seems if you read
a  speech  that Breuer delivered to the New York City Bar
Association in September 2012.  Perhaps the most difficult question from Brown and Grassley
is, “How did DOJ ensure that these experts provided
unconflicted and unbiased advice to DOJ?”  Judging from its record, the Justice Department will
probably do everything in its power to avoid answering these
questions directly.  We can only hope that either the Senate banking or
judiciary committee -- or some other congressional body with
subpoena power, such as Senator Carl Levin’s subcommittee on
investigations -- takes up the issue.  America’s past was dramatic and not always glorious. Our
present is sordid. Financial shenanigans damaged the economy,
and now a handful of powerful executives and their companies
have received get-out-of-jail-free cards.  It’s official. The Justice Department said it loud and
clear: No megabank will ever face meaningful prosecution.  Very big banks should be broken up immediately. That won’t
happen. For his next movie, Hanks should focus on the ruin of
democracy -- aided and abetted by the Justice Department.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  