-- Will This Immigration Reform Push Go the Distance?
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-02-03T16:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/will-this-immigration-reform-push-go-the-distance-.html
Immigration reform is having a
“Kumbaya” moment, with support from the White House, a
bipartisan contingent in Congress, business and labor.  The Republicans are petrified after their dismal showing
among the fastest-growing slices of the electorate, Hispanics
and Asians; President  Barack Obama  wants to reward the loyalty
of those voters. Business and labor, as well as many
politicians, want to fix a totally dysfunctional system. There
are more than 11 million undocumented immigrants, 5 percent of
the work force. Many of these people live in fear of discovery,
while jobs go unfilled in some areas.  Hold the champagne. When it comes to immigration laws, the
concept is always easier than the reality. Change failed to
happen six years ago, even with a push from a high-powered
coalition led by President  George W. Bush  and Senators  John McCain  and Edward M. Kennedy.  The dynamics are more favorable today. Still, the same
obstacles persist; the powerful countervailing considerations
include:  -- A Pathway to Where? There’s a fairly broad consensus for
ending the illegal status of the undocumented. The White House,
Hispanic groups and most Senate supporters insist that any
reform must lead to a pathway to citizenship.  Citizenship Path  That approach faces great resistance. Some lawmakers demand
that any move toward citizenship must come second to solving the
border-security problem, at a minimum. For some, this is a
political cover; under the Obama administration, resources for
border security have been increased sharply, including the use
of drones. And deportations of undocumented immigrants are at a
record high.  A border-security trigger is realistic if it includes
quantifiable goals, such as the number of new Border Patrol
agents, the amount of resources allocated and the new
technologies utilized. It isn’t reasonable if it requires
meeting an amorphous standard such as “operational control” of
a border that is always changing.  Hispanic groups assert that the real motive for such
demands is to unreasonably stretch out any possibility of
granting citizenship.  “There would be a backlash if citizenship is delayed for
15 or 20 years,” warns  Gary Segura , a Stanford University
professor and co-founder of Latino Decisions, a research
organization on Hispanic public opinion.  -- A Fragile Coalition: Equally contentious is the question
of future flows of immigrants. One proposal would link the
number of legal immigrants to economic conditions: more would be
let in when times are good, fewer in tougher times. That sounds
easier than it is. There will be clashes over how great a
priority should be given to those with high-tech skills or to
agricultural workers or to family reunification. Small
businesses will rebel against any costly verification plan.  Most independent studies show that immigration is a decided
economic plus, bringing in  revenue  and increasing productivity
and innovation.  Yet the arguments of the populist right may resonate more
as the debate heats up. NumbersUSA, a leading anti-immigration
group, is reviving charges that immigration reform would drive
down wages for middle- and low-income workers. Kris Kobach, the
Kansas secretary of state who authored anti-immigration measures
in several states and the  Republican Party ’s platform position
on the issue last summer, charges taxpayers would be hit with
$2.6 trillion in added food stamp, Medicare and Medicaid and
welfare costs. That estimate is refuted by reliable studies; it
still cuts.  House Republicans  -- The Ghost of Dennis Hastert: The former Republican
speaker of the House decreed that any bill must command majority
support among majority party members. Last month, House Speaker
 John Boehner  waived the rule twice: To pass a measure avoiding 
the automatic spending cuts and tax increases known as the fiscal
cliff and then for aid to victims of  Hurricane Sandy .  The speaker, along with most party leaders, understands his
party’s serious difficulties with Hispanic voters and fears
making matters worse by blocking an overhaul. Two of the most
virulent anti-immigration Republicans in the House,  Lamar Smith 
of  Texas  and Steve King of  Iowa , no longer hold important
committee chairmanships.  Yet with anti-immigration sentiment still running high
among many Republican rank-and-file voters, it’s tough to
imagine a majority of the party’s House members backing a
comprehensive bill, even if, as is certain, the Senate goes
first. Boehner’s only option might be to let a bill pass
primarily with Democratic votes.  To do that, he would need the support of House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  and the whip,  Kevin McCarthy ; there’s no
shrewder politician than McCarthy, who is always attuned to the
party’s base. He’s also from  California  where, after Governor
Pete Wilson played the anti-immigration card in 1994, the
Democrats completely dominate politics.  -- Who is the  Ted Kennedy  or  Rahm Emanuel ? The successful,
if flawed, passage of Obama’s health-care measure probably
wouldn’t have been possible without the savvy hand of former
White House Chief of Staff Emanuel. Congressional Democrats and
some outside advocates see no Emanuel counterpart in the current
White House; privately, some say they would like the White House
to enlist a special envoy -- perhaps former Housing Secretary
and San Antonio Mayor Henry Cisneros or former Senate Majority
Leader Tom Daschle -- to shepherd the legislation.  There was no more capable legislator or deal-maker than the
late Senator Kennedy. Egos and tensions already are surfacing
among supporters of reform; Republicans don’t trust the White
House, and some Democrats worry that  Marco Rubio , the ambitious
young Republican senator from  Florida , will look for a reason to
peel off as he comes under pressure from his party’s right wing.
There is no senator today who possesses Kennedy’s skill for
navigating these shoals.  It’s still a slightly better bet that a big immigration
bill will be enacted in this Congress. Getting there will be
ugly, and the measure will seem to die more than once as it
battles these cross pressures.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 