-- Yoda Lip Balm With Bob the Builder Can’t Lift Li & Fung
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-04T08:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/yoda-lip-balm-with-bob-the-builder-can-t-lift-li-fung-retail.html
The force is weak in them. Even the
combined powers of Yoda’s light-saber lip balm, Bob the Builder
t-shirts and Jennifer Lopez bras haven’t been enough to lift  Li
& Fung Ltd. (494) ’s sagging earnings.  The world’s biggest supplier of toys and apparel to
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  warned
investors two years ago that the age of cheap manufacturing in
 China  is over. Li & Fung set a target of $1.5 billion in
operating profit by this year, with almost half coming from
acquiring, licensing and distributing branded goods.  The strategy’s not working.  Li & Fung is likely to fall short by almost $600 million,
according to the  average estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Operating earnings plunged about 40 percent in 2012
after weaker consumer sentiment and margins hurt a U.S. unit
that sells brands under license, the company said Jan. 11. The
shares slumped 15 percent the next trading day, and hit a 3 1/2-
year low in  Hong Kong  today.  “Li & Fung is trying to reposition itself, shifting its
focus to more brand-management businesses, rather than just
being a middleman,” said Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group. “The company is in the middle
of a reform and it’s facing challenges from all fronts.”  In the U.S., where Li & Fung gets about 60 percent of its
$20 billion in annual revenue supplying toys and clothes to
retail chains,  unemployment  has hovered near 8 percent as the
economy struggles to escape the 2008-2009 recession. Gross
domestic product contracted 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter.
 Revenue from Europe  has wilted amid the region’s debt crisis,
falling to 18 percent of the total from 29 percent in 2008.  Costs Climb  At the same time, manufacturing costs are climbing in
China, Li & Fung’s biggest sourcing location. Minimum wages rose
an average 20 percent in 25 provinces last year, the country’s
labor ministry said on Jan. 25.  Li & Fung shares have plunged about 39 percent over the
past year, the  worst performer  on Hong Kong’s 50-strong
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The shares closed 0.6 percent lower
at HK$10.66 today. Even after the declines, the stock trades at
22 times estimated earnings, about twice the Index average.  Twelve of 23 analysts tracked by Bloomberg who cover the
company recommend investors sell the stock: the most  pessimistic
view  on its prospects since May 2009. Six rate the shares
“hold,” with five “buys.”  The company traces its roots to 1906, when parent Li & Fung
Group was founded. In recent years, it has acquired rivals and
entered into supply agreements to sell American and European
retailers consumer goods that are mostly made in Asian
countries. Now, some retailers are sourcing directly from
suppliers in markets such as Bangladesh, Vietnam or  Indonesia 
that are cheaper than China, Credit Suisse’s Chan said.  New Era  “I would say 2010 was the year that the deflationary trend
for goods ended,” Li & Fung President  Bruce Rockowitz  said on
an earnings call in 2011. “We’re into a new era of higher
prices of sourcing,” he said, laying out the company’s three-
year plans to seek higher growth businesses.  Gross margins for the distribution unit could go as high as
25 percent this year, compared with about 8 percent for
sourcing, said Charles Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Standard Chartered Plc, who recommends investors buy the stock.  “The company is still a solid business and it has no real
competitor globally,” he said.  To bolster distribution, Li & Fung bought companies
including TVMania, a supplier of Hello Kitty and Bob the Builder
t-shirts, and jewelry and accessories maker Crimzon Rose. Other
purchases include youth cosmetics company Added Extras, which
sells the Star Wars-branded lip balm.  Marilyn, Guinness  In the U.S., the company distributes brands in part through
its MESH venture with New York-based Star Branding, whose
partners include Andy and  Tommy Hilfiger . Li & Fung’s U.S.
business separately signed licensing agreements to sell Marilyn Monroe apparel at Macy’s and Lulu Guinness accessories in the
first half of last year.  Earnings may become more unpredictable as the pace of
growth in existing operations slows and the company tries to
integrate its acquisitions, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analysts. Li & Fung announced 15 takeovers worth $1.6
billion in the past three years, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Unlike sourcing, where Li & Fung depends on its ability to
locate low-cost manufacturers that can meet its clients quality
and volume demands, distribution hinges on securing the right
brands. Managers also need the skills to manage more of the
supply chain, including design and selling to outlets.  U.S. Brands  The company has shut some U.S. brands with much of the
restructuring taking place within MESH, said Barclays Capital
Inc. analyst Vineet Sharma, citing a conference call the company
had with analysts.  Li & Fung hasn’t said which U.S. brands underperformed, or
have been shut, and declined to comment on the performance of
the distribution business because of a blackout period ahead of
its March earnings announcement.  Some of the brands Li & Fung has “are little known,” said
Chan at Credit Suisse. “L&F needs to acquire bigger and more
significant brands, but they don’t come cheap.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Liza Lin in
Shanghai at   llin15@bloomberg.net ; Vinicy
Chan in Hong Kong at   vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  