-- Zombie Love Tale ‘Warm Bodies’ No. 1 Film With $20.4 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-02-04T22:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-03/zombie-love-tale-warm-bodies-tops-box-office-with-20-million.html
“Warm Bodies,” a romantic comedy
pairing a zombie and a human, opened as the top movie in U.S.
and Canadian theaters, with $20.4 million in ticket sales for
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  over the  Super Bowl  weekend.  “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters 3D,” an update of the
Grimm’s fairy tale, dropped to second with $9.4 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Among other new releases, Sylvester Stallone’s
“Bullet to the Head” opened in sixth place for  Warner Bros .  The annual National Football League championship, this year
between the  San Francisco 49ers  and the  Baltimore Ravens ,
typically cuts into ticket sales and results in one of the
slowest weekends for cinemas. Both “Warm Bodies” and “Bullet
to the Head” target the same younger male audience likely to
stay home and tune into the NFL showdown.  “Expectations were pretty muted for this weekend, given
the Super Bowl and likely impact it’ll have for attendance
overall,” said  Paul Sweeney , senior media and Internet analyst
for Bloomberg Industries, in a telephone interview. It’s “a
lull, if you will, for Hollywood.”  In “Warm Bodies,” based on Isaac Marion’s novel, a zombie
epidemic sweeps the earth. Amid the struggle for survival,
slacker zombie “R,” played by Nicholas Hoult, retains enough
of his humanity to remind himself not to be creepy when
approaching pretty human girls. R rescues an attractive young
woman, Julie, from fellow zombies and romance ensues. The film
features Teresa Palmer as Julie.  Canny Rebuke  Bloomberg critics  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  called the
film a canny rebuke “to the insufferable ‘Twilight’” teen
vampire romance pictures and “almost certainly the sweetest
zombie movie ever made.”  “Bullet to the Head” opened with sales of $4.5 million.
The film stars Stallone as a hitman who joins with a detective
to avenge the murders of their respective partners. The picture,
from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s film division, co-stars Sung Kang as a
Washington detective who teams up with Stallone.  “Hansel and Gretel,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount
Pictures and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. stars  Jeremy Renner  and
Gemma Arterton as adult versions of the brother and sister who,
in the fairy tale, kill a witch who plans to cook and eat them.
Now grown up, the two have become hunters who rid villages of
troublesome witches for a price.  ‘Silver Linings’  Weinstein Co.’s “Silver Linings Playbook,” an Academy
Award nominee for best picture, was third with sales of $7.7
million. The movie, starring  Bradley Cooper ,  Jennifer Lawrence 
and  Robert De Niro , follows an adult son who returns to his
parents’ home after months in a psychiatric hospital.  Lawrence and Cooper received Oscar nominations for their
leading roles, while De Niro and Jacki Weaver garnered
supporting actor nominations.  The horror tale “Mama” dropped to fourth from second,
collecting $6.6 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  “Zero Dark Thirty,” director Kathryn Bigelow’s account of
the CIA’s hunt for  Osama Bin Laden , was fifth with $5.2 million.
The  Sony Corp. (6758)  movie stars Jessica Chastain, and is nominated
for five Academy Awards, including one for best picture and one
for Chastain as best actress.  It has generated $77.7 million domestically since it opened
on Dec. 19. The Academy Awards will be handed out on Feb. 24 in
a live telecast on ABC.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 27 percent to $68.8
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first five weeks of the year are up 3.4 percent to $917
million. Attendance is up 3.1 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
1 to Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  