-- AerCap Slides After Saying No Merger Talks Under Way
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-16T20:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/aercap-slides-after-saying-no-merger-talks-under-way.html
AerCap Holdings NV (AER) , the biggest
independent aircraft lessor, fell the most in more than nine
months after responding to takeover speculation by saying the
company isn’t in talks with anyone.  AerCap has said since May that it’s exploring alternatives,
including a sale.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  issued a report July 10 --
followed by others -- saying the company may fetch at least $17
a share in a deal, and the stock surged 12 percent.  AerCap fell 6.4 percent to $11.93 today in the biggest
decline since Oct. 3. The shares are trading at about half their
$23 price when the company went public in 2006.  AerCap “currently neither has an engagement with any
financial advisor nor is in discussions with any party regarding
the sale of AerCap,” Frauke Oberdieck, a spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement today. “We do not intend to further
comment on this matter.”  The company’s statement doesn’t rule out an eventual
takeover, said  Helane Becker , an analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co.
in  New York .  “They said they’re not talking to anyone right now, but
that doesn’t mean they won’t in the future,” she said in a
telephone interview. AerCap and its peers,  Air Lease Corp. (AL) ,
 Aircastle Ltd. (AYR)  and  Fly Leasing Ltd. (FLY) , “feel as though their
stocks are treated poorly by the market and that they’re
misunderstood and are cheap by any comparison.”  AerCap’s board approved an increase in the company’s share-
repurchase program to $200 million, from $130 million, through
June 2013, according to a statement today that also commented on
the speculation.  Last month, the company bought back 5 million shares from
Cerberus Capital Management LP, its second-biggest shareholder.
The private-equity firm that took the company public now owns a
20 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net . 