-- Lagarde, Rita Moreno, Chris Dodd, Michael Apted: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-16T15:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/lagarde-rita-moreno-chris-dodd-michael-apted-d-c-.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
managing director,  Christine Lagarde , stopped by the French
Embassy Saturday night for its annual Bastille Day celebration.  A record 3,000 members of  Washington ’s French community
sipped Charles de Fere champagne and waved French flags.  The evening was “a bit nostalgic” for Roland Celette, the
embassy’s cultural attache. He said he would be returning to
 France  next month after 11 years in his post in Washington. His
attitude about the change was a decidedly French one.  “That’s life,” he said with a shrug.  On Thursday evening, former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor was among the Francophiles who attended a special
Bastille reception for Americans at the home of Ambassador
Francois Delattre.  Gene Kelly  At the Smithsonian National Museum of American History
Friday night, Patricia Kelly and Rita Moreno shared stories in
front of the original poster for the 1952 movie “Singin’ in the
Rain.”  Kelly is the widow of the film’s choreographer and co-
director Gene Kelly; Moreno was a fresh faced ingenue in the
musical.  “It’s the Puerto Rican genes,” said Moreno, 80, on her
enduring glow.  The film is celebrating its 60th anniversary this year,
and a screening and reception in its honor kicked off the
Smithsonian’s three-day festival commemorating the birth of
sound in motion pictures.  Kelly said the Smithsonian holds a special place in her
heart as she met Gene Kelly in 1985 at the National Air and
Space Museum. The two married five years later. This year also
marks the 100th anniversary of Gene Kelly’s birth.  “Singin’ in the Rain” was screened in an auditorium at
the Smithsonian provided by a gift from Warner Bros. Artifacts
from the film came from the company’s archives.  Ronnee Sass, vice president for publicity and promotion at
Warner Bros. Home Entertainment Group, wore galoshes to the
reception held on the museum’s first floor.  Chris Kay , a
Department of Defense staffer, wore a traditional beige raincoat
and fedora while others donned glam 1920s ensembles in homage to
the movie’s silent-film-era setting. Umbrellas were the favorite
accessory of the night.  Manhattan cocktails were passed and appetizers were served
on tables under umbrellas drizzled in “raindrop” crystals.  “Invitation to the Dance: Gene Kelly @ 100,” a program of
23 movies presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, will
screen at the Walter Reade Theater through July 26.  Michael Apted  Former Senator  Christopher Dodd , the chairman and chief
executive of the  Motion Picture Association  of America, is
bringing his own version of “Inside the Actors Studio” to his
organization’s headquarters.  He hosted the inaugural “Evening With” Thursday night
with Michael Apted, the director of films such as “Gorillas in
the Mist,” “Amazing Grace” and “The Chronicles of Narnia:
The Voyage of the Dawn Treader.”  Among those who attended the reception and interview were
 William Cohen , former secretary of defense and chairman and CEO
of the Cohen Group, Irish Ambassador  Michael Collins  and Mexican
Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan.  Dodd said he wants to expose Washington insiders to the art
of filmmaking through conversations with actors, directors and
other artists.  As for his own summer-movie favorites, Dodd said he was a
fan of “Brave,” the animated children’s film. “Vive la
redhead!” he joked, referring to the movie’s redheaded heroine.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 