-- AIG’s $5 Billion Contribution to U.S. Rescue Fund Repaid
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-16T20:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/aig-contribution-to-maiden-lane-iii-repaid-from-sales-fed-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
has been repaid the $5 billion it contributed to a fund created
in 2008 as part of the insurer’s U.S. rescue, the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  said.  Sales of mortgage-related assets held in the Maiden Lane
III portfolio enabled the repayment of New York-based AIG’s
stake and interest, the district bank said in a  statement  on its
website today. AIG will get one-third of the profit from further
asset sales, with the New York Fed getting the rest.  The Fed’s $24.3 billion loan to Maiden Lane III was repaid
last month, and AIG was scheduled receive the next $5.6 billion
in proceeds, which includes interest, Jay Wintrob, the chief
executive officer of AIG’s life-insurance unit, said June 13.
AIG may use the cash to buy back shares, which would cut the
Treasury Department’s 61 percent stake,  Jimmy Bhullar , an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a July 10 note.  “We expect ongoing capital deployment to drive steady ROE
improvement,” Bhullar wrote, using the abbreviation for return
on equity.  The Fed created Maiden Lane III to purchase $62.1 billion
in collateralized-debt obligations and keep AIG from collapsing,
sparing Wall Street firms losses. Maiden Lane III was used to
cancel credit-default swaps when AIG couldn’t meet collateral
calls on the contracts from banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Societe Generale SA.  Bailed Out  Maiden Lane II , another rescue vehicle, closed in February
with a $2.8 billion profit for the Fed and $1.6 billion of
proceeds for AIG, which it used to repay federal aid. Treasury
has cut its  stake  in AIG from 92 percent by selling shares.  AIG shares dropped 0.5 percent to $31.28 at 4:01 p.m. in
 New York . The stock has gained 35 percent this year.  The insurer’s bailout swelled to $182.3 billion including a
$60 billion Fed credit line, as much as $52.5 billion for the
two Maiden Lane vehicles and a Treasury investment of up to
$69.8 billion. The remaining investment was  $30 billion  as of
June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  