-- Malaria Parasite Killed by Gene-Modified Germs in Study
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-07-16T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/malaria-parasite-killed-by-gene-modified-germs-in-study.html
Benign bacteria residing in
mosquitoes’ guts can be recruited to destroy the parasite that
causes malaria, offering a potential way to prevent infections,
according to U.S. researchers.  Genetically modifying the germ enabled it to produce
proteins toxic to the parasite without harming the insects,
scientists from the  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public
Health  in Baltimore and  Duquesne University  in Pittsburgh wrote
today in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
journal. The proportion of mosquitoes carrying the parasite fell
by as much as 84 percent, the researchers said.  Malaria kills a child in  Africa  every minute, and about
half the world’s population is at risk of infection, according
to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization . New ways of
stopping the disease are needed as genetic mutations in
parasites make them resistant to medicines, and as mosquitoes
become less vulnerable to insecticides, the researchers said.  “These findings provide the foundation for the use of
genetically modified symbiotic bacteria as a powerful tool to
combat malaria,” the study’s authors wrote.  Mosquitoes transmit the Plasmodium parasite that causes
malaria, whose symptoms include fever, headache, chills and
vomiting. The parasite undergoes the most vulnerable part of its
life cycle in the mosquito’s gut. The gut is also home to a
bacterium, known as Pantoea agglomerans, which provides
nutrients and helps its host cope with environmental changes.  Sugar-Soaked Pads  The researchers administered genetically engineered
bacteria to mosquitoes using cotton pads soaked with the germs
suspended in a sugar solution. Thirty-two hours later, the
insects were fed a meal of Plasmodium-infected blood. The
modified bacteria were 98 percent effective in reducing the
parasite’s development, and the repression of the parasites
lasted for at least four days, according to the study.  More research is needed before trying the approach outside
the lab, the study’s authors said.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  of Basel,  Switzerland , is among the companies
working on new malaria treatments, though they’re not expected
to be available for years.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is developing a
product that would be the first malaria vaccine if approved. The
shot, known as RTS,S, safely reduced illness in African infants
by more than half in a study, the London-based company said in
October.  Modifying Mosquitoes  Scientists also have been working on ways to genetically
modify mosquitoes so that they die before they can transmit
diseases such as malaria and dengue, also known as “break-bone
fever” because it’s so painful.  “Genetic modification of bacteria is a simpler approach,”
said Marcelo Jacobs-Lorena, the lead author of the study and a
professor at  Johns Hopkins . “The ultimate goal is to completely
prevent the mosquito from spreading the malaria parasite to
people.”  The research published today was funded by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health, the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, the Johns Hopkins Malaria Research Institute and the
Bloomberg Family Foundation.  The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of  Public Health  is
named for  Michael Bloomberg ,  New York  City’s mayor and the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP. The Bloomberg Family Foundation is the mayor’s charitable
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  