-- Alice Walker Adds ‘Color Purple’ to Israel Boycott Drive
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-07-17T08:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/alice-walker-adds-color-purple-to-israel-boycott-drive.html
Alice Walker refused to have “The
Color Purple” published for a second time in Hebrew. The Irish
band Dervish withdrew from a three-gig visit after a social-
media campaign against its concert.  Indian musician  Zakir Hussain , who has collaborated with
 George Harrison , postponed his July concert in Israel, concerned
for his group’s safety after he received threats and a petition
signed by 85 Indian artists urging him to cancel.  With Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations frozen for
almost two years, activists seek to increase pressure on Israel
to give up the West Bank through cultural and economic boycotts,
much as they did three decades ago against  South Africa .  “These boycotts make Israeli artists feel isolated,” said
 Bernard Avishai , author of “The Hebrew Republic” and a
professor at Hebrew University and  Dartmouth College .  Walker, in a letter to Israeli publishing house Yedioth
Books, cited as motivation for her decision the “devastating
testimony” she heard about Israel during a tribunal in South
Africa in 2011.  “I grew up under American apartheid and this was far
worse,” she wrote.  South Africans , including  Desmond Tutu , feel
“the Israeli version of these crimes is worse even than what
they suffered under the white supremacist regimes,” she added.  Restricted Movement  Palestinians’ movements in the West Bank are restricted by
roadblocks and permits are necessary to enter Israel. There is
no free travel between the West Bank and Gaza. Israel says the
restrictions are necessary to prevent Palestinian militants from
attacking civilians or setting off bombs.  Alon Liel, a former director general of the Israeli Foreign
Ministry who supports boycotting products made in the Jewish
settlements, said Israel needs a wake-up call given the
“unprecedented situation” created by the so-called Arab Spring
where protests have toppled leaders throughout the  Middle East .  “It is world consensus that we are wrong about the
settlements,” Liel said, “therefore if we can do something
significant that Israel takes to heart, it should be about the
settlements and not a cultural boycott of universities or
artists.”  The  United Nations  and other international bodies have said
Israeli settlements in the West Bank violate international law
against construction on occupied territory. The U.S. has asked
Israel to freeze such construction.  Democratic Process  “As far as I’m concerned, this is something you shouldn’t
be doing to any democracy in the world, even if it is a country
that you extremely dislike,” Minister of Public Diplomacy and
Diaspora Affairs Yuli Edelstein said of the boycotts. “As long
as there is a democratic process, as long as this is a country
that you can change from the inside or influence, you should try
everything except boycotting.”  A year ago, the government passed a law that allows
Israelis promoting a boycott of Israel or its  West Bank 
settlements to be sued for civil damages. It also disqualifies
companies that participate in a boycott of the settlements from
eligibility for government contracts.  Among the motivations for the law was a boycott by Israeli
actors and artists of a cultural center in the West Bank
settlement of Ariel. The sponsors also condemned Israeli
companies working to build the new Palestinian city of Rawabi
that signed an agreement not to do business with settlements.  Palestinians say the cultural boycott is a tool to get
their message across, both to Israelis and the world.  Changing Opinions  “What’s important is to make clear that opinions,
research, lectures and art can help change the Israeli public
opinion and stop the Israeli government from taking action that
changes facts on the ground,” Salah Al Khawaja, a member of the
Palestinian National Initiative, said by telephone.  Netta Gurevitch, editor-in-chief of the publishing house
Yedioth Books turned down by Walker, said that she has been
rejected before by authors including Christos Tsoliakis, who
wrote  “The Slap,” and Egyptian Alaa al-Aswany, who wrote
“The Yacoubian Building.”  “This is regrettable, primarily because art in general,
and literature specifically, can be a significant tool in
building cultural bridges, in presenting the other and in
creating a climate of tolerance and compassion,” Gurevitch
said.  Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor played down the
impact of cultural boycotts. “It’s all buzz, no sting,” he
said, citing major stars who did perform in Israel this year.  Madonna  opened her most recent tour in  Tel Aviv  on June 1
for what she said was “a very specific and important reason.”  Madonna, Chilis  “If we can all rise above our egos and our titles and the
names of our countries and our religions, and treat everyone
around us with respect, then we are on the road to peace,” she
told the audience.  The  Red Hot Chili Peppers  plan to play Tel Aviv in
September, unless the band decides to cancel at the last minute
like other musicians, including  Elvis Costello  in 2010.  On June 10, Punks Against Apartheid urged the Chilis to
stay away. “No support for criminal occupation, ethnic
cleansing and racial apartheid!’ the group said on a post on the
 website  of the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and
Cultural Boycott of Israel.  “The people who advocate for cultural boycott think they
are punishing Israel, but what they are doing is discouraging,
undermining and isolating the people in the country most likely
to carry the conversation into the public realm and make a
change through the electoral process,” said Avishai.  “There are all kinds of ways to make Israelis feel
uncomfortable about the occupation, but for writers to cut
themselves off, to have cosmopolitan, progressive, democratic
radicals in the rest of the world cut themselves off from the
same in  Israel , that is adding insult to injury,” he said.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on auctions and  Craig
Seligman  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman, in  Jerusalem , at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 