-- Alnylam Gains on Treatment Data for Deadly Nerve Disease
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-16T20:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/alnylam-gains-on-treatment-data-for-deadly-nerve-disease.html
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY) , the
developer of a treatment for a rare genetic disorder, rose the
most ever after the drug showed promise in an early clinical
trial.  Alnylam increased 53 percent to $19.16 at the close in  New
York , the largest one-day gain since it began trading in 2004.
The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said today that its
experimental drug for TTR-mediated amyloidosis reduced levels of
the protein that causes the disease by as much as 94 percent in
17 healthy volunteers.  The company’s trial looked at safety, as well as different
doses and the drug’s effectiveness in reducing the protein. The
treatment targets the mutated gene, TTR, which causes a harmful
accumulation of the protein in the heart, nervous system and
gastrointestinal tract.  “It’s Phase I but you should think of it as Phase II,”
 Michael King , an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw in New York. The
trial’s results also suggest that Alnylam could use its
technology to block genes from performing their function in
other diseases, he said.  Alnylam has now started a second of three phases of
clinical trials usually needed for regulatory approval and will
treat 20 patients. The company plans to start the third and
final stage of trials in 2013, with about 120 patients, Chief
Executive Officer John Maraganore said in a telephone interview.  The company will stay independent and plans to develop the
treatment without a partner, Maraganore said.  “We intend to keep the rights and develop the company
based around these drugs,” he said.  Orphan Disorder  King was one of two analysts who follows the company to say
that’s possible, given the small number of patients to treat.
“In orphan disorders, small companies have proven themselves
highly capable,” said King.  The disease is caused by a mutation in the gene responsible
for producing the transthyretin protein. In people with the
genetic defect, transthyretin made by the liver breaks apart,
forms into clumps, and damages the nerves and heart. Currently a
 liver transplant  is the only available treatment.  Alnylam’s drug, called ALN-TTR02, stops production of
transthyretin. The company is focusing on patients with TTR-FAP,
or transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy. The company
estimates that as many as 10,000 patients have the disease. In
TTR-FAP, the protein attacks the body’s longest nerves first,
often killing them within a decade as the body shuts down.  Protein Clumps  In patients with familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy, the
protein clumps damage the heart. About 40,000 people have that
version of the disease, Alnylam estimates.  “This is a good indication for a biotech company of this
size,” Marko Kozul, an analyst with Leerink Swann in  Boston ,
said in a telephone interview. Alnylam has a “rapid path” to
develop the drug and bring it to market, he said. “You’re not
talking about a 3,000 patient breast cancer study. You’re
talking about a 150 patient phase III.”  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, saw its drug,
Tafamidis, for the same disease rejected by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration in June. It is approved for sale in  Europe 
under the name Vyndaqel. The FDA has asked for more data showing
the drug’s effectiveness. Pfizer has said it will continue
talking with the FDA about the drug.  “Tafamidis unfortunately, was a bit underpowered as a
study,” Maraganore said. “The FDA took a more conservative
approach than the Europeans did.” He predicted that if both
drugs are approved, they could end up being used in tandem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  