-- American Business Council of Pakistan to Target Fresh Investment
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-07-16T12:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/american-business-council-of-pakistan-to-target-fresh-investment.html
The  American Business Council , that
includes the  Pakistan  units of Coca-Cola Co. and Cisco Systems
Inc., plans to invite 10 U.S. companies a year to invest in the
South Asian nation and take advantage of rising consumer demand.  “Branded product penetration in Pakistan is so low that
the potential for growth is immense,” Saad Amanullah Khan,
president of the council, said in an interview in Karachi today.
Up to 80 percent of American companies operating in Pakistan,
especially technology and consumer goods companies, had a “good
year” in 2011.  Pakistan needs to increase overseas investment to help meet
an economic growth target of 4.3 percent in the year that began
July 1. Foreign direct investment declined 50 percent to $813
million in the year ended June 30, according to the central bank.  The council plans to double its membership of U.S.
companies from 63 in the next five years and increase the total
investment to $1 billion from $663 million, said Khan, 51, who
is also chief executive officer of Gillette Pakistan Ltd.  Pakistan agreed this month to end a seven-month ban on
North Atlantic Treaty Organization trucks crossing its territory
on the way to  Afghanistan , easing tensions with the U.S., its
biggest trading partner. The routes were reopened after U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  apologized for the killing of
24 Pakistani soldiers in a November border strike by American
helicopters.  Pakistan’s credit rating was lowered deeper into junk
status by Moody’s Investors Service on July 13, which cited
dwindling currency reserves and political instability. The $200
billion economy faces the fastest inflation in  Asia , lingering
power blackouts, an insurgency on the Afghan border and reduced
aid flows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net . 