-- Hana Financial Profit Drops as Bad-Debt Provisions Increase
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-07-16T08:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hana-financial-profit-drops-after-increased-bad-debt-provisions.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) ,  South
Korea ’s third-largest banking group by assets, said second-
quarter profit dropped 54 percent after it set aside more
provisions for bad debt.  Net income  fell to 225.1 billion won ($196 million) from
489.8 billion won a year earlier, when Hana booked one-time
gains from a stake sale, the Seoul-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. Earnings missed the 308 billion-won
average of 27 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hana Financial more than doubled its bad-loan provisions to
226.4 billion won last quarter as regulators urged lenders to
strengthen balance sheets amid slowing economic growth. Banks’
combined debt provisions may rise by 1.1 trillion won as Korea’s
prolonged real-estate slump forces more companies to restructure
debt, the Financial Supervisory Service said on July 6.  “Hana is adopting a more conservative standard in loan
classification at its  Korea  Exchange Bank by raising its total
bad-loan provision,” Koo Kyung Hwe, a Seoul-based analyst at
Hyundai Securities Co., said before the earnings were released.
“The global and domestic environment isn’t favorable for banks
and it’s hard to expect sharp loan and profit growth at banks in
the second half given current economic and market conditions.”  Hana fell 1.2 percent to 33,900 won at the close of Seoul
trading before the earnings were reported. It has fallen 4.6
percent this year, compared with the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index’s 0.4
percent decline.  Margin Narrows  The  Bank of Korea  last week reduced its 2012 economic-
growth forecast for the second time this year, after it
unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and signaled it would act
preemptively to protect against slowing global growth.  South Korea’s economy will expand 3 percent this year, the
central bank said in a statement on July 13. The forecast was
lowered from an April estimate of 3.5 percent and 3.7 percent
growth predicted in December.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said July 12 the
board lowered its  benchmark rate  a quarter percentage point in
response to deteriorating external conditions.  Hana’s net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, narrowed 11 basis points from a year earlier to
2.2 percent, 2 basis points higher than the previous quarter,
the company said in a statement on its website.  The central bank’s rate cut will shave about 50 billion won
a year from interest income at the lender’s Hana Bank and  Korea
Exchange Bank (004940)  units as margin narrows, Lee Woo Kong, a managing
director at Korea Exchange Bank, said on a conference call
today.  Stake Sale  In the year-earlier quarter, Hana Bank booked a 137.4
billion-won gain from the sale of 1.58 million shares in Hyundai
Engineering & Construction Co. Bad-loan provisions in the year-
ago period totaled 88 billion.  Korea Exchange Bank, the lender Hana Financial bought from
Dallas-based Lone Star Funds earlier this year, said second-
quarter profit dropped 86 percent to 161.1 billion won from a
year earlier, according to a separate regulatory filing. Hana’s
second-quarter earnings include its 60 percent stake in Korea
Exchange Bank.  Hana booked costs of 111.5 billion won last quarter
including the write off of negative goodwill from the Korea
Exchange acquisition and a decline in the value of equity
holdings in other companies, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  