-- Manufacturing in New York Region Grew at a Faster Pace
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-16T13:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-grew-at-a-faster-pace.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded in July at a faster pace than anticipated, signaling
factories will keep contributing to growth.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  rose to 7.4 from 2.3 in June. The  median  forecast of 51
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase to
4.0. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index that covers New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The last negative reading was
in October.  The figures may ease concern that factory production, which
was bolstering the world’s largest economy, is faltering. At the
same time, softening demand from  Europe  to  China  will likely
weigh on exports of American-made goods and decelerating U.S.
consumer spending may curb orders.  “The fact that manufacturing is still growing is good
news,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, who projected a rise in the Empire index.
“Any improvement, especially right now, should be welcomed. The
sector is still contributing to economic growth.”  In a separate report, the Commerce Department said retail
sales in the U.S. declined for a third straight month in June.
The 0.5 percent drop followed a 0.2 percent decrease in May.  Stock-index futures maintained losses after the reports,
with the contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
September dropping 0.3 percent to 1,348.1 at 8:34 a.m. in New
York.  Bloomberg Survey  The Bloomberg survey estimates for the Empire State Index
ranged from 9.3 to minus 8.0.  The Empire State gauge of  new orders  decreased to minus 2.7
this month from 2.2 the prior month. A measure of shipments rose
to 10.3 from 4.8.  The employment measure rose to 18.5, from 12.4 in June. The
index of prices paid fell to 7.4 from 19.6.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now fell to 20.2 from 23.1.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s.  China’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter, putting pressure
on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus to secure a second-half
economic rebound. The nation’s gross domestic product expanded
7.6 percent in the second quarter from a year ago, the weakest
in three years.  Europe Crisis  Concerns about Europe’s debt crisis persist. Spanish
lenders’ net borrowings from the  European Central Bank  rose to a
record 337 billion euros ($411 billion) in June as the European
bailout agreement failed to ease their access to funding.  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the biggest U.S. motorcycle maker, is
among companies hurt by slowing global demand and a pickup in
the value of the dollar against the euro, which makes U.S.-made
goods less attractive to overseas buyers.  “There is an impact with regards to the events and the
debt crisis and  consumer confidence  and potential recessionary
pressures in Europe on our business there,”  John Olin , chief
financial officer, said on a June 26 conference call. “We are
seeing the pressures of a devaluing currency” as “ everything
that we send to Europe is made here” in the U.S., he said.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due on July 19, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  