-- Manulife, Korea Life Said to Bid for ING’s Asia Insurance Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-16T08:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/manulife-korea-life-said-to-bid-for-ing-s-asia-insurance-unit.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  Korea Life
Insurance Co. (088350)  and  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  are among firms that
made second-round bids for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Asian insurance
operations, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Manulife offered to buy most of the regional unit, while
Korea Life bid for ING’s Southeast Asian business, said the
people, asking not to be identified because the information is
private. KB Financial made an offer for the South Korean
operations, one of the people said. The latest offers are
binding, the people said.  ING, led by Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, opted to
sell the Asian units separately from the European ones as
Europe’s debt crisis damped prospects for divestments there.  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299)  also plans to submit a bid by today’s deadline, a
person with knowledge of the matter said on June 12.  ING’s Asian life insurance operations are spread across the
region, with larger businesses in Korea, Japan, Malaysia and
Hong Kong, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts Arjan van Veen and
Frances Feng wrote in a Feb. 14 report.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is teaming up with  Mark Wilson , the
former head of AIA, and other investors including reinsurer
 Swiss Re (SREN)  to prepare a bid for the Asian business, said two
people with knowledge of the matter last week. The group, which
includes reinsurer Swiss Re Ltd., may make an offer of 5 billion
euros to 6 billion euros ($7.3 billion), said one of the people.  J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC, the investment firm founded by
financier J. Christopher  Flowers, is also considering a bid and
is interested in some Asian markets such as Japan, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in March.  Officials at Korea Life and KB Financial didn’t respond to
phone calls seeking comment. Spokesmen at Manulife and ING
declined to comment on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  