-- Lapse in Tax Cuts Would Strengthen Democrats, Murray Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-16T21:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/lapse-in-tax-cuts-would-strengthen-democrats-murray-says.html
Democrats will be in a stronger
negotiating position in January if Congress doesn’t reach a deal
before year’s end on the expiring 2001 and 2003 tax cuts,
Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington said today.  The public will rally behind Democrats’ push to reinstate
tax reductions for married couples earning less than $250,000 a
year after they see the effects of letting the cuts lapse,
Murray, the Senate’s fourth-ranking Democrat, said in a speech
at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. Republicans want to
continue the tax breaks for all income levels.  “If middle-class families start seeing some money coming
out of their paychecks next year, are Republicans really going
to stand up and fight for new tax cuts for the rich?” she
said. ‘They know that that would be an untenable political
position, and I hope this pushes them to come to the table with
real revenue now before being forced to the table if we don’t
get a deal before the new year.’’  Murray’s comments are the latest sign that Democrats are
willing to go over the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts at the end of the year if
Republicans continue to oppose higher taxes for top earners.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , responded
to Murray’s comments in a statement today, saying that
“Democrats are willing to hurt jobs and tank our economy for
the sake of a small-business tax hike that would also have
disastrous consequences.”  $1.2 Trillion  The $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts, known as
sequestration, are scheduled to begin in January if lawmakers
don’t agree on a plan to replace them.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office   said  May 22
that allowing the scheduled spending cuts and tax increases to
take effect may tip the economy back into a recession.  The CBO estimated that the spending cuts and tax increases
would total $607 billion, or 4 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1. The
shortfall this fiscal year is projected to be $1.2 trillion.  Murray said she “absolutely” would prefer to “continue
this debate into 2013 rather than lock in a long-term deal this
year” that doesn’t include revenue increases Republicans have
rejected so far.  “Anyone who tells you sequestration is going to simply
disappear because both sides want to avoid it is either fooling
themselves or trying to fool you,” she said. “It is going to
have to be replaced, and that replacement is going to have to be
a balanced plan.”  Deficit Supercommittee  Murray was the Democratic co-chairwoman of the
congressional supercommittee created last year to craft a plan
to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion over a decade.  The 12-member panel of Republicans and Democrats,
established by the August 2011 law raising the  federal debt
ceiling , was unable to reach an agreement. That set the stage
for the $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending cuts.  Supercommittee Democrats “jumped right into the middle of
the ring” during the negotiations and embraced Republican-
proposed spending cuts, Murray said.  “Republicans refused to move an inch in our direction on
revenue,” she said. “They actually tried to use a deficit-
reduction committee to cut taxes for the rich even further.”  Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican, offered a
proposal during the panel’s talks that included revenue
increases that Democrats called insufficient, and Boehner last
summer came close to negotiating a “grand bargain” with
President  Barack Obama  that would have included $800 billion in
new revenue.  Defense Programs  The House in May passed legislation that would replace
automatic cuts to defense programs, which amount to half of the
$1.2 trillion, with reductions to domestic programs, including
 food stamps . Republicans on the Senate Armed Services Committee
proposed a plan to delay the automatic cuts for one year by
reducing the number of federal employees.  “We are also not going to allow just the defense cuts to
be replaced without addressing the domestic spending cuts that
would be devastating to the middle class,” Murray said.  Obama’s push for a tax-cut extension for all except the
highest-income families is a central theme in his presidential
campaign.  The Democratic-controlled Senate plans to vote as soon as
next week on legislation, based on Obama’s proposal, that would
extend the tax cuts through 2013 for 98 percent of U.S.
households while letting them expire for income exceeding
$200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for married couples.  Congressional Republicans want to extend the cuts for all
income levels for one year and set up a framework for a broader
 tax-code  overhaul in 2013. The Republican-majority House plans
to vote later this month on that plan.  ‘No Reason’  “There is absolutely no reason, not one, that we need to
extend the tax cuts for the rich as a precondition for reforming
the tax code,” Murray said.  Continuing a Democratic line of attack, Murray blamed
Republican opposition to any revenue increases on the influence
of the Tea Party base and anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist ’s
pledge not to raise taxes.  All except six  House Republicans  and seven Senate
Republicans have signed the pledge promoted by Norquist, the
president of the Washington-based advocacy group Americans for
 Tax Reform .  In an opinion article published in today’s  New York  Times,
Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, said that Norquist
was the Democrats’ “favorite boogeyman” and that Republican
lawmakers “repeatedly rejected Mr. Norquist’s strict
interpretation of his own pledge.”  “While most Republicans do, of course, oppose tax
increases, they are hardly the mindless robots Democrats say
they are,” Coburn wrote. All but six Senate Republicans last
year supported eliminating an ethanol production tax credit, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  