-- Asian Currencies Advance on Speculation of More Chinese Stimulus
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-16T08:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/asian-currencies-advance-on-speculation-of-more-chinese-stimulus.html
Asian currencies gained on
speculation  China ’s faltering economy will prompt policy makers
to unveil more measures to shore up growth, buoying appetite for
riskier assets.  Malaysia ’s ringgit and South Korea’s won advanced for a
second day after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the momentum for a
recovery in China isn’t yet in place and the government needs to
assess and recognize the problems, Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. Asian stocks rose before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  presents his semi-annual report on the U.S. economic
outlook to Congress this week.  “There is some speculation that a high level meeting among
policy makers in China will lead to additional supportive
measures,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior currency strategist at
Scotiabank in Hong Kong, a unit of the Bank of Nova Scotia.  The ringgit gained 0.4 percent to 3.1739 per dollar as of
4:24 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won closed 0.3 percent stronger at 1,147, the
Philippine peso rose 0.3 percent to 41.863 and India’s rupee
advanced 0.1 percent to 55.0825.  China’s gross domestic product increased 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more
than three years, the government reported July 13. The nation
needs to expand consumption and restructure the economy, Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  said during a tour in central Hubei province,
Xinhua reported the next day.  ‘Safeguard Growth’  The world’s second-largest economy, including Hong Kong, is
the biggest export market for countries such as South Korea,
 Taiwan  and Malaysia. The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks
climbed 0.3 percent, following a 1.7 percent rally in the S&P
500 Index of U.S. equities on July 13.  “The won will be supported by U.S. stock gains and
expectations for China’s stimulus, but the impact will be
limited with global slowdown concerns lingering,” said Cho Young Bok, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Daegu Bank.  Thailand’s baht earlier touched a one-week high of 31.58
per dollar before trading 0.1 percent higher at 31.62. Overseas
funds bought $65 million more Thai equities than they sold last
week, taking net purchases this month to $118 million, exchange
data show.  China’s  yuan  traded little changed at 6.3787 against the
greenback in Shanghai, halting a three-day slide, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The central bank set
its daily fixing rate at 6.3208 versus 6.3247 on July 13.  India Inflation  “China has to act as quickly as possible to safeguard
growth,” said Banny Lam, Hong Kong-based chief economist at CCB
International Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest
bank. “The hopes of more stimulus measures are supporting the
yuan today.”  India’s rupee strengthened for a second day to the highest
level since July 4. A government report showed inflation slowed
to 7.25 percent in June from a year earlier, versus 7.55 percent
in May. Economists predicted a 7.61 percent gain in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “The unexpected slowdown of inflation is fantastic news,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong , wrote in an e-mail today. “Despite the still elevated
level, it opens the door for a rate cut already in July. The
rupee should extend gains on hopes that monetary easing will
boost growth, and on inflows into the  bond market  by foreign
investors.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.4 percent to 9,484
per dollar, Taiwan’s dollar was steady at NT$30.01 and the
Vietnamese dong was little changed at 20,863.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 