-- Asian Stocks Rise Amid Optimism on China Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-16T09:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/asian-stocks-rise-amid-optimism-on-china-stimulus-outlook.html
Asian  stocks  rose after Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said  China  will increase measures to support growth in
the world’s second-largest economy. Gains were limited amid
concern about falling profits for Asian companies.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Ltd., a developer in the southern
Chinese city, advanced 3.9 percent in Hong Kong.  Whitehaven Coal
Ltd. (WHC)  soared 18 percent after Australian mining magnate  Nathan
Tinkler  offered to buy out the rest of the coal producer.
Daekyung Machinery & Engineering Co. fell 8.3 percent in  Seoul 
after a shipmaker dropped its bid for the chemical machinery
maker. ZTE Corp., a Chinese telecommunications equipment maker,
slumped 16 percent after saying first-half profit may plunge 80
percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  rose 0.3
percent to 403.63 as of 5:15 p.m. in Hong Kong, with almost
three stocks gaining for every two that declined.  Japan ’s equity
markets are closed today for a public holiday.  “There remains significant capacity for China to stimulate
further,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of
investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian unit. The Swiss bank
has about $1.5 trillion in assets under management. “This is
not only from a monetary perspective, which includes further
rate cuts or lowering the reserve required ratio again, but also
the ability for additional targeted fiscal stimulus.”  Global Growth  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index  fell 2.6
percent last week, the largest weekly drop since May, amid
concern slowing economic growth from China to  South Korea  and
 Australia  will hurt corporate profits. Shares in the gauge are
valued at 11.1 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 13.1 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.7
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.2 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index retreated 1.7 percent.  Singapore ’s
Straits Times Index climbed 0.1 percent, its 12th advance in the
last 14 trading days.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  advanced 0.6 percent, while
New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.8 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index rose 0.3 percent.  Premier Wen warned the momentum for a recovery in Chinese
 economic growth  isn’t yet in place and that “difficulties” may
persist for a while, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. The government will step up policy fine-tuning in the
second half of this year to support growth, he said, reiterating
comments he made during a visit to eastern Jiangsu province
earlier this month.  China GDP  China needs to expand consumption and restructure the
economy, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said during an inspection tour
in central Hubei province, Xinhua reported separately on July
14. The reports come after China’s gross domestic product
expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in three years.  Guangzhou R&F advanced 3.9 percent to HK$10.58. Belle
International Holdings Ltd., a women’s shoe retailer that gets
most of its revenue from China, rose 1.9 percent to HK$13.88 in
Hong Kong.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The underlying gauge gained 0.2 percent last week as a
rally in shares of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and speculation China
will boost stimulus measures tempered concern about earnings and
the global economy.  Four of the six S&P 500 listed companies that reported
earnings last week beat analysts’ estimates while one missed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts predict
earnings of S&P 500 listed companies will increase 6.4 percent
this year.  Asian Earnings  In  Asia , 9 of 23 companies in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
that reported earnings this month exceeded analyst estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts expect profit
at companies in the Asia-Pacific gauge will increase 28 percent
over the next 12 months in U.S. dollar terms.  Whitehaven surged 18 percent to A$4.07 in Sydney. A
Tinkler-led group made a conditional offer to buy the rest of
the miner at a 51 percent premium to its most recent closing
price, valuing the company at A$5.3 billion ($5.4 billion).  BHP Billiton Ltd. the world’s largest mining company, rose
1 percent to A$30.77 to be the second-biggest contributor to the
Asian gauge’s advance. The company was rated new overweight at
Barclays Plc. BHP is the least complicated and the least risky
way to gain exposure to commodities, according to Barclays
analyst Ephrem Ravi.  Daekyung Machinery slumped 8.3 percent to 2,000 won in
Seoul.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660) , which
constructs naval and commercial ships, said it dropped its bid
for Daekyung on failure to negotiate a price and amid changes in
the global economic environment. Daewoo Shipbuilding rose 1.2
percent to 25,600 won.  Profit Warnings  ZTE plunged 16 percent to HK$10.46 in Hong Kong after
saying its first-half profit may have fallen as much as 80
percent due to reduced investment income, foreign-exchange
losses and delayed network contracts.  Suning Appliance Co., China’s biggest home appliance
retailer by market value, dropped 10 percent to 7.28  yuan  in
Shenzhen after saying its first-half profit probably dropped as
much as 30 percent from a year earlier.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , a developer whose chairmen
were charged along with Hong Kong’s former No. 2 official over
alleged bribery-related offenses, declined 1 percent to HK$94.50
when it resumed trading in Hong Kong today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  