-- Hawker Beechcraft Sale to China Firm Opposed by Union
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-17T08:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hawker-beechcraft-sale-to-china-firm-opposed-by-union.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the bankrupt
business-jet maker, shouldn’t be sold to a buyer owned by the
Chinese government because the deal would endanger jobs and
national security, a U.S. judge was told by a labor union.  Hawker Beechcraft, now owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Onex Corp. (OCX) , last week asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart M. Bernstein in  Manhattan  to let it negotiate exclusively with
Superior Aviation Beijing Co. for as long as 45 days.  While Hawker Beechcraft suggested the Superior proposal
“‘could preserve thousands of American jobs,’ there is nothing
in the record to support such a belief,” the  International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers  said yesterday
in a court filing.  The jet maker agreed to sell itself to Superior for $1.79
billion. Superior will make payments over the next six weeks to
help keep Hawker afloat until the deal closes, the companies
said July 9. The exclusivity period, for which Superior is
willing to pay the debtor $50 million, could make it a so-called
stalking-horse bidder in a court-supervised auction.  Hawker Beechcraft sought  bankruptcy protection  in May after
struggling with reduced demand for private jets following the
recession and constrained U.S. defense spending. The company’s
debt included a term loan and notes used for the portion of its
$3.3 billion takeover in 2007 that wasn’t covered by $1 billion
cash from buyers Goldman Sachs and Onex.  Defense Excluded  While Hawker Beechcraft’s defense-related operations would
be excluded from the sale, the machinists questioned why
Superior would be entitled to a refund of as much as $400
million once those assets are sold and why the proposal includes
a provision that the Chinese firm would have “ongoing
relationships” with that business.  Citing required U.S. government approvals before the
transaction could close, the machinists said, “It is critically
important to fully assess the likelihood of whether those
approvals can be obtained before the debtors lock themselves
(and their stakeholders) into an exclusive negotiating period
with Superior.”  “The agreement we have reached with Superior allows us to
preserve jobs as the negotiation and restructuring process
progresses,’” Justin Dini, an outside spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our negotiating
agreement with Superior has no impact on the timing of
regulatory agencies’ reviews.”  ‘Good Solution’  Superior’s deal with Hawker would be a “good solution,”
as long as the Chinese buyer invests adequate resources into the
plane-maker and abides by the U.S. accounting rules to give
other shareholders clarity about the funding, said  Tom Donohue ,
chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a
Washington-based industry group.  “If nobody goes in there and puts down the money, we’re
going to lose all those jobs,” Donohue said in a Bloomberg TV
interview in Beijing today. “If the Chinese go in there and put
down the money, and make a commitment to keep a good proportion
of those jobs at home, that’s a good deal.”  Dini, who is affiliated with Brunswick Group LLC in  New
York , said any transaction would still be subject to the court’s
auction process as well as approval by the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. and other regulators.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  