-- Baht Touches One-Week High on Possible China Stimulus, Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-16T01:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/baht-touches-one-week-high-on-possible-china-stimulus-inflows.html
Thailand’s baht touched a one-week
high amid speculation Chinese policy makers will introduce more
stimulus measures, boosting demand for emerging-market assets.
Bonds were little changed.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on a tour of southwest Sichuan
province that while government measures to stabilize growth are
“bearing fruit,” difficulties may persist for a while, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. Overseas funds
bought $65 million more Thai equities than they sold last week,
taking net purchases this month to $118 million, exchange data
show.  “There is some speculation that a high-level meeting among
policy makers in China will lead to additional supportive
measures,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior currency strategist at
Scotiabank in Hong Kong, a unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia . Fund
inflows reflect “positive sentiment towards the  Thai baht ,” he
said.  The baht was unchanged at 31.66 per dollar as of 8:39 a.m.
in Bangkok and touched 31.58 earlier, the strongest level since
July 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its one-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was unchanged at 5.02 percent. The yield on the
3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 was 3.29 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A government report this week may show exports, which
account for about two-thirds of the economy, increased 0.25
percent in June after a 7.68 percent gain the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  China  is Thailand’s biggest overseas market, buying 12
percent of total shipments in the first five months of 2012,
official data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 