-- Bain Wrestles Romney’s Shadow as $6 Billion Effort Kicks
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/bain-wrestles-romney-s-shadow-as-6-billion-effort-kicks.html
For  Bain Capital  Partners LLC, Mitt Romney may not be in the room anymore when the firm pitches the
$6 billion fund it began raising last week. His shadow sure is.  While his name is absent in materials sent to potential
investors for the Boston-based firm’s latest private-equity
fund, his presidential candidacy has made Bain the most-
discussed company in an historically secretive industry. Bain
declined to comment on the details of the fund, its 11th
flagship pool.  Going out now -- when President  Barack Obama  and supporters
are spending millions decrying Romney as an outsourcer and a
“corporate raider” in speeches and ads -- means Bain may face
some tough Romney questions in the closed-door meetings where
executives seek to raise this kind of cash. That’s especially
true because some of private equity’s biggest backers are public
pensions, whose boards have political ties and sensitivities,
yet need the returns Bain is promising at a time when they have
big funding gaps.  “There may be some political pushback in some places and
they either won’t commit or wait until after the election,”
said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of  Chicago 
Booth School of Business. “For corporations, sovereign-wealth
funds and endowments, all of that is less of an issue.”  Bain’s existing investors include  Yale University , the
government of  Singapore  and public pensions from  Pennsylvania  to
 California . Bain, in part emboldened by the success of a just-
raised $2.3 billion fund focused on Asia investments, is
counting on its ability to override any doubts spurred by the
avalanche of news stories with a focus on its investing record.  ‘Reasonable Answers’  The 100-plus page fund memorandum, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News, doesn’t mention Romney by name. The
materials lay out the parameters of the fund: a $6 billion pool,
plus the potential for investors to commit additional money to
certain deals; a promise by Bain employees to contribute at
least 10 percent of the fund; and in-depth descriptions of its
strategy and personnel.  Investors accustomed to private equity are likely to
dismiss much of the rhetoric and back Bain, said Paul Schaye,
managing partner of New York-based Chestnut Hill Partners LLC,
which helps private-equity firms find acquisitions.  “They just have to give reasonable answers to the
political questions when they come up,” Schaye said. “Their
job is to give those investors returns. They’re not in the
business of just creating jobs. The political stuff is noise.”  Bain said it has addressed their founder’s candidacy with
its backers. “We’ve been communicating with our investor base
and prospects, talking to those who ask about how a lot of this
is political hyperbole,” said  Mike Goss , a managing director at
Bain. He declined to comment about the details of the new fund.  Less Vulnerable  Bain may be less vulnerable to political winds given the
makeup of its investor base, which has proportionally fewer
public pensions versus its competitors. While more than 40
percent of the known capital committed to KKR & Co. during the
past decade came from public pensions, about 6 percent of Bain’s
money came from those sources, according to data compiled by
researcher Preqin Ltd.  Yet prominent pensions have backed Bain in the past 10
years, and some operate in campaign battleground states. The
State Teachers Retirement System of  Ohio  has committed more than
$800 million to private-equity and venture funds managed by
Bain, according to information provided by the pension.
Pennsylvania’s public employees have backed Bain to the tune of
more than $300 million, according to data posted on that
pension’s website.  Representatives of each pension said they haven’t set times
yet to meet with Bain officials about the new fund.  Risk Vs. KKR  Any disadvantage, however minor, may be magnified in a
competitive fundraising environment. Bain is gathering its new
fund at the same time as brand-name managers KKR & Co. and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  are marketing their own flagship funds. A
record 1,858 private-equity funds were seeking money as of
April, according to data compiled by London-based Preqin.  Private-equity funds already are taking longer to raise,
averaging 16 months last year, versus 11 months in 2007,
according to researcher PitchBook Data Inc.  Pensions are looking to private equity to help deal with
funding gaps. Many pensions need annual returns of about 7.5
percent to meet obligations to their retirees. Public pensions
have unfunded liabilities of about $3.6 trillion, according to a
2010 study by  Joshua Rauh  of  Northwestern University  in
Evanston,  Illinois , and Robert Novy-Marx of the University of
Rochester in Rochester,  New York .  ‘Shifting Power’  The flagship fund, Bain Capital Fund XI, will be raised in
a different environment from its predecessors. In the wake of
the financial crisis that saw stocks plummet and dragged the
values of pensions and endowments down, private equity’s biggest
backers joined together in an unprecedented way to demand lower
fees and more transparency from buyout managers.  “A lot of these issues have nothing to do with Romney,”
Goss said. “The trend of shifting power to the limited partners,
that’s a constant theme with every private equity firm.”  Firms are raising smaller funds. Bain’s 10th fund was about
$10 billion.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , based in New York, last year
raised about $16 billion for its latest buyout fund, less than
its record-setting $21.7 billion previous pool in 2007.  The rich economics of private equity are tied to high
returns. Funds draw commitments from their so-called limited
partners such as pensions and endowments for about 10 years. The
manager uses the money to buy companies and sell them down the
line for a profit, the majority of which goes back to the
limited partners, and a portion of which is kept by the manager.  Loyal Backers  Bain’s results historically have made for loyal backers.
Its first fund in 1984 gave clients back almost five times their
original investment, and an average annual return of more than
60 percent. While subsequent returns haven’t reached those
marks, Bain told investors its 181 realized and/or public
investments increased in value by three times. Factoring in
unrealized gains, Bain has, in effect, doubled investors’ money
on its 206 investments, according to the fund prospectus.  Bain, co-founded by Romney in the mid-1980s, hasn’t been
immune to the post-crisis pressures. The firm has commanded some
of the highest fees in the industry, charging investors a larger
percentage of profits to participate in its funds.  While most funds charge 20 percent of profits as their so-
called carried interest, Bain asked for, and got, 30 percent.
That was in addition to an annual management fee of about 1.5
percent. Bain was able to command those fees in part because of
the makeup of its client base. Private institutions not subject
to public scrutiny were more willing to pay higher fees for the
returns Bain delivered, according to Bain investors who asked
not to be named.  Three Options  For the new fund, investors have three options: pay a 1.5
percent annual fee, 20 percent carry and have a preferred return
of 7 percent (an agreement that Bain won’t take its share of the
profits until limited partners get at least 7 percent); a 1
percent management fee, 30 percent carry and 7 percent preferred
return; or a 0.5 percent management fee, 30 percent carry and no
preferred return, according to the prospectus.  Bain has chosen to stay mostly silent during the
presidential campaign, amid a series of ads by the Obama side,
and earlier from Republican primary rivals, that highlight job
losses at companies such as Dade International, American Pad &
Paper LLC and KB Toys Inc. The firm has occasionally issued
public statements in response to certain claims.  ‘Widespread Benefits’  Privately, Bain officials are arming their investors with
data, detailed in a March letter to their backers and trotted
out in subsequent conversations and correspondence. The firm is
touting its record of increasing revenue at companies it owns by
an aggregate of $105 billion during its ownership, with $80
billion coming in the U.S.  Addressing the central campaign theme of employment gains
and losses, Bain argues that “calculating net job growth across
a portfolio of companies is difficult to do with precision,”
according to the letter, pointing back to sales increases as
evidence that it’s created hundreds of thousands of jobs.
“There should be no doubt that $105 billion of revenue growth
is an economic engine with widespread benefits.”  Romney said Bain created in excess of 100,000 jobs during
his tenure at the firm. The campaign has declined repeated
requests to provide more detail. His tenure at the firm, and the
timing of his departure, became a central theme in the campaign
last week, as documents revealed he was still referenced in
government filings as holding senior positions at Bain after
1999, when he said he left the firm to manage the Salt Lake City
Olympics.  “ Mitt Romney  left Bain Capital in February 1999 to run the
Olympics and has had absolutely no involvement with the
management or investment activities of the firm or with any of
its portfolio companies since the day of his departure,” Bain
said last week in a statement.  The decision on whether to pony up will come down to
numbers unrelated to the election, Chicago’s Kaplan said.  “If the returns have been good, it creates a lot of
goodwill,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  