-- Banco do Brasil Dividend Yield Leads Americas: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-07-16T13:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/banco-do-brasil-dividend-yield-leads-americas-corporate-brazil.html
Banco do Brasil SA  is poised to pay
the highest dividend yield in the Western Hemisphere as a
lending surge sustains profit and shares plunge on investor bets
that slowing economic growth may lead to more defaults.  The state-owned bank’s payouts to investors this year will
equal 8.1 percent of its current share price, according to the
median forecast of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the
highest ratio among the 80 largest companies by revenue in the
Americas. That compares with a 6.7 percent yield for runner-up
Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer. Automaker
General Motors Co.’s forecast yield of 0.1 percent is the lowest
among the ranked companies.  Banco do Brasil has declined in  Sao Paulo  trading this year
on concern the quality of its loan portfolio is deteriorating as
 Brazil ’s government pressures state-run banks to expand credit
to shore up slowing economic growth.  Outstanding credit  in
Brazil rose 18 percent in May from a year earlier to 2.14
trillion reais ($1.05 trillion) after the government cut
interest rates and lowered banks’ reserve requirements.  “There is concern about default rates, which could indeed
hurt the bank’s profitability levels, but at current prices the
stock is still very attractive from a dividend point of view,”
Wagner Salaverry, who helps oversee 5.5 billion reais including
Banco do Brasil shares at  Porto Alegre , Brazil-based Geracao
Futuro Corretora de Valores SA, said in a phone interview.  Shares Fall  Brasilia-based Banco do Brasil, Brazil’s biggest bank by
assets, has dropped 22 percent in Sao Paulo this year, making it
the third-worst performance on the MSCI Brazil Financials  Index. (MXBR) 
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , the second- and
third-largest banks, have declined 15 percent and 3 percent,
respectively.  Banco do Brasil’s loan portfolio grew 19 percent in the
first quarter, helping shore up profits even as it cuts interest
rates. Defaults on consumer loans totaled 3 percent in March,
unchanged from a year earlier.  The nation’s consumer-loan  default rates  increased to 8
percent in May from 7.8 percent in April, the highest in 30
months, the central bank said in a report released on June 26.
Economists surveyed by the central bank on July 6 forecast that
growth in Brazil will slow to 2.01 percent this year, which
would be the second-worst performance since 2003.  Profit Estimates  Banco do Brasil’s adjusted net income, which excludes one-
time items, declined 7 percent to 2.7 billion reais in the first
quarter from a year earlier. Profit will fall 15 percent this
year to 11.2 billion reais, according to the average estimate of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Analysts estimate Banco do
Brasil will pay  dividends  of 1.51 reais per share this year, the
equivalent of 39 percent of the per-share earnings forecast, and
down 12 percent from last year.  Most of the dividend is paid to the federal government,
which is the lender’s biggest shareholder with a 52 percent
 stake , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Under Dilma Rousseff’s administration, Brazil is turning up
pressure on state-owned lenders to cut what she says are
“unacceptable” consumer borrowing rates after economic growth
stalled in the first quarter. The threat that lower rates pose
to earnings makes Banco do Brasil a riskier investment, said
Marc Sauerman, who helps manage about 650 million reais at
JMalucelli Investimentos.  Cheaper Loans  “There are a lot of risks around Brazilian banks right
now, especially when it comes to the government’s intentions to
make loans cheaper,” Sauerman said by phone from Curitiba,
Brazil. “The government wants banks to lower their  interest
rates , and they can do that through state-owned banks such as
Banco do Brasil. It’s not clear how this could affect
earnings.”  The presidential press office didn’t return an e-mailed
request from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Banco do Brasil’s shares trade at 4.5 times its reported
earnings, compared with a ratio of 9.6 for Itau.  The bank’s dividend payments are in line with
profitability, said Gustavo Henrique Santos de Sousa, the
investor relations manager at Banco do Brasil in Brasilia.  “Our default rates are among the lowest in the industry,
and our loan portfolio is expanding in line with our guidance,”
Sousa said in a phone interview.  ‘Risky Bet’  Banco do Brasil said on July 11 it cut interest rates it
charges on certain loans to clients after the central bank
reduced the benchmark Selic rate. Its average annual lending
rate on personal loans was 33.2 percent in June, which compares
with a 50.2 percent rate for Itau, according to data from the
central bank.  “If default rates remain under control, then Banco do
Brasil’s bet to lower interest rates to expand its loan
portfolio may end up proving to be the right one,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million reais at Legan
Administracao de Recursos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “But it depends on how quickly the Brazilian economy
rebounds from the slowdown we’re seeing now. It’s a risky bet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  