-- Bank CP Rate Gap to Bills at Lowest Since August: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-16T16:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/bank-cp-rate-gap-to-bills-at-lowest-since-august-credit-markets.html
Short-term borrowing costs for
financial institutions have fallen to the lowest since August
relative to U.S. Treasury bills in a sign of growing investor
confidence that banks will weather Europe’s escalating debt
crisis and the slowing economy.  The difference between what U.S. financial institutions and
the government pay to borrow for three months has narrowed by
almost 50 percent since December to 32 basis points. The gap
between the  commercial paper  and Treasury bill rates has shrunk
from a 2 1/2-year high of 58 basis points on Dec. 8. A separate
measure of debt-market stress, the two-year  interest-rate  swap
spread, is near an 11-month low.  Money managers are accepting lower rates to lend money to
U.S. financial institutions even after they were among 15 global
lenders downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service on June 21.
Dollar-denominated bonds from banks are returning more than
twice as much as stocks this year as lenders boost capital to
meet new risk-curbing regulations.  “From a banking sector standpoint the U.S. is much further
along than the European banking sector,” said  Dan Greenhaus ,
the chief global strategist at broker-dealer BTIG LLC in  New
York . “This is what the  Federal Reserve  wants of course, for
yields to come down everywhere. For the Fed, anytime you see the
narrowing of the spread of a risk-asset to a safer asset, all
else equal, they have to be encouraged.”  The cost of protecting U.S. bank bonds from default is at
the lowest relative to European lenders ever in records going
back to 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread  shrank to 23
basis points at the end of last week, from 59.25 basis points on
Nov. 22, an 18-month high. The spread increased 1 basis point to
24 basis points as of 12:10 p.m. in New York.  The  gap  between two-year swap rates and comparable maturity
Treasury note yields has averaged 48 basis points since January
2007. The swap spread is based in part on expectations for the
dollar-denominated  London  interbank offered rate and is used as
one measure of investor perceptions of bank credit risk.  The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety
of government securities. Libor, the rate at which banks say
they can borrow in dollars from each other, acts as a benchmark
for about $360 trillion of financial instruments worldwide.  GE Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
rising 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 113.4 basis points as
of 12:12 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the maker of the world’s best-selling
gasoline-electric vehicle, is offering a benchmark issue of
three-year dollar-denominated bonds. The securities may be sold
to yield about 65 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
The debt may be rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Today’s sale will be issued through Toyota Motor Credit
Corp. and will be of benchmark size, typically at least $500
million, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the terms are private.  Bail-In Bets  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 45 trades of $1 million or
more as of 12:13 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast as Europe’s fiscal upheaval prolongs Spain’s recession
and slows expansions in  emerging markets  from China to India
already facing weaker domestic demand.  Growth worldwide will be 3.9 percent next year, less than
the 4.1 percent estimate in April, the fund predicted in an
update of its World Economic Outlook.  Rebound Moderating  The fund said a U.S. rebound is moderating, the outlook is
deteriorating for developing economies and global growth could
suffer further if European policy makers put off measures agreed
at a June summit to arrest the region’s instability.  “In the past three months, the global recovery, which was
not strong to start with, has shown signs of further weakness,”
the Washington-based IMF said in the report. “Downside risks
continue to loom large, importantly reflecting risks of delayed
or insufficient policy action.”  “Financial conditions look like they are relatively stable
and growth supportive in the U.S.,” Michael Darda, chief market
strategist at MKM Partners LP in Stamford, Connecticut, said in
a telephone interview. “That’s a silver lining because the
recent economic data flow has been weak. The credit markets and
other indicators tend to give us a forward look on what might
happen to the business cycle.”  The Fed’s Federal Open Market Committee, which has kept its
benchmark interest rate near zero since December 2008,
reiterated last month that it expects to keep rates
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  Operation Twist  The Fed under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  bought $2.3 trillion
of Treasury and mortgage-related debt to stimulate the economy.
It decided in June to extend a policy known as Operation Twist,
in which it sells short-term securities and uses the proceeds to
buy longer-term debt, through December by an additional $267
billion.  Selling  commercial paper  is one way that banks can obtain
short-term loans. The instruments are issued at a premium to
Treasury bills, which are viewed as riskless because they’re
backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. In
the 10 years prior to 2007, when the subprime mortgage market
collapsed and triggered a global financial crisis, three-month
commercial paper rates averaged 30.5 basis points more than
Treasury bills, Bloomberg data show.  “At this time, commercial paper is not as good an economic
indicator as it would be under more normal interest rate
circumstances,” Leonard Santow, managing director at economic
and financial consulting firm Griggs & Santow Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “When you get close to zero on Treasuries,
it creates distortions.”  Commercial Paper  Rates on three-month, non-asset backed commercial paper
were 0.41 percent today, according to an  index  of A1/P1/F1-rated
programs compiled by Bloomberg that consists of a majority of
financial firms. Three-month Treasury bills traded at 0.09
percent and three-month dollar Libor was 0.4551 percent.  “The fact that commercial paper rates have come in
relative to Treasury bill yields, which have barely moved from
near-zero levels all year, signals that investors are now
happier to lend to U.S. corporations,” said Moorad Choudhry,
treasurer at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s Corporate Banking
Division in London.  While U.S. investment-grade corporate bond yields fell to a
record 3.18 percent on July 13, spreads are wider than before
the credit crisis, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. Dollar-denominated bank bonds have returned 8.5 percent
this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data,
compared with 4 percent for  bank stocks .  Ratings Cut  “With three month Treasury bills rates so low, unless you
are really forced to invest in them, few want to purchase
them,” said Jim Lee, head of short-term markets and futures and
options strategy in Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities Inc. “There is demand by
investors for yield in this lower for longer Fed rate
environment.”  The commercial paper market has declined since the failure
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ignited a financial crisis,
with the total amount  outstanding  falling to $982 billion from
more than $2.2 trillion in July 2007. Joseph D’Angelo, head of
money market fixed income at Prudential Financial, who oversees
about $50 billion in assets, said it may never regain the same
levels, with regulatory concerns affecting both companies
supplying new issues and funds investing in the securities.  “When Lehman collapsed, that effectively brought all kinds
of scrutiny to the money market fund industry,” D’Angelo said.
“For companies, plenty of issuance was related to long-term
leverage financed by short-term liabilities and obviously that
whole model was not acceptable anymore.”  Basel Rules  In the Moody’s downgrades of global banks,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were pushed out from the top-tier of
investment-grade, with their respective ratings cut to  Baa2 from
A3  and  Baa1 from A2 .  New regulations from  U.S. Congress  and the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  are spurring the biggest banks to pare
holdings of corporate bonds to $42.3 billion as of July 4 from a
peak of $235 billion in October 2007, according to Fed data. The
face value of bank bonds in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index has fallen to $905.3 billion from a peak of $947.2 billion
in July 2011.  The top U.S. prime money-market mutual funds allocation of
assets invested in euro-zone banks slid 67 percent in the 12
months through May, according to a Fitch Ratings report on June
22. As money funds have cut investment in euro-zone banks
they’ve increased allocation to U.S.  government securities  and
 repurchase agreements , a form of collateralized lending, Fitch
wrote in a separate note published on July 12.  European Banks  Credit-default swaps on 13 European banks such as  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and  UBS AG (UBS)  have diverged from those tied to the six
largest U.S. banks, with the gap at 67.3 basis points on July
13. In February, there was no gap in the average price of the
contracts.  “I would personally rather give money to U.S. banks as
BBBs than give the money to single-A rated companies in
Europe,” D’Angelo said. “If you are going to lend money to
financial institutions in the current environment, you feel most
comfortable lending to U.S.A.”  U.S. money funds reduced their euro-zone debt holdings by
the most in 2012 last month, cutting their exposure by $73.5
billion to $286 billion in June, according to data compiled by
Westborough, Massachusetts-based research firm IMoneyNet Inc.  The European Central bank’s cut in its benchmark rate to a
record low led JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BlackRock
Inc. to close  money market funds  to new investments.  “The further we move along in this recovery cycle -- long,
slow and painful though it may be -- we are starting to see some
signs of generally healthier balance sheets in the corporate
sector,” said Jeffrey Caughron, a partner at Baker Group LP in
Oklahoma City who advises community banks on investments of more
than $30 billion. “There is also the realization that we are
going to be at very low levels of interest rates generally
longer than people had previously thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ; 