-- Barclays Pushed Limits of U.K. Watchdog Tolerance, FSA Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-16T18:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/barclays-pushed-limits-of-u-k-watchdog-s-tolerance-turner-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank, “had a cultural tendency to be always pushing the
limit” of what was allowed under banking rules,  Financial
Services Authority  Chairman  Adair Turner  told lawmakers today.  Turner and  Andrew Bailey , the regulator’s head of banking
supervision, testifying at hearings in the wake of the Libor
scandal, said the cultural issues at Barclays came from the
“tone at the top,” including former Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond .  “There was a problem with this institution,”
Bailey told Parliament’s Treasury Select Committee in  London .  The U.K. has come under fire for failing to address Libor
years before the record 290 million-pound ($453 million) fine
against Barclays last month.  Timothy F. Geithner , then the  New
York  Federal Reserve President, in June 2008 warned the Bank of
 England  that the method used to set the London interbank offered
rate was open to abuse.  The regulator is investigating seven other banks in
connection with attempted manipulation of Libor, said Tracey McDermott, acting head of enforcement at the FSA.  Turner said he wasn’t aware of the issues relating to the
potential manipulation of Libor until November 2009, when he was
briefed by  Hector Sants , then the FSA’s chief executive officer.  “You should’ve known in 2008, you knew in 2009 and now
it’s 2012,” Labour lawmaker George Mudie told Turner. “This
was under-regulated. You were warned about it and warned about
it.”  Followed Up  The FSA is carrying out an internal audit to review all of
the contact “between Barclays and us and whether we should have
followed up” on early Libor notifications, Turner told the
committee.  Officials at the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee, which includes Governor  Mervyn King , put pressure on
the FSA to crack down on “aggressive” behavior at Barclays,
according to a board meeting summary dated Feb. 9 published by
lawmakers today.  Barclays was warned by Turner in an April letter that it
aggressively interpreted rules, took advantage of complex
structures and submitted misleading estimates of capital levels.  Turner said the letter was the only one of its kind he
has written to a bank chairman.  Chairman Level  “There have been a set of issues” the FSA had argued
about with Barclays “on a case-by-case basis,” Turner said.
“It is the accumulation that makes us believe that we have to
draw the attention from the chairman to the chairman level.”  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $360 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’s
admission that it submitted false rates. Diamond, who resigned
as Barclays’ chief executive officer after the bank was fined,
told British lawmakers this month that other banks also low-
balled submissions.  Conservative lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie ’s Treasury Select
Committee has grilled Diamond, bank Chairman Marcus Agius and
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  since the fine.  Tucker, 54, was questioned about his involvement in a 2008
phone call with Diamond that suggested he hinted that London-
based Barclays should lower its Libor submissions.  Jerry Del Missier, the bank’s former chief operating
officer who also lost his job in the wake of the Libor scandal,
appeared at the committee earlier today. The 50-year-old told
the committee he didn’t think instructing his traders to submit
lower Libor fixings was inappropriate because of the discussions
between Diamond and Tucker.  Government ‘Shots’  “It did not seem an inappropriate action given it was
coming from the  Bank of England ,” del Missier told the
committee. “The government were calling the shots.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are among the lenders regulators
in Europe, Asia and the U.S. are investigating.  Diamond, who was Britain’s best-paid bank CEO, opted to
forgo deferred bonuses valued at as much as 20 million pounds
when he stepped down following the public and political outcry
at Barclays’s role in the Libor fixing. The bank’s  shares  have
fallen 20 percent since the June 27 settlement with regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 