-- MBIA Surplus Note Payment Approved by New York Regulator
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-16T14:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/mbia-surplus-note-payment-approved-by-new-york-regulator.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  received regulatory
approval for its insurance unit that backed soured mortgage debt
to make an interest payment on notes scheduled for today.  The New York State Department of Financial Services
approved the payment on MBIA Insurance Corp.’s 14 percent
surplus notes due 2033 and “will make such payment as
scheduled,” according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The shares climbed 3.4 percent to $10.76 at
10:08 a.m. in New York.  The shares  dropped  last week after the Armonk,  New York- 
based bond insurer said the regulator hadn’t decided whether to
allow the payment, fueling concern that the unit’s financial
standing was worse than investors had anticipated. The guarantor
sold the notes in 2008 to bolster capital amid soaring defaults
on subprime home loans, delaying a reduction of its then-top
credit ratings.  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, declined to comment beyond
the filing.  Surplus notes are bonds issued by insurance companies that
state insurance regulators consider equity. In the event of a
bankruptcy, the notes are repaid after other creditors and
before stockholders.  MBIA, which was shut out of the business of backing
municipal debt because of the losses on home-loan and
commercial-mortgage securities, split its MBIA Insurance
subsidiary in 2009 with the blessing of the regulator in an
effort to revive the muni business.  Lenders including Bank of America Corp. and Societe
Generale SA, which bought protection against losses on mortgage-
debt from MBIA, sued the insurer and regulator to reverse the
split. That case is now being considered by a  New York  State
Supreme Court judge after a four-week trial that concluded June
7. The banks claimed the restructuring exposed policyholders to
losses by transferring $5 billion in assets out of MBIA
Insurance and into the municipal unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  