-- Traxis Hedge Fund ‘Fully Functional’ After Biggs’ Death
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-07-16T21:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/biggs-traxis-fund-fully-functioning-says-letter-to-clients.html
Traxis Partners LP, the $1.2 billion
hedge fund started by  Barton Biggs , said it continues to operate
after the death of its founder over the weekend.  “Traxis remains fully functional, looking after the
portfolios of its investors,”  Amer Bisat , managing partner at
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Traxis, said today in a telephone
interview. “The leadership has been taken over by the three
remaining partners,” he said, referring to Andy Skov, Krishen Sud and himself.  Biggs, who was 79 and a former global investment strategist
at Morgan Stanley, died on July 14. The cause of death was
complications from a bacterial infection, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  Traxis had told investors in a July 9 letter obtained by
Bloomberg News that Biggs had been hospitalized after developing
a “strong but treatable bacterial infection” and that doctors
were optimistic he would make a full recovery.  Traxis manages five funds and clients are able to withdraw
their money on a monthly or quarterly basis after giving 30
days’ notice, according to fund documents. The Traxis Global
Equity Macro Fund, which Biggs oversaw, lost about 1.5 percent
this year through June, according to the person with knowledge
of the matter.  Hedge funds  returned 0.9 percent in the same
period, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Diligently Monitored’  The firm, which employs 12 people, has yet to make a
decision on the future of Biggs’s fund, the person said. The
hedge fund told clients in a letter today obtained by Bloomberg 
News that their investments are being “diligently monitored
and managed.”  Bisat, 48, joined Traxis in 2007 after working at Rubicon
Fund Management LLP, a London-based hedge fund, where he oversaw
emerging-markets investments. He had previously worked at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and UBS AG.  Skov, 46, another Morgan Stanley alumnus, joined Traxis
four years ago and earlier founded Point Reyes Capital LLC,
which invested in startup companies.  Sud, 51, a co-founder of the defunct hedge fund Galleon
Group LLC, joined Traxis last year when it merged his hedge
fund, Sivik Global Healthcare Partners.  Biggs started Traxis after retiring from Morgan Stanley in
2003 at age 70 after three decades at the bank, which owns a
minority stake in his fund. He began the hedge fund with two
other Morgan Stanley alumni, Cyril Moulle-Berteaux and Madhav Dhar, who have since left.  “The legacy of Barton is that he built a very deep and
successful platform that comprises many individuals with decades
of experience in the industry and a distinguished record,”
Bisat said in today’s interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  