-- Brazilian Stock Movers: Cruzeiro do Sul, Braskem, BR Malls, OGX
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-07-16T22:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/brazilian-stock-movers-cruzeiro-do-sul-braskem-br-malls-ogx.html
The following companies had  unusual 
price changes in  Sao Paulo  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the market close. Preferred
shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index fell 1.7 percent to 53,401.80.  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul  SA (CZRS4 BZ), the lender that was
seized by Brazil’s central bank on June 1, declined 15 percent,
the most in a month, to 2 reais. Losses in the bank may amount
to 2.5 billion reais ($1.2 billion) as an audit found
irregularities in the bank’s loan portfolio, O Estado de S.Paulo
reported on July 14, citing an audit. Cruzeiro do Sul said in a
regulatory filing today it isn’t possible at the moment to
estimate the amount of losses.  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  (BRKM5 BZ) declined 3.1 percent to 11.65 reais.
The Brazilian petrochemical company may postpone the
construction of three plants worth about 1 billion reais amid a
slump in the global petrochemical industry, newspaper  Valor
Economico  reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Carlos Fadigas. Marcelo Lyra, a Braskem investor relations officer,
told Bloomberg News that the company is continuing with all
projects approved by the board of directors and that the plants
mentioned in Valor’s story are in preliminary stages.  BR Malls Participacoes (BRML3)  (BRML3 BZ), a shopping mall service
provider, rose 3.8 percent to 22.10 reais, the most in almost
two weeks. Sales increased to 4.6 billion reais in the second
quarter from 3.7 billion reais in the same period a year ago,
the company said in a regulatory filing.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes  (OGXP3 BZ), billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s oil company, lost 6.2 percent to 5.46 reais as
Deutsche Bank AG cut the stock to sell from hold after the
company reduced its production targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  