-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall to Near Record Low as GDP Estimates Sink
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-07-16T21:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/brazil-swap-rates-fall-to-near-record-low-as-gdp-estimates-sink.html
Brazil’s swap rates declined after
analysts lowered their forecast for economic growth for a 10th
straight week.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2014 fell for a
second day, declining one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 7.66 percent. They touched a record low 7.61 percent on July
12. The real gained 0.1 percent to 2.0350 per  U.S. dollar   “The central bank survey accentuates bets on further rate
cuts in October,” said Darwin Dib, the chief strategist at CM
Capital Markets Asset Management, in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 1.9 percent in
2012, according to the median estimate in a central bank survey
of about 100 analysts published today. Last week’s survey showed
economists expected GDP would grow 2.01 percent.  Policy makers cut the benchmark Selic rate by 50 basis
points to a record low 8 percent last week in the latest bid to
revive sputtering growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.
Since August, the central bank has cut the rate by 4.5
percentage points while the government has pushed banks to lower
loan rates. Economists in the survey held their year-end Selic
forecast at 7.5 percent.  The central bank is likely to cut the benchmark Selic
interest rate by 50 basis points at its Aug. 28-29 meeting to
7.5 percent and another 25 basis points in October, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts including Nilson Teixeira wrote in a
research note published July 13.  Consumer Prices  The Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IPC-S consumer prices
report, which monitors prices in  Brazil ’s seven biggest cities,
rose 0.22 percent in the 30 days ending July 15. The median
estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.24
percent increase.  The reduction in growth forecasts combined with the outlook
for slowing expansion in  China , Brazil’s top trading partner, is
spurring speculation of more stimulus measures from Latin
America’s biggest country, said Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst
at Futura Corretora in Sao Paulo.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned that the momentum for an
economic recovery isn’t yet in place. Wen said “difficulties”
may persist for a while, according to a report yesterday from
the official Xinhua News Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  