-- Buffett Empowers Deputies by Raising Funds to $8 Billion
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/buffett-empowers-deputies-by-raising-funds-to-8-billion.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
is entrusting more of his company’s investments to deputy stock
pickers as he prepares the firm for his eventual departure.  Ted Weschler and Todd Combs, former hedge-fund managers
hired in the past two years, will probably oversee about $4
billion apiece for Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, Buffett said
in a July 13 interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.” Each oversaw about $2.75 billion at the
beginning of the year, he said.  “They have terrific talent,” Buffett said. “I feel very,
very, very good about where we are now versus a few years ago in
terms of successor investment management.”  Buffett, 81, has been readying a new generation of leaders
as he prepares to hand over control of the company that he built
over four decades through acquisitions and stock picks.
Berkshire has ceded more money to Weschler, 51, and Combs, 41,
and given them authority to manage the funds “exactly as they
see fit,” he said. The two will oversee company investments
after the billionaire’s departure.  Buffett “has to assure himself and the firm that these
people have the ability to deliver when he’s gone,” said  Thomas Russo , a partner at Berkshire investor Gardner Russo & Gardner.
“If the experience is now just simply vetted trades that Warren
would have done anyway, we haven’t moved the needle.”  Biggest Holdings  The largest investments in Berkshire’s $89.1 billion stock
portfolio are still overseen by Buffett, who accumulated the
biggest holdings in companies including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Coca-
Cola Co. and  American Express Co. (AXP)  Combs and Weschler’s
investments typically won’t exceed $1 billion, Buffett said.  Berkshire has added  shares  of firms including  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  and  DaVita Inc. (DVA)  in the past six quarters that are valued at
less than that sum. Before joining Buffett’s company, Combs
invested in MasterCard at Castle Point Capital Management LLC,
while DaVita was among holdings at Weschler’s Peninsula Capital
Advisors LLC. Both stocks climbed since Berkshire bought them.  Buffett said he wasn’t responsible for Berkshire’s new
stake of 10 million shares of  General Motors Co. (GM)  in the first
quarter and declined to say which deputy made the investment.
Most of the stock was accumulated at an average price of $24.35
through Feb. 3, regulatory filings show. The automaker has
slumped 19 percent from that level to close at $19.62 last week.  Incentive Pay  Buffett is seeking to pay Weschler and Combs for long-term
performance. They each earn a salary of $1 million as well as 10
percent of the amount by which their portfolios outperform the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on a three-year rolling basis, the
billionaire said at Berkshire’s annual shareholder meeting in
May. Part of each manager’s pay is based on the other’s
performance so they have an incentive to collaborate, he said.  “They run their portfolios,” Buffett told Liu. “I can’t
hold them responsible for what they do unless I give them the
authority within that total block of money.”  The investment managers don’t help Buffett decide what
companies to acquire, he said last week. Weschler was involved
this year with Berkshire’s bid for a loan portfolio and mortgage
assets of bankrupt lender Residential Capital LLC.  Weschler and Combs won’t have difficulty purchasing stocks
with the additional funds, said Peter Rup, chief investment
officer at New York-based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, which
invests in  hedge funds . Opportunities exist for money managers
who can select stocks for the longer term and understand the
target companies, he said.  New Investments  “I would imagine that these guys are finding a lot of
value,” Rup said. “They could easily deploy an extra billion”
dollars by adding to holdings or finding new investments.  Buffett, who is also Berkshire’s largest shareholder, has
said his roles will be divided when he leaves the firm. The
board has selected the next CEO and has two backups, the
billionaire  said  in February, without identifying any of the
individuals. Buffett has said that his son  Howard Buffett , a
Berkshire director since 1993, would make a good non-executive
chairman.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News, has served on DaVita’s board since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  