-- Build-Your-Own Audi on Giant Screens Bids for Urban Buyer
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-07-16T09:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/build-your-own-audi-on-giant-screens-bids-for-urban-buyer.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s premium Audi brand
is unveiling a London showroom featuring giant LED screens that
let customers design their own vehicles, part of the carmaker’s
effort to bring in younger, media-oriented buyers.  The Audi City outlet, opening today at  Piccadilly Circus ,
is the first of a network the company is planning by 2015 for 20
“affluent locations” in Europe, China,  Russia  and the U.S.,
said Sven Schuwirth, head of brand development. Drivers can see
a full-size mock-up of the model on screen as they choose
colors, materials and accessories, and can then order the car.  The VW unit overtook Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz brand last
year as the world’s second-largest maker of  luxury vehicles  by
sales, and it has a target of eventually beating Munich-based
industry leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)  The electronic car-
design showrooms, while not linked to the Web, are targeting a
growing clientele that’s used to choosing products online,
Schuwirth said in an interview.  “Audi City emerged from the fact that 80 percent to 85
percent of clients nowadays inform themselves via the Internet
before deciding on a purchase,” Schuwirth said at Audi
headquarters in Ingolstadt,  Germany . “It addresses the need of
customers to actively search for information prior to buying.”  IPad Helpers  Customers at an Audi City showroom can choose features for
their car on a touch-screen monitor, with the result projected
life-size on a large LED screen. Sales staff armed with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPad tablet computers will be available to help buyers use
the system or complete the order through an established dealer.  Potential clients will be able to store a draft design on a
USB memory device with limited capacity to change vehicle-option
data on home computers, though any image of the alterations will
only be visible at the Audi City site.  The German carmaker has spent a “low two-digit-million
euro” figure developing the software, Schuwirth said in the
July 6 interview. Outlets’ costs will be shared by Audi and the
local dealer. The London site’s retail partner is  Penske
Automotive Group Inc. (PAG) ’s Sytner division.  “We’re not really saying that this kind of showroom is made
for increasing sales immediately,” sales chiefPeter Schwarzenbauer said in an interview with Bloomberg TV.
“What we really want to achieve is that this becomes a point
where Audi fans can meet; where we can reach out to a completely
new target group, the digital natives, where they can find a way
to experience the brand.”  BMW Offerings  BMW has added electronic and fashionable urban components
to its distribution network to win younger drivers, opening a
store near the Champs-Elysees in Paris in May that offers a
version of a driving simulator. The German carmaker is also
assigning tablet-toting accessory experts labeled “geniuses”
to its 3,000 dealerships worldwide.  The effectiveness of the computer-oriented marketing
strategy hasn’t been proved yet, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the  University
of Duisburg-Essen  in Germany.  “Audi and BMW’s customers are in their 50s, on average,”
Dudenhoeffer said in a phone interview. “The vehicles are too
expensive for younger buyers. Premium carmakers won’t attract
new clients just because they are now present in the inner
cities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  