-- Business Inventories in U.S. Increased More Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-16T21:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/business-inventories-in-u-s-increased-in-may-as-sales-declined.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in May as sales declined for a second month,
indicating companies may limit factory orders.  The 0.3 percent increase in stockpiles followed a revised
0.3 percent gain in April that was smaller than initially
estimated, Commerce Department data showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey projected a 0.2
percent gain. Sales fell 0.1 percent in May for a second month.  Companies may reduce orders placed with manufacturers as
they attempt to keep stockpiles in line with sales and gauge
whether spending and the economy will keep slowing. Another
report today showed  retail sales  fell in June for a third month.  “Business inventories are generally in pretty good shape,
but businesses have been proactive and when seeing moderation in
demand, keeping their inventories relatively tight as well,”
 Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit , said before the report. Smaller job gains have meant
“slower income growth, and that translates directly to slower
spending growth.”  Businesses had enough goods on hand to last 1.27 months at
the current sales pace in May, up from 1.26 months in April and
the highest in a year.  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 41 economists. Estimates ranged from a
decline of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  Another Commerce Department report today showed June retail
sales unexpectedly dropped 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent
decrease a month earlier. The stretch of three straight declines
was the longest since July through December 2008.  Stocks Decline  Stocks trimmed losses as a rally in crude  oil prices 
boosted shares of energy producers. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,353.64 at the close in  New York . The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note slid to 1.47 percent from
1.49 percent late on July 13.  Retailer stockpiles, the only part of today’s inventory
report not previously reported, climbed 1 percent in May, the
most since January.  Inventories made a smaller contribution to economic growth
in the first quarter. The economy expanded at a 1.9 percent
annual rate from January through March, after a 3 percent pace
in the prior three months, Commerce Department data show.  Stockpiles added 0.1 percentage point to growth after
contributing 1.8 percentage points in the fourth quarter.  Wholesale inventories, which make up about 30 percent of
all stockpiles, rose 0.3 percent in May. The gain followed a 0.5
percent increase in April that was smaller than previously
estimated.  Factory Inventories  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
total stockpiles, decreased 0.2 percent in May for a second
month.  Fort Worth , Texas-based  AZZ Inc. (AZZ)  is among companies
seeing fewer orders on concern about the expansion.  “While overall opportunities have increased over the prior
year, we have seen in recent weeks a slowing in the release of
orders consistent with the increasing concern over the state of
the economic recovery,” David Dingus, president and chief
executive officer of the electrical equipment manufacturer, said
on a June 29 earnings call. “This has and may continue to
impact our backlog.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  