-- California Chardonnay Shines as Stony Hill Turns 60
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/california-chardonnay-shines-as-stony-hill-turns-60.html
When Peter McCrea’s parents paid
$7,500 in 1943 for an old goat farm on Napa Valley’s Spring
Mountain, it came with a house, a barn, a cottage, and three
chicken coops. The chardonnay vines arrived four years later.  The rest, as they say, is history. Their  Stony Hill
Vineyard  is one of  California ’s oldest great wineries.  At a 60th anniversary of the winery’s first vintage, held
at New York’s  Corkbuzz Wine Studio , a dozen chardonnay bottlings
spanning four decades quash any lingering doubts about their
quality and ageability.  In contrast to the buttery, oaky, alcoholic style that has
largely defined California chardonnay, Stony Hill’s wines are
delicate and tightly wound, almost Chablis-like when young.  That can fool you, because the wines gain weight and
complexity with age. The 1973 (then labeled pinot chardonnay),
is amazingly alive, pure, vibrant, stunning.  Over the past thirty years, as other wineries kept cranking
up an over-the-top chardonnay formula, Stony Hill’s modus
operandi was all about saying no: no to new oak barrels, no to
the latest technique, no to a fancy winery, no to an updated
label. After all, why mess up a good thing?  Terroir, Balance  “Terroir and balance are what it’s really all about,”
says McCrea, a former vice president of Chevron who, with his
wife Willinda, took over after his mother’s death in 1991.  As bottles chill on ice behind the bar, the bespectacled
McCrea, his daughter Sarah, and Mike Chelini, winemaker since
1973, settle on stools to reminisce.  It’s hard to picture a more bucolic Napa Valley, with only
10 wineries and no Ferraris, as it was when Fred and Eleanor
McCrea bought the 160-acre property as a weekend retreat. Only
200 acres of chardonnay existed in the entire state. (The number
now is nearly 100,000.)  Viticultural experts at the  University of California  at
Davis warned that planting disease-prone chardonnay was risky,
so Fred McCrea put in riesling, gewurztraminer, and pinot blanc,
too.  But he kept 25 of the 40 acres of rocky volcanic soil, at
elevations up to 1,200 feet, for chardonnay. “My dad was
inspired by great white Burgundy,” McCrea recalls.  Budwood Clone  The McCreas cut budwood from the  Wente Vineyards  in
Livermore Valley. The so-called “Wente” clone, imported from
 France  in 1912, populated the state’s early vineyards.  Stony Hill’s first vintage, 1952, sold via letters to
friends for $23.40 a case, including delivery. Today, half of
its annual production of 2,500 cases of chardonnay ($40 a
bottle) is still sold the same way.  America’s chardonnay boom only started after the 1976
Judgment of Paris Tasting, in which  Napa Valley ’s  Chateau
Montelena  beat out famous French white Burgundies. Vintners
scrambled to plant. Now the most popular varietal in the U.S.,
Chardonnay accounts for a quarter of all California wine sold.  Over the years, styles have been a work in progress. The
long disaster era of oaky, plumped-up, buttered popcorn-and
vanilla-tasting chardonnay eventually drew a backlash.  What followed were unoaked, “naked” chardonnays aged in
stainless steel, many so boring they are indistinguishable from
one another.  Happily, in a recent redemptive turn, thoughtful producers
have come back to the kind of balance Stony Hill had all along.  Perfect Grapes  As we sample the wines, Chelini ticks off why they taste
the way they do. Location counts, of course. “Ours is an
unforgiving style,” he says. “You have to pick at the right
time and have perfect grapes.”  Unlike most wineries he avoids malolactic fermentation, a
winemaking step that softens acids, makes wines round at the
expense of crispness, and imparts a fat, buttery character.  At Corkbuzz, we taste from youngest to oldest to see how
the floral, stony character unfolds at 10 years with notes of
earth, citrus and baked apple and at 20 to deeper flavors of
nuts, caramel, and orange.  High points include the ripe 1999, with its tangy lemon
custard and dusty earth flavor. Long, citrusy 1984 is perfect
right now, while 1981, one of my favorites, has stunning
complexity. The 1977, from a drought year, is burnished, mellow,
rich. The fruit-filled 2007, the current release ($40), already
shows depth and minerality.  Cult Cabernets  Luckily, older vintages can be had both at auction and
retail. At a May Bonhams sale in  New York , lots of 12 vintages
sold for $654 to $1785 ($43 to $150 a bottle). In comparison to
the inflated prices of Napa’s current cult cabernets, these seem
amazingly modest.  I ask McCrea how Stony Hill has resisted fashion and kept
to the same style for all these years.  He chuckles. “It’s fabulous discipline to have a mailing
list of a couple of thousand people who want you to keep making
wine exactly the same way.”  But the McCreas -- and winemaker Chelini -- aren’t totally
stuck in the past. Their first cabernet, a lean, smoky red with
olive and cherry notes ($60) just debuted. And the vines are
only five years old.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include an Elizabeth Lopatto  book review 
and  Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 