-- Canada Nanos Consumer Confidence Index Rises in August
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-21T13:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/canada-nanos-consumer-confidence-drops-in-july-on-outlook.html
Canadian  consumer confidence  rose
from three-year lows in August as households became more secure
about their  job security , according to a  Nanos Research  poll.  The Nanos Economic Mood Index for August rose to 101.3 from
100.2 in July, which was the lowest since the first quarter of
2009, according to a report by the Ottawa-based polling company.  Job security was strongest in provinces such as Alberta and
Saskatchewan, which are benefiting from a boom in energy
investments, the poll found.  “Positive perceptions continue to be driven by Canadians
who live in the energy-driven prairie provinces,” said  Nik Nanos , president of the polling company.  A greater number of Canadians said they were more confident
about their employment status over the past month, with the
balance of opinion between those who say their jobs are secure
and those who say they are not rising to a four-month high of
38.3 in August, up from 30.8 last month, the report said.  Canadians were also less pessimistic about economic growth,
with the balance of opinion on whether the economy will be
stronger or weaker in the next six months improving to negative
4 in August compared with negative 6.9 in July, the Nanos poll
found. These positive responses were offset by shrinking
expectations for real estate price gains, which are at their
lowest since 2009.  “If views related to real estate continue to slide, it
could result in a dampening effect on future consumer confidence
in  Canada ,” Nanos said.  The Nanos poll of 1,000 Canadians was taken between Aug. 16
and Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 