-- Canada May International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-16T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/canada-may-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for May
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-residents acquired a record $26.1 billion of Canadian
securities in May, mainly in the form of government debt
securities. Canadian investors made a modest $1.3 billion
purchase of foreign securities in the month, following a
divestment in April.  Foreign acquisitions of Canadian debt focus on federal
 government securities   Non-resident investors purchased $16.7 billion of Canadian
bonds in May, the largest such inflow of funds in three years.
This activity was led by a $9.5 billion foreign acquisition of
federal government bonds on the secondary market, largely
composed of instruments at both ends of the maturity spectrum.
Canadian long-term  interest rates  exceeded their US counterparts
in May by the largest spread since September 2011, just as the
Canadian dollar depreciated against the US dollar to the lowest
level since September 2011.  Foreign investors added $3.5 billion of federal government
enterprise bonds to their portfolios in May, a fifth straight
month of investment in these instruments. The remainder of the
inflows in the Canadian  bond market  were in provincial bonds,
mainly US dollar-denominated new issues, as well as corporate
bonds.  In addition, non-residents acquired $7.3 billion of
Canadian money market instruments in May. Federal government
paper accounted for $4.9 billion of the monthly foreign
investment as overall net new issues of these instruments
reached the highest level since June 2009. Foreign investors
also purchased short-term debt securities issued by Canadian
provinces and banks. Foreign investment in the Canadian money
market began to strengthen in the second half of 2011, and by
the end of May 2012, foreign holdings of Canadian money market
instruments reached a new high of $69.9 billion.  Non-residents also increase their investment in Canadian
equities  Foreign investment in Canadian equities amounted to $2.1
billion in May, the largest amount since November 2011.
Secondary market purchases accounted for over two-thirds of the
activity as non-residents invested in a well-diversified basket
of Canadian equities. Canadian stock prices were down 6.3% in
the month to their lowest level in nearly two years.  The trend of Canadian investment in foreign equities continues  Canadian investors added $1.7 billion of foreign equities
to their holdings, extending an investment pattern that began in
January 2011. Canadian pension plans again led this activity in
May, as major global equity markets experienced significant
declines. US stocks accounted for $1.1 billion of the outward
investment. However, divestment of European and Asian equities
had a moderating effect on overall outward equity investment.  Canadian investors further divest foreign money market
instruments  Canadians removed $402 million of foreign debt securities
from their portfolios in May, largely US government securities.
They reduced their holdings of foreign money market instruments
by $844 million, mainly as a result of the largest monthly
divestment of US government Treasury bills in 2012. Canadian
investors acquired $442 million of foreign bonds, after having
reduced their holdings in April. The investment was
predominantly in Canadian dollar denominated bonds issued by US
corporations, but this was partly offset by a divestment of US
 government bonds .  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
is scheduled for release beginning in October 2012. Additional
information on the schedule of releases and the new presentation
of the data is available on the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/start-debut -
eng.htm) website.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money market
instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well as
warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  