-- Canada Natural Gas Declines on Forecasts for Cooler Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-07-16T19:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/canada-natural-gas-declines-on-forecasts-for-cooler-weather.html
Canadian natural gas dropped on
forecasts for moderating weather that may limit demand for the
fuel to generate electricity.  August gas in  Alberta  declined 4.3 percent as MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland, predicted normal temperatures
in the eastern U.S. and  Canada  from July 21 through July 30.
Earlier forecasts were for hotter-than-normal weather in the
U.S. Northeast and mid-Atlantic during that period.  “Milder weather is about the only thing that can take this
market down a peg,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management
specialist at INTL FC Stone LLC in  St. Louis Park , Minnesota.
“The heat looks like it’s finally going to break.”  Alberta gas for August delivery decreased 9.5 cents to
C$2.125 per gigajoule ($1.98 per million British thermal units)
as of 2:50 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  slid 7.3 cents to settle at $2.801 per million Btu.  The high in New York on July 29 may be 81 degrees
Fahrenheit (27 Celsius), 3 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in
Atlanta may be 87 degrees, 1 lower than the norm.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.8 billion cubic
feet at 2:30 p.m.  Gas Flows  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.05 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.9 billion cubic feet.  The available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia
system at Kingsgate was 838 million cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.78 billion cubic feet today, or 68 percent
of normal capacity of 2.62 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.76
billion cubic feet at 1:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  