-- Canada Dollar Declines as Investors Avoid Risk; Bond Yields Fall
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-16T21:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/canada-dollar-reaches-record-high-against-euro-on-crisis-concern.html
The Canadian dollar weakened against
most of its major counterpart, as the nation’s 10-year bond
yields declined to a record low.  Canada ’s currency fell after U.S. retail sales unexpectedly
declined for a third month. The Bank of Canada meets tomorrow,
and policy makers are expected to hold  interest rates  at current
levels, while Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies
before Congress. Foreign investors purchased a record C$26.1
billion ($25.7 billion) of Canadian securities in May.  “What’s bad for the U.S. is bad for Canada,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Even tomorrow if we do
have a less-hawkish-than-expected central bank, we may get a
further bit of weakening in Canada, but I think it proves
temporary.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell 0.1 percent
against to C$1.0150 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.52 U.S. cents.  Government 10-year bond yields  fell  to a record low 1.598
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 rose 16
cents to C$110.31.  Sovereign-debt yields also slid to records in the U.S.,
U.K., France and Germany as concern the global economic recovery
is slowing fueled demand for assets considered most safe.  “When there is significant attraction to triple-A-rated
countries and debt, Canada tends to do really well,” Sutton
said.  Overseas Demand  Foreign  purchases  of Canadian securities reached a record
in May as demand for bonds was fed by a growing yield premium
compared with  U.S. debt  and the currency weakened.  The May purchases of Canadian securities followed a net
purchase of C$10.2 billion in April,  Statistics Canada  said
today in Ottawa. May bond purchases of C$16.7 billion reached a
three-year high, led by C$9.5 billion of existing federal
government debt and another C$3.5 billion of debt from
government-owned companies.  Existing home sales  fell 1.3 percent in June from the
previous month, the second straight month decline, the  Canadian
Real Estate Association  said.  The Bank of Canada will meet tomorrow to discuss the
country’s overnight lending rate. All 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey  estimate  the central bank will hold the
rate at 1 percent  “If people are expecting some easing considering economic
weakness and what other central banks have done, it could be a
positive for the Canadian dollar if the  Bank of Canada  doesn’t
do anything, going against the flow,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, said in a telephone interview.  Retail Slowing  Data indicated the economy in the U.S., consumer of three
quarters of Canada’s exports, is slowing. Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington that American retail sales
unexpectedly declined 0.5 percent. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.2 percent rise.  Fed Chairman Bernanke is scheduled to testify before the
Senate Banking Committee tomorrow, discussing the outlook for
the economy and monetary policy. He will speak before the House
Financial Services Committee the following day.  Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Sutton said Bernanke may signal a
third round of the Fed’s asset purchasing program, known as
quantitative easing, in the fall if U.S. economic data does not
improve.  “As long as he keeps the door open and potentially
widening it to QE3, I think it’s hard for the U.S. dollar to
remain sustainably and materially stronger than a currency like
Canada,” Sutton said.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity  Index (CRY)  rose 0.7
percent, while the  S&P 500 (SPX)  index fell 0.2 percent. Crude oil
futures rose 1.3 percent to $88.20 per barrel in New York.  Commodity Prices  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the online
currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said commodity prices have
not played a significant role for the Canadian dollar and likely
won’t going forward.  “Over the last week or so, the loonie has traded stronger
on back of its reserve optics,” Popplewell said in a telephone
interview. “I expect that to remain the same.”  Canada’s dollar will weaken to the lowest level since
November in the next few months before rallying to parity versus
its U.S. counterpart as slowing global growth forces central
banks to provide more monetary stimulus, according to the
currency’s most accurate forecaster.  “You can’t make a straight line forecast under these
circumstances,” said Stefan Marion, chief economist at  National
Bank of Canada (NA) , citing the turmoil in global financial markets.
Marion had the closest estimates on the so-called loonie for the
past six quarters as tracked by Bloomberg Rankings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  