-- Tudou Drops as Growth Concerns Trigger Tumble: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-16T21:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/chalco-slumps-as-growth-concerns-trigger-tumble-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in New York,
sending the benchmark index to to the lowest level in nine
months, on concern stimulus measures will take time to spur
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York lost 1.4 percent to 86.55 yesterday,
the lowest level since Oct 5.  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  led declines
in Internet companies after the  South China Morning Post  said
the resignation of the video website’s chief operating officer
may prompt more people to leave.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. 
slid the most among government-owned companies after their
combined first-half net income fell 12 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast yesterday, reducing projections for  China ’s growth this
year to 8 percent from 8.2 percent three months ago. China’s
Premier Wen Jiabao warned that the nation’s recovery is yet to
build up momentum, according to a Xinhua News Agency report July
15, fueling speculation that extra economic support measures may
be announced after a cabinet meeting this week.  “People are pessimistic about Chinese stocks because they
haven’t seen obvious and quick effects of the stimulus
measures,” Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in emerging
market assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am Bellevue AG
said by phone yesterday from Zurich. “People will remain
skeptical until there’s some confirmation that the stimulus
which is being gradually introduced this year would feed through
into the economy.”  China ETF Slides  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.4 percent to $32.46
after losing 2.6 percent last week. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  dipped 0.2 percent to 1,353.64 as the IMF lowered its
estimates for global growth to 3.9 percent next year, from a 4.1
percent prediction in April.  Foreign direct investment in China dropped 3 percent in the
first six months from a year earlier to $59.1 billion, Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, citing Vice Commerce Minister
 Wang Chao .  Shanghai-based Tudou, which agreed to be acquired by the
larger competitor  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  in a stock swap deal announced in
March, sank 5.4 percent to $27.44. Youku, operator of China’s
most popular video website, dropped 4.8 percent to a six-month
low of $18.01.  The resignation of Tudou’s chief operating officer may
prompt more people to leave Tudou, the South China Morning Post
reported yesterday, citing Hong Bo, a Beijing-based IT
commentator and Alex Mou, the chief executive of Internet
software and analysis firm Zuosa.  Tudou, Baidu  COO Evelyn Wang resigned due to personal reasons and will
continue to assist the company in the merger process, Tudou said
in a July 12 statement.  Baidu Inc., the biggest online search engine in China,
declined 2.1 percent to $107.35, the lowest level since Oct. 3.
The company is  due to  report second-quarter results on July 23
after U.S. trading closes, it said in a July 12 statement.  Thinkequity LLC analyst Henry Guo  cut  his 12-month price
target for Baidu to $180 from $200, citing a “difficult macro
environment.” He maintained a buy recommendation on the stock.  China’s finance ministry said in a statement yesterday
profit at the nation’s state-owned enterprises in the first six
months this year fell to 1.02 trillion  yuan  ($160 billion), down
12 percent from a year earlier. The firms’ revenue gained 11
percent to 19.8 trillion yuan, it said.  American depositary receipts of Aluminum Corp., the largest
maker of the lightweight metal in China also known as Chalco,
dropped 2.4 percent to $9.98.  Coal Declines  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-largest coal miner,
retreated 2 percent to $14.92. China’s benchmark price for
power-station coal fell for a 10th week to the lowest level in
more than eight months as electricity generation growth stalled
amid slowing demand.  Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilo-calories per
kilogram at the Qinhuangdao port fell to a range of 635 yuan
($99.60) to 650 yuan a metric ton as of yesterday, according to
data yesterday from the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association. The average of the range was 1.5 percent less than
a week earlier and the lowest since Nov. 9, 2009, according to
data from the association compiled by Bloomberg.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , China’s largest
electricity producer, fell for a fifth day, losing 1.6 percent
to a one-month low of $27.81. China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, dipped 1 percent to $86.92.  China Medical Sinks  China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) , a Beijing-based medical
device company, tumbled the most on record in New York on its
first day of trading following a two-week suspension by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Its ADRs sank 68 percent to $3.50 in over-the-counter
trading, the biggest drop since the company’s initial public
offering in August 2005 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The SEC halted the company’s trading on June 29, citing
“questions that have been raised about the accuracy and
adequacy of publicly disseminated information,” according to a
June 29 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  