-- China Repo Drops as Wen’s Warning Spurs Speculation of Stimulus
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-07-16T09:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-swaps-trade-near-five-week-low-on-speculation-of-stimulus.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell after Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned the momentum for an
economic recovery isn’t yet in place, spurring speculation of
more stimulus measures to come.  Wen said “difficulties” may persist for a while,
according to a report yesterday from the official Xinhua News
Agency. The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for seven-day
reverse-repurchase agreements this week, according to a trader
at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “We believe that more measures are forthcoming, but will
focus on boosting lending via reserve-requirement cuts, as well
as promoting infrastructure investment,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a
research note today. “We expect the interest-rate curve to come
under downward pressure, especially at the short end.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped seven basis points to 3.28 percent
in Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, on July 13.  Wen’s comments follow data that showed  Asia ’s largest
economy expanded by the least in three years in the second
quarter as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis sapped exports and a crackdown
on property speculation curbed domestic demand. The government
will step up policy fine-tuning in the second half to support
growth, Wen said, reiterating comments he made during a visit to
eastern Jiangsu province earlier this month.  The central bank asked lenders to submit orders for 28- and
91-day repurchase contracts this morning, according to the same
trader who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis points to 2.47
percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 2.35 percent on July 13, the lowest level since June 8.
The yield on the 3.51 percent government bonds due February 2022
advanced three basis points to 3.27 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 