-- China’s GDP Hit Tells Story of Hubris Run Amok
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-16T21:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-s-gdp-hit-tells-story-of-hubris-run-amok-william-pesek.html
The lesson from recent economic data
and policy moves in  Asia (MXAP)  is this: Hubris still has its costs.  In recent years, Asia believed its own press a little too
much. The way it steered around the financial crisis of 2008,
the dizzying stock gains, the migration of bankers from  New York 
to  Hong Kong  and the region’s mergers-and-acquisitions binge
were all interpreted as immutable signs of Asia’s economic
arrival.  Decoupling-from-the-West euphoria flooded emerging markets
in general. The BRIC economies -- Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
 China  -- thought their rapid growth rates would pick up the
slack as America and Europe reeled. Debt markets in developing
nations reveled in their new roles as sanctuaries.  Disappointing data and interest-rate cuts in Beijing, Hanoi
and Seoul last week show the extent to which Asia got ahead of
itself. Asia isn’t re-coupling; it never decoupled much in the
first place. That leaves us with two stark realities for the
second half of 2012:  Emerging markets  aren’t ready for prime
time globally, and Asian policy makers need to get more
aggressive about finding new avenues for growth.  China tells the first story.  News  that the economy slowed
to a three-year low of 7.6 percent last quarter demonstrated how
Europe’s debt crisis is curbing demand for Asian goods.  China’s Slowdown  What’s more, investors fear China’s slowdown is bigger than
we know. The innovation missing from Chinese companies has long
been found in the nation’s data. At times, they are rounded down
to allay fears of overheating; sometimes they are fudged to make
the second-biggest economy look healthier than it was.  Economists sense the latter is happening now, pointing to
things such as electricity consumption that are at odds with
official  gross domestic product  readings. None of this should be
a surprise, but it raises the possibility that  Asia ’s only big
growth engine is sputtering more than the data suggest.  India is slowing, too, as developed economies drag down the
developing ones that were supposed to save them. Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda predicts Asia’s
third-biggest economy will grow 6.5 percent this year, compared
with a previous estimate of 7 percent. He sees China expanding
at an 8.2 percent pace, down from 8.5 percent.  This isn’t to make light of the emerging-market growth
story. The transfer of wealth and power from the West to
developing nations is a megatrend that will transform the world
in the decades ahead. Joseph Quinlan, the New York-based chief
market strategist at U.S. Trust, calls it the “Colossal
Shift.”  Yet in the first half of 2012, a number of forces converged
to delay the transfer.  Europe ’s debt troubles are the most
immediate hitch. It is leading to a drop in bank lending by
European institutions forced to deleverage as funding costs
rise, asset-quality deteriorates and counterparty risk
increases. A drop in trade financing by European banks is
causing a small-scale credit crunch for export-led economies.  Europe’s bank deleveraging is partly responsible for an
almost 40 percent drop in syndicated lending to developing
economies from October 2011 to March of this year. It also is
affecting capital flows to developing nations; Quinlan says
gross flows plunged 33 percent in the first five months of 2012.  Falling demand is another worry, and it speaks to Asia’s
economic model. This story is best told by  Singapore , which
ground to a halt last quarter. Growth in the latest quarter
contracted 1.1 percent from the previous quarter, when it
climbed a revised 9.4 percent. Asia’s manufacturing businesses
are plunging along with European credit ratings and policy
makers should be worrying as much about deflation as inflation.  Second Half  In China, pressure is building on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to
boost stimulus to secure a second-half rebound. South  Korea  had
its own moment of reckoning last week. The central bank
unexpectedly cut rates for the first time in three years and
signaled there’s more where that came from. A day later, the
 Bank of Korea  slashed its 2012 growth forecast for the second
time this year -- to 3 percent from earlier estimates of 3.5
percent in April and 3.7 percent in December.  Taiwan’s exports fell for the fifth time in six months.
Shipments abroad fell 3.2 percent from a year earlier in June,
compared with a 6.3 percent drop in May. The news increased
pressure on the government and central bank to do more to boost
growth.  Even  Australia , the Asia-Pacific region’s bulletproof
economy, got into the act of surprising markets. The number of
people employed fell by 27,000 in June. Nor has Japan’s post-
earthquake rebound gone as planned. Its central bank is being
nudged anew to add stimulus to an economy undermined by a strong
yen and weak  consumer confidence .  Asia’s stellar job surviving the global meltdown helped
reanimate a hubris laid low 15 years ago by the region’s own
crash. Asia deserves a victory lap, but its developing economies
can’t live without the West just yet. After all, destined for
prime time means not quite ready for it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on breaking up  too-big-to-fail 
banks and how to control  fires in Colorado ;  Noah Feldman  on
Tunisia’s  continuing Arab Spring ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Romney and
Middle East peace ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Republican fiscal
hypocrisy ;  Luigi Zingales  on  Barclays and business ethics .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  