-- China’s Stocks Fall to Lowest Level Since March 2009 on Earnings
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-16T07:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-s-stock-index-futures-on-economic-stimulus-speculation.html
China ’s  stocks  fell, dragging down
the benchmark index to the lowest level in almost 3 1/2 years,
as concern about slumping profits overshadowed speculation the
government will introduce stimulus measures for the economy.  ZTE Corp. (000063) , the second-biggest maker of telecommunications
equipment in China,  slid  10 percent after estimating first-half
net profit dropped up to 80 percent from a year ago. Suning
Appliance Co., China’s largest electronics retailer, fell to the
lowest since March 2009 after projecting profit dropped as much
as 30 percent in the first six months of 2012. BYD Co. plunged
to a record low as Yuanta Securities Co. said development of
electric vehicles in China won’t be as fast as expected.  “Earnings have been quite bad so don’t expect the market
to be up in the near term,” said Chen Liqiu, a strategist at
Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “I doubt the other
companies will release better-than-expected earnings. There’s
still hopes for policy loosening but the next rate cut may only
come in August at the earliest.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.7 percent to 2,147.96
at the close, the lowest level since March 13, 2009. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  retreated 2.1 percent to 2,399.73. The Shenzhen Composite
slid 3.6 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure
of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, gained 1.2
percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 2.3 percent this year on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and China’s property curbs are
hurting economic growth. The measure is  valued  at 9.5 times
estimated profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings Concerns  A gauge of telecom companies in the CSI 300 fell 6.2
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. ZTE slid by the
daily limit to 11.72  yuan , the lowest close since Jan. 15, 2009.
ZTE estimated net income declined to between 154 million yuan
and 308 million yuan in the six months ended June 30, from 769.3
million yuan a year earlier.  Suning tumbled 10 percent to 7.28 yuan, the lowest close
since March 16, 2009. The company said net income will fall by
as much as 30 percent to 1.73 billion yuan in the first half.
Net income was 2.47 billion yuan for the same period last year.  Qingdao Haier Co., China’s largest home appliance maker,
declined 3.1 percent to 10.80 yuan. The gauge of consumer
discretionary companies in the CSI 300 fell 3.5 percent for the
second-biggest loss among the industry groups.  Auto dealers are expected to increase incentives and
discounts as their inventory rises, leading to a continued fall
in vehicle prices, Cheng Xiaodong, head of auto-price monitoring
at the National Development and Reform Commission, said in an e-
mailed statement. SAIC Motor Corp., China’s biggest automaker,
dropped 2.3 percent to 12.20 yuan. FAW Car Co., which makes cars
with Volkswagen AG, declined 4.6 percent to 8.88 yuan.  Automakers Slide  BYD, the automaker backed by investor  Warren Buffett , slid
10 percent to 17.15 yuan. Some investors may have realized
development of electric vehicles in China won’t be as fast as
expected, Yuanta Securities Johnny Wong said in a phone
interview today.  Publicly traded Chinese companies release their interim
earnings reports in July and August. The companies in the
Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges are expected to post a 4.2
percent decline in second-quarter profit, according to Haitong
Securities Co.  The State Council may hold a meeting as early as July 18 to
discuss fiscal and monetary policy direction, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing unidentified analysts.
After the meeting, China may announce a series of policy
measures to encourage economic stable growth, the report said.  ’Difficulties’  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation’s economic recovery has
yet to gain momentum, boosting speculation the government will
increase stimulus measures to avert a deeper slowdown. Wen
warned that “difficulties” may persist for a while, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Wen’s comments follow data that showed  Asia ’s largest
economy had the weakest expansion in three years as Europe’s
fiscal crisis sapped exports. The government may report foreign
direct investment data for June as early as today.  China’s  gross domestic product  rose 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
on July 13, the sixth straight slowdown. Industrial production
increased at a more moderate pace in June while retail sales
growth decelerated, the data showed.  About 5.8 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite on July 13, 25 percent lower than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 14.2, the
lowest since June 1.  Rate Outlook  China’s central bank may cut  interest rates  by as much as
one percentage point in the coming year to spur lending, the
swap market signals, as slowing industrial production and
exports cool the economy. Two-year swap rates show traders are
expecting the People’s Bank of China to lower the deposit rate
as many as four more times from 3 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The government cut rates on July 5 for a second time in a
month and has lowered the reserve ratio three times since
November to bolster growth.  Yonghui Superstores gained 7.1 percent to 23.82 yuan,
snapping an eight-day, 19 percent loss. Citic Securities
upgraded its recommendation on the supermarket operator to
outperform, citing an improving earnings outlook, Zhao Xueqin,
an analyst at the brokerage, wrote in a report today.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.5 percent to
$32.5, cutting its decline last week to 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  