-- China Cuts Rare Earth Mining Rights by Half to Aid Consolidation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-16T07:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-cuts-rare-earth-mining-rights-by-half-to-aid-consolidation.html
China , the supplier of 90 percent of
the world’s rare earths, cut mining rights for the materials by
about half to 65 nationwide to help the industry consolidate and
create bigger producers.  Rare-earth mining rights in Ganzhou of Jiangxi province
were reduced to 44 from 88, Chen Zhanheng, a deputy secretary-
general at the Association of China Rare Earth Industry, said
today in an interview. The western province of Sichuan had its
rights lowered to seven from 18, while the Inner Mongolia-based
Baotou Iron & Steel Group Co. absorbed its local rivals, the
Ministry of Land and Resources said on its  website , without
giving details.  The U.S., the European Union and  Japan  complained in March
to the  World Trade Organization  about China’s limits on exports
of rare earths, a group of 17 chemically similar elements used
in  wind turbines  and hybrid cars, with the U.S. saying the curbs
create harmful disruptions and distortions in global supply
chains. China’s export quotas, in place since 1999, and its
efforts to boost consolidation are aimed at conserving resources
and protecting the environment, the government has said.  “Reducing mining rights helps streamline rare-earth
development,” Chen said, “Still, illegal mining is a bigger
issue that the government needs to tackle,” he said, without
elaborating.  China recently arrested 19 suspects for alleged illegal
mining in Xinfeng in  Guangdong province  and punished 11
officials for lack of supervision, the ministry said today. Some
of the output from illegal mines was smuggled to neighboring
countries for processing after China tightened its regulation of
domestic smelters, Chen said.  Average prices  of rare earths have fallen more than half
from 2011’s record levels as consumers reduced purchases or
sought alternative materials.  Neodymium oxide, which is used in mini hard drives in
laptops and headphones in iPods, traded at $110 as of July 16,
according to Lynas Corp., an Australian rare-earth developer.
The price surged to $234.40 a kilogram in 2011 from $19.12 in
2009, the company said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  