-- China’s Car Dealers Will Boost Discounts on Inventory, NDRC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-16T02:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-s-car-dealers-will-boost-discounts-on-inventory-ndrc-says.html
China ’s automobile dealers will
increase incentives and discounts as they struggle with a
worsening glut in the world’s biggest vehicle market, according
to the nation’s top economic planner.  Average retail vehicle prices fell 1.2 percent in June from
a year earlier, with those for passenger vehicles dropping 1.9
percent, said Cheng Xiaodong, head of a unit that monitors auto
prices at the National Development and Reform Commission. In
May, passenger-vehicle prices slumped the most in about two
years because of overstocking.  “The oversupply situation persists,” Cheng said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Facing slugging demand and rising
inventory, dealers will increase discounts and incentive
offerings in the coming months.”  Total vehicle sales may rise 5 percent to 8 percent this
year, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said
July 11, compared with an earlier projection for 8 percent
growth. There is no driving force for vehicle sales and
production to increase quickly, the group’s head of statistics
said at a briefing in Beijing that day.  Average inventory carried at Chinese showrooms exceeded two
months of sales by the end of May, compared with more than 45
days at the end of April, Luo Lei, deputy secretary general of
the state-backed China Automobile Dealers Association, said in
an interview on June 6. The glut at the dealerships, which is
leading to price cuts, is unsustainable, he said.  Wholesale passenger-vehicle sales rose 16 percent in June
to 1.28 million units, according to the auto association. The
shipments beat the 1.27 million average estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Automakers, also known as original
equipment manufacturers, only disclose the number of vehicles
sold to Chinese dealers, instead of consumers.  The average price of imported sedans fell 5 percent in
June, according to the NDRC statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  