-- China Echoes 2009 Stimulus With Railway Spending Boost
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-17T04:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-raises-2012-rail-investment-9-to-70-billion-ndrc-says.html
China’s railway infrastructure
investment may double in the second half of this year from the
first six months, aiding efforts to reverse a slowdown in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  Full-year spending will be 448.3 billion  yuan  ($70.3
billion), according to a  statement  dated July 6 on the website
of the National Development and Reform Commission’s Anhui
branch. The document indicates a 9 percent increase from a
previous plan of 411.3 billion yuan. Spending was 148.7 billion
yuan in the first half.  China’s fixed-asset investment has already started to pick
up and a jump in spending on railway construction would echo the
expenditure on rail lines and bridges that was part of stimulus
during the global financial crisis. A decline in foreign direct
investment reported by the government today underscored the toll
that  Europe ’s debt woes and austerity measures are taking on
 Asia ’s largest economy.  “China’s stimulus may be stronger than the market has
expected,” said Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong Kong-based economist for
Nomura Holdings Inc. who formerly worked for the  International
Monetary Fund . “There will be more positive signs in the coming
months to confirm that China’s pro-growth policies are taking
effect.”  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  and China Railway Construction
Corp., the nation’s two biggest listed rail builders, jumped in
Hong Kong trading today.  The Anhui document cited the railways ministry for the
information. Seven phone calls by Bloomberg News to offices of
that ministry went unanswered yesterday.  Spending Comparisons  Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist for Societe Generale
SA, said that railway spending was typically larger in the
second half of the year than the first and the significance of
the reported increase shouldn’t be overstated, with the total to
remain below the level in 2011.  In 2009, spending of 600.6 billion yuan on railway
infrastructure was part of stimulus that spanned low-cost
housing, roads and earthquake reconstruction work. In 2010, rail
spending exceeded 700 billion yuan. Last year, the total was 461
billion yuan.  The ousting of Railway Minister  Liu Zhijun  in a corruption
probe in February 2011 and a high-speed crash that killed 40
people near the eastern city of Wenzhou five months later may
have slowed investment as officials strengthened scrutiny of
projects. In April this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
Karen Li and Chapman Deng said the flow of railway orders should
quicken from mid-year.  Shares Jump  China Railway Group jumped 4.7 percent in Hong Kong trading
to HK$3.36 as of 11:05 a.m. China Railway Construction climbed
as much as 4.5 percent. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
rose 1.4 percent.  China Daily  today cited Zheng Xinli, an economist for a
government-backed think tank, as saying that the nation’s growth
rate may continue to decline this quarter and increased
investment is crucial to driving a rebound. Zheng, vice
president of the state-backed China Center for International
Economic Exchanges, said spending on high-speed rail should play
a role, the government-backed newspaper reported.  While the government will accelerate projects, stimulus
will not be on the scale unleashed from late 2008, said  Patrick Bennett , a strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
Hong Kong. In May, the official Xinhua News Agency said that
there wouldn’t be any “massive stimulus plan to seek high
economic growth.”  Inbound Investment Sags  Foreign direct investment dropped 6.9 percent percent in
June from a year earlier, the government said today. Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned that the nation doesn’t yet have the momentum for
a stable recovery, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on
July 15.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday forecast that
 China’s economy  will grow 8 percent this year and 8.5 percent
next year, down 0.2 percentage points and 0.3 percentage points
respectively from estimates in April.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent as of 11:02
a.m. local time today after yesterday falling to the lowest
level in almost three and a half years on concern that corporate
profits are slumping.  The  China  Securities Journal reported yesterday that the
State Council may hold a meeting as early as tomorrow to set the
tone for monetary and fiscal policies after the economy grew 7.6
percent in the second quarter, the least in three years.  Lacking Momentum  “It should be clearly understood that the momentum for a
stable rebound in the economy has not yet been established,”
Wen said during an inspection tour in the southwestern province
of Sichuan, according to a Chinese-language report from the
official Xinhua News Agency.  In a sign of stresses in the Chinese economy, more than
2,000 Hong Kong-owned factories in the  Pearl River Delta  may
close this year as export orders fall and wages rise, a business
association said yesterday.  Stanley Lau, deputy chairman of the Federation of  Hong Kong 
Industries, gave the estimate in a phone interview after Ming
Pao Daily earlier reported his comments. The organization’s
members have garment, watch, toy and footwear factories in the
export hub of Guangdong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  