-- China Slowdown Stymies Plan to Curb Shadow-Banking Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-17T08:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/china-slowdown-stymies-plan-to-curb-shadow-banking-risks.html
China’s economic slowdown threatens
to derail efforts to curb underground lending -- measures
championed by Premier Wen Jiabao as crucial to future growth.  The country grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace
since the depths of the global financial crisis in 2009, 7.6
percent, putting pressure on China’s leaders to boost stimulus
spending. Wen’s proposals to rein in the shadow-banking system,
estimated to be about one-third the size of official lending,
may be sidelined as a result, according to half a dozen
economists interviewed by Bloomberg News.  “With an economy slowing more aggressively than the
authorities perhaps want, the imperative to crack down on shadow
financing becomes increasingly conflicted,” said Alistair Thornton, a Beijing-based economist with research firm  IHS
Global Insight Ltd. (IHS)  “With the government increasingly in
firefighting mode, the desire to push through tough reform in
the financial sector inevitably takes a back seat to staving off
a hard landing and managing global economic volatility.”  Wen, whose term ends next year, has led calls to control
what IHS estimates is $1.3 trillion of private financing, an
amount equal to last year’s U.S. budget deficit. He has proposed
channeling that money through government-regulated institutions
to break what he called a “monopoly” on lending by state-owned
banks and open a cascade of capital to China’s 42 million small
and medium-sized businesses.  ‘Terrible Damage’  Only 3 percent of those companies are able to get bank
loans, according to  Citic Securities Co. (6030) , the nation’s biggest
publicly traded brokerage, with underground lending by family,
friends and acquaintances largely funding the rest.  As growth from low-cost labor and productivity gains from
adapting technologies developed abroad lose steam, China’s
future expansion must rely more on an efficient distribution of
capital, as well as on increased innovation and the development
of service industries, the  World Bank  wrote in “China 2030,” a
report published in February.  Tamping down underground lending as the economy cools poses
risks, said Fred Hu, a Beijing-based economist and former
greater China chairman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Shadow banking is much vilified, but without it the
Chinese economy would have had a hard landing long ago,” Hu
said. “The issue here is how to legitimize the sector and make
it more transparent to reduce some of the potential downside
risks, but not to shut it down. If the government were to try,
that would do terrible damage to the economy.”  Pilot Program  Apart from calls by policy makers since 2010 for banks to
increase loans to entrepreneurs and the start in June of a junk-
bond market to fund small businesses, the only government
initiative has been Wen’s pilot program in Wenzhou, a city in
southeastern China where underground lending is prevalent.  Of 12 measures proposed by Wen, only one -- a registration
center to monitor private lending -- has gotten off the ground.
The reforms could lead to “national financial restructuring”
if they succeed, the premier said when he announced the plan at
a State Council meeting in March.  “There’s a willingness to make pretty big changes because
the state-driven banking system isn’t getting enough credit to
small and medium enterprises, which is where most of the growth
in the economy is,” said Charlene Chu, senior director at Fitch
Ratings Ltd. in Beijing.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission also is allowing
banks to issue special-purpose bonds earmarked for small-
business lending, to lower risk-weightings assigned to such
loans and to tolerate more defaults. Loans to small businesses
in China rose 20.5 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, a faster rate than to large state-owned enterprises,
according to the central bank. Even so, credit issuance slowed
from the 25.8 percent increase last year.  Bank Recapitalizations  “This isn’t really an environment where you want to be
messing with the financial sector,” said  Jonathan Anderson , a
former chief economist for  emerging markets  at UBS AG who now
runs Beijing-based Emerging Advisors Group, citing the
possibility of bank recapitalizations after a binge of stimulus
lending in 2009-2010.  With China’s economic growth weakening, the central bank
has cut the  benchmark deposit rate  twice since the beginning of
June, to 3 percent, a move that may prompt more people to chase
higher returns in shadow-banking investments. These riskier
opportunities, in areas such as commodities and property
development, typically offer returns of 20 percent and can reach
100 percent annual interest or more.  Economic Risks  Underground lending accounts for only part of the capital
circulating outside Chinese banks. Shadow banking, including
loans changing hands between friends, families and companies
seeking capital as well as the off-balance-sheet business of
lenders and trust companies, totals as much as 15 trillion  yuan 
($2.4 trillion), about one-third the size of China’s official
loan market, according to estimates by Societe Generale SA.  While underground lending isn’t illegal, having a large
amount of capital sloshing around outside regulatory oversight
poses economic risks. It makes it difficult for a government to
control its economy through mechanisms such as interest-rate
policy and money supply, said Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz , who travels frequently to China.  “Shadow banking undermines government attempts to bring
macroeconomic stability,” said Stiglitz, a professor at
 Columbia University  in New York. “If you have shadow banking,
if the government squeezes, money just shifts from the formal to
the informal sector. Monetary policy becomes ineffective, and
the government loses an important force for stabilization.”  Crisis Management  The government also is unable to intervene if a large
number of underground loans suddenly go bad in a crisis,
Stiglitz said, because there’s no centralized place to put the
money, as in a bank bailout. Reducing the risk of social unrest
is also a consideration.  “The government always takes the blame when things go
bad,” Stiglitz said.  Thousands of people protested Jan. 1 in Anyang, a city in
Henan province, after losing their savings in illegal investment
scams. In Wenzhou, more than 80 suicides or bankruptcies by
indebted businessmen in a four-month period last year prompted
Wen to visit the city in October and pledge help.  “Shadow banking is a double-edged sword,”  Liu Mingkang ,
China’s former chief banking regulator whose term ended in
October, said in an interview. “If it is handled properly,
lending will be more efficient because the lenders know the
community around them. But the bad thing is people are greedy.”  Three Executions  “Lenders use every possible means to make sure borrowers
pay back,” said Liu. “The mob may be involved, and coercions
will happen. That’s why governance is needed.”  China has executed three people and sentenced to death at
least 17 others for illegally raising funds from individuals,
according to Chinese press accounts compiled by Bloomberg. In
Wenzhou, more than 22,000 lawsuits brought by borrowers
involving 21 billion yuan are pending, the official  Xinhua News
Agency  has reported.  Shadow banking financed the growth of Wenzhou’s more than
400,000 small firms over the past decade, with almost 90 percent
of families and 60 percent of companies taking part in 110
billion yuan of underground lending and borrowing, according to
a local People’s Bank of China survey last year.  Bringing unregulated lending into the mainstream is part of
a larger effort by China’s policy makers to give markets a
bigger role in setting  interest rates  and to remove restrictions
on capital flowing into and out of the country.  Idle Capital  “Chinese companies, especially small ones, need access to
funds,” Wen, 69, said after the annual National People’s
Congress in March, his last before he’s due to step down.
“Banks have yet to be able to meet those companies’ needs, and
there is a massive amount of idle private capital. We need to
bring private finance out into the open.”  The explicit call from such a highly placed official
highlights the importance the government places on bringing
shadow banking into the mainstream economy, said IHS’s Thornton.  “The fact that Wen came out and said that means there are
people in the system who view the status quo as detrimental to
the economy’s sustainable growth,” Thornton said. “Banking-
sector reform is crucial. We’re transitioning into an era where
credit needs to be allocated more efficiently.”  Most of the measures, including giving lending companies
direct access to overseas investment and establishing
professional asset-management firms, are still at the planning
stage. They won’t be carried out before Wen leaves office, said
Alicia Garcia-Herrero, chief economist for emerging markets at
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in  Hong Kong  who formerly
worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  ’Daunting Task’  “This is going to take years; it’s not going to happen all
of a sudden,” Garcia-Herrero said. “It’s a daunting task.”  Bank loans accounted for only 13 percent of Chinese small
enterprises’ funding needs in 2008, the latest year for which
data is available, with 36 percent coming from underground
lenders and 41 percent from their own retained earnings,
according to a Citic Securities note in October. Small and
medium-sized businesses provide jobs for as much as 80 percent
of China’s urban workforce, some 600 million people.  “Shadow-banking activity can amplify financial cycles
since it tends to grow during booms and contract during busts,”
the Basel, Switzerland-based  Bank for International Settlements 
said in its annual report published in June, adding that it
played such a role in Sweden and Japan in the 1990s and in the
global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009.  ’Ridiculous’ Absence  Shadow banking also exists in developed economies,
including the U.S. It totaled $60 trillion in the developed
world in 2010, according to the  Financial Stability Board , which
coordinates the work of regulators around the world.  “Anything that involves lending and borrowing should be
regulated, and shadow banking is no exception,” said Liu, the
former regulator. “It’s ridiculous that we haven’t got it.”  Private financing is thousands of years old in China, where
clans traditionally funded the businesses of their family
members, and has spread to include the general public.  As long as borrowing and lending are on a voluntary basis
and the borrowing rate charged doesn’t exceed four times the
benchmark set by the central bank, such underground lending is
legal, according to China’s  Supreme Court .  The more than 4,800 small firms set up mostly by private
investors over the past three years and monitored by the central
bank have given out 445 billion yuan of loans as of the end of
March, about 0.7 percent of the country’s lending market.  The ability of such firms to make loans is limited as they
are unable to take deposits to finance them unless they’re
approved by the banking regulator to transform themselves into
rural banks. None has won approval yet.  Wenzhou Experiment  The trial program in Wenzhou is making only limited
progress, effectively cutting off lending to small businesses
without providing alternatives. Less than 1 percent of the
underground money available surfaced after the local government
set up a private registration agency to monitor underground
lending and borrowing, officials said. More than 800 informal
agencies, mostly credit-guaranty firms, have been shut down
after failing to make payments, Xinhua reported on May 13,
citing the local banking regulator.  Wenzhou’s private lending in the first three months of this
year dropped by 41 percent from the previous quarter, the
National Development & Reform Commission of Zhejiang Province
 said  in June, based on a survey of 50 local businesses. The city
of 9 million people now has as much as 1 trillion yuan of idled
private capital, said  Zhou Dewen , head of the Wenzhou Small and
Medium-Sized Enterprises Development Association.  ‘Useful Tools’  That the reforms aren’t happening faster may be a good
thing, said IHS’s Thornton.  “Closing down curbside lending in Zhejiang or tackling
trust structures feeding into the  property market  will simply
exacerbate the slowdown,” he said. “Indeed, it was the
reliance on non-traditional avenues of credit issuance that
saved the economy from the global financial crisis. They are
useful tools to turn to in times of panic.”  China’s state-owned banks, including  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest by market
valuation, probably won’t welcome competition from new, more
nimble lenders suddenly turned into legitimate credit unions and
cooperatives, and might find it difficult to maintain continued
profit growth, BBVA’s Garcia-Herrero said.  Bank Bailouts  Chinese banking shares tumbled in Hong Kong the day after
Wen called for breaking the big banks’ monopoly in April. ICBC
dropped 1.6 percent on April 5, and its shares are down 11
percent this year, compared with an increase of 5.5 percent for
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,
the country’s second-largest lender, lost 2 percent, with its
year-to-date performance down 11 percent.  The Chinese government spent more than $650 billion over a
decade through 2008 bailing out its banks, including ICBC and
its three largest peers, which are invested in a system that
helps them profit from cheap loans to state-owned companies.  Profit growth of China’s publicly traded lenders may slow
to 17 percent this year from last year’s 29 percent after the
central bank in June gave lenders more freedom over pricing,
hurting their margins, according to Ping An Securities Co.  “The financial system in China serves the political
system,” said  Andy Xie , a former Morgan Stanley chief Asia-
Pacific economist based in Shanghai. “Without political reforms,
there will never be a market-based financial system.”  Albanian Collapse  Economists including Stiglitz and one of his fellow former
World Bank economists,  Louis Kuijs , now at the Fung Global
Institute in Hong Kong, cite the example of Eastern Europe in
the 1990s, when former Communist countries were turning
capitalist, as what can happen when governments fail to police
non-bank financing adequately.  In Albania, the economy almost was wiped out after about
two-thirds of the population invested in Ponzi schemes that
peaked at about half the size of gross domestic product,
according to the IMF. After the investments collapsed, the
government fell and the country descended into a near civil war
in which some 2,000 people were killed, the IMF said.  China’s shift to a more market-driven economy has been
marked by scams and scandals on a smaller scale. Two women from
Zhejiang province, Si Chaxian and Du Yimin, were executed in
2009 for defrauding investors by promising returns as high as
108 percent annually,  CCTV reported .  ‘Rich Sister’  That same year, Wu Ying, nicknamed “Rich Sister,” was
sentenced to death for losing $55.7 million of investors’ money.
Her sentence was suspended in April following Wen’s comments
about the need for alternative sources of small-business lending,
after which he added that the Supreme Court, which was about to
rule on her appeal, should handle her case carefully.  In Anyang, the city’s newspaper reported that Mayor Zhang
Xiaodong told government departments to “prioritize tackling
illegal financing and maintaining social stability before all
other tasks.”  China’s banking regulator has been tightening oversight of
trust companies since 2010 after banks used them to evade
lending restrictions. Trust firms also were major lenders to the
nation’s property developers by pooling investors’ money.  “Recent moves -- the Wenzhou pilot, the narrowing of the
interest-rate spread, stricter regulation of trust companies --
are not insignificant,” said Il Houng Lee, the IMF’s chief
resident representative for China in Beijing.  ‘Clear Steps’  The central bank on June 8 gave banks more freedom over
pricing by permitting them to pay as much as 10 percent more
than the benchmark on deposits, the first time a premium has
been allowed. Lenders now can offer discounts of as much as 30
percent on borrowing costs, up from 10 percent. The spread
between the benchmark one-year lending and the deposit rate paid
by biggest banks narrowed to 2.75 percentage points from 3.06
percentage points before June 8.  “While the consequences of these changes remain to be seen,
these are clear steps in the right direction,” said Lee. “The
ultimate objective is efficient resource allocation.”  Even without Wen’s urging the reforms will probably
continue, said Hu, the former Goldman Sachs executive who
founded investment firm Primavera Capital Group in Beijing.  “The reform calls are getting more vocal,” said Hu. “We
are now into a once-in-a-decade leadership transition. Many
liberal economists and open-minded officials may view this as a
fresh beginning, a new opportunity.”  --Luo Jun and  Kevin Hamlin , with assistance from Paul Panckhurst, Justina Lee and Marco Lui in Hong Kong. Editors:
Sheridan Prasso, Robert Friedman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 