-- Citigroup Asks Facebook Users If They’d Like Social Banking
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-17T03:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/citigroup-asks-facebook-users-whether-they-d-like-social-banking.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  began asking  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  users a provocative question over the weekend. The third-
biggest U.S. bank wants to know whether Web surfers would be
willing to use the social-networking service to do banking.  “If you could do your banking on Facebook -- would you?”
Citigroup asked from its company page, which has more than
300,000 “likes.” The question went live on July 14 and has
elicited more than 130 comments, many of them pointed.  Facebook, working to give users more reasons to stay logged
on, lets other companies use its pages to offer such services as
renting movies, playing games and tracking exercise sessions.
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , an India-based financial institution, offers a
“bank app” that lets customers check balances and get account
statements.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)   announced  plans this
month to release a Facebook application that lets customers view
balances and make payments.  While Citigroup gave no indication whether it’s considering
social banking, the company could use banking tools on Facebook
to let customers raise money for causes, said  Jeremiah Owyang ,
an analyst at Altimeter Group LLC in San Mateo, California. The
New York-based bank could also harness Facebook for e-commerce,
or it could use anonymized data to help users learn what other
people are doing with their money, Owyang said.  Banking Platform?  “I don’t really think Facebook.com is a place you want to
do your actual banking,” Owyang said.  Citigroup regularly interacts with Facebook users on
banking-related innovations they might like to see, said  Shannon
Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup.  This “was part of a series of questions we’ve been asking
to encourage discussion around innovation in banking products
and services and was prompted by a recent announcement out of
Australia about a payment app using Facebook,” she said in an
emailed statement. “Our followers find these discussions useful
and engaging, and we learn from the responses.”  Many respondents to Citigroup’s question rejected the idea
of banking on Facebook. Some people cited privacy and security
concerns. The post had recently attracted 768 “likes,”
according to the site.  “Facebook is a platform and a partnership company with
tools available to brands, agencies, and developers across
industries,” Malorie Lucich, a spokeswoman for Menlo Park,
 California-based Facebook , said in an e-mailed statement.  Citigroup rose less than 1 percent to $26.81 at the close
today. Facebook slid 8.1 percent to $28.25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  