-- Citigroup Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Investment Banking
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-16T20:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/citigroup-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-investment-bank.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates on revenue from advising on mergers, corporate lending
and underwriting stocks and bonds.  Net income fell 12 percent to $2.95 billion, or 95 cents a
share, from $3.34 billion, or $1.09, a year earlier, the New
York-based bank said today in a statement. Excluding accounting
adjustments and a loss from the sale of a stake in a Turkish
bank, earnings were $1 a share, compared with the  average
estimate  of 89 cents in a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts.  Revenue from advising clients on mergers and acquisitions
helped Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, manage
declines in trading stocks and bonds amid fallout from the
European sovereign-debt crisis. Citigroup’s 21 percent drop in
 investment-banking  revenue was smaller than the 35 percent
decline  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. lender, reported
last week.  “This company is steadily turning around,”  Gerard Cassidy , managing director of equity research in  RBC Capital
Markets ’ Portland,  Maine , office, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “It’s a gigantic company, and it takes time but it
is steadily turning around, and they’re making progress on
improving the fundamental performance.”  Expenses Drop  Revenue excluding the accounting adjustments and the sale
of Akbank TAS in Turkey, was $18.8 billion, 7 percent lower than
a year earlier, while expenses dropped 6 percent to $12.1
billion.  The company probably won’t need “massive” headcount
reductions to respond to market challenges, Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said today on a conference call with
reporters. The bank employed about 261,000  people  at the end of
June, compared with 263,000 three months earlier, according to
data posted today to its website.  Citigroup rose 0.6 percent to $26.81 in New York trading at
4:15 p.m. The stock slid  25 percent  during the second quarter,
the worst performance among the biggest U.S. lenders, as
regulators struggled to contain the crisis in  Europe .  Revenue from advising clients on mergers and acquisitions
rose 2 percent to $201 million from the same period last year.
Richard Staite, a London-based analyst with Atlantic Equities
LLP, had estimated $130 million. Fees from managing bond sales
fell 21 percent to $486 million, a smaller drop than predicted
by  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC., who estimated
$331 million. Equity-underwriting fees tumbled 39 percent to
$167 million.  Express Scripts  Citigroup was among the lead advisers to Express Scripts
Holding Co., the largest U.S. processor of drug prescriptions,
on its $29.1 billion purchase of Medco Health Solutions Inc. on
April 2.  Raymond J. McGuire runs Citigroup’s merger advisory
business while Tyler Dickson oversees underwriting. Both report
to Jamie Forese, head of the bank’s securities and banking
division.  Citigroup said that revenue from corporate lending
increased 70 percent to $608 million. Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, had predicted $225 million. About
half of the gain came from so-called hedges, bets the bank made
to protect itself against potential losses on the loans,
according to the statement.  Stock Trading  Revenue from trading stocks and bonds fell 9 percent
excluding the accounting adjustment, to $3.37 billion, less than
the $3.5 billion predicted by Orenbuch. Trading revenue at
JPMorgan declined 15 percent to $4.54 billion.  Fixed-income trading declined 4 percent to $2.82 billion,
Citigroup said. The bank had gains in Anil Prasad’s currency-
trading business and so-called rates, interest-rate products
such as Treasuries, inflation-protected bonds and  interest-rate
swaps . Credit-trading, led by Carey Lathrop, and securitized
products declined, the lender said, without giving more details.  Revenue from trading shares fell 29 percent to $550
million. That compared with JPMorgan’s equity-trading revenue,
which fell 9 percent to $1.04 billion for the same period.  Derek Bandeen runs equity-trading in  London . Pandit
overhauled the unit in January, shutting a so-called
proprietary-trading unit and appointing new global heads of
equity derivatives, cash equities and “Delta One” trading. The
Delta One desk typically helps clients speculate on or hedge the
performance of a group of securities.  Past Problems  “Our business is past the problems of the second half of
last year, and we continue to execute well,” Gerspach told
analysts on a conference call.  Revenue at the global  consumer-banking  business was little
changed at $9.77 billion. International revenue at the unit,
which is run by Manuel Medina-Mora, fell 4 percent to $4.6
billion, reflecting the impact of foreign exchange, the company
said. Total profit dropped 1 percent to $1.99 billion.  Citigroup may have taken a “hit” as currencies in some of
its biggest markets declined against the  U.S. dollar  during the
quarter, Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC,
said in June. The  Mexican peso , Brazilian real and Indian rupee
are among currencies that have weakened, which could lead to
“value destruction” for the lender, said Peabody, who has a
sell rating on Citigroup shares.  Consumer Banking  The consumer-banking unit also increased the amount of
money set aside for future losses on loans outside  North America 
by $86 million, Citigroup said. That contributed to a 12 percent
drop in the division’s international profit to $795 million.
Pandit told shareholders in a March 9 letter that the bank has
an “intense focus on capturing emerging-market trade.”  In North America, consumer banking revenue rose 4 percent
to $5.14 billion as mortgage sales increased, Citigroup said.
The unit lost $1.51 billion on soured loans, a 29 percent
decline on the same period last year, and reduced the amount it
has set aside for future loan losses by $814 million.  Losses at  Citi Holdings , the division Pandit created to
house unwanted assets, increased 39 percent to $920 million, the
bank said. Trone had estimated $1.16 billion while Staite had
predicted $1.07 billion. Assets at the division fell 28 percent
to $191 billion.  Citigroup said last month it would retreat from an effort
to win Federal Reserve approval to boost payouts to shareholders
this year. Pandit had vowed in March to seek approval for a
“meaningful” payout after the Fed objected to its initial
submission for 2012.  Pandit scrapped Citigroup’s  dividend  in 2009 after the bank
almost collapsed and took a $45 billion bailout from U.S.
taxpayers. The lender has since repaid the rescue funds, and
last year it resumed a 1-cent quarterly payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  