-- Citigroup Likely to Avoid ‘Massive’ Job Cuts, Gerspach Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-16T20:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/citigroup-likely-to-avoid-massive-job-cuts-finance-chief-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank  by assets, expects to avoid “massive” reductions in
staffing as it lays off workers amid a market slowdown, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said.  The company is more likely to cut jobs than add them while
adjusting its workforce, Gerspach said today on a conference
call with journalists. The New York-based bank employed about
261,000 people at the end of June, down from 263,000 three
months earlier, according to  data  posted today to its website.  Citigroup is laying off about 5,000 workers as it adjusts
to new trading regulations and clients take fewer risks amid the
European sovereign-debt crisis, the company said in January. The
bank, which seeks to cut 1,200 jobs from its securities and
banking division, will consider more spending reductions in
trading and investment banking if revenue doesn’t improve.  “You have seen expenses coming down in the business year-
on-year, and we’ve now had two consecutive quarters of lowering
expenses,” Gerspach said in response to questions from
analysts. “But I’m not going to tell you that you should expect
to see two more quarters of expense reduction coming out of
securities and banking.”  Jamie Forese runs the securities and banking division,
which includes trading,  investment banking  and corporate
lending. Revenue for the first six months of 2012 rose 2 percent
from a year earlier to $11.9 billion, excluding accounting
adjustments. Expenses fell 5 percent to $7.28 billion.  Headcount  “There certainly is a good element of headcount reduction
that is contributing to the overall expense reduction,”
Gerspach said. “We’re going to continue to look at that
business and make sure that we’ve got it sized appropriately.”  Citigroup continues to cooperate with regulators examining
whether banks manipulated benchmark  interest rates  such as the
London interbank offered rate, known as Libor, Gerspach said.
Investors shouldn’t infer that the outcome will be similar at
every firm under scrutiny, he said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s chief
executive officer,  Robert Diamond , stepped down after the bank
paid a 290 million-pound ($453 million) fine.  “It’s not the case that you can draw conclusions about the
regulatory consequences for any one particular bank,” CEO
Vikram Pandit, 55, said. “We are a member of a number of
interbank rate-setting panels, and we as well as other banks
have received requests for information, and we’re cooperating
with them.”  Citigroup rose 0.6 percent to $26.81 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  after the bank reported a second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  