-- Clinton Says U.S. Will Use All Power Needed  to Stop Iran
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-16T22:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/clinton-says-u-s-will-use-all-power-needed-to-stop-iran.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. will use all elements of American power to prevent
Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons.  “We all prefer a diplomatic resolution, and Iran’s leaders
still have the opportunity to make the right decision,” Clinton
told reporters last night in  Jerusalem . “The choice is
ultimately Iran’s to make. Our own choice is clear: We will use
all elements of American power to prevent Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon.”  Clinton departed  Israel  for  Washington  today after a nine-
country, 12-day trip. She met with Israeli leaders on issues
including Iran, upheaval in the Arab world, the stalled Israeli-
Palestinian  peace process  and the political transition in  Egypt ,
where she spent a day and a half before coming to Jerusalem.  Relations between President  Barack Obama  and Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  have been strained over matters including the
response to Iran’s nuclear work. Speaking yesterday in Jerusalem
at a press conference with Clinton, President  Shimon Peres  said
Israel will do whatever it can to prevent Iran from
“endangering the freedom of other people, from endangering the
lives of other people.”  The Obama administration has urged Israel to refrain from a
threatened military attack on Iran to see if negotiations and
economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and its European allies
will work. The proposals Iran has made to date have been “non-
starters,” Clinton said yesterday. Iran says its program is
solely for civilian use.  Romney’s Visit  Clinton is the third U.S. official to come through
Jerusalem in the last week, following White House National
Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is planning to visit
within weeks.  Clinton’s meetings also had U.S. election implications. She
was here two weeks before a scheduled visit by Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney . Netanyahu and Romney have
known each other for years, having both worked as advisers at
 Boston Consulting Group  in the 1970s.  Israel faces challenges beyond Iran as unrest and change
sweep through the Mideast.  Syria  is 16 months into a bloody
uprising that has claimed at least 10,000 lives, while Egypt’s
transition to democracy has been marred by violence and a
political struggle between Islamists and the military. The
Israeli-Palestinian peace process has been stalled since
September 2010.  Clinton, Netanyahu  “We’re living in a time of unprecedented change, a lot of
challenges for us both,” Clinton told Netanyahu before the two
sat down for a working dinner. “We will continue to consult
closely as we have on an almost daily basis between our two
governments to chart the best way forward.”  Before the dinner, Netanyahu said he had talked to Clinton
about “how turbulent and how swiftly changing the world is, and
our part of the world in particular.” They were planning to
discuss the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks and efforts “to
make sure that  Iran  not achieve its ambition with nuclear
weapons,” Netanyahu said.  Clinton flew in from Egypt, where she urged Field Marshal
Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the military council, and newly
elected President Mohamed Mursi to honor the country’s 33-year-
old peace treaty with Israel.  Clinton said her message to Egyptian leaders, publicly and
privately, was that the world expects them to “play a
constructive, leading role in advancing regional peace and
security, in particular by upholding the peace treaty with
Israel.”  Egypt Treaty  The U.S., Israel and Egypt all have a stake in the treaty,
said Clinton, who described it as “the backbone” of regional
stability for more than three decades. Egypt and Israel fought
four wars from 1948 to 1973.  Israeli Vice Prime Minister Silvan Shalom told  Army Radio 
yesterday that “the rise of President Mursi to power has
aroused great concern.”  In his remarks to Clinton before their dinner, Netanyahu
said the issue “is something that is uppermost in both our
minds, and I appreciate the efforts of your investment to this
end.”  Since being sworn in on June 30, Mursi has vowed to uphold
Egypt’s international commitments, though he has also pledged
support for the Palestinians in their quest for a homeland.  Turkey Relations  Clinton said she spoke to Netanyahu and others about the
“alarming” situation in Syria, which borders Israel to the
north. “We discussed what Israel can do, and what we can do
together, to support regional security and progress,” Clinton
said.  Israel’s Channel 2 reported that Clinton told Israeli
officials that they need to repair their strained relationship
with  Turkey , because it’s interfering with efforts to maintain a
 united front  with allies against Iran and Syria.  Clinton, who met Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in Paris on July 6, also reviewed the status of the
moribund Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.  “We know that the status quo is unsustainable,” Clinton
said. “The proof is in the security threats Israel faces:
rocket attacks, terrorist threats, challenges in Gaza and nearby
borders.”  Clinton met with Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad
during her 24-hour stop in Jerusalem. She said she focused on
economic challenges, institution building, training needs and
the political situation.  In response to a question at her press conference, she said
convicted spy Jonathan Pollard, an American intelligence
analyst, isn’t likely to be freed from his 1987 life prison
sentence for passing classified information to Israel.  “I do not have any expectation that is going to change,”
said Clinton, who has been asked repeatedly about Pollard during
the trip.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Jerusalem at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  