-- Colombia’s President Wants to Curb Top Currency Rally
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-16T14:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/colombia-s-president-wants-to-curb-top-currency-rally.html
Colombia ’s central bank should step
up dollar purchases to curb the world’s biggest currency rally
and give the Andean nation a “much higher” level of foreign
reserves, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said.  “The size of our foreign trade has increased, and
according to many studies we can have a much higher level of
reserves, about $13 billion higher,” Santos, 60, said in a July
14 interview while flying on his presidential jet to a group of
Caribbean islands and coral reefs. “I would recommend to the
central bank that they increase the amount they purchase on a
daily basis, and I imagine they are studying that.”  Even as  Europe ’s debt crisis has led investors to dump
riskier emerging market assets, oil and mining projects in
Colombia continue to draw near-record levels of foreign
investment, putting pressure on the peso. The currency has
appreciated 9 percent since the start of the year, the biggest
gain of 170 tracked by Bloomberg, even after the central bank
announced a $20 million daily purchase program to halt its rise.  Since taking office in 2010, Santos has set about expanding
exports, taking advantage of investor interest in resource-rich
parts of the country that were off-limits during the height of
drug-fueled, guerrilla violence in the 1990s. A graduate of the
University of  Kansas , he persuaded Democrats in the  U.S.
Congress  last year to abandon their opposition to a free trade
agreement that the government is now using as a model for deals
with  South Korea  and the European Union.  Dollar Purchases  Santos, a former finance minister, said decisions about
dollar purchases will be taken by the bank, which manages the
country’s $34 billion in international reserves, and that he
“respects very much” the institution’s independence. The peso
declined 0.1 percent to 1,777.90 per dollar at 8:41 a.m. Bogota
time.  Still, his government is doing its part to curb inflows,
such as storing abroad dividends from state-run oil company
 Ecopetrol SA. (ECOPETL)  Last month he told policy makers that the
government would assume any fiscal cost of increasing its
reserve pile. The bank’s current dollar-buying program started
in February and is scheduled to conclude in early November.  Oil accounted for 49 percent of Colombia’s exports last
year, up from 24 percent in 2007. As well as contributing to the
peso’s strength, which is causing complaints from exporters such
as coffee and banana growers, the oil bonanza is creating
another headache for Santos as it attracts the attention of
Marxist guerrillas.  Security Backslide  The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, have
stepped up attacks on oil workers, pipelines and energy towers
this year to try to derail what Santos says is the country’s
growth “locomotive.” The guerrillas murdered five workers at a
well in southern Colombia this month, and acts of sabotage
nearly tripled to 37 in the first four months of 2012, according
to government statistics.  “Modesty apart, nobody has hit the FARC as hard as I
have,” Santos, who was credited with some of the biggest
battlefield victories against the FARC as defense minister
between 2006 and 2009, said as his plane approached the island
of San Andres.  “Their sources of finance through drug trafficking have
been diminished, so they are desperate, and they are trying to
go back to extortion to see if they can raise some money,” he
added.  The FARC’s resurgence in areas where it had long been
absent is contributing to a slump in Santos’ approval ratings,
even after his government tracked down and killed the group’s
two most senior commanders. The increase in attacks is hampering
Colombia’s goal of increasing oil output to 1 million barrels a
day, from 914,000 barrels a day last year.  Uribe Opposition  It also means that, if Santos runs for re-election in 2014,
he’ll likely run against an ally of former President  Alvaro Uribe  demanding a harder line on security. Santos was also
damaged last month by a scandal in Congress, when lawmakers
inserted last-minute changes to a judicial system overhaul that
would have paralyzed investigations into politicians with links
to organized crime.  The proportion of Colombians with a favorable image of the
president fell to 48 percent in June from 64 percent in April,
according to a poll published June 28 by Gallup Colombia.  This month, Uribe and hundreds of his followers met in
Bogota and heard speeches attacking what they say is the
government’s backsliding on security. Uribe, who supported
Santos’ candidacy in 2010, now attacks him almost daily via his
Twitter site and in interviews. Former Finance Minister Oscar Ivan Zuluaga told El Tiempo newspaper in an interview last week
that he hopes to be the “Uribista” candidate in 2014.  Growth Slowing  After growth outpaced much of  Latin America  in 2011, the
economy is performing weaker than expected this year, as a
global slowdown cuts demand for exports. Industrial  output  fell
1.7 percent in April from a year ago, its worst performance
since 2009, while urban  unemployment  unexpectedly rose in May to
11.9 percent.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, its slowest pace since 2010.
Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in a radio interview
last week that policy makers had been surprised by the weakness
of industry and exports. At least two members of the bank’s
board said that the slowdown in industry and agriculture
justifies a cycle of interest rate cuts to revive growth,
according to the minutes of the bank’s June policy meeting.  Landing on Colombia’s San Andres island, Santos met with
ministers to discuss a yet-unveiled plan to boost  government
spending  on infrastructure. He also took a helicopter to nearby
Bolivar island to insist on Colombia’s sovereignty over the
archipelago, which is disputed by  Nicaragua .  Infrastructure Plan  Increased public works spending will help sustain the
economy as global growth slows, said Santos, the scion of one of
Colombia’s wealthiest families, which founded El Tiempo.  Santos said that  Franklin Delano Roosevelt , who spearheaded
an infrastructure drive of his own aimed at ending the Great
Depression in the 1930s, is one of the politicians that he most
admires. In his free time, the Colombian president said he is
working his way through Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.’s series of
U.S. presidential biographies, and most recently read the volume
on Depression-era president  Herbert Hoover .  The government has no urgent need to sell part of its 88.5
percent stake in Ecopoetrol, Santos said. The Bogota-based
company is the world’s seventh-most valuable oil producer, with
a market capitalization greater than the rest of Colombia’s
Colcap index combined. Shares in the company have risen 29
percent in dollar terms this year, the biggest gain among oil
companies worth more than $50 billion.  “We’re not in a hurry with that,” Santos said. “It
depends on the world markets, it depends on the financing, but
today we don’t really need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  