-- Colombia Peso Bonds Rise for Fifth Day on View Rates Will Be Cut
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-16T18:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/colombia-peso-bonds-rise-for-fifth-day-on-view-rates-will-be-cut.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds gained for a
fifth day on speculation the central bank will lower borrowing
costs as the economy slows.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 6.80 percent, according to the central bank. That’s
the lowest level on a closing basis since the securities were
first issued in 2009. The bond’s price rose 0.368 centavo to
125.76 centavos per peso.  Speculation there will be a rate cut mounted after minutes
of the central bank’s most recent meeting, released July 13,
showed more than one member of the seven-member board voted for
a quarter-point interest rate reduction last month and wanted
the bank to begin a “relaxation phase.” Banco de la Republica
held the  overnight lending rate  at 5.25 percent for a fourth
straight month on June 29 as growth cooled and prices of the
country’s commodity exports dropped.  “At least two voted for a cut, fueling bets for a move
sometime this year,” said Daniel Escobar, the head analyst at
Global Securities in Bogota. “We at least won’t see any more
rate increases. The bond curve continues to flatten on this
view.”  Since the start of 2011, the central bank has raised the
target rate nine times even as other  emerging markets  cut
borrowing costs in response to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 1,779.80 per dollar. It’s
up 8.9 percent this year, the best performance among all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s central bank should step up dollar purchases to
curb the currency rally and give the Andean nation a “much
higher” level of foreign reserves, President  Juan Manuel Santos 
said in a July 14 interview.  Policy makers have said the central bank will buy a minimum
of $20 million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  