-- Companies Grow Pessimistic About U.S. Economy, Survey Shows
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/companies-grow-pessimistic-about-u-s-economy-survey-shows.html
Companies are growing more
pessimistic about the  U.S. economy  this year and plan to limit
hiring as the  European debt crisis  hurts sales and concern rises
over the looming so-called fiscal cliff, a survey showed.  Some 62 percent of businesses project no change in
employment over the next six months, according results of a
 National Association for Business Economics ’ survey released
today in Washington. The share is up from 48 percent in the
group’s April report.  The lack of confidence signals the job market will show
little progress after company payrolls rose last quarter at the
slowest pace in more than two years. The data also indicated
inflation will ebb as more businesses said the lack of demand
will prevent them from raising prices.  “The survey results suggest worsening economic
conditions,” said Nayantara Hensel, chairwoman of the NABE
outlook survey committee and professor of Industry and Business
at the National Defense University in  Washington . “The rising
sales and profit margins experienced earlier in the year may
have been short-lived.”  Forty percent of the 67 NABE members responding to the
survey taken from June 14 to June 26 forecast gross domestic
product will grow 2 percent or less over the next 12 months, up
from 23 percent in the previous poll. The share projecting
growth will exceed 3 percent dropped to 5 percent from 15
percent in the April report.  Employment Cools  Companies hired 84,000 workers last month, fewer than
forecast and not enough to reduce a  jobless rate  that’s exceeded
8 percent for more than three years, Labor Department figures
showed earlier this month. The gain capped the weakest quarter
for payrolls since the first three months of 2010.  Along with less employment, 70 percent of firms said
salaries and wages were little changed, up from 48 percent in
the prior survey. A majority of respondents, 74 percent, predict
no change in the prices their firms will charge customers over
the next three months, more than in any of the past four
surveys, the report said.  Companies indicated concern should Congress not act to
extend Bush-era tax cuts into next year and should the $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts known as sequestration take
place. Sixty-five percent of those surveyed predicted sales will
drop if this fiscal cliff can’t be avoided.  More respondents said the European crisis has already hurt
demand as well. Some 47 percent of businesses said sales have
fallen due to the turmoil overseas, up from 24 percent in the
prior survey.  The NABE has been conducted quarterly since 1982. The
National Association for Business Economics, founded in 1959, is
the professional organization for people who use economics in
their work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild at in Washington or
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  