-- Congress Busy at Work Extending Bills It Already Passed
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/congress-busy-at-work-extending-bills-it-already-passed.html
A chief criticism lobbed at U.S.
lawmakers is that they’re members of a “do-nothing” Congress.  That would be technically incorrect. Congress so far this
year has sent 54 bills to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature. Many name post offices and convey land parcels, and
most of the rest extend programs lawmakers already passed.  “We’ve become the kick-the-can-down-the-road Congress,”
Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat who will retire at the
end of this session, said in an interview. Congress has been
plagued by “disagreement about whether you do anything until
you get right down to the wire and then something has to be
done,” he said.  The few pieces of major legislation passed in 2012 include
a four-year rewrite of federal aviation policy enacted in
February after 23 extensions, and a continuation of a payroll
tax cut through the end of 2012, which followed a short-term
extension of the tax break.  The slow pace of legislating this year mirrors that of 2011
when lawmakers sent 90 bills to Obama that eventually became
law. Last year’s output barely topped that of 1995, when 88
bills became law, fewer than any time since the Congressional
Record started keeping track in 1947.  This will lead to a year-end legislative pileup and the
prospect of delaying major decisions into 2013. The House and
Senate are scheduled to work at the same time for 25 days before
the Nov. 6 election, and another 16 days for a so-called lame-duck session after the election.  Spending Bills  By lawmakers’ own reckoning, it’s not only spending bills
for the 2013 fiscal year that will be delayed. Decisions on
reducing the nation’s budget deficit or extending the George W. Bush-era tax cuts will be pushed to the work days after the
election and possibly into next year.  Even the major bills lawmakers completed this year followed
short-term extensions enacted to avoid letting programs lapse.
Congress voted to fund the nation’s highways one day before the
highway and mass transit programs were set to expire. Final
agreement came after 10  extensions  dating to 2009.  Besides transportation-related programs, the legislation
reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program, which had
been set to expire at the end of July. It also continues, for
one year, reduced student-loan  interest rates  that had been
scheduled to double to 6.8 percent on July 1.  Also poised to be temporarily continued this year are
agriculture programs as the current farm law is set to expire
Sept. 30.  Lacking ‘Incentive’  “Neither party has much of an incentive politically to
work with the other,” said  Julian Zelizer , a history and public
affairs professor at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .
“Nobody will want to do something that will cost their seats in
November.”  That is why lawmakers haven’t been able to agree on major
issues concerning the economy, taxes or spending, Zelizer said
in a telephone interview. Congress is “incapable of taking the
big steps early” because it is “more polarized than it has
been in decades,” he said.  A  Gallup Poll  conducted July 9-12 found 16 percent of
Americans approve of Congress’s performance, while 78 percent
disapprove.  Only a firm deadline propels Congress to move forward, and,
academics say, sometimes lawmakers avoid those deadlines by
creating an extension.  Deadline or Recess  Lawmakers “are not going to act on anything unless they
face a deadline or a recess; even then they are not guaranteed
to have action,” said  Ross Baker , a professor of American
politics at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick , New Jersey.
“There are trap doors they can wiggle through, trap doors of
their own making.”  While the House has passed six spending bills this year,
the full Senate hasn’t considered any of the 2013 appropriation
measures. That means stopgap measures will be needed to fund the
government from the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year through mid-November at the earliest.  Representative Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said he plans to
write a stopgap measure to fund agencies for the start of fiscal
2013.  “We haven’t decided yet how far it goes,” Rogers said in
an interview. “We’re thinking.”  Automatic Cuts  Annual spending decisions will be complicated by automatic
spending cuts of $1.2 trillion required by a 2011 agreement to
raise the U.S. debt limit. The reductions, slated to start in
January 2013, were designed to push Congress to find other
deficit-reduction proposals to replace them. Senate and House
lawmakers so far haven’t agreed on such a plan.  Punting on  government spending , the automatic cuts and  tax
policy  until next spring to buy more time is being discussed as
a possible option. Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican who
leads the  National Republican Senatorial Committee , said he’s
aware of discussions to put off so-called fiscal-cliff issues
until March.  “It’s a matter of triage right now, trying to keep the
patient alive,” Cornyn said when asked whether he sees Congress
passing stopgap measures on fiscal issues.  Representative  Jim Jordan  of  Ohio , chairman of the
Republican Study Committee, said Republicans may be willing to
allow lower tax rates to lapse this year if it leads to a better
fiscal deal for them in early 2013. They may take that approach
if Republican  Mitt Romney  wins the November presidential
election.  One-Year Extension  The Republican-led House plans to vote this month to extend
for one year the tax cuts that expire at the end of 2012,
preserving current rates on income,  capital gains , dividends and
estates. The House voted earlier this year to replace the
automatic defense cuts that amount to half of the $1.2 trillion.  Meanwhile, the Senate will vote this month on Obama’s
proposal to extend tax cuts only for families earning less than
$250,000 a year. Neither chamber will take up the other’s
proposal.  Senate Democrats  view their inaction on House legislation
as an “accomplishment,” said Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland
Democrat.  “There were efforts made to really move in the wrong
direction, and we were able to block a lot of very damaging
bills to our environment, to health care,” he said in an
interview.  Clearly Defined  The divide between the parties on fiscal matters is clearly
defined and nothing will change before the November election,
lawmakers said.  “I don’t think we are in any let’s-bury-the-hatchet mood
today,” said Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican.
“The American people are not giving us a very high approval
rating because they are tired of us not being able to get
anything done.”  While Congress isn’t the only legislative body in the world
that is viewed as dysfunctional, it is unique, according to
Rutgers’ Baker.  “Congress is one of the very few legislative bodies in the
world that really matters,” Baker said in a telephone
interview. “It really is the center of the political system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  