-- Crude Oil Futures Drop From One-Week High
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-16T12:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/crude-oil-futures-drop-from-one-week-high.html
Oil fell from the highest close in
more than a week after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said  China ’s economic
recovery hasn’t gained momentum, stoking speculation that demand
may ease in the world’s second-biggest crude consumer.  Futures slid as much as 0.8 percent in  New York , their
first decline in four days. Wen said “difficulties” may
persist, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Abu Dhabi
started exporting crude through a pipeline to the Indian Ocean
port of Fujairah, bypassing the  Strait of Hormuz , the oil-
transit corridor that  Iran  threatened to shut earlier this year
in response to sanctions on its nuclear program.  “It’s true that the Chinese economy is expanding more
slowly than in the past, though their growth rate is still
pretty good,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart, Denmark. “Any shutdown of Hormuz, the
world’s No. 1 oil chokepoint, would have a major impact on
prices, but now at least there are alternatives.”  Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 69 cents to
$86.46 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.71 at 1:38 p.m. London time. The
contract gained 1.2 percent to $87.10 on July 13, the highest
close since July 5. Prices are 12 percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for August settlement was 15 cents higher at
$102.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract expires today. The more-active September
contract was at $101.50, up 8 cents. The European benchmark’s
 premium  to West Texas Intermediate was at $15.95, compared with
$15.30 on July 13.  Bullish Bets  Oil in New York is declining as futures approach a so-
called “death cross” technical formation, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 100-day moving average, at $96.16 a
barrel today, has almost erased a premium to the 200-day mean at
$96.07. Investors typically sell contracts when a shorter moving
average falls below a longer one. Crude has resistance along the
50-day average at $87.18.  Hedge funds  cut bullish oil wagers for the first time in
three weeks, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on July 13. Money
managers reduced net-long positions by 5.1 percent in the seven
days ended July 10, the report showed.  In London, money managers reduced  bullish bets  on Brent
crude from their highest in a month by 5,431 contracts in the
week ended July 10, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 60,004 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That compares with net-longs of 65,435 contracts
a week earlier.  China Slows  Chinese Premier Wen’s comments followed data that showed
 Asia ’s largest economy had the weakest expansion in three years.
Even so, the pace of economic expansion is within the targeted
range and government measures to stabilize growth are “bearing
fruit,” he said yesterday, according to the report from Xinhua.  The country processed crude at the slowest rate in eight
months in June. Refining slid to 8.79 million barrels a day last
month, the least since October and down 3.4 percent from May,
according to July 13 data from the National Bureau of
Statistics.  “News of China’s slowing growth is affecting markets,”
Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The opening of the Fujairah pipeline that bypasses
the Strait of Hormuz also means improved security.”  The crude line built by  Abu Dhabi , the capital of the
 United Arab Emirates  and holder of more than 90 percent of its
oil, will work as an export route that avoids Hormuz at the
mouth of the  Persian Gulf . The system stretches from Abu Dhabi
to the neighboring sheikhdom of Fujairah on the  Gulf of Oman .
The link was loading its first shipment of 500,000 barrels to
Pakistan’s Pak Arab Refinery Ltd., Mohamed Bin Dhaen Al-Hamli,
oil minister for the U.A.E, said yesterday at a ceremony to
inaugurate the network.  The U.A.E is “happy with current prices given the state of
the world economy,” al-Hamli told reporters at the event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  