-- Daimler Doubles Spending to Revamp Mercedes-Benz Compacts
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-16T11:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/daimler-doubles-spending-to-revamp-mercedes-benz-compacts.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes-
Benz cars and trucks, is doubling investment at its plant in
Rastatt, Germany, to build sportier compact cars in an effort to
overtake top-ranked  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   Spending to convert the factory to build the vehicles,
including retooled A-Class and B-Class models, will amount to
1.2 billion euros ($1.46 billion) by the end of 2013, Chief
Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said today at a press
conference at the plant. The cars will be “our sharpest
weapons” in the drive for industry leadership, he said.  A new, youth-oriented version of the A-Class car is
scheduled to reach showrooms in September to compete with the 1-
Series made by BMW, the world’s biggest manufacturer of  luxury
vehicles , and the A3 built by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit. The
Mercedes-Benz Cars division, which also includes the two-seat
Smart brand, has a target of raising operating profit in 2013 to
at least 10 percent of sales from 9 percent in 2011.  “The A- and B-Class haven’t produced enough volume so far
to fulfill the margin targets,”  Tim Schuldt , a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Equinet AG, said today by phone. “Only if the
segment grows will the unit costs decline and make the cars more
profitable.”  New SUV  The company has received more than 40,000 orders for the
new A-Class since mid-June, Zetsche said. The model replaces a
version that Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler has been selling
since 2004. The Rastatt site already makes the van-like B-Class
and will start producing a compact sport-utility vehicle at the
end of 2013, Zetsche said.  Mercedes-Benz ranks third behind BMW and Audi in worldwide
luxury-car sales. Combined deliveries of the A- and B-Class
models last year  totaled  192,000 vehicles, a 14 percent drop
from 2010 figures, versus a 20 percent sales gain for the C-
Class sedan and its variants to 412,000 cars.  The company is registering “globally good demand” for its
model range, Zetsche said. Mercedes-Benz wants 50 percent of A-
Class buyers to be new to the brand, he said, reiterating a
strategy outlined in April.  The western European car market is likely to decline 5
percent this year to the lowest volume level since 1993, Zetsche
said. Daimler’s share of industry sales in the region increased
in the first half of the year, he said.  Temporary Workforce  Daimler will hire 500 workers at Rastatt this year, add a
third shift and raise the proportion of temporary employees in
the factory to 15 percent. That’s almost double the 8 percent
generally allowed under Daimler’s labor agreements. About 300 of
new employees at Rastatt will be temporary workers who will get
permanent contracts, said Peter Wesp, head of the factory.  The factory, where spending from now through 2013 will
total 600 million euros, needs another three months before
production start up for the new A-Class is completed. Rastatt
currently employs 6,200 people according to Wesp.  “We’ve looked under every stone in Rastatt to meet the
demands of the global competition,” Wesp said.  The plant already makes a new version of the B-Class, which
is also being built at a factory in  Hungary . Daimler also plans
local production in  China  of three vehicles of the Mercedes-Benz
compact model line-up, which will total at least five vehicles.  Production Improvements  Manufacturing improvements for the new A-Class include a
new floor layout for the model that allows the use of engines
from other Mercedes-Benz cars and enables the production of
flatter, sportier vehicles.  “We have made considerable productivity gains from the old
to the new generation,”  Wolfgang Bernhard , head of production,
said at the press conference, without giving details.  First-half sales by the Mercedes-Benz brand rose 6.9
percent from a year earlier to 652,924 cars. That compares to
733,250 vehicles sold by Volkswagen’s Audi brand, a 12 percent
gain. BMW’s namesake brand defended its luxury-car leadership by
boosting sales 8.3 percent to 747,064 cars.  Zetsche aims to beat BMW in sales by 2020 and reclaim the
luxury-car lead that Daimler lost in 2005. Audi is also working
to take the No. 1 position by the end of the decade. Targets at
Mercedes-Benz include 1.6 million car and SUV deliveries in 2015
and savings of 6 billion euros by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Rastatt,  Germany , via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  