-- Danish Bonds Beat Treasures as Homes Slump: Mortgages
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/danish-bonds-beat-treasures-as-homes-slump-mortgages.html
Danes are betting the  five-year
slump  in home values will deepen as record low  interest rates 
fail to entice prospective buyers.  Prices, which have already plunged 25 percent since their
2007 peak, will decline 5.5 percent this year, the government
estimates. Record-low interest rates that translate into average
borrowing costs of less than 0.1 percent have so far failed to
resurrect home values as buyers wait for sellers to buckle under
record-long sales times and cut prices lower.  “Low interest rates don’t help the market today because
people have the sentiment: why not buy tomorrow instead of
today?” Soeren Holm, group managing director of finance at
Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S, the country’s largest mortgage
lender with 47 percent of the market, said in an interview. A
combination of “fear” and “economic opportunism” has gripped
the market, he said.  When Denmark’s real estate bubble burst more than four
years ago, it threw the economy into a  recession  and triggered a
regional banking crisis that’s claimed a dozen lenders. While
the government enjoys debt levels that are less than half the
euro-area average, Danes’ private debt loads are the world’s
highest at more than three times their disposable incomes, BNP
Exane SA estimates.  Mortgage Bonds  Even as  house prices  have slumped, investors have been
increasingly lured to Denmark’s $444 billion bond-backed
mortgage market, the world’s third-largest after its U.S. and
German counterparts.  A  Nykredit index  of Denmark’s most-traded mortgage bonds
touched an all-time high at the end of last week as investors
sought alternatives to euro-denominated assets tainted by the
region’s debt crisis. The measure has returned about 2.5 percent
this year and 33 percent since September 2008, after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, outperforming U.S. Treasuries
with maturities of more than one year.  Bonds financing the cheapest Danish home loans with annual
rate adjustments yield less than 1 percent. The average interest
rate paid on all loans was 3.314 percent in May, down from 3.324
percent in April, the country’s central bank said June 28.
Taking  tax deductions  and  inflation  into account, the interest
rate paid by most households was 0.06 percent, according to the
Danish Mortgage Bankers Federation.  None of this has made much of an impression on potential
home buyers.  ‘Negative Psychology’  “At the moment, the housing market is being hit by
negative psychology,” Lise Bergmann, a housing economist with
Nordea Kredit, a unit of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The economic consequences of losing
your job play a greater role for homeowners than the low
rates.”  Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage unit of Denmark’s
biggest lender,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , estimates that negative
consumer sentiment is more harmful to house prices than rising
borrowing costs. Central bank Governor Nils Bernstein has warned
that Denmark’s housing market risks sliding into a self-
perpetuating downward spiral as expectations drive values lower.  In a June housing-market survey, 73 percent of 1,032
potential home buyers said they’re trying to time their purchase
to get the most out of price movements. The survey was conducted
by independent Copenhagen-based listing site Boliga ApS. Fifty-
two percent said the market is dysfunctional, and half said
they’re willing to wait one to three years to purchase at the
right price.  Holding Out  Some sellers are trying to hold out while others are taking
their properties off the market. The average number of days a
house sat on the market jumped 27 percent in June from a year
earlier while offer prices declined 4.7 percent, the Association
of Danish Mortgage Banks said July 12. The number of homes
removed from the market climbed 17 percent in June from a month
earlier, to 5,019, and was up an annual 11 percent.  As values continue to sink, households’ debt-to-property
ratios are swelling. Homes make up 76 percent of the 3.4
trillion kroner in assets that Danish families hold, excluding
pensions, according to the central bank. So far their ability to
refinance that equity at lower rates has helped insulate banks
from the rising debt. If unemployment worsens, though, bank
losses will also rise, the central bank said last month in a
special review.  Rate ‘Brake’  “The very low interest rates have put somewhat of a brake
on house prices falling, but the big question is to call when we
have hit the bottom,”  Andreas Hakansson , a Stockholm-based bank
equity analyst at Exane, said by phone. “Once interest rates
rise again, we’ll see further downside. Families would be better
equipped to handle it if they didn’t have so much debt.”  Home equity  has almost been halved since 2007 as prices
have fallen and homeowners borrowed more. Equity dropped 3.9
percent to 905 billion kroner in the first quarter from a year
earlier4, bringing losses since the market’s 2007 peak to 770
billion kroner, or about $88,500 per household, Nykredit said
July 16.  The number of foreclosures rose 9 percent in June from the
previous month to 452, adjusting for seasonal swings,  Statistics
Denmark  said on July 5. That compares with an average of 103
foreclosures a month in 2006, one year before house prices
started falling, according to the office.  Denmark ’s haven status has been underpinned by its low
public borrowing and a mortgage bond system that protects
investors.  Mortgage banks issue bonds on behalf of borrowers in the
amount of the loan granted. Credit risk is minimized by
borrowers’ legal obligation to repay loans even in the event of
a foreclosure and by a bank resolution framework that protects
collateral for investors.  Government Debt  Government debt will be just over 40 percent of Denmark’s
gross domestic product this year and next, the European
Commission said in May. That compares with just over 90 percent
on average for the 17 nations sharing the euro, the commission
estimates. Household indebtedness in Denmark, which enjoys a
current account surplus, is backed by the world’s second-highest
savings ratio, after the Netherlands, the central bank
estimates.  The Danish central bank  lowered the rate  it offers on
certificates of deposit to an unprecedented minus 0.2 percent on
July 5 in an effort to protect the krone from a capital influx
that’s put pressure on its euro peg. The benchmark lending rate
was reduced to 0.2 percent, following a quarter-point cut in the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate to 0.75 percent.  Unemployment Rising  Households have watched Denmark’s gross  jobless rate , which
includes people in vocational training programs, rise to 6.2
percent in May from as low as 2.5 percent in the months before
Lehman’s collapse lurched the global economy into the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Unemployment will probably climb further, Jes Asmussen,
chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen, said
in a June 28 research note. Denmark’s economy isn’t growing
enough, and businesses aren’t planning to hire, he said.  Gross domestic product grew a quarterly 0.4 percent in the
three months through March, ending a recession that started in
the second half of 2011. Denmark’s economy probably will expand
1.2 percent in 2012, the central bank said June 14.  The key to a housing-market recovery is a broader economic
rebound, Bergmann said. That might come in 2013, Nordea
estimates.  “When the Danish economy gets into gear again and
unemployment falls, most of that negative sentiment will
disappear,” Bergmann said. That may help house prices recover
as much as 2.5 percent in 2013, she said.  So far the data don’t support a recovery. House prices fell
an annualized 7.4 percent in the first quarter, the biggest drop
since 2009, the mortgage-bank association said on June 20. The
average time on the market before a sale reached 230 days, the
longest wait for sellers since the Copenhagen-based organization
began compiling the data in 2004.  While house prices should now be close to their “natural
equilibrium,” Bergman said, there is “still a risk prices will
fall further, and that we come into a situation where prices
drop more than the underlying economics would dictate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  