-- Diamond Contradicted by Del Missier, Criticized by Regulator
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-07-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/del-missier-says-diamond-told-him-to-submit-lower-libor-rates.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s ex-chief executive
officer,  Robert Diamond , was contradicted by his former chief
operating officer and criticized by regulators investigating the
Libor-rigging scandal.  Jerry del Missier told lawmakers yesterday his former boss
instructed him to submit artificially low Libor rates, and
blamed compliance managers for failing to act. Less than an hour
later, Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  told
the committee Barclays had been “gaming the system.”  Del Missier, 50, said he took Diamond’s direction to have
come from the Bank of  England . He said he then “passed the
instruction along” to Mark Dearlove, head of the bank’s money-
markets desk, to lower its contributions for the London
interbank offered rate.  “It did not seem an inappropriate action given it was
coming from the  Bank of England ,” del Missier told Parliament’s
Treasury Select Committee in London. “The government were
calling the shots.”  His comments contradicted Diamond, who told lawmakers he
wasn’t directed by the Bank of England to lower the firm’s
submissions and gave no such instruction. Del Missier also
embroiled more executives in the inquiry, saying compliance
chief Stephen Morse was told by the bank’s money-markets desk
about the request to lower Libor rates, and failed to act.  The desk “informed compliance of the request,” del
Missier said. “There was no closing of the loop.”  Shares Fall  Barclays  fell  4.5 percent to 157.70 pence, the lowest in
almost eight months, in London trading yesterday. The stock has
declined 10 percent this year, making it the worst performer in
the six-member  FTSE 350 Banks index . Simon Eaton, a Barclays
spokesman, and Daniel Yea, Diamond’s spokesman, declined to
comment on del Missier’s remarks.  Del Missier resigned from Britain’s second-largest bank by
assets on July 3, the same day as Diamond after the lender was
fined 290 million pounds ($453 million) by regulators for
attempting to manipulate Libor, a benchmark for $500 trillion of
financial products.  Libor is calculated by a survey of banks’ daily estimates
of how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for
different time frames and in different currencies. Because
submissions aren’t based on real trades, the potential exists
for the benchmark to be manipulated.  Seven Banks  Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting enforcement chief, told
lawmakers yesterday the regulator is investigating seven banks
over Libor-rigging. The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said on July 6
that it had opened a criminal probe.  Diamond told the committee on July 4 that he had received a
call from  Paul Tucker , then markets director at the Bank of
England, in October 2008 questioning why the lender’s Libor
submissions were so high. Diamond said he didn’t interpret the
call as an instruction to submit lower rates.  Tucker said no government minister or official pressured
him to instruct London-based Barclays or any other U.K. bank to
lowball its Libor submissions during the financial crisis in his
own testimony on July 9. Diamond said del Missier misinterpreted
his account of the call as in instruction.  “I was unaware that Jerry had the impression that the
conversation I had with Paul, either by note or by conversation,
was an instruction,” Diamond told lawmakers. “I was not aware
that he did instruct” his traders to lower their submissions.  Diamond’s Instruction  Del Missier said yesterday he passed on what he took to be
an instruction to his head of money markets without getting
legal advice. He didn’t seek further clarification from Diamond.  “It was an instruction, wasn’t it?” said David Ruffley, a
committee member from the U.K.’s ruling  Conservative Party .  “Yes, it was,” said del Missier.  Del Missier was then asked what he said to Dearlove after
he had a conversation with Diamond.  “I said I have spoken to Mr. Diamond,” del Missier said.
“He’s had a call from Mr. Tucker, alluding to the political
pressure around Barclays’s health as demonstrated by our Libor
rates and that we should get our rates down and not be an
outlier.”  “So you explicitly instructed him to bring the Libor-rate
submissions down?” said Andrea Leadsom, a committee member.  “I passed the instruction along, yes,” said del Missier.  Diamond’s comment to the committee that regulators had been
“specifically pleased” with the “tone at the top” at the
bank was again challenged yesterday by the FSA’s Turner.  ‘Cultural Tendency’  The bank “had a cultural tendency to be always pushing the
limit” of what was allowed under banking rules, Turner told the
committee. He and  Andrew Bailey , the regulator’s head of banking
supervision, said the cultural issues at Barclays came from the
“tone at the top,” including Diamond. Turner said he talked to
Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius to drive home the message that
the bank was “gaming the system.”  “There have been a set of issues” the FSA had argued
about with Barclays “on a case-by-case basis,” Turner said.
“It is the accumulation that makes us believe that we have to
draw the attention from the chairman to the chairman level,” he
said, referring to a February letter to Agius in which he
outlined his concerns about how the bank approached regulators.  “There was a problem with this institution,” Bailey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  