-- Delta Adds Food Security as FBI Probes Needles Source
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-07-17T21:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/delta-working-with-authorities-to-find-source-of-needles-in-food.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  has added
security to its meal production as the FBI and Dutch police
investigate sewing needles found in sandwiches on four of the
carrier’s July 15 flights from Amsterdam to the U.S.  The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and police at
Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport said today they have opened
criminal inquiries into the matter after one person was injured
on a flight to  Minneapolis  and single needles in sandwiches were
found in two flights to Atlanta and in one flight to Seattle
from the Dutch airport.  “FBI Atlanta is heading up the entire criminal
investigation in concert with our legal attache who will help us
address these issues abroad,” said Stephen Emmett, an Atlanta-
based special agent, in a telephone interview.  In addition to the Minneapolis case, single needles were
found in a sandwich by a federal air marshal on a flight to
Atlanta, by a passenger on a separate flight to Atlanta and in a
sandwich that hadn’t been served on a plane to  Seattle , Kristin Baur, a Delta spokeswoman, said in an interview yesterday. The
injured person on the Minneapolis flight declined medical
treatment, Baur said  “The security around our meal production in Amsterdam has
been increased,” Baur said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
have increased the amount of pre-packaged food we are serving to
our passengers on board our flights out of Amsterdam. Delta is
requiring all kitchens to increase already rigorous security
while the investigation is under way until we determine the
cause.”  ‘Upsetting Situation’  Schiphol Airport police have formed a team to investigate
the incidents and are working closely with U.S. authorities,
Robert van Kapel, a police spokesman, said in a telephone
interview.  Delta is working with local and federal officials who are
investigating the incident, Baur said yesterday. After the
discovery, the carrier said it removed items prepared at the
Gate Gourmet facility in Amsterdam and replaced them with pre-
packaged foods. It pulled from the menu turkey sandwiches, which
were served to customers in business class on the flights.  David Fisher , a spokesman for  Gate Gourmet , confirmed
yesterday the caterer did prepare the sandwiches while declining
to comment further on specifics of the incidents because they’re
under investigation.  “We take this terribly upsetting situation very
seriously,” Fisher said yesterday. “We immediately launched an
investigation into this incident and are working in full
cooperation with the authorities that are involved.”  Fisher didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
further comment on the investigation.  No other incidents were reported on flights from Amsterdam
to the U.S. on July 15 or yesterday, Delta has said. Atlanta-
based Delta operates as many as 18 such flights daily, and flew
17 on July 15.  Gate Gourmet, the largest independent provider of catering
and provisioning services for airlines and railroads, is a unit
of  Gategroup Holding AG (GATE) , based in Zurich.  Delta fell 1.5 percent to $10.80 at the close in  New York .
The shares have risen 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  