-- Dollar Declines as Investors Speculate on Steps by Fed
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-17T21:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/dollar-remains-lower-before-bernanke-senate-testimony.html
The dollar dropped against all of
its 16 most-traded counterparts except the yen as investors
speculated the  Federal Reserve  still may take further steps to
spur the nation’s economic recovery.  The U.S. currency rose  earlier  as Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  refrained in congressional testimony from discussing
specifics on stimulus, disappointing investors who were betting
on signals for a third round of asset purchases by the central
bank. The yen fell against all of its major peers as risk
appetite rose and stocks rallied. Australia’s dollar climbed.  “Initially the dollar had rallied against all the major
currencies as people had adjusted easing expectations because he
didn’t mention it,” said  Kathy Lien , managing director of
foreign exchange at BK Asset Management, an investment advisory
firm in  New York . “As he continued, people realized Bernanke
overall remains pessimistic and didn’t send a clear-cut signal
because he wants to buy time. The door is still wide open.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.2294 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time after gaining as much as 0.7 percent and weakening
0.4 percent to $1.2317, the lowest since July 10. The greenback
appreciated 0.2 percent to 79.06 yen. The Japanese currency fell
0.4 percent to 97.21 per euro.  Europe ’s shared currency was within 3 cents of its lifetime
average of $1.2087 from Jan. 1, 1999, when it began trading,
through yesterday.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gained 0.7 percent after
falling 0.6 percent earlier.  Dollar Weakens  The dollar has lost 0.6 percent in the past week, the worst
performer versus nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Britain’s pound was the
best performer, gaining 0.5 percent, while  New Zealand ’s dollar
fell 0.4 percent and the euro slipped 0.1 percent.  Bernanke, in the first of two days testifying before
Congress as part of the central bank’s semiannual monetary
policy report, repeated the Fed is ready to take further action
to boost the economic recovery. Progress on reducing
unemployment will probably be “frustratingly slow,” he said.  The euro pared losses as Bernanke, in response to
questions, said the central bank’s easing tools include further
purchases of assets, including mortgage-backed securities,
reducing the interest rate the Fed pays on reserves that banks
keep with it and altering communications on the rate outlook.  ‘How High’  “Easing is still on the table,” said  Mark McCormick , a
New York-based currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. “It’s just a matter of how high is the bar for actually
implementing it.”  Retail sales unexpectedly fell 0.5 percent in June, the
Commerce Department said yesterday, while Labor Department data
today showed consumer prices were unchanged last month from May,
when they slid 0.3 percent. The data spurred speculation
Bernanke would signal new stimulus steps in his testimony.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds from 2008 to 2011 in
two rounds of a tactic called quantitative easing, seeking to
cap borrowing costs and stimulate the economy. Last month, it
expanded the program known as Operation Twist that replaces
short-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt.  The yen fell for the first time in four days versus the
dollar after Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said gains in the
currency were “speculative” and officials will “take decisive
action if needed.” The yen appreciated to 78.69 per dollar
yesterday, the strongest level since June 18.  The yen gained versus the dollar in each of the past three
weeks, advancing 1.6 percent versus the dollar from June 22
through July 13.  Volatility Eases  Implied volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies fell to 8.9 percent, the lowest on a closing
basis since April 27, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility
Index . Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of
nations with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive
because the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase
profits. The average over the past year is 11.5 percent.  Australia ’s dollar rose for a third straight day against
the U.S. currency after the nation’s central bank released the
minutes of its July 3 policy meeting.  “Consumption was being supported by a favorable labor
market,” the central bank said. “With recent signs that the
domestic economy had a little more momentum than had earlier
been indicated, members saw no need for any further adjustment
to the cash rate.”  The Aussie advanced 0.7 percent to $1.0316 and climbed 0.9
percent to 81.56 yen.  Canadian Dollar  The Canadian dollar gained versus a majority of its most-
traded counterparts after Bank of Canada policy makers signaled
interest-rate increases remain possible even as the nation’s
economy cools. They kept the benchmark rate at 1 percent.  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0120 per
 U.S. dollar . It rose against 11 of its 16 most-traded peers.  Sweden’s krona climbed against all its major counterparts
as central-bank minutes showed “there were differences on how
expansionary monetary policy should be.”  The Riksbank held its benchmark interest rate at 1.5
percent this month, after two cuts since December, and signaled
it may be prepared to lower rates again as Europe’s debt crisis
weighs on growth in the largest Nordic economy.  The krona strengthened 1 percent to 8.5578 per euro and
rallied 1.2 percent to 6.9612 per dollar.  “The krona is modestly stronger following the release,”
BNP Paribas SA strategists led by  Steven Saywell , London-based
head of currency strategy for Europe, wrote in a note to
clients. “A major policy issue for several members was how the
unexpectedly strong development of the Swedish economy should be
seen in relation to the increased concern about a weaker
development in the euro area. However, we wouldn’t chase euro-
krona lower from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  