-- Downgrade Anniversary Shows Investors Gained Buying U.S.
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-16T13:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/downgrade-anniversary-shows-investors-gained-buying-u-s-.html
When  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
the U.S. government’s  credit rating  in August, predictions of
serious fallout soon followed.  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney described it
as a “meltdown” reminiscent of the economic crises of  Jimmy Carter ’s presidency. He warned of higher long-term  interest
rates  and damage to foreign investors’ confidence in the U.S.  U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said the
government’s loss of its AAA rating would raise the cost of
mortgages and car loans. Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said over time the
standing of the dollar and U.S. financial markets would erode
and credit costs rise “for virtually all American borrowers.”  They were wrong. Almost a year later,  mortgage rates  have
dropped to record lows, the government’s borrowing costs have
eased, the dollar and the benchmark S&P stock index are up, and
global investors’ enthusiasm for Treasury debt has strengthened.  “The  U.S. Treasury  is still the widest, deepest and most
actively traded in the world,” said Jeffrey Caughron, a partner
at Baker Group LP in Oklahoma City, which advises community
banks on investments of more than $40 billion. “That becomes
all the more important when you have signs of weakening global
economic growth and continued problems in Europe.”  Even in a slow recovery, the U.S. has unparalleled assets
in the global market, including the size and resilience of its
economy and the dollar’s standing as the world’s reserve
currency. Low Treasury yields show that most investors think
the U.S. government will meet its obligations, no matter how
dysfunctional the political climate becomes in Washington.  Buffett’s Rating  Warren Buffett , the Omaha, Nebraska-based billionaire
investor, turned out to be prescient in shrugging off the
downgrade: “In Omaha, the U.S. is still triple-A,” Buffett
said in 2011 amid the uproar. “In fact, if there were a
quadruple-A rating, I’d give the U.S. that.”  Still, there is broad agreement that the U.S. must address
the long-term fiscal imbalances that have driven public debt up
to 68 percent of gross domestic product. Ryan and other
pessimists contend the country is benefiting from temporary
forces such as a flight of capital from Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis and the Federal Reserve’s “Operation Twist” program to
buy long-term debt.  They warn that the window financial markets have provided
could close at some unpredictable time if the budget issues
aren’t resolved. Standing in the way of a resolution is a
widening partisan divide in Washington.  Debt-Limit Fight  Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S. credit rating after
months of wrangling last year between President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans over whether to raise the federal debt
limit. Though the impasse ended with Obama signing a  debt-
ceiling  increase on Aug. 2, S&P downgraded the U.S three days
later, citing political gridlock in Washington and the nation’s
long-term fiscal challenges.  Treasuries responded by staging the biggest rally since
December 2008, returning 2.8 percent that month as investors
repudiated the decision.  Yields on Treasuries due in 10 years have fallen 1.07
percentage point since the downgrade and have touched all-time
lows, dropping to 1.44 percent on June 1. U.S. government bond
prices, which move in inverse proportion to yields, have soared,
such that the securities have gained 7 percent since Aug. 5
after returning 9.8 percent in 2011, their best performance
since 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Big Returns  As a result, the naysayers would have earned about $8.59
million on a $100 million investment in Treasuries maturing in
five to 10 years had they started a trade the day the U.S. was
downgraded, according to the Merrill Lynch index data. Hedge
funds worldwide have lost about 5.8 percent during that span,
which would amount to a $5.8 million loss on a $100 million
investment through the end of June, according to the Bloomberg
Global Aggregate Hedge fund  index .  Almost half the time, yields on government bonds fall when
a rating action by S&P and Moody’s suggests they should climb,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades,
downgrades and outlook changes going back as far as the 1970s.  The rally showed the downgrade “was a mistake,”  Alan Blinder , a  Princeton University  professor and former Federal
Reserve Board vice chairman, said in a July 2 interview in New
York. “The U.S. Treasury is still at the top of the heap.”  Consumer Borrowing  Consumer borrowing costs have also dropped. Home loan rates
for 30-year U.S. mortgages on July 12 fell to a record low for a
fourth straight week. The average rate for a 30-year fixed
mortgage  declined  to 3.56 percent in the week ended July 12, the
lowest in Freddie Mac records dating to 1971. In the week ended
Aug. 4, 2011, immediately before the downgrade, the average rate
was 4.39 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, has climbed about 12 percent since S&P’s Aug. 5
downgrade, as of July 13. The S&P 500 stock index has  returned 
15.6 percent, including reinvested dividends.  The U.S. attraction for global investors has strengthened.
In May, 46 percent of international investors chose the U.S. as
the market with the most potential during the next year, up from
31 percent a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg poll.  More Entrenched  Because the consequences that had been forecast for a
downgrade haven’t occurred, lawmakers may become more entrenched
in their positions in the next standoff over fiscal policy,
approaching at the end of the year. The threat of a downgrade
has lost some of its power, said Steve Bell, a former Republican
staff director for the Senate Budget Committee.  “You cried wolf, and no wolf appeared,” said Bell, who’s
now a senior director at the Bipartisan Policy Center in
Washington. “It has persuaded a fair number of members of
Congress that the effect of a downgrade is overstated and it
will not lead to some serious economic or financial problem.”  Still, the possibility of another downgrade will weigh on
policy makers, said  William Daley , Obama’s former White House
chief of staff. Even though Treasury yields fell, “ consumer
confidence  dropped dramatically after the downgrade, and do we
really want to test that again?” he said.  The Conference Board’s Consumer Confidence index plunged
from 59.2 in July 2011 to 45.2 in August in the wake of the debt
standoff and credit downgrade. The index didn’t recover to its
July level until December.  Growth in  consumer spending  slowed from 0.8 percent in July
of last year to 0.1 percent in August before rebounding to 0.7
percent in September.  Investors in America  Romney, speaking to reporters in Concord, New Hampshire,
three days after the downgrade, said the ratings cut “has a
consequence not only for our borrowing cost long-term, but also
for the ability of America to have the confidence of people
around the world as investors in America.”  Glenn Hubbard , a Romney economic adviser, said in a July 12
telephone interview that the Republican candidate “was and is
absolutely right.” Flight of capital out of Europe, a slowing
world economy and the Fed’s program of replacing holdings of
short-term debt with longer-term securities have obscured the
impact of the downgrade, he said.  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, also defended his warning,
saying interest rates haven’t gone up only because so many other
nations are in such bad shape.  Save Haven  “We are a safe haven for now” for investors because of
Europe’s debt crisis, Ryan said in an interview. Rates will
rise, he predicted. “We just don’t know when, and I don’t want
to tempt fate.”  El-Erian of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, which
oversees the world’s biggest bond fund, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Terry Belton, global head of fixed-income and foreign-
exchange research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said on a
July 26, 2011, conference call that a downgrade could boost
Treasury yields by as much as 70 basis points in the
intermediate term and increase the government’s borrowing costs
by $100 billion a year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Instead, the U.S. is on track to pay less interest this
year. U.S. Treasury securities paid $454 billion of interest
last year,  according  to the  Congressional Budget Office . That’s
projected to decline to $442 billion this year and won’t climb
above the 2011 cost level until 2015, according to CBO
forecasts.  Credit Quality  Weakening U.S. credit quality, such that the nation more
resembles a AA rated borrower, is still likely to drive up 10-
year yields by about 60 basis points over time, JPMorgan’s
Belton said in a recent interview.  “Yield changes during the last year had nothing to do with
the downgrade, but it had to do with everything else pushing
yields lower,” Belton said. “On the top of that list you have
a massive flight to quality out of Europe, and the U.S. is a
safe haven.”  Investors outside the U.S. owned $5.16 trillion of U.S.
government debt as of April 30, compared with $4.7 trillion at
the end of July 2011 before the credit-rating cut.  “The one thing the Treasury market has above any other
government bond market is liquidity,”  Stuart Thomson , a money
manager in Glasgow at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees the
equivalent of $109 billion, said in a June 22 interview. “That
liquidity premium is not going to disappear no matter how many
downgrades Moody’s or S&P give to it.”  Bidders offered $3.16 for each dollar of the $1.075
trillion of notes and bonds  auctioned  by the Treasury Department
this year as of July 2, as yields reached all-time lows, above
the previous high of $3.04 in all of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called bid-to-cover ratio was 2.26
from 1998 to 2001 when the nation ran budget surpluses.  Thanks to Europe  “The Europeans have been making us look great,” said
 Phillip Swagel , former assistant Treasury secretary for economic
policy in the George W. Bush administration and now a professor
at the University of Maryland in College Park. “It’s all
relative. We don’t have the political will to solve our problems
that aren’t far over the horizon, but the Europeans don’t have
the political will to solve the problems at their doorstep.”  S&P said last month that political and fiscal risks could
lead to a second downgrade of U.S. debt by 2014. While Moody’s
and  Fitch Ratings  have kept their top grades on the U.S., both
have a negative outlook.  Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  said before the downgrade that
an S&P cut would be “no big deal,” according to an April 18,
2011, New York Times blog  post .  “They have no really solid grip on what it is that they’re
talking about,” Krugman, an economics professor at Princeton
University, said in a telephone interview on May 9 of this year.
“What does it mean to give the U.S. a credit rating? It’s
unlikely the U.S. will ever default, we might engage in some
inflation. So what is it that they’re talking about?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 Choyt2@bloomberg.net  