-- Draghi Meets Noonan as ECB Shift Strengthens Irish Hand
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-17T19:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/draghi-meets-noonan-as-ecb-shift-strengthens-irish-hand.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the question of senior bondholders sharing the
burden of ailing banks is “evolving” in  Europe  and he expects
developments to be reflected in Ireland’s bailout program.  Draghi acknowledged the “successful implementation” of
Ireland’s program in a meeting with Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  in  Frankfurt  today, the ECB said in a statement.
As there aren’t bondholders now in Irish banks where burden-
sharing “would be of any great solution,” Ireland will benefit
from policy changes “in some other way,” Noonan said.  Ireland is “making progress” in easing the terms of its
international bailout, Noonan told reporters after his talks
with Draghi. “In the context where policies change elsewhere in
the euro zone, these changes will be reflected in the Irish
program to improve its sustainability.”  The discussions took place against the backdrop of a move
by the ECB to advocate losses on senior bondholders at crippled
euro-area banks, as cited yesterday by two officials with
knowledge of the ECB’s thinking.  The position has moved since the ECB opposed forcing losses
on the senior creditors of Irish banks including former Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. and Irish  Nationwide Building Society  after the
government started to inject capital into the banks in 2009.  Draghi, in his talks with Noonan, “noted that the question
of burden sharing with senior bond holders is evolving at the
European level, through ongoing discussions on an EU Resolution
Directive,” the ECB said in the statement. “He expects that
these developments will be reflected in the Irish adjustment
program.”  Debts Repaid  Ireland has already repaid most senior, unsecured and
unguaranteed bondholders in former Anglo Irish and Irish
Nationwide, two lenders being wound down at a 34.7 billion-euro
($43 billion) cost to taxpayers. The two were merged last year
and were renamed as Irish Bank Resolution Corp., which is due to
close by the end of the decade.  “There is no question whatsoever of burden-sharing with
senior bondholders of any Irish banks,” Paul Bolger, a
spokesman for Noonan, said by phone when asked to clarify the
comments made in the ECB statement.  Still, analysts including Conall Mac Coille at Davy have
said that any policy change on senior bondholders in euro-area
banks sharing the burden of ailing lenders may help Ireland
restructure its debt burden after a bailout of its banks.  “This strengthens Ireland’s hand in any negotiations over
the coming months on easing its bank costs,” Mac Coille, chief
economist at the Dublin-based securities firm, said before the
meeting. “At the very least, it should help the government’s
long-standing campaign to refinance the promissory notes used to
bail out Anglo and Irish Nationwide.”  Promissory Notes  Noonan has been campaigning since September to re-engineer
about 30 billion euros of so-called promissory notes -- or IOUs
-- used to bail out Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide. Ireland
has injected or pledged 64 billion euros into its banks over the
past three years after the collapse of a domestic real-estate
bubble.  Former Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s government issued the
promissory notes in 2010 instead of raising money in the debt
markets. While the securities are currently repayable in annual
3.1 billion-euro installments for more than a decade, Noonan has
said he may seek a bond from the euro-area bailout fund to
refinance the notes and spread the cost over 30 years. Noonan
said that he discussed the notes with Draghi.  The notes are currently refinanced through the national
central bank’s emergency liquidity assistance program. The ECB
Governing Council has a veto on the provision of this financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  