-- Dueling Houston Donors Take Feud to Presidential Campaign
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/dueling-houston-donors-take-feud-to-presidential-campaign.html
Fliers distributed at the  Texas 
Republican convention last month depict Democrat Steve Mostyn in
a menacing sketch, asking why he’s trying to “infiltrate”
their party. A companion website, largely financed by rival Bob Perry, warns of Mostyn’s “invisible hand” in state politics.  Mostyn associates are returning fire. One of his employees
runs a  website  that features a mugshot-style photo of Perry,
with the claim that he’s the one taking over Texas politics.  It sounds like routine, political mudslinging. It isn’t,
and here’s the odd part: They aren’t candidates; they’re wealthy
donors who have given millions to state lawmakers.  Now, the Lone Star State feud is spilling into the
presidential campaign as Mostyn, a Houston trial attorney, is
helping Democrats try to match the millions that Perry, a
Houston home builder, has given to super-political action
committees running attack ads in swing states.  “If they get into a race, they define that race,” says
 Bill Miller , who has been involved in Texas politics since 1985
and whose lobbying firm represents Perry in Austin. “They’re
cut from the same bolt of cloth. They give to whoever they want,
when they want and in the amount they want. And they both do it
for the same reason -- outcome.”  Super-PAC Donations  Mostyn, 41, an East Texas native with a linebacker’s build
and a goatee, gave $1 million in May to Priorities USA Action, a
super-PAC backing President  Barack Obama . He’d been wooed by
Democratic strategists  Paul Begala  and  Bill Burton  during a
four-hour conversation aboard Mostyn’s yacht in  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida .  Later this month, Mostyn will introduce the Priorities duo
to other wealthy Texas Democrats, he said in an interview.
They’ll spend three days in a half-dozen meetings in  San
Antonio ,  Dallas , Houston and elsewhere, flitting to each
location in Mostyn’s Hawker 750 plane.  “There’s a lot of money here, but nationally, we’ve been
forgotten because we haven’t been in play,” Mostyn said. It has
been 36 years since Texas went for a Democratic presidential
candidate. His wife and fellow attorney Amber Mostyn gave
$500,000 to House Majority PAC, which supports Democrats for
Congress.  Obama Texas Fundraisers  Obama will attend fundraisers tomorrow in San Antonio and
Austin, and Mostyn will be present for the one at the home of
San Antonio trial lawyer  Mikal Watts .  Perry, 79, has donated to a super-PAC devoted to electing
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , giving
$4 million to Restore Our Future. He contributed another $2.5
million to American Crossroads, a super-PAC that works to elect
Republicans in Congress in addition to helping Romney.
Crossroads was formed with the help of  Karl Rove , a former
political adviser to President  George W. Bush .  Born in a one-room house in central Texas, Perry founded
and controls closely held Perry Homes, the largest home builder
in the Houston area, according to the Houston Business Journal.
The company earned $325 million in local revenue in 2011, the
Business Journal reported. Perry declined through a spokesman to
be interviewed.  Mostyn also comes from humble means and was the first in
his family to finish college, receiving his law degree from the
 South Texas College  of Law in 1996. Three years later he founded
the Mostyn Law Firm, which now has 170 employees including 32
attorneys at five offices across the state. The firm has
represented 20,000 clients and earned about $30 million in fees
from settlements for residents whose homes were damaged by
Hurricanes Ike, Rita and Dolly.  Key West Yacht  The Mostyns and their 5-year-old daughter and 11-year-old
son primarily live in a modernist house in Houston that has an
assessed value of about $6.6 million. They also have a home on
Lake Lyndon B. Johnson in the Texas Hill Country and in  Key
West , where the yacht is normally docked.  Mostyn is as extroverted as Perry is introverted, said
Miller and Democratic state Senator John Whitmire, who know both
men. Mostyn was head of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association last
year -- the youngest to lead the group -- and is a fixture in
the state house, the back door to which leads to the trial
lawyers’ building.  “They’re two strong-willed people with major resources who
are squaring off,” said Whitmire, who has accepted campaign
contributions from both men. “That’s what makes the world
interesting and elections challenging.”  Legal System  Like many Texas political players, Mostyn and Perry are
driven by calls for changes in the legal system, said Craig McDonald of Texans for Public Justice, an Austin-based nonprofit
that tracks campaign giving in the state.  Perry wants to curb the ability of people to sue companies
-- including his own, while Mostyn, who earns his income as a
plaintiff’s attorney, wants to make it easier to go to court.  “Tort reform has really defined Texas politics for the
better part of two decades,” McDonald said.  In the national arena, Mostyn said he’s trying to prevent
federal politics from following Texas’s move to the right, a
model called “frightening.” He also said he supports Obama’s
health care and education policies and doesn’t want to see more
Republican-nominated justices on the U.S. Supreme Court.  Perry supports Romney because “he is a proven business
leader with a history of  job creation  who recognizes the federal
government does not have unlimited power,” said Anthony Holm, a
Perry spokesman.  Feud Begins  The feud began in 2008, when Mostyn emerged as a major
Democratic contributor. Within two years, he’d surpassed Perry
as the top political giver in Texas -- a state that has no
donation limits.  Mostyn, his wife and law firm in 2010 gave $9.7 million;
ranked right behind them were Perry and his wife, Doylene, who
gave $8.3 million, according to Texans for Public Justice.  Perry backed the re-election of Governor  Rick Perry , who is
not related. Mostyn supported former Democratic Houston Mayor
 Bill White  in the gubernatorial race.  Their giving isn’t limited to candidates; they’ve each
funded a network of political action committees.  Some Mostyn-funded groups are Back to Basics, Texas Values
in Action Coalition and Texans for Insurance Reform. Perry’s
preferred groups include the Texans for Lawsuit Reform, the
Associated Republicans of Texas Campaign Fund and Hispanic
Republicans of Texas.  ‘The Invisible Hand’  Perry is the single largest donor to Texans for Lawsuit
Reform, having given $2.3 million to the group between 2001 and
2010, according to Texans for Public Justice.  In 2010, Texans for Lawsuit Reform posted a website called
“ The Invisible Hand of Steve Mostyn ,” which shows a spider
web-like chart of Mostyn groups and the candidates they support.  The group also handed out fliers at the state Republican
convention in June questioning why Mostyn is supporting
Republican primary candidates.  “As he became more prominent in opposing pro-tort reform
candidates, we believed the best message in countering his
challenge was to say this man is the largest funder of Democrats
in Texas and is a personal injury trial lawyer who has a self-
interested agenda,” said Sherry Sylvester, the group’s
spokeswoman.  Like-Minded  Mostyn shrugs off what he calls the campaign to “reveal”
him, noting that he is backing Republicans who agree with his
position on preserving the right to bring lawsuits.  “When you control the whole damned state, you’ve got to
make somebody the boogeyman in order to keep raising money,” he
said. He doesn’t dispute the Republicans’ characterization of
him as the donor-in-chief of the state  Democratic Party . He
questions its importance in a state where Republicans control
the state legislature and have held the governor’s office since
1995.  “Being captain of the JV team is really not that powerful
of a position,” he said.  Mark McCaig is a lawyer in Mostyn’s Houston office. He also
calls himself “a lifelong conservative Republican” and
maintains a group called Texans for Individual Rights, which
bills itself as a Republican group devoted to “exposing” the
agenda of Perry-funded Texans for Lawsuit Reform.  Anti-Perry Website  Texans for Individual Rights’ website “Stop TLR,” lists
Perry among the “men who control Austin politics.”  McCraig said he started the campaign against his fellow
partisan because “I think Bob Perry is interested in protecting
Bob Perry’s pocketbook.”  That’s the same accusation Mostyn’s adversaries lodge
against him. Their prime bit of evidence is a May 5, 2010
donation of $25,000 that Mostyn made to Republican state
Representative Todd Hunter.  Hunter has voted against Mostyn’s interests when it comes
to tort reform and has received money from the Perry-funded
Texans for Lawsuit Reform. What raised eyebrows was the timing
of Mostyn’s check.  Days after accepting the Democratic contribution, Hunter
was selected as mediator in a lawsuit against the state’s
insurance fund filed by thousands of Gulf Coast Hurricane Ike
victims. Under his supervision, the parties arrived at a
settlement in which the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association
paid $189 million to Galveston County residents whose homes were
wiped out by Hurricane Ike. Mostyn led negotiations for the
residents.  Mostyn said the campaign money was “totally unconnected
to” Hunter’s work as a mediator. They’ve known each other for
years, and Mostyn asked Hunter if he’d take trial attorney money
since he was taking campaign contributions from insurers, both
Mostyn and Hunter said in interviews.  “Anybody who wants to give, great,” Hunter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  