-- The Republicans’ Most Hypocritical Economic Argument
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-07-16T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/the-republicans-most-hypocritical-economic-argument.html
The Republican position on
federal spending could not be clearer: It doesn’t create
jobs. Except when it goes to defense contractors.  Under the debt-ceiling deal reached last year, planned
spending is going to be “sequestered” -- that is, cut --
starting next January. The  defense budget  is going to take
half the hit. On July 12,  Mitt Romney ’s presidential
campaign issued a press release with a statement from Bill Bolling, the Republican lieutenant governor of  Virginia ,
attacking President  Barack Obama  for cutting defense too
much.  “We are very concerned about the impact that
sequestration could have on Virginia’s economy,” Bolling
 said in the statement . He added, “It could also deliver a
devastating blow to the private-sector defense contractors
who make up a big part of Virginia’s economy, especially in
Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads. This is just another
example of how the president’s approach to running the
country is jeopardizing our economic viability.”  The same day, the state’s attorney general,  Ken Cuccinelli , made the same point in his own statement for
the Romney campaign. And the campaign hosted a conference
call where Representative Randy Forbes, a Virginia
Republican, said, “If you look at it from an economic point
of view, this is something that is going to have an
enormous, devastating blow on Virginia, especially in
northern Virginia and in the Hampton Roads area.” There
would be “a huge impact on beauty salons, restaurants, car
dealers, the entire economy.”  Virginia’s Bounty  The cuts probably will hurt Virginia, since it is,
 according to  a 2011 Bloomberg Government study, the top
recipient of federal defense dollars. Is that really a
reason to keep the spending going, though? I’ve got nothing
against northern Virginia -- along with Hampton Roads, it’s
one of my favorite closely divided parts of a swing state.
The federal government, though, does more than enough for
the region already. You would expect Republicans, at least,
to think so.  It’s not just Virginia politicians and the Romney
campaign who are making the economic argument for defense
spending. It’s a case that has also been made by House
Armed Services Committee Chairman  Buck McKeon , Senator  John
McCain  and Senator  John Cornyn  -- Republicans all -- among
others.  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
calls his Republican colleagues’ insistence that defense
spending be protected to safeguard jobs “ weaponized
Keynesianism .” His accusation is unfair -- to Keynesians.
The Keynesian argument for government spending applies only
during economic slumps. The case Bolling and the others are
making recognizes no such limitation: The federal
government is supposed to keep the dollars flowing to
particular communities for all time.  There is, of course, no reason to think that defense
spending is more helpful to the economy than other kinds of
federal spending. Republicans have been dead-set against
sending federal money to states to help them avoid laying
off teachers. Yet teachers, too, spend money at beauty
salons and  car dealerships . They, too, have “good paying
and reliable jobs,” as the  National Association of
Manufacturers   said  of defense workers in a letter opposing
cuts in April.  Endless Spending  Needless to say, on the theory that the  Republicans
are advancing , the  federal budget  can never be cut. The
U.S. Conference of Mayors will be able to say that cuts in
social spending will devastate the economy of our cities
with at least as much justice as defense-heavy areas can
complain about cuts to the military. Rural areas can say
the same thing about  farm subsidies .  Reductions in federal spending, whether for defense or
social programs, will, of course, be disruptive to the
people, businesses and communities who have come to rely on
it. The cuts should not, however, hurt the broader economy.
When federal spending falls and jobs tied to that spending
disappear, private-sector spending should normally increase
and create jobs tied to it.  So long as the  Federal Reserve  is targeting inflation
or nominal spending, total economic activity should stay
roughly the same, even if its composition changes. (If the
Fed responds to  government spending  cuts by tightening
money, jobs will be lost. But that would be the fault of
 the Fed , not the budget writers.)  The Bloomberg Government study listed the 10 states
that depend the most on defense dollars. Seven of them
voted for the Republican presidential candidate in 2008,
and an eighth, Virginia, has usually voted Republican in
presidential races. So the party’s interest in keeping
defense jobs makes political sense.  Yet the purpose of the  defense budget  shouldn’t be to
subsidize particular people or areas. We don’t buy tanks
and train soldiers to keep beauty salons in business. The
Republicans resisting big defense cuts generally think that
they would jeopardize our national security. That’s a
debatable proposition. So debate it. What Republicans
should not do is make an economic argument for defense
spending that is both untrue and inconsistent with
everything else they say about spending and the economy.  When they do that, they treat the nation’s defense as
little more than a source of political pork.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on breaking up  too-big-to-
fail  banks and how to control  fires in Colorado ;  Noah
Feldman  on  Tunisia ’s  continuing Arab Spring ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Romney and Middle East peace ; William Pesek on
 Asia’s slowing growth ; Luigi Zingales on  Barclays and
business ethics .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  