-- EADS U.K. Defense Unit Revises Technology Plans in Sales Hunt
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-16T07:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/eads-u-k-defense-unit-revises-technology-plans-in-sales-hunt.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD) ’s U.K. defense operation will lean more heavily on sister
units in  France  and Germany to win new business without
drastically increasing its own spending.  Cassidian UK is looking for ways to expand beyond its main
activities, including military-pilot training, Michael Stevens,
who heads the business, said in an interview. Over the next 18
months, Stevens wants to strengthen technology sharing between
Cassidian’s U.K. and overseas sites.  The move comes as the entire Cassidian operation undergoes
restructuring to offset declines in defense budgets across
 Europe . The company, in March, disclosed plans to cut 600
positions and reorganize to achieve 400 million euros ($490
million) in savings over three to four years. The U.K. business
will prioritize research and development spending on  cyber
security , and push some of its products, such as secure network
technology, through its sister outlets, Stevens said.  “If you look at it globally, it is about growing the
topline,” said Stevens, who was appointed in April.  The British arm of Cassidian will also become more export
orientated, with the focus domestically on protecting current
sales levels, Stevens said in an interview at the Farnborough
air show outside  London . In 2011, Cassidian UK tripled export
sales to 26 million euros.  Cassidian aims to draw on its experience of providing the
French  air force  with pilot training on a fee-for-service
arrangement as it pursues a similar contract in the U.K.  Exports  The company also recently won a French defense ministry
contract to provide a new electronic box to help reduce
battlefield deaths from friendly fire. Stevens sees sales
opportunities in the U.K., too, for the so-called identification
friend-or-foe system meets new standards set within the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization military alliance of 26 European
countries, Canada and the U.S.  “Create it once and reuse it has to be the mantra,”
Stevens said. That model also applies to exporting, he said.  The 900-employee U.K. business, based in Newport,  Wales ,
booked sales of 103 million euros ($126 million) in 2011, just 2
percent of Cassidian’s total excluding revenue from a missiles
joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story: Robert Wall in London
   rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Noel at
   anoel@bloomberg.net  