-- Early Signs of Alzheimer’s Increases Risk of Death
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/early-signs-of-alzheimer-s-increases-risk-of-death.html
People with early signs of dementia
are at a higher risk of dying as medical conditions go
unattended while their mental health worsens, a study found.  The research, presented today at the Alzheimer’s
Association International Conference in  Vancouver ,  Canada , found
that older people with early signs of  memory loss  have twice the
risk of death than those without mental impairment. It also
found that those already with dementia had three times the risk
of dying during the study.  Mild cognitive impairment can be a precursor of more severe
dementia and  Alzheimer’s disease , according to researchers.
Attention to early Alzheimer’s symptoms can help improve all-
around health and reduce risks of illness that can lead to a
premature death, said  Mindy Katz , the study’s lead author and a
senior associate of the neurology department at the Albert
Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in  New York .  “It’s known that people who have dementia are at higher
risk for death, and the earlier you detect this precursor state
to dementia is an important issue,” Katz said. “They’re at
risk, so everyday situations that we take for granted may be a
problem for these people. The caregiver needs to be aware.”  The researchers followed 733 people over the age of 70 for
an average of five years. While the trial didn’t explicitly
study cause of death, co-existing diseases and disorders and
higher degrees of depression also were associated with higher
death rates.  Social Withdrawal  Those with mental impairment might withdraw from society
out of embarrassment, leaving them at higher risk of depression
and with fewer people to help meet their needs, said  Beth
Kallmyer , vice president of constituent services at the Chicago-
based  Alzheimer’s Association .  Kallmyer’s statements are supported by another study
presented today. Researchers from the  Oregon Health and Science
University  found that people with mild cognitive impairment
increasingly stayed at home as the disorder progressed. The
study monitored 148 adults averaging 84 years old for about 3
years on average.  “One of the reasons that these studies are so important is
that it gives us information about what might be going on with
people in these early stages,” she said.  At the study’s outset, both those with and without
impairment spent about 4.5 hours outside of the home. By the
study’s end, however, cognitively intact patients went out for
3.8 hours a day while those with impairment left for just 2.4
hours daily.  A Dentist’s Story  Alexander “Sandy” Halperin, a 62-year-old from  Florida ,
was a dentist and lecturer before he learned in 2008 that he had
mild cognitive impairment. He said though he accepted his
condition, initially felt a lack of purpose and had trouble with
social situations.  He said that changed after he began working with the
Alzheimer’s Association as an adviser. He said he thinks social
engagement is essential to dealing with the condition.  “I’m peaceful right now,” he said. “Since I’m in the
early stages, it does give me a chance to be an advocate.”  The association has begun a  pilot program  in 18 U.S. cities
that helps people with early Alzheimer’s to meet together for
social activities. The goal is to improve quality of life and
help them to aid one another, Kallmyer said.  “Maybe one of the reasons the  mortality rate  is higher is
because they aren’t able to address their other co-morbid
conditions,” she said. “Maybe they’ll take their medication
more regularly. Social engagement can also decrease
depression.”  The program began in June and runs through September.
Participants decide themselves what to do -- activities can
range from bowling to volunteering -- and will provide feedback
on their experience to be evaluated at the program’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in New York at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  