-- LeBron James’s Miami Heat to Play Preseason NBA Games in China
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-16T00:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/lebron-james-s-miami-heat-to-play-preseason-nba-games-in-china.html
LeBron James and the  Miami Heat  will
play two preseason games in China against  Blake Griffin  and the
Los Angeles Clippers in October, the first time the defending
National Basketball Association champions will participate in
the six-year history of the NBA China Games.  The Heat and Clippers will meet on Oct. 11 at the
MasterCard Center in Beijing and Oct. 14 at the Mercedes-Benz
Arena in Shanghai, the NBA said in a statement.  “The NBA China Games will feature several of the best and
most dynamic basketball players in the world and we’re excited
to tip off next season in Beijing and Shanghai,” NBA
International President Heidi Ueberroth said.  The Heat, led by James, a three-time Most Valuable Player,
and  Dwyane Wade , won the NBA title last month by beating the
Oklahoma City Thunder 4-1 in the best-of-seven championship
series. It was the first career title for James and came after
the Heat lost to the  Dallas Mavericks  in the NBA Finals in
James’s first season in Miami.  The Clippers won their second playoff series in 28 years
last season behind Griffin, who was the NBA’s rookie of the year
in 2010-11, won the NBA’s slam dunk contest in 2011 and averaged
20.7 and 10.9 rebounds last season.  While Griffin will have surgery on a torn meniscus in his
left knee, Clippers coach Vinny Del Negro told the Los Angeles
Times that Griffin will be ready for the start of training camp
in October.  The NBA also said the Mavericks will play preseason games
in Barcelona and Berlin, while the  Boston Celtics  have
exhibition games in Istanbul and Milan against top Euroleague
Basketball teams as part of NBA Europe Live.  The  New York  Knicks will face the Toronto Raptors in
Montreal and the Minnesota Timberwolves will meet the  Detroit
Pistons  in Winnipeg in the NBA Canada Series.  Since 1988, the NBA said it has played 107 preseason and
regular-season games in 17 countries and territories across
Europe, the Americas and Asia. The NBA in 2004 became the first
U.S. professional sports league to play games in China, with two
games between the Houston Rockets and Sacramento Kings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  