-- ECB Said to No Longer Oppose Losses for Bank Bondholders
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-16T12:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/ecb-said-to-no-longer-oppose-imposing-losses-on-bank-bondholders.html
The  European Central Bank  would no
longer oppose the forcing of losses on senior bondholders of
euro-area banks, said two officials with knowledge of the ECB’s
thinking.  A key condition to imposing losses is if the bank in
question is being wound down, one of the officials said. The ECB
supported imposing losses on senior bondholders of ailing
Spanish banks at a meeting of euro-area finance ministers in
Brussels on July 9, though the proposal didn’t get much
traction, the other official said. Both of them spoke on
condition of anonymity as the talks are confidential.  The Wall Street Journal today reported the ECB’s change of
position, after the Frankfurt-based ECB consistently opposed
handing losses to senior creditors of Irish banks following the
collapse of the country’s financial sector. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment on the WSJ report.  The ECB’s position has evolved since it opposed forcing
losses on the senior creditors of Irish banks including Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society after the
government started to inject capital into the banks in 2009.
Then, the ECB argued that reneging on the senior Irish bank debt
would damage financial stability in the wider euro area.  Spanish Rescue  The ECB also opposed efforts to restructure Greek sovereign
debt and refused to take losses on Greek  government bonds  held
on its balance sheet earlier this year. European officials are
now debating how best to rescue Spain’s banks after its leaders
requested 100 billion euros ($122 billion) of international aid
last month, becoming the fourth euro nation to seek help after
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  The cost of insuring against default on senior bank bonds
rose after the Wall Street Journal report. The Markit iTraxx
Senior Financial Index of credit default swaps on 25 banks and
insurers increased eight basis points to 281.4, the highest in a
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Spanish
government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield as high as 6.71
percent.  The European Commission today ruled out that senior “bail-
ins” would be part of the Spanish bank rescue. Commission
spokesman Simon O’Connor told reporters in Brussels that the
draft deal between the European Union and  Spain  “doesn’t
foresee participation of senior creditors.” Shareholders and
junior creditors would be involved, he said.  ECB ‘Turnaround’  “Politicians may find themselves under increasing pressure
to change this stance,” Michael Symonds, a credit analyst at
Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  in  London , said in a note to
clients. “The ECB’s standpoint is notable as it reflects a
turnaround from their staunch opposition to senior unsecured
haircuts during the bailout of the Irish banks.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  may now be importing experience
from his stint as head of the Financial Stability Board, which
backed forcing senior bondholders to take losses when banks fail
last year. The EU unveiled plans on June 6 that would empower
regulators to impose losses on senior unsecured creditors of
failing lenders by 2018.  A shift in position by the ECB raises the question of
possible changes to Ireland’s EU-International Monetary Fund
bailout deal, as requests by Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan to the ECB to be allowed to write down senior bank debt
were repeatedly rebuffed by former president  Jean-Claude Trichet , who left office in October.  Noonan said on June 19 that the ECB’s stance had
“hardened” since last year. “We’ll see how things play out in
the future,” he said.  Noonan will meet Draghi in  Frankfurt  tomorrow to discuss
“the ongoing sustainability of the Irish financial system,”
Paul Bolger, a finance ministry spokesman, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  