-- Media Company MP & Silva Puts Sports on YouTube With Rightster
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-07-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/media-company-mp-silva-puts-sports-on-youtube-with-rightster.html
MP & Silva , an owner of media rights
for English Premier League soccer and French Open tennis, said
online video programmer Rightster Ltd. will distribute its
content on YouTube, news sites and tablets.  The deal will include the creation of MP & Silva YouTube
channels, integrated betting rights services for bookmakers, as
well as online video and streaming to news sites and Web-enabled
televisions, MP & Silva Chief Executive Officer Andrea
Radrizzani said in an interview.  Video sites such  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  YouTube , Hulu LLC and
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  are rapidly expanding as people increasingly watch
TV, videos and films online. More than 1.2 billion people viewed
video content online in May, with YouTube being the most
watched, followed by Vevo LLC, according to ComScore Video
Metrix.  “Digital is a huge outlet and I expect most of our content
will be eventually watched online,” Radrizzani said. Through
Rightster, MP & Silva’s footage will be customized and localized
to various segments and populations, he said.  The company, based in  London  and  Singapore , provides some
10,000 hours of programming a year to more than 500
broadcasters, for events such as FA Cup, German Bundesliga and
 Major League Soccer . Rightster clients include The Guardian,
Elle and ITN Productions.  MP & Silva is targeting about 60 million pounds ($94
million) a year from platforms such as YouTube, betting services
and streamed live events, Radrizzani said.  “Some events wouldn’t be available on TV, for example, but
you could find them on digital,” he said. “We aren’t seeking
to replace the TV but to integrate and compliment the
television.”  The most watched TV entertainment sites are the HuffPost TV
Group, followed by CBS Entertainment and Groupe TF1, according
to ComScore figures.  Under its deal with MP & Silva, Rightster will also develop
an application for bookmakers for mobile phones and tablets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 