-- Medicaid Expansion’s Costs to States Leave Governors Undecided
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/medicaid-expansion-s-costs-to-states-leaves-governors-undecided.html
Governors who haven’t decided
whether to expand Medicaid to more low-income Americans, a key
provision of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, said
the program may wring too much money from their states.  Republican governors said at a conference in Williamsburg,
Virginia, over the weekend that they will wait to see whether
their party’s presumptive presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney ,
wins election in November and overturns the health-care law.
Democrats who haven’t taken a position said they’re weighing the
costs and benefits.  The majority of U.S. governors haven’t committed to
expanding Medicaid, an option created by a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling last month. About 17 million Americans would be eligible
to receive Medicaid benefits under the expansion, with costs
mostly paid by the federal government.  “We’re not going to spend any money, we’re not going to
exert any taxpayer money or resources on a system that very well
could be on a path to being repealed,” Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, told reporters at the National Governors
Association meeting. “It’s premature to spend any time even
thinking about it until after the election.”  The issue has injected governors into an election-year
debate over Obama’s health-care overhaul, the biggest change to
the U.S. health system since Medicaid and Medicare, which covers
the elderly, were established in 1965.  Majority Undecided  Governors of at least six states -- all Republicans -- have
objected to the Medicaid expansion and at least 26 say they’re
undecided, according to interviews and public statements.  The  Supreme Court  said the federal government couldn’t
force states to broaden Medicaid, a joint federal-state program.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act allows for
Medicaid to be opened to everyone with incomes up to 133 percent
of the poverty line, or about $25,400 for a family of three. If
states don’t expand the program, millions of Americans
struggling near poverty would still be without health care
coverage when the law takes hold, unable to either qualify for
Medicaid or the subsidies given to those with higher incomes to
buy insurance.  Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican who has yet
to decide, said he must balance the needs of the poor against
the pressure on a state budget already squeezed by other
expenses, such as the rising cost of pensions for public
employees.  State Obligations  “I am always worried about the people, but we have to
worry about the state economy as a whole and what it will do to
the state budget,” he said in an interview.  Virginia  Governor Robert McDonnell, a Republican, said he
has unanswered questions about the state’s obligations if it
accepts Medicaid funding. He also said he is leery of committing
to the expansion unless the Medicaid program is overhauled.  “Until we get more answers and more certainty, I don’t
have enough answers to tell you whether it’s a good idea for my
state,” McDonnell told reporters.  Three Democrats -- governors John Hickenlooper of  Colorado ,
Jay Nixon of  Missouri  and Steve Beshear of  Kentucky  -- said in
interviews over the weekend that they’re still considering
whether expanding the program is in the best interests of their
states.  “I don’t have a problem philosophically with it,” Beshear
said in an interview. “I’ve just got to make sure we can afford
it.”  He added: “I owe it to the taxpayers of Kentucky to make
sure I make a fiscally responsible decision. So I am going to
take my time to do it.”  ‘Complicated Issues’  Nixon said he is working with lawmakers to determine how to
proceed.  “These are complicated issues dealing with billions of
dollars and hundreds of thousands of people,” Nixon said in an
interview.  Governor  Martin O’Malley  of  Maryland , head of the
Democratic Governors Association, said in an interview that the
some Democrats’ reluctance to embrace the Medicaid expansion
reflects a need to build consensus with Republicans in their
states.  O’Malley, who plans to expand Medicaid, said the program
would benefit his state financially and create jobs.  Even though the federal government would pay most of the
costs -- 100 percent until 2017, with states’ share rising to a
maximum of 10 percent after that -- governors said they couldn’t
be certain that U.S. lawmakers would abide by that agreement.  Federal Costs  Under the law, the U.S. would pay about $931 billion
through 2022, and the states would pay $73 billion, according to
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington-based
group that examines the effects of government policy on the
poor.  Corbett joined other Republicans in expressing concern that
Congress might push more costs to states as the federal
government faces pressure to curb the rising national  debt.   “They hit hard times then it starts going down,” Corbett
said, referring to the federal government’s contribution. “So
that’s not an inducement to me at all. They make it sound like
it’s free money, but it’s not.”  Governors said they also want more information about their
ability to withdraw from the expansion if the terms change.  State Recovery  States are recovering financially from the toll of the 18-
month recession, which battered tax collections when the economy
slumped and led more unemployed residents to seek Medicaid
benefits. Medicaid has been the fastest-growing part of state
budgets over the past decade, expanding twice as much as
spending on education, according to the  National Governors
Association .  Even if the federal government pays 90 percent of the cost,
Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican who hasn’t decided
about expanding Medicaid, said his state may not be able to
afford it.  “We don’t know that we can add more people to the system,
even at 10 percent,” Bentley said.  The discussion of Obama’s health-care plan added a partisan
cast to a governors meeting typically focused on shared
concerns.  At a news conference, Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, a
Democrat, criticized Republicans who say they are going to wait
until after the election to make a decision.  “It’s not only irresponsible, it’s disingenuous,” he told
reporters.  Asked about Democrats who hadn’t made a decision, Shumlin
said his comments apply to every governor.  “Either you believe and you take it or you don’t and you
won’t,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Williamsburg, Virginia at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in Williamsburg, Virginia at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  