-- Teekay Returning to Profit as Russia Ships Record Oil: Freight
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-07-16T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/teekay-returning-to-profit-as-russia-ships-record-oil-freight.html
Teekay Corp. (TK) , the biggest operator
of Aframax crude tankers, is poised to return to profit after
three years of losses as record Russian oil exports by sea boost
charter rates to the highest since 2008.  Shipments from the new port of Ust Luga on the Baltic Sea
and Kozmino on the  Sea of Japan  will rise as much as 33 percent
to about 290 million barrels in 2013, state pipeline operator
OAO Transneft said July 12. Aframaxes, carrying 690,000 barrels,
are the most commonly used ships at the terminals because of
depth and port restrictions. Shares of Teekay, which operates 60
of the vessels, will rise 23 percent in the next 12 months, the
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Producers from  Russia  to  Saudi Arabia  to  Canada  are pumping
more oil to meet record demand from a global economy the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  predicts will need an extra 1
million barrels every day next year. With consumption growing
fastest in  Asia , cargoes for ships hauling crude across oceans
will be the most in five years in 2013, according to London-
based Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  “We have this brand new market,” Teekay Chief Executive
Officer Peter Evensen said in a phone interview July 5. “The
most important thing is that the developing world continues to
develop and need much more energy. We’re a play on the build-out
of the world’s energy infrastructure.”  Shares of Hamilton, Bermuda-based Teekay rose 6.7 percent
to $28.51 this year in  New York  trading and  will reach  $35.13 in
12 months, the analysts predict. The Lloyd’s List-Bloomberg Top
50 Shipping Index of the largest companies in the industry
declined 4.4 percent since the start of January as the MSCI All-
Country World Index of global equities advanced 3.6 percent.
Treasuries returned 3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. Index
shows.  More Bullish  Teekay will  narrow its net loss  to $45 million this year,
from $103.1 million in 2011, before returning to profit of $15.7
million in 2013, according to the mean of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The consensus has been getting more
bullish, rising from a prediction for profit of $2.26 million
six weeks ago, the data show.  The surge in Russian cargoes will help erode a glut of
Aframaxes that drove rates down 44 percent to $7,994 a day since
the start of January, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange. Returns for owners will average $17,000 in 2013, 23
percent more than this year, the median of 10 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows. They need about $8,400 to cover
costs including crew and insurance, according to a London-based
unit of Moore Stephens LLP advising the industry.  Russian Shipments  The surge in Russian shipments may be curbed by slowing
growth. The Washington-based  International Monetary Fund 
estimates a global expansion of 3.5 percent this year, compared
with 3.9 percent in 2011. World oil consumption declined 1.6
percent in 2009, the most in more than a quarter century, as
economies endured the worst recession since World War II,
according to data from London-based BP Plc. The IEA expects
demand to rise 1.1 percent to 90.9 million barrels a day in
2013.  While Aframaxes are getting new cargoes from Russia, they
are losing out in the Atlantic as trade shifts to Asia. Buyers
favor very large crude carriers, each carrying about 2 million
barrels, for the journey because they are more economical. About
700,000 barrels a day has moved onto the longer route, according
to Andreas Vergottis, the Hong Kong-based research director of
Tufton Oceanic Ltd., the biggest shipping hedge fund.  Ship Building  The Aframax rate projected for next year would still be 60
percent less than the $42,648 the vessels were earning in 2008,
according to the  Baltic Exchange , which publishes costs along
more than 50 maritime routes. That encouraged owners to embark
on the biggest ship building program in history and the fleet
expanded 17 percent since then, according to IHS Inc., an
Englewood, Colorado-based research company.  The glut is now diminishing as the slump in rates spurred
more scrapping of older vessels and owners refrained from adding
to orders. Outstanding contracts at ship yards are now equal to
6.6 percent of existing capacity, the lowest ratio of any class
of oil tanker tracked by IHS. The oversupply of ships also
extends to most of the rest of the merchant fleet. Costs for
Capesizes, which carry  iron ore  and coal, fell 75 percent this
year while rates for VLCCs declined 32 percent.  Teekay sold 80 percent of its oil-carrying unit  Teekay
Tankers Ltd. (TNK)  since an initial public offering in 2007, remaining
the biggest Aframax operator by managing other companies’ ships.
The company spent about $3 billion buying liquefied natural gas
carriers, vessels servicing the offshore  energy industry  and
shuttle tankers that ply dedicated trade routes, Vancouver-based
Evensen said. Conventional tankers  accounted for  31 percent of
revenue last year, from 62 percent in 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment Banking  LNG tanker rates surged in the past several years because
of demand from nations including  Japan  who are too far away from
producers to use pipelines. Rates will jump 42 percent to an
average of $136,000 a day this year, according to RS Platou
Markets AS, the  investment-banking  unit of  Norway ’s largest
shipbroker. Oil producers will drill 20 percent more offshore
wells this year as they seek to keep up with global demand,
Morgan Stanley estimates. Teekay owns vessels that store crude
extracted at sea before shuttling the oil to onshore refineries.  Its Aframax business is now rebounding as new shipments
emerge in Russia. Cargoes from Kozmino will advance as much as
30 percent to about 146.6 million barrels next year, according
to Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for Transneft. Those from Ust Luga
will climb to 20 million tons from 15 million to 18 million this
year, he said. Loadings at the Baltic port of Primorsk, the
country’s biggest oil-exporting facility, and the Black Sea
terminal of  Novorossiysk (NCSP)  will be little changed.  Export Capacity  Since Ust Luga started exporting in March, combined volumes
from Baltic ports rose 24 percent to the equivalent of 14
Aframax cargoes, according to Priscilla Sharun, a spokeswoman
for Teekay in  Vancouver . Improvements at Kozmino will double its
annual export capacity to 600,000 barrels a day by November,
according to the terminal’s operator. Loadings averaged 306,000
barrels a day this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The additional Russian exports will be a support for
Aframaxes out of the Baltic and in the  Far East ,” said Simon
Newman, an analyst at ICAP Shipping International Ltd. in
 London . “With falling fleet growth, we should see the market
begin to improve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  