-- Egypt to Raise Average Debt Maturity to Cut Refinancing Risk
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-16T16:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/egypt-to-raise-average-debt-maturity-to-cut-refinancing-risk-1-.html
Egypt  plans to raise the average
maturity of its domestic debt to 1.8 years, Finance Minister
Momtaz El-Saieed said, as the nation seeks to reduce refinancing
risks.  The plan, which will gradually raise maturities from next
quarter, will focus on selling more treasury bonds and fewer
treasury bills, or securities that mature in less than a year,
El-Saieed said in an interview in Cairo today. He declined to
say when the target would be reached.  Egypt’s average debt maturity fell to 1.3 years at the end
of 2011 from 1.7 years in 2010. Government borrowing, which has
increasingly relied on local banks as foreigners withdrew amid
unrest following the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak , isn’t
straining lenders, El-Saieed said. About 78 percent of this
quarter’s planned debt sales are for maturities of one-year or
less.  “They maybe trying to lock in current rates as the
prospect of further instability is still there,” said Jean- Michel Saliba, a London-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. “You don’t want keep exposing yourself every
three to six months to refinance your debt. Also, T-bill yields
are unlikely to come down in the near term so issuing longer-
term debt makes sense.”  Egypt has raised  its target 44 billion pounds to start this
quarter, part of a plan to raise a record 175 billion pounds in
the three-month period. Government borrowing costs have
stabilized after the central bank reduced for the second time
this year the local-currency reserve ratio for banks to 10
percent of deposits. The average yield on three-year T-bonds
fell three basis points, or 0.03 of a percentage point, at an
auction today to 16.15 percent compared with a July 2 sale.  The  Finance Ministry  also plans to offer floating-rate
securities starting next quarter to encourage more investors to
buy the debt, El-Saieed said. Increased borrowing by the
government since last year’s revolt isn’t negatively impacting
local lenders, he added.  “The private sector is dormant so government borrowing
makes use of unutilized bank liquidity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  