-- Egypt Court to Rule on Constitution as Army Warns Islamists
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-07-16T11:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/egypt-court-to-rule-on-constitution-as-army-warns-islamists.html
An Egyptian court is set to hear a
challenge to the panel charged with writing a new constitution,
as the country’s army chief issued a warning to its elected
Islamist leaders that may deepen the standoff between them.  Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi said yesterday that
the military would not allow a “certain group” to dominate the
political landscape, according to the state-run Middle East  News
Agency . The comment, at a ceremony in the city of Ismailiya, was
interpreted as directed against the Muslim Brotherhood, from
whose ranks newly elected President Mohamed Mursi was drawn.  Mursi lost the latest in a series of battles between
politicians and the judiciary last week, when judges shot down
his attempt to reconvene the parliament shut down by the army
last month following court orders. The next contest may begin
tomorrow, when the administrative court is due to assess the
legality of the constitutional panel. A previous version of the
body was dissolved amid complaints that it was too Islamist and
didn’t reflect the country’s variety.  The persistence of tension between political and military
leaders underlines the difficulty of restoring stability in
Egypt and reviving an economy that stalled after last year’s
revolt against  Hosni Mubarak . The generals who took over from
Mubarak formally ceded power to Mursi last month while making it
clear that they would continue to exercise authority.  Egypt’s  benchmark stock index , which surged after Mursi was
declared the election winner, has pared some of those gains,
declining 5 percent since July 3. Yields on benchmark dollar
bonds maturing in 2020, which slid to an eight-month low of 6.20
percent earlier this month, were trading at 6.25 percent at 1
p.m. local time today.  Clinton Visit  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who met both Mursi
and Tantawi over the past two days during a visit to Egypt,
urged them to push ahead with the transition to democracy. Her
visit was targeted by protests accusing the U.S. of backing the
Islamists, and of legitimizing continued military rule.  The U.S. provides  Egypt ’s military with more than $1
billion a year in aid. Clinton made no mention of the military’s
decision last month to strip the presidency of some of its
powers while affording itself temporary legislative authority.  The army’s new powers allow it to set up a new
constitutional committee if the current one fails. Some
secularists and other groups have boycotted the committee,
arguing it is still dominated by Islamists.  The court hearing on the committee’s fate was brought
forward from September, a move that left its members expressing
concern that the change signalled an intent to disband the body.  “This is a bad signal that the verdict expected Tuesday
would be politicized, as usual,” Amr Darrag, the secretary-
general of the committee’s executive office, was quoted as
saying by the state-run  Ahram Online  website today.  Mursi yesterday signed a law dealing with the panel’s
formation, ratifying legislation that had been passed by the now
defunct parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltabalwy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  