-- Elderly Sleep Pattern Changes May Help to Detect Dementia
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-16T15:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/elderly-sleep-pattern-changes-may-help-to-detect-dementia.html
Older adults who have too much, too
little or restless sleep have an increased risk for  Alzheimer’s
disease , according to studies that suggest doctors note these
conditions in patients for follow-up evaluations.  The research, presented today at the  Alzheimer’s
Association International Conference  in  Vancouver , adds to
increasing evidence that Alzheimer’s and other disorders have
early signs that can be caught by general practitioners.  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s and, by 2050,
that number is expected to grow to as many as 16 million,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . Without a cure in
sight, health experts are looking for signs that may aid in
early detection of dementia or help guide care.  “This is not exquisitely specific, but you think about
things that can be used in a relatively normal physician’s
office setting,” said  William Thies , chief medical and
scientific officer for the Chicago-based Alzheimer’s
Association. “It’s not a diagnosis, but it’s tracking a change
where you think, gee, that’s suspicious.”  One study found that women who slept too much or too little
had changes in their brains equivalent to aging two years.
Another found that women with sleep apnea had twice the odds of
developing a pre-Alzheimer’s condition.  In the first report, from a subset of the  Nurses’ Health
Study , 15,000 women age 70 and older were examined every other
year for 6 years. In that study, researchers found that those
who said they slept 5 hours a day or less had lower scores on
tests of cognition than those who claimed to sleep 7 hours. So
did those who reported 9 hours a day or more of sleep.  Sleep Changes  Changes in sleeping patterns by more than about 2 hours
over the course of the study were linked to lower cognitive
scores, according to the researchers, led by  Elizabeth Devore ,
an instructor at  Harvard Medical School  and Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in  Boston .  An analysis of 468 women in the study who gave blood
samples found that those in the group who slept 5 hours a day or
less or 9 hours a day or more had abnormal levels of the
Alzheimer’s-associated beta amyloid. That requires further
follow-up because there were so few women in it, Devore said.  “It’s important for clinicians to start asking about
sleep, because it’s important for lots of outcomes, including
cognitions,” Devore said. Her results suggest more research
should be done to determine how much women are actually
sleeping, and if the women reporting long sleep durations were
spending more time in bed without sleeping more, she said.  Circadian Rhythms  In a separate study of 1,300 women over age 75, scientists
found that those with sleep apnea or sleep-disordered breathing
had twice the odds of developing mild cognitive impairment, a
pre-Alzheimer’s disease condition. Sleep disturbances may be a
sign doctors should send patients for neurological evaluations,
said  Kristine Yaffe , a study author and researcher at the
 University of California ,  San Francisco .  Yaffe’s study found that over the course of 5 years, women
who developed disruptions in their circadian rhythms, the mental
and physical patterns that change over 24 hours, were at
increased risk of developing mild cognitive impairment.  A third study, following almost 4,900 people over 8 years,
showed that risks of cognitive decline increased when patients
had excessive daytime sleepiness. Increased difficulty
maintaining sleep at night wasn’t associated with the risk of
cognitive decline, according to the researchers led by Claudine
Berr of  France ’s National Institute of Health and  Medical
Research , or  INSERM .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  