-- Telefonica Said to Work With UBS, JPMorgan on German IPO
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-07-16T15:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/telefonica-said-to-work-with-ubs-jpmorgan-on-german-ipo.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone
company, is working with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
prepare for an initial public offering of its German unit,
according to people with knowledge of the plans.  Telefonica is discussing a sale of a 20 percent stake in
the O2 division for about 1.5 billion euros ($1.8 billion), one
of the people said, asking not to be identified because the plan
is confidential. The company intends to hold the sale this year
and the final size will depend on demand, the person said. It
may add other banks to help with the process.  Spain’s former phone monopoly said in May it will explore
stock sales for O2 Germany and its Latin American businesses as
the operator speeds up attempts to cut its net debt of more than
57 billion euros. O2 vies with  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus as the two
smaller of Germany’s four wireless network operators, led by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “It’s going to be a very difficult deal amid the current
market environment,” said Nuno Matias, an analyst at Espirito
Santo in Lisbon. “It needs to explain to investors what the
long-term prospects would be, such as whether or not there could
be any potential understanding with Slim to consolidate E-
Plus.”  Officials at Madrid-based Telefonica, JPMorgan and UBS
declined to comment.  E-Plus Deal?  Telefonica and KPN had explored a combination of their
German units and an IPO of the joint carrier earlier this year
while the former Dutch phone monopoly was fending off an
unsolicited offer by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB.  America
Movil  won the 28 percent stake it sought in KPN on June 28,
after increasing its holding in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  the same
month.  Spain’s Telefonica and The Hague, Netherlands-based KPN had
been in talks about a possible merger of their German operations
for the past three years, another person familiar with the
matter said.  After Slim’s offer for KPN was announced in May, KPN
accelerated the talks with Telefonica, the person said, asking
not to be identified because the talks were private. The
companies reached a deal for Telefonica to buy the stake Slim
wanted to acquire, and then consolidate the carriers’ German
businesses, the person said.  The deal collapsed after credit rating companies warned
Telefonica could be  downgraded  to junk status if it were to take
on any more debt, the person said.  Shares Decline  Eight IPOs have been announced in Germany so far this year,
down 53 percent from the 17 announced in the year-earlier
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of those,
Evonik Industries AG and Schiesser Group AG pulled their plans.
Five of the six IPOs that have price were for Chinese companies,
including  Vange Software Group AG (VWA) , a provider of information-
technology services.  Telefonica’s German unit had wireless-service revenue of
758 million euros last quarter, making it the smallest of the
country’s mobile-network operators. The division, which also
offers fixed-line phone and Internet services, reported 18.6
million mobile-phone customers as of March 31.  Atento Sale  O2 and E-Plus would have a combined mobile-phone customer
base of 41.7 million users, which would leapfrog Vodafone’s 36.5
million and Deutsche Telekom’s 35.1 million. Based on wireless-
service revenue in the first three months of this year, a
combined E-Plus and O2 remains smaller, with about 1.53 billion
euros, compared with Vodafone’s 1.7 billion euros and 1.66
billion euros for T-Mobile.  Telefonica  fell  2.2 percent to 9.75 euros at the close of
trading in  Madrid . The shares had fallen 27 percent this year,
valuing the company at about 44.4 billion euros.  The Spanish operator last month sold a $1.4 billion stake
in China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. to help cut debt. It has also
put its call-center division Atento on the block. Last week,
Telefonica said it had received several offers, without
identifying the bidders. The company is seeking about 1 billion
euros for the asset, people familiar with the matter have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  