-- Emerging Stocks Advance for Second Day on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-16T22:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/emerging-stocks-advance-for-second-day-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks gained as the
prospect that central banks in the U.S. and developing nations
will take measures to stimulate their economies offset a lower
global growth forecast from the  International Monetary Fund .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent to 926.73
at 5:30 p.m. in New York, with 375 companies advancing and 364
declining. Mexico’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  index gained 1 percent, led by  Grupo
Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*) , the retail and banking company controlled by
billionaire  Ricardo Salinas . Russia’s benchmark Micex gauge rose
0.4 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  climbed 1.2 percent.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index fell from a one-week high and
mining companies  Vale SA (VALE3)  and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
slumped on concern  China ’s slowdown may hurt exports.  Investors speculated that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may highlight the need for low borrowing costs to spur
the world’s largest economy when he speaks tomorrow before the
Senate Banking committee. Chinese authorities may announce
measures to boost their economy following a cabinet meeting this
week after the IMF cut its 2013 global growth forecast to 3.9
percent from 4.1 percent in April, and reduced projections for
China’s growth this year to 8 percent from 8.2 percent.  “There remains the hope, and to some degree the
probability, that central banks in  emerging markets , principally
China, and the U.S. Federal Reserve, will continue to ease
monetary policy in an effort to fuel forward growth,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion,
said in a phone interview. “Perhaps then, investors will be
able to focus on fundamentals and valuations rather than trying
to handicap the next policy-maker moves.”  EM ETF Drops  MSCI’s index of developing nations, which has gained 1.1
percent this year, trades at a multiple of 10.1 percent
estimated earnings, compared with 12.3 for the MSCI World Index
of developed nations, which has advanced 3.6 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.2
percent to $38.40.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 1.1 percent to 26.64.  The Bovespa slid 1.7 percent to a two-week low. Vale fell
1.4 percent while MMX tumbled 7.1 percent. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike
Batista , retreated 6.2 percent as Deutsche Bank AG lowered its
recommendation to sell from hold. Mexico’s Grupo Elektra surged
7.1 percent, the most in two months.  Russia, China  The Micex index’s advance was led by Federal Grid Co.,
which gained 2.6 percent. South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index (JALSH)  slipped 0.2 percent. FHB Mortgage Bank Nyrt. jumped
1.7 percent and was the third-biggest gainer on the BUX.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 1.7 percent, its lowest
close since March 2009. Suning Appliance Co., China’s biggest
electronics retailer by market value, slid the most on record in
Shanghai after estimating profit dropped as much as 30 percent
in the first six months of the year.  India ’s Sensex dropped 0.6
percent.  China’s central bank may cut  interest rates  by as much as
one percentage point in the coming year to spur lending, the
swap market signals. China’s State Council may this week give
details of easing measures to support growth after provincial
visits by Wen and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a note today.  State Bank of India , the country’s largest lender, advanced
1 percent on speculation of a rate cut.  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao announces his next rate decision on
July 31, following a 0.5 percentage-point reduction in April.  ZTE, BYD  ZTE Corp. (000063) , a Chinese telecommunications equipment maker,
dropped 16 percent, the most since October 2008, after the
company said first-half net income may be between 154 million
 yuan  ($24 million) and 308 million yuan, sliding from 769.3
million yuan a year earlier.  BYD Co. (1211) , the automaker backed by investor  Warren Buffett ,
tumbled 5.9 percent in  Hong Kong . China’s automobile dealers
will increase incentives and discounts as they struggle with a
worsening glut in the world’s biggest vehicle market, according
to Cheng Xiaodong, head of a unit that monitors auto prices at
the National Development and Reform Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  