-- Energy Demand May Rise on Heat, Humidity Across U.S. East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-16T13:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/energy-demand-may-rise-on-heat-humidity-across-u-s-east.html
Energy demand may rise 10 percent to
60 percent from  New York  to Chicago this week as another heat
wave take holds over the eastern U.S. and Canada.  A heat advisory has been issued in New York, where
temperatures are expected to reach 92 Fahrenheit (33 Celsius)
today and feel hotter, according to the  National Weather
Service . The city has opened cooling centers today and tomorrow.  “This week’s strong heat in the Midwest and East is not
expected to rival the previous heat wave in terms of absolute
temperatures, but it could match the demand levels in the East
due to higher humidity levels,” said  Matt Rogers , president of
the Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Humidity, along with heat, plays an important part in how
much energy is used. While temperatures may fall well short of
100 degrees, people will use air conditioners to fight muggy,
sticky conditions and send electricity use soaring.  The immediate result can be high prices on spot electricity
markets, while prolonged periods of heat, especially in large
cities, may cause natural gas futures to climb on bets that more
will be needed to produce electricity. Gas accounts for about 32
percent of the fuel used to make power in the U.S.  Earlier this month, temperatures rose to 100 degrees or
higher across much of the eastern U.S. Temperatures this week
are expected to peak in the high 90s.  Eastern Demand  The East Coast may use from 10 percent to 30 percent more
energy from July 17 to July 23 to fight the heat, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri . Thirty
percent to 60 percent more energy may be consumed in the
Midwest, including Chicago, Salmon said.  The U.S. cooling-degree days value for this week is
expected to be 91, or 17 higher than normal, according to the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs , Maryland. New
York state’s may be 79, or 24 more than normal, the center said.  The value, calculated by subtracting a base of 65 degrees
from the daily average temperature, is used by energy and
weather derivatives traders to gauge market demand for power-
plant needs. Higher values mean warmer weather and more energy
used for cooling.  Chicago  is expected to reach 97 today and tomorrow before
dropping into the mid-80s later this week, according to the
Weather Service. Yesterday’s high in Chicago was 95 and the
temperature has been above 90 there since July 12.  A heat wave is defined as at least three consecutive days
of temperatures of 90 or more.  Mid-Atlantic Heat  Washington may reach 97 today and 99 tomorrow, according to
Weather Service. The high in Philadelphia, where an excessive
heat warning has been issued, may peak at 98 tomorrow.  Toronto is forecast to be near 99 degrees tomorrow,
according to  Environment Canada .  While average temperatures will cool slightly in the
eastern U.S. and  Canada  next week, the Midwest will probably
remain about 8 to 14 degrees above normal from July 21 to July
25, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Prolonged high temperatures and a lack of rain across the
Midwest have caused the U.S. Agriculture Department to cut its
prediction for corn production to 12.97 billion bushels, 12
percent less than the record 14.79 billion the agency had
predicted a month earlier. The department has said the drought
is the worst in 24 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  