-- Meridian Takes on Banks as Canadian Credit Unions Grow
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-07-16T14:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/meridian-takes-on-banks-as-canadian-credit-unions-grow.html
Coast Capital Savings and Meridian
Credit Union lead Canadian credit unions planning to take
advantage of regulations allowing them to expand across the
country, challenging bigger competitors such as  Royal Bank of
Canada. (RY)   Credit unions, financial institutions owned by their
customers and overseen by provincial regulators, are awaiting
changes promised in the 2010  federal budget  giving them the
option to become federally-regulated entities. Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  released draft  rules  this month.  “We’re going to be reviewing the regulations and
legislative framework carefully to see if it presents
opportunities to partner with another credit union in another
province,” Sean Jackson, chief executive officer of Meridian,
the largest credit union in Ontario, said in an interview.  Expanding beyond their home provinces will let the
cooperatives compete with  Royal Bank of Canada ,  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  and other lenders that are part of what the  World Economic
Forum  has ranked the soundest banking system for four straight
years. Credit unions had C$280.8 billion ($276.9 billion) of
assets at the end of March, more than double a decade earlier,
according to  Credit Union Central of Canada , an association for
credit unions.  “While their asset base is relatively small overall, for
what it’s worth they have some fairly high penetration rates in
terms of customers in some markets,” Jason Bilodeau, an analyst
at TD Securities, wrote in a note to clients today.  Need to Expand  Canadians had C$234 billion in savings and deposits with
788 credit unions and caisses populaires as of March 31,
according to Credit Union Central of  Canada . The combined assets
of the credit unions are about a third the size of assets at
Royal Bank, the country’s largest lender. Canadian banks held
C$1.28 trillion in deposits at the end of April, according to
 Bank of Canada   statistics .  “There are some larger credit unions out there that are
finding they’ve done pretty well in their own markets, but they
need to expand to keep efficient,” Gary Rogers, vice president
of financial policy at Credit Union Central, said in a July 6
interview. “They might find a friendly credit union of a
similar size in another province that might be thinking the same
thing, and they could merge.”  This expansion will pose a longer-term challenge for
Canada’s banks, though there’s little for them to immediately
worry about, National Bank Financial analyst  Peter Routledge 
said in an interview.  “If the credit union movement in B.C. and the Prairie
provinces amalgamated, there could be more price competition
than there already is,” Routledge said. “They would have more
scale and probably would be able to compete on price in a more
threatening way.”  Choosing to Convert  The S&P/TSX Composite Commercial Banks Industry Index,
which consists of the country’s eight publicly traded banks, has
increased 1.8 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent
decline for the broader S&P/TSX Composite Index.  Credit unions choosing to convert would fall under the
oversight of Canada’s banking  regulator , the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions or OSFI, giving them
the ability to operate nationally instead of being limited to
their home provinces. Federal oversight would require them to
adopt OSFI mortgage rules, including new guidelines that limit
the size of loans secured by equity stakes in homes.  Credit unions have already undergone “significant”
consolidation, with the 10 largest now representing 41 percent
of all assets held by credit unions, according to the federal
finance department.  Meridian Takeovers  Meridian has done two takeovers in the past seven years,
including last year’s purchase of 19 branches from Desjardins
Credit Union to add C$1.4 billion in assets.  “We’ll likely see some new entrants from credit unions in
other provinces because Ontario happens to be one of the
provinces where the market share of credit unions is relatively
low,” said Jackson, who will join other cooperative officials
this week at the World Credit Union  Conference  in Gdansk,
 Poland .  The  United Nations  has declared 2012 the International Year
of Cooperatives, with events scheduled globally. Canada will
host an event in  Quebec City  from Oct. 8 to Oct. 12.  Coast Capital, the country’s second-biggest credit union
with C$11.8 billion in assets and 475,000 members, may look
beyond its home province for growth.  Coast Capital  “We’ve always been interested in national expansion,”
Tracy Redies, CEO of the Surrey, British Columbia-based lender,
said in a July 11 interview. “There’s 10 provinces in Canada
and there are opportunities probably in most of them. We just
need to look at what makes the most sense.”  Acquisitions are only one option to expand for Coast
Capital, according to Redies, who said the credit union has
gained by wooing customers away from the banks. In the past five
years, Redies said, 70 percent of Coast Capital’s new customers
have come from the five-biggest banks.  “It’s important that the credit union industry as a whole
has more flexibility in terms of growth options, because this is
a scale business and growth is important,” Redies, 50, said.  Tamara Vrooman, CEO of Vancouver City Savings Credit Union,
the country’s largest with C$16.1 billion of assets and 479,500
members, said the regulations offer “lots of options”
including the opportunity to partner with other  credit unions 
across the country. Vancity would consider such alliances, she
said.  Product of Mergers  “We’re founded in 1946 and at last count we are the
product of 54 mergers, so we definitely have a tradition of
working with other credit unions over our history,” Vrooman,
44, said in a July 11 interview. “I would expect that if a
credit union approached us and was interested in partnering with
us, we’d obviously want to support the credit-union model any
way we can, and we’d be open to having those discussions.”  Not all are interested in converting into a federal credit
union, such as Desjardins Group, Canada’s largest cooperative
financial group with 5.6 million members and 422 affiliated
caisses.  “We are quite satisfied with our present status, that of a
provincially regulated financial institution, which does not
prevent us from being present and active in the rest of Canada
mainly through our two insurance companies,” Andre Chapleau, a
spokesman for the Levis, Quebec-based group, said in an e-mail.  First West Credit Union, Canada’s fifth-biggest, said it’s
unlikely to look to get bigger by turning to the new rules.  “Our preference is to see credit unions retain their local
identity and local decision-making through a partnership model,
rather than through large scale mergers or aggressive national
expansion exercises,” Shawn Neumann, chairman of the Langley,
British Columbia-based credit union, said in a July 6 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  