-- Thermo Fisher Agrees to Buy One Lambda for $925 Million
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-16T20:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/thermo-fisher-said-to-be-near-deal-to-acquire-one-lambda.html
Thermo Fisher  Scientific Inc., the
world’s second-largest maker of health-care equipment, agreed to
acquire closely held One Lambda Inc. for about $925 million to
expand in specialty diagnostics.  The cash deal will add 9 cents to 11 cents a share to 2013
adjusted earnings, Thermo Fisher said in a statement today. The
company will issue $1.3 billion in debt to help fund the deal,
as well as pay for a new $500 million share buyback program.  Thermo Fisher will acquire Canoga Park, California-based
One Lambda’s technology for determining what human leukocyte
antigens are present in tissues, a process needed for successful
transplants and determining paternity. Thermo Fisher, based in
Waltham,  Massachusetts , beat out other bidders for the medical-
testing company, said people familiar with the transaction who
asked not to be identified as the process is private.  “We view this deal positively from both a strategic and
financial perspective,”  Ross Muken , an analyst at ISI Group LLC
in  New York , said in an e-mail. The acquisition’s price is
“reasonable,” he wrote.  JP Morgan Securities LLC is acting as financial adviser to
Thermo Fisher, and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP is
serving as legal counsel. Perella Weinberg Partners is acting as
financial adviser to One Lambda, and Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP is serving as legal counsel.  Thermo Fisher  fell  less than 1 percent to $51.90 at the
close in New York.  Seventh Acquisition  The acquisition is the seventh announced by Thermo Fisher
since May 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company, which has spent at least $6.8 billion on 27 takeovers
in the past five years, will keep seeking purchases as
laboratory budgets rise, Chief Executive Officer Marc Casper
said.  Thermo Fisher and One Lambda had been in talks since 2008.  “It’s been a continual dialogue over the years,” Casper
said today in an interview. After Thermo Fisher moved to buy the
company, One Lambda checked with other potential buyers before
coming back to Thermo Fisher. “Working that relationship for
four or five years helps you,” he said.  One Lambda also makes medical-diagnostic products,
laboratory instruments and computer software used in testing
procedures and evaluations, according to its website and a
recent press release. Thermo Fisher plans to sell One Lambda’s
products in  emerging markets  where transplants are more common,
as well as with its U.S. and European customers, Casper said.  Thermo Fisher boosted first-quarter adjusted profit by 19
percent as sales climbed to $3.1 billion. The company in April
 raised  its revenue and adjusted earnings per share forecasts for
2012, citing foreign-exchange rates.  The company’s two largest deals in the past five years were
the $3.5 billion acquisition of Phadia AB, announced in May
2011, and the $2.1 billion purchase of Dionex Corp. announced in
December 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  