-- Less Than 3% Seen Paying U.S. Health Law Penalty: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/less-than-3-seen-paying-u-s-health-law-penalty-bgov-barometer.html
The U.S. health-care overhaul’s
penalty for not carrying health insurance, which the  Supreme
Court  ruled is a tax, will fall on fewer than 3 percent of
taxpayers, mostly in middle- and lower-income categories.  The BGOV Barometer shows that about 3.9 million people will
pay a penalty in 2016 for not carrying health insurance under
the Affordable Care Act’s so-called individual mandate,
according to projections by the Congressional Budget Office. The
total, equal to about 2.8 percent of the individual income tax
returns Americans filed in 2010, includes 3 million families
earning less than $120,000 a year.  Most Americans consider the penalty under the individual
mandate to be a tax, according to a Quinnipiac University poll
published last week. That leaves President  Barack Obama , who
made passage of the law one of his presidency’s earliest
priorities, to defend his promise not to raise taxes on the
middle class.  The Supreme Court ruling “changed that calculus 100
percent,” said Doug Holtz-Eakin, who was an adviser to
Republican Senator  John McCain ’s presidential campaign and now
runs the American Action Forum, a Washington-based group that
opposes the health law. The decision “says it’s a tax, and it’s
on those people.”  In practice, the number of people who will have to worry
about the penalty is so small that opposition to the mandate is
“purely political,” said Linda Blumberg, a researcher at the
nonprofit  Urban Institute  who assisted health reform efforts by
President  Bill Clinton  in the 1990s and in  Massachusetts  in
2005.  Hardship Exemptions  Illegal immigrants, people who don’t make enough money to
file taxes and people for whom insurance would cost more than 8
percent of their income are all exempt from the penalty -- about
87 million people in 2011, Blumberg calculated in a March paper.
In addition, the government has broad authority to extend
waivers to anyone who suffers an undefined hardship.  Kathleen Sebelius , the secretary of the  Department of
Health  and Human Services, has said she may extend hardship
waivers to low-income people in states such as Florida and  Texas 
whose governors refuse to participate in the law’s expansion of
Medicaid, the health plan for the poor.  About 26 million people would have found themselves both
without insurance and facing the penalty, based on 2011 data,
Blumberg calculated.  Of those, 8.1 million would be eligible for Medicaid if all
states participate in the expansion. An additional 10.9 million
could buy private insurance subsidized by the government.  Choosing Penalty  That leaves 7.3 million people -- 2 percent of the  U.S.
population  -- who will have to choose between paying the penalty
or buying unsubsidized insurance, she said.  The court decision may increase the number of people who
pay the penalty because it changed the perception of the law,
Holtz-Eakin said. Before the ruling, the  Congressional Budget
Office  said it assumed many people would buy insurance rather
than pay the penalty because “people basically want to be law-
abiding,” Holtz-Eakin said.  The Supreme Court, in its June 28 decision, said that
refusing to buy insurance doesn’t break the law.  “It’s now just a calculation between the tax or buying
insurance, and more people are going to pay the tax because it’s
cheaper,” Holtz-Eakin said. The penalty starts at a minimum of
$95 in 2014, rising to $695 in 2016 and increasing at the rate
of inflation thereafter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  