-- Ethanol Rises to Eight-Month High as Heat Threatens Midwest Corn
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-16T20:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/ethanol-rises-to-eight-month-high-as-heat-threatens-midwest-corn.html
Ethanol futures rose to the highest
price in eight months in Chicago as a heat wave threatened
further damage to U.S. corn crops, cutting margins for fuel
producers.  Above-normal temperatures are forecast to stretch from the
corn-rich Midwest to the East Coast this week, according to the
Climate Prediction Center in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland . Drought and
higher corn prices have prompted ethanol producers to cut output
to 821,000 barrels a day, the lowest level since July 2010.  “With corn going up every day, ethanol is becoming more
expensive,” said Jim Damask, a manager at BiofuelsConnect, a
Jupiter, Florida-based alternative energy broker. “That makes
their costs going out the door that much higher.”  Denatured ethanol for August delivery rose 11.3 cents, or
4.4 percent, to $2.669 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the highest settlement price since Nov. 16. The futures have
gained 21 percent this year.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-biggest U.S. ethanol
producer, shut output last month at its plants in Linden,
 Indiana , and Albion, Nebraska, citing “economic reasons.”  Nedak Ethanol LLC said June 15 that it temporarily
suspended production at its Atkinson, Nebraska, mill because of
poor margins.  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE) , the fourth-biggest U.S.
ethanol producer, slowed output at two of its “smaller plants”
by 30 percent in February, Jim Stark, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Damask said some producers are in the market to buy the
fuel in order to satisfy customer commitments and replace supply
after tempering output.  “Some of the producers are out here buying to get stuff
that they already sold,” Damask said.  Corn for December delivery surged 32.25 cents, or 4.4
percent, to close at $7.725 a bushel in  Chicago . Earlier, the
futures reached $7.78, the highest price for a most-active
contract since Aug. 29. One bushel makes at least 2.75 gallons
of ethanol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  