-- Ethiopia Says Meles Is Ill Amid African Union Summit Absence
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-07-16T12:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/ethiopia-says-meles-is-ill-amid-african-union-summit-absence-1-.html
Ethiopia ’s government said that
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi is ill after he failed to attend an
African Union summit, and an opposition group reported he may
have died in a European hospital.  “There is no serious illness at all. It’s minor only,”
Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn said today in an
interview in Addis Ababa, the capital. “As any human being, he
has to get medication and he’ll be coming back soon.”  The 57-year-old leader wasn’t at the opening of the African
Union summit in Addis Ababa yesterday. He also skipped a meeting
of the New Partnership for  Africa ’s Development in the city on
July 14 for “health reasons,” Senegalese President  Macky Sall 
was quoted as saying by the Addis Ababa-based Reporter
newspaper.  Meles is head of the ruling  Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front  and has held power in Ethiopia
for more than two decades, after helping lead allied rebel
groups to oust Mengistu Haile Mariam’s Marxist military junta in
1991. The EPRDF and its allies in 2010 won all but two of the
547 seats in parliament in an election the European Union said
was “heavily” balanced in favor of the ruling party.  The Ethiopian National Transitional Council, a Dallas,
Texas-based opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that Meles may have died in a Belgian hospital. The
Ethiopian Review, an anti-government website,  reported  that
Meles was in the Saint-Luc University hospital in Brussels.  Géraldine Fontaine, a spokeswoman for the hospital, wasn’t
immediately available for comment when called today.  “ENTC on behalf of the Ethiopian people demands that the
government has the responsibility to disclose the truth to its
citizens,” the council said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  