-- Europe Outcome Among Most Critical for Assets, Pimco Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-07-16T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/europe-outcome-among-most-critical-for-assets-pimco-says.html
The  European debt crisis  will be one
of the most crucial factors affecting assets over the next three
to five years, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Investors need to monitor the situation in  Europe ,
whether they are directly invested there or not, because of the
systemic implications of a potential shock to Europe’s banking
system or sovereign debt,” Curtis Mewbourne, head of  portfolio
management  for  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s New York
office, said in a report obtained by Bloomberg News.  Assets may become more correlated as the sovereign crisis
in Europe, high debt levels in developed countries such as the
U.S. and debates about austerity versus growth affect markets,
Mewbourne said. Investors should consider emerging-market
 government bonds  as a replacement for some more traditional
developed-market debt, he wrote. U.S. non-agency mortgages and
municipal bonds, which require careful analysis because of
credit sensitivity, also may represent buying opportunities,
according to Pimco.  As bond payments come due next month, European governments
are determined to avoid a reckoning with Greece, which triggered
the debt crisis almost three years ago, while separate
negotiations take place over aid for Spain’s banks. A downgrade
last week by Moody’s Investors Service of Italy’s credit rating
added to the fiscal concerns plaguing the 17-nation euro
currency area.  Weaker demand for goods and services from Europe has
contributed to the slowdown in emerging-market growth, Mewbourne
wrote. Pimco, which oversees the world’s largest mutual fund,
had $1.77 trillion in assets under management as of March 31.  Correlation among asset classes “is not set in stone,”
Mewbourne said. “In some cases capital will move from one area
to another, or fundamental economic differences will lead to
divergence of asset classes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  