-- Euro-Area Inflation Held Steady in June, Imports Fell in May
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-07-16T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/euro-area-inflation-held-steady-in-june-imports-fell-in-may.html
European inflation  held steady last
month and imports decreased in May as the euro-area economy
edged toward its second recession in three years.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area remained at
2.4 percent, the same as in May, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said, confirming an initial estimate
published on June 29. Euro-area imports fell a seasonally
adjusted 0.9 percent from April, while exports grew 0.3 percent,
a separate report showed.  Companies are cutting costs and eliminating jobs as the
region’s economic slump deepens.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carmaker, said on July 12 it will cut 14,000
positions to stem losses and the  European Central Bank  earlier
this month lowered borrowing costs to a record low, saying some
risks to the economic outlook have materialized while
inflationary pressure “has been dampened further.”  At least seven euro-member states are in recession and
 Germany ’s economy, which helped stem a region-wide contraction
in the first quarter, is also cooling. Services and
manufacturing output shrank in June for a fifth month and German
 business confidence  fell to the lowest in more than two years.  With economies around the globe faltering, energy costs
have been pushed lower. Crude  oil prices  have declined more than
12 percent this year, easing inflationary pressures across the
euro area and giving the ECB room to lower borrowing costs to
bolster the economy and encourage lending.  ‘Long-Term Growth’  “The ECB can’t really make up for the fact that the euro
area doesn’t have any long-term growth plan at all,”  David Blanchflower , a professor at  Dartmouth College , told  Tom Keene 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” on July 12. “Growth
really is the long-term problem.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB said in its monthly report on July
12 that “inflationary pressure over the policy-relevant horizon
has been damped further as some of the previously identified
downside risks to the euro-area growth outlook have
materialized.” The central bank in June forecast inflation at
2.4 percent and 1.6 percent this year and next.  Adding to easing price pressures, euro-area  core inflation ,
which excludes volatile costs such as energy, remained steady at
1.6 percent in June, today’s report showed. Producer-price
inflation slowed to 2.3 percent in May from 2.6 percent.  Peugeot Job Cuts  Europe’s worsening economic slump is leaving companies with
little room to raise prices, forcing them to rely on job cuts
instead. The region’s unemployment rose to 11.1 percent in May,
a record, with  Spain ’s jobless rate at 24.6 percent.  Peugeot said last week it will cut an additional 8,000
positions in the current reorganization, on top of 6,000 job
reductions already announced last year, to stem widening
operating losses. It will also close a plant in  France  and
reduce production at another to lower operational costs.  “I am fully aware of the seriousness of today’s
announcement,” Chairman Philippe Varin said in a statement.
“The depth and persistence of the crisis impacting our business
in Europe have now made this reorganization” indispensable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  