-- European Stocks Rise, Extending Rally Into Seventh Week
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-16T16:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/european-stock-futures-little-changed-asian-shares-gain.html
European stocks  rose for a second
day, extending the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s longest stretch of
weekly gains in more than two years, as manufacturing in the New
York region expanded more than forecast.  SEB (SEBA)  AB, the Swedish bank that’s the second-largest lender
in the Baltic countries, soared 8.2 percent after earnings
topped analysts’ estimates.  G4S Plc (GFS)  sank 8.7 percent as the
world’s biggest security company said it may incur a 50 million-
pound ($78 million) loss after failing to provide enough guards
for the  Olympic Games .  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  advanced 0.2 percent to 256.73 at the close
of trading. The gauge has climbed for six straight weeks,
rallying 9.8 percent from this year’s low on June 4, as the
 European Central Bank  and People’s Bank of China cut their
benchmark  interest rates  and euro-area leaders eased repayment
rules for Spanish banks and conditions for possible Italian aid.  “As we go into August-September, there’s a good
possibility that we’ll see a slight uptick in macroeconomic
data, particularly in northern Europe and probably in the  United
States ,”  Robert Parker , senior adviser at Credit Suisse Asset
Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Investors have remained very underweight. The earnings season
will run another month and expectations are so negative that the
downside risk is low.”  ASML Holding NV will be the first member of the Euro Stoxx
50 Index to report earnings this quarter when Europe’s biggest
maker of semiconductor equipment releases results on July 18.
 Analysts estimate  companies in the gauge are forecast to post
profit of 240.63 euros a share this year, down from 267.93 euros
on Jan. 2, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today. Sweden’s OMX Stockholm 30 increased 0.7
percent and Germany’s DAX climbed 0.1, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100
and France’s CAC 40 fell less than 0.1 percent.  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded at a faster
pace than anticipated this month, as the the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s general economic index rose to 7.4 from 2.3
in June. The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted an increase to 4. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in the so-called Empire State Index.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s recession and
slows expansions in  emerging markets  already facing weaker
domestic demand. Growth worldwide will be 3.9 percent next year,
less than the 4.1 percent estimate in April, the fund predicted
in an update of its World Economic Outlook.  Merkel’s Stance  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she hadn’t
softened her stance at last month’s summit in Brussels and that
a so-called banking union involving a bloc-wide financial
overseer will have to include joint oversight on a “new
level.”  German lawmakers will interrupt their summer vacations and
return to Berlin on July 19 to vote to approve 100 billion euros
($122 billion) in rescue loans to Spain. Euro-area finance
ministers will confer on July 20 to complete an agreement on
Spain’s bank bailout.  SEB rallied 8.2 percent to 49 kronor, the biggest increase
since May 2010. The Stockholm-based bank said second-quarter net
income declined to 3.01 billion kronor ($427 million) from 3.36
billion kronor a year earlier, exceeding the average estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for profit of 2.57 billion
kronor.  Delta Lloyd  Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  increased 1.6 percent to 11.33 euros, a
third day of gains. The Dutch insurer was upgraded to buy from
neutral at Citigroup Inc.  G4S slid 8.7 percent to 254.6 pence as the company
estimated its loss on the Olympics contract will be 35 million
pounds to 50 million pounds. The U.K. government had to assign
3,500 extra soldiers to Olympic venues last week as G4S said it
couldn’t train enough guards.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  declined 3.2 percent to 276 pence after the
U.K.’s biggest software maker said conditions in Europe have
toughened.  “Overall performance in Europe has been flat and the
anticipated improvement in growth over the first half has not
yet materialised,” the company said in a statement.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  sank 6.8 percent to 6.04 euros, the
lowest since at least 1989. The French automaker planning to cut
thousands of jobs and close a factory has a 51 percent chance of
default within five years, according to credit-default swap data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  sank 14 percent to 238 pence after Royal
Dutch Shell Plc declined to raise its takeover offer, leaving
Thailand’s PTT Exploration & Production Pcl as the highest
bidder for the East Africa-focused energy explorer.  Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA, whose chief executive
officer said last month that a takeover by Shell would make
sense, surged 6 percent to 12.04 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  