-- Facebook Posts Biggest Drop Since May on Earnings Concern
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-16T23:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/facebook-posts-biggest-drop-since-may-on-sales-growth-concern.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
world’s largest social-networking service, posted its biggest
one-day drop since May 29 amid investor concerns the company’s
earnings report next week will point to slowing sales growth.  The stock fell 8.1 percent to $28.25 at 4 p.m. in New York.
It has  slid 26 percent  since the  Menlo Park , California-based
company sold shares in an initial public offering in May.  Some investors may be selling the stock before Facebook’s
earnings report on July 26, said  Laura Martin , an analyst at
Needham & Co. in New York. The company will report second-
quarter sales of $1.16 billion, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That average  has declined  about 3.9
percent in the past four weeks, the data show. A report from Web
portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  tomorrow will probably give Facebook
investors an early glimpse into Internet advertising in the
second quarter, she said.  “Some of the stock weakness could be in anticipation of
weaker earnings,” said Martin, who suggests buying Facebook
shares. “We’ll have a better idea about the picture after Yahoo
reports earnings tomorrow.”  Facebook will  report  second-quarter earnings, excluding
some items, of 11 cents a share, according to the average
analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. That average has
declined about 11 percent in the past four weeks.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said last week that
investors frustrated with the stock’s decline since its public
offering are paying the price for betting on a short-term rally.  Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said last
week that his hardest job right now is figuring out how to adapt
the company’s services to mobile devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  