-- FBI Names April Brooks as New York Criminal Unit Chief
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-16T23:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/fbi-names-april-brooks-as-new-york-criminal-division-chief-1-.html
U.S. FBI Director  Robert Mueller 
named April Brooks as special agent in charge of the New York
office’s criminal division, which has spearheaded probes of
terrorism and insider-trading.  Brooks, 45, who began her career with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  as an agent in the Los Angeles office in 1990,
replaces Diego Rodriguez, was promoted to head the Dallas office
in June. In New York, Brooks will supervise units including the
securities and commodities fraud squads.  She is the first woman to head the criminal division in New
York. Her boss, Janice Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York
office, was the first woman to serve as Assistant Director in
Charge of the New York office when she was appointed in 2010.  Brooks, who has investigated white-collar crime, violent
gangs, drugs and crimes against children, most recently served
as a special assistant to the executive assistant director of
the FBI’s human resources branch. She received a bachelor’s
degree in sociology from Oklahoma Baptist University.  “My career at the FBI has afforded me the opportunity to
investigate costly white-collar crimes, rid our communities of
violent criminals, and oversee initiatives created to protect
society’s most innocent victims,” Brooks said in a statement.  The FBI’s New York office has worked with Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s  Preet Bharara ’s office to crack down on insider
trading involving portfolio managers, analysts and employees of
technology companies.  Guilty Pleas  To date, at least 70 people have been charged with insider
trading since August 2009 and 65 have either pleaded guilty or
been convicted after trial in federal court in New York,
according to figures provided by U.S. officials.  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  was
convicted June 15 of passing nonpublic information about the
bank to his associate and former business partner, Galleon Group
LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was sentenced last year to 11
years in prison for insider trading.  “As the newly appointed special agent in charge of the  New
York  FBI’s Criminal Division, I look forward to working with the
dedicated men and women of our office as we continue to focus on
the FBI’s most significant criminal threats,” Brooks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  