-- Fed Shifts Focus to Jobs as Unemployment Stalls Above 8%
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-07-17T15:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/fed-shifts-focus-to-jobs-as-unemployment-stalls-above-8-.html
Joblessness is the blemish on  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s report card.  Since the recession ended in June 2009, the Federal Reserve
chairman has achieved inflation near his target of 2 percent,
bolstered capital across the banking system and helped underpin
confidence in the  U.S. economy  that’s contributed to record-low
borrowing costs for the nation. Meanwhile, the  unemployment rate 
has stalled above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months.  The failure to bring joblessness closer to Fed officials’
longer-run goal of 5.2 percent to 6 percent has prompted
Bernanke and his lieutenants to emphasize the need for economic
growth over  price stability , said  John Silvia , chief economist
at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC . Bernanke added to his record
monetary stimulus last month and said more action will be needed
without “sustained improvement” in the jobs outlook.  “The employment number just isn’t improving; it’s the
thing that’s out of whack,” Silvia said in a telephone
interview from his Charlotte,  North Carolina , office. “Yes,
you’ve got a dual mandate, but like everything else in life
sometimes you’ve got to focus on one more than the other.”  Bernanke, who is delivering his semi-annual monetary-policy
report to Congress today and tomorrow, said June 20 that policy
makers are focusing “primarily” on the outlook for jobs in
deciding whether to ease further. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  last month prolonged its maturity-extension program,
known as Operation Twist, through the end of the year by $267
billion.  Raised Projections  In his testimony today, Bernanke said progress in reducing
unemployment probably will be “frustratingly slow,” and he
repeated that the central bank is ready to take more action to
boost the recovery. Recent economic data have had a “generally
disappointing tone,” he said, adding that the U.S. probably
expanded at an annual rate of less than 2 percent in the second
quarter.  Unemployment climbed to 8.2 percent in May and held there
last month after declining to 8.1 percent in April from a peak
of 10 percent in October 2009, according to data from the Labor
Department. Fed officials in June raised their projections for
the rate, predicting 8 percent to 8.2 percent at year-end
compared with their April estimate of 7.8 percent to 8 percent.
For 2013, they see 7.5 percent to 8 percent, up from 7.3 percent
to 7.7 percent.  Bernanke’s Legacy  “When people look back at the Bernanke years, I doubt
they’ll be critical of him if the unemployment rate is falling
but just not as fast as people would like, because there’s a
recognition that this was a deep recession,” said  Dean Maki ,
chief U.S. economist in New York at Barclays Plc. “If the
unemployment rate simply stopped falling and did not fall for
the rest of his term, that would be more of a problem for his
legacy.”  Economists Carmen Reinhart and  Kenneth Rogoff  found a
“deep and lasting effect” of financial crises on output,
employment and asset prices in their 2009 book “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.” The authors
traced similarities among such crises in 66 countries dating
back to medieval times, including sovereign defaults, banking
panics and inflationary surges.  Given that the 18-month recession followed the same
pattern, “it would be unfair” to blame the Fed for prolonged
high joblessness, as the central bank “has been very aggressive
and very innovative,” said  Dana Saporta , U.S. economist in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Reinhart and Rogoff didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Activist Chairman  Bernanke, chairman of the Fed since 2006, has proved to be
modern history’s most activist U.S. central-bank chief in
fighting the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
and trying to jump-start the economy.  He rescued Bear Stearns Cos. and  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2008 by taking mortgage assets onto the Fed’s
balance sheet, bolstered money-market mutual funds and provided
emergency loans to investment banks. The Fed has conducted
stress tests since 2009, putting the balance sheets of the
nation’s biggest banks through scenarios of economic turmoil.  The Fed chief lowered the target for the federal funds rate
to near zero in December 2008, purchased $2.3 trillion in
securities during two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
and announced in September the program to swap short-term
holdings for longer-maturity debt in an effort to cut  interest
rates  further.  Easing Tool  Bernanke also has used communications as an easing tool
since the central bank can’t reduce its benchmark rate any
further. In January, the Fed said it plans to keep borrowing
costs near record lows through at least late 2014.  The unprecedented monetary easing hasn’t prevented a
slowdown in growth: The U.S. expanded at a 1.9 percent pace in
the first quarter, down from 3 percent in the last three months
of 2011. The economy grew by 1.8 percent in the second quarter
as the deepening sovereign-debt crisis in Europe weighed on the
U.S., according to the median estimate of 69 economists surveyed
July 6 to July 10 by Bloomberg News.  Bernanke’s actions also have sparked criticism from both
ends of the spectrum: Republicans including House Speaker  John
Boehner  of Ohio warn the stimulus risks accelerating prices,
while Nobel-prize winning economist  Paul Krugman  argues Bernanke
hasn’t done enough to create jobs and should tolerate higher
inflation.  No Rate Boost  Charles Evans , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago , has advocated increasing the central bank’s emphasis on
bringing down unemployment by saying policy makers won’t boost
interest rates until either unemployment falls below 7 percent
or inflation rises above 3 percent.  Evans “would be getting more traction right now, because
it does appear the Fed can pursue an easier policy without
threatening an inflation problem,” Silvia said.  The personal-consumption-expenditures price index climbed
1.5 percent for the 12 months through May and has averaged 1.8
percent since the recession ended in June 2009.  Bond traders predict prices will continue accelerating at a
similar pace, as the break-even rate for five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities was 1.8 percentage points on July
16. The rate, a yield difference between the inflation-linked
debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, is a measure of the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities.  Inflation Goal  While the Fed in January joined other central banks
including the Bank of  Mexico  and the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
in adopting an inflation goal, it differs from many of its
counterparts because it also must follow a congressional mandate
to promote full employment, or the maximum amount of jobs
created before companies bid up wages.  The Fed said in a January statement that it would “not be
appropriate” to fix a goal for the unemployment rate because
the elements that determine maximum employment “change over
time and may not be directly measurable.” Policy makers
estimate the range for their longer-run goal could be from 4.9
percent to 6.3 percent. The central tendency, excluding the
three highest and lowest estimates, is 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  Some policy makers within the Fed have argued that monetary
stimulus isn’t effective at creating jobs, suggesting that
people who lost work during the recession don’t have the skills
to qualify for openings being created. Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said May 1 that “solutions to this
problem are not amenable to monetary-policy fixes.”  ‘Less Potent’  It does “become a bit harder when the battle is against a
more general economic malaise, given the Fed’s more limited
tools,” said Saporta, who predicts the Fed will announce a
third round of asset purchases in September. “Each iteration”
of stimulus “seems to be less potent.”  If there’s “no sign of improvement whatsoever” in job
growth in July and August, then the Fed probably will “think
hard” about QE3 in September, Maki said, adding that monthly
payroll increases over 100,000 probably would negate the need
for such stimulus.  The economy added 80,000 jobs in June, missing the 100,000
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey, after
a revised 77,000 in May and 68,000 in April, the slowest pace in
almost a year. Bernanke said in April that employment growth of
100,000 a month is needed for “stability” in the job market,
and payroll increases of about 150,000 to 200,000 are consistent
with the Fed’s forecasts for joblessness.  “The QEs, the Twists, it’s all been aimed at the
employment mandate,” Maki said. “What is changing right now is
that the headline inflation figures have dropped and that gives
them a little more leeway not to think there’s a significant
trade-off between their goals at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  