-- Wiggins Rests Before Final Push to Make Tour de France History
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-16T22:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/fedrigo-wins-tour-de-france-stage-15-as-wiggins-retains-lead.html
Bradley Wiggins, the Tour de  France 
leader, and other riders get a day off today as they prepare for
a final slog to the finish line. The Briton says he’s well
placed for victory.  The 32-year-old stayed two minutes, five seconds ahead of
Team Sky teammate Chris Froome after yesterday’s 15th stage, a
98.5-mile ride to Pau in southwest France. Pierrick Fedrigo of
FDJ-BigMat won the stage.  Wiggins, who has worn the race-leading yellow jersey for a
British-record eight days, is seeking to become the first rider
from that country to win the 109-year-old Tour. The last two
mountain stages in the Pyrenees follow the rest day, and the
race ends July 22 in Paris.  “It’s not over but we’re in a very good position,”
Wiggins told France Television. He said he didn’t expect Froome
to challenge him for the race win in the remaining stages.
“Froome is my teammate,” he said.  Vincenzo Nibali of Liquigas is 18 seconds behind Froome,
while BMC Racing’s defending champion  Cadel Evans  is 3:19 behind
the race leader.  Wiggins, a three-time Olympic track gold medalist, is
rated the 1-7 favorite to win the Tour by bookmaker Ladbrokes
Plc. That means a successful bet of 7 pounds would return one
pound plus the stake.  Team Sky, which rode at the front of the peloton, seemed
content to let the breakaway pull ahead in bright sunshine
yesterday. The main pack finished almost 12 minutes behind
Fedrigo.  Sabotage Inquiry  “A  lot of people are tired, mentally more than physically.
It was hard because it was hot,” said Wiggins, who changed his
bike early in the stage because of a mechanical problem.  Fedrigo and the U.S.’s Christian Vande Velde of Garmin-
Sharp went ahead of the other four members of the lead group and
the Frenchman prevailed.  Thomas Voeckler  of Europcar finished 12
seconds behind in third.  A court in the town of Foix opened an inquiry after nails
and tacks were thrown onto the course two days ago, causing
about 60 tire punctures, Thomas Cariou, a spokesman for race
organizer  Amaury Sport Organisation , said by phone. It’s not
clear who was behind the sabotage.  Evans had to stop three times in 10 minutes during the July
15 stage because of punctures. Abiding by race etiquette,
Wiggins, Nibali and other yellow-jersey contenders slowed to
wait for the Australian to catch up. Team cars and ASO’s support
vehicles were among those affected.  The biggest loser was Croatia’s Robert Kiserlovski of
Astana who broke his collarbone in a crash caused by a flat
tire, and withdrew from the Tour, according to race website
letour.fr.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the Tour de France via the London newsroom 
   aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 