-- Fighting in Damascus as Russia Resists Sanctions on Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-07-17T08:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/fighting-in-damascus-as-russia-resists-sanctions-on-assad.html
Diplomatic efforts to end the crisis
in  Syria  are stalled before a key  United Nations  vote this week,
as fighting raged in Damascus and United Nations monitors
struggled to shed light on killings in the village of Tremseh.  In  New York ,  Russia  conceded no ground in negotiations over
a Western-drafted resolution that threatens President Bashar al- Assad with non-military measures such as sanctions and demands
he step aside to make way for a “Syrian-led political
transition.” A vote is scheduled for tomorrow.  For the past 17 months, the international community has
been powerless to prevent a peaceful revolt from transforming
into a war zone. Violence has spilled into the Syrian capital,
the heart of Assad’s power base, as conflicting reports emerge
over the July 12 shelling of a Sunni Muslim village and the
defection of relatives of the head of Syrian intelligence.  “It’s very important that 18 months nearly into this
conflict with over 100 people on average dying a day, the
council do something different to change the dynamic on the
ground,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, told
reporters yesterday in New York. “Continuing to do the same old
thing is not working.”  Brinkmanship  As talks on the future of Syria head for a showdown at the
UN, Russia and the U.S. are locked in a game of brinkmanship.
Russia, which has twice blocked measures to protect its Soviet-
era ally, says it will use its veto again.  “This is seen by some as a stepping stone for military
intervention,” Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin said. “I made
it very clear that we are going to vote against their draft, and
we are not going to be the only ones.”  The U.S. has signaled repeatedly that without measures with
bite, it’s prepared to send home 300 UN observers. Rice said she
saw little point in their staying if “these monitors are
confined in essence to their hotel rooms and not able to do what
they are doing and really being hung out to dry.”  Russia doesn’t have the nine votes needed to pass its own
resolution extending the monitors’ stay by a further 90 days.  “To our great regret, there are elements of blackmail,”
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told reporters in Moscow.
“We are being told that if you do not agree to passing the
resolution under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, then we shall
refuse to extend the mandate of the monitoring mission.”  ‘Unrealistic’  Hopes have faded for UN Special Envoy  Kofi Annan ’s peace
efforts, which in five months have failed to secure a promised
cease-fire. His transition plan, which envisions Assad’s
mediated exit within a year, hinges on a Russian abstention.  Western requests for Russia to help in Assad’s ouster are
“unrealistic,” Lavrov said. “He won’t leave, not because we
are defending him, but because a very, very sizable part of the
country’s population is behind him,” he said.  As the diplomatic impasse on Syria drags on, chaos has
engulfed a nation at the center of the  Middle East  that counts
 Turkey , Lebanon,  Iraq , and Jordan and  Israel  as neighbors.  The Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  put yesterday’s
death toll at 101 civilians. Forty-one soldiers also died in the
fighting, it said in an e-mailed statement. Videos posted on
YouTube and Al-Jazeera showed the Syrian Free Army battling
government forces in the al-Midan area south of the historical
center in central Damascus. The authenticity of the videos
couldn’t be verified by Bloomberg News.  Massacre or Fight?  The turmoil on the ground has made it increasingly
difficult for international observers to get a clear picture of
how many people are dying on a daily basis and in what
circumstances, with the opposition’s numbers questioned as
exaggerated and the government accused of under-reporting the
casualties.  Most recently, doubts have been voiced over the
opposition’s account of what happened in Tremseh, a farming
village of 10,000 residents, and whether it was a massacre or
the outcome of a lopsided fight between government forces and
armed rebels.  According to the Syrian National Council, a political
umbrella for anti-government activists, 305 people were
slaughtered. The July 12 attack began at dawn when Syrian troops
surrounded the village with 150 tanks and armored vehicles and
started shelling. Then soldiers, backed by the pro-government
Shabiha militia, stormed the town for five hours.  Russian Account  Lavrov challenged that version of events and said the
assault started after an army patrol near the village came under
fire from members of the Syrian Free Army. Opposition fighters
then retreated to the village, where they were pursued and
attacked by Assad’s forces in fighting that lasted 1 1/2 hours.  UN observers, on their second visit to the site,
interviewed 27 local villagers who said troops went door-to-door
asking for men, checking their identification before killing
them. The attack appeared to be targeted at army defectors and
activists, according to the latest UN assessment.  Pools of blood and brain matter were found in some of the
more than 50 houses that were burned or destroyed, according to
a July 15 statement.  The team of observers still hasn’t been able to determine
the number of casualties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  