-- First Physical China A-Share ETF to Start Trading in Hong Kong
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-07-16T21:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/first-physical-china-a-share-etf-to-start-trading-in-hong-kong.html
The first foreign exchange-traded
fund backed by stocks listed only in mainland  China  is scheduled
to begin trading today in Hong Kong.  China Asset Management Ltd. received approval from the Hong
Kong Securities and Futures Commission to list the ETF, it
announced in a statement July 9. The security tracks the China
AMC CSI 300 Index via so-called A-shares purchased with yuan
raised outside China. The shares are acquired through the
 Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor quota granted
by mainland authorities.  The fund will be the first to give investors who don’t have
special permission to invest in the Chinese companies access to
returns that are determined strictly by gains and losses in
mainland shares. The 24 other A-share ETFs listed on the
exchange use derivatives to replicate the indexes and are traded
in  Hong Kong  dollars, according to a July 16  statement  from Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  “This is an important development to further strengthen
HKEx’s position as a leading international market to trade RMB
products by offering more direct access for Hong Kong and
international investors to gain exposure to the Mainland A-share
market,” Calvin Tai, head of trading at the bourse, said in the
statement.  Additional ETFs  Three more physically backed A-share ETFs will be approved
by the SFC, Ming Pao Daily reported July 16, citing Alexa Lam,
deputy chief executive officer of the SFC. E Fund Management
Co., CSOP Asset Management Ltd. and Harvest Global Investments
will create yuan-denominated funds with a 5 billion  yuan  ($784
million) quota each, the paper reported.  While the counterparty risk associated with the derivatives
in a synthetic ETF should be absent in the product launched
today, the SFC warned investors that its untested nature may
make it riskier than traditional exchange-traded funds.  “The RQFII program is still at a pilot stage,” the SFC
said on its  website . “The uncertainty and change of the laws
and regulations on the Mainland (including the RQFII policy and
rules) may adversely impact the RQFII A-share ETFs.”  The new funds are part of a push by China to open its
 capital markets  and by Hong Kong to cement its position as the
bridge to the mainland. The China Securities Regulatory
Commission approved the first two Shanghai- and Shenzhen-listed
ETFs tracking Hong Kong indexes on June 30. Hong Kong began
listing yuan-denominated IPOs in 2011 and this year cut its
lunch break to more closely align with China’s trading hours.  Hong Kong Exchanges has bid 1.39 billion pounds ($2.16
billion) for London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest
commodities market. It says it will increase the commodity
bourse’s revenue in part by tapping the large potential base of
customers in China, which accounts for about 40 percent of
consumption of commodities globally and only as much as 25
percent of trading on the LME, the company said when announcing
the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  