-- Foreign Purchases of Canada Securities Reach Record
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-16T14:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/foreigners-buy-record-c-26-1-billion-of-canada-securities-in-may.html
Foreign purchases of Canadian
securities reached a record in May as demand for bonds was fed
by a growing yield premium over  U.S. debt  and the currency
weakened.  Foreigners purchased a net C$26.1 billion ($25.7 billion)
of Canadian securities in May,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa, following C$10.2 billion in April. Bond purchases of
C$16.7 billion reached a three-year high, led by C$9.5 billion
of existing federal government debt and another C$3.5 billion of
debt from government-owned companies.  Purchases of money-market securities were C$7.35 billion in
May, bringing the total held abroad to a record C$69.9 billion,
Statistics  Canada  said today. Stock purchases of C$2.10 billion
were the biggest since November.  “A steady diversification in economic exposure toward
emerging market economies and superior fiscal fundamentals
enhances the appeal of Canadian dollar assets,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit.  Investment in Canada may be high for at least a decade
because of its stable economy, while the slowest U.S. recovery
since the Great Depression is exacerbated by efforts to pare
debt, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in an April 27
speech.  Canada has top rankings from the three major credit-rating
companies, while the U.S. was stripped of its top AAA ranking on
Aug. 5.  Weaker Dollar  Canada’s dollar was the weakest against the  U.S. dollar 
since September 2011 in May while its long-term bond yields paid
the biggest premium over U.S. debt, Statistics Canada said.  May was also a month in which investor demand for European
debt was hurt by an inconclusive Greek election that put the
country’s fiscal rescue package in doubt as officials suggested
the country may leave the 17-nation euro zone.  “The strong inflows into Canadian assets happened at the
same time as euro-zone tensions re-intensified,” said Charles St-Arnaud, an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “An interesting
difference this time is that the majority of the flow was into
bonds rather than money-market instruments, signaling that
investors are comfortable with Canada’s long-term outlook.”  Bonds Rise  Canadian  government bonds  rose today, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security falling 3 basis points to a record
1.60 percent.  The Canadian dollar weakened 5.3 percent during May,
falling as far as 1.0366 per U.S. dollar on May 31. The currency
weakened 0.3 percent today to C$1.0172 at 10:14 a.m. in Toronto.  The previous record monthly net purchase of securities was
C$22.9 billion in May 2010, in an archive dating back to 1988.  Canadians  bought  a net C$1.32 billion of foreign securities
in May, Statistics Canada said. The country’s stock prices fell
6.3 percent that month to the lowest in almost two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 