-- FSA Withholds Questions to RBS’s Goodwin as ‘Personal Data’
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-16T14:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/fsa-withholds-questions-to-rbs-s-goodwin-as-his-personal-data-.html
The U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority refused to release questions it asked former  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin ,
regarding the bank’s near collapse, saying it’s his own personal
information and may deter others from cooperating.  The regulator declined a request made under the Freedom of
Information Act by Bloomberg News for the questions posed during
interviews for its  report , released on Dec. 12 into the
Edinburgh-based bank’s near failure. While tracts of interviews
with Johnny Cameron, the bank’s former investment banking chief;
Guy Whittaker, its finance director; and  Jay Levine , the head of
its U.S. securities unit were published, no testimony by Goodwin
was included in the 452-page document.  “We are not able to disclose the questions that the FSA
asked Mr. Goodwin relating to the report as this information
constitutes his personal data,” the FSA said in an e-mail in
response to the request. “This is primarily because the
questions were drafted specifically to seek his personal views
on the near-collapse of RBS.”  The FSA came under pressure from lawmakers to publish the
investigation into RBS, which received a 45.5 billion-pound
($70.7 billion) government bailout, after the regulator cleared
bank executives, including Goodwin, of wrongdoing. The report
was altered when Goodwin’s legal advisers were allowed to see
it,  Bill Knight , a lawyer who conducted an independent review of
the document, told a U.K. parliamentary committee in January. A
section was removed that said Goodwin, who stepped down in 2008,
“lacked the experience to run an international bank,” Knight
said.  Public Expectation  Releasing the questions it asked Goodwin may make other
executives less likely to cooperate with the regulator, the FSA
said. “There is now a public expectation” the FSA will
investigate the failure of HBOS Plc, it said.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) ’s acquisition of HBOS, Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender in 2008 left the combined company needing a taxpayer
bailout of more than 20 billion pounds.  The request was considered by Brian Pomeroy, a board member
of the FSA, the regulator said.  “I would have thought the questions were the FSA’s data,”
said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at  Shore Capital Group
Ltd. (SGR)  in Liverpool,  England . “This will be based on legal
advice, I imagine.”  The FSA in April declined a request by Bloomberg News to
supply the full interview with Goodwin, citing the Financial
Services and Markets Act, which says it may not disclose
someone’s confidential information without their consent, and
their view that the interview included Goodwin’s personal data.  Confidential  Goodwin expected his interview would remain confidential
and “disclosure of any additional information may therefore
lead to further publicity, and the possibility of causing
‘distress or damage’ (or, perhaps, further distress or damage)
to Mr. Goodwin,” the FSA said in April.  Takeovers should be more closely regulated, according to
the FSA’s study, which detailed how RBS’s purchase of Dutch bank
ABN Amro Holding NV in 2007 brought the lender to the brink of
collapse. After the acquisition, RBS reported a 24.1 billion-
pound loss for 2008, the largest in U.K. corporate history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  