-- Gasoline Surges to Six-Week High on Fed Stimulus Expectations
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-16T20:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/gasoline-surges-to-six-week-high-on-fed-stimulus-expectations.html
Gasoline rose to a six-week high on
speculation that weakening U.S. retail sales will prompt the
 Federal Reserve  to act to boost the economy, which may improve
fuel demand.  Futures jumped 1.4 percent as retail  sales  fell a third
straight month in June, Commerce Department figures showed.
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta PresidentDennis Lockhart said
on July 13 the central bank may need to initiate more asset
purchases if recent economic weakness persists.  Brent crude 
gained as much as 1.3 percent, increasing the cost of shipments
of fuel from abroad and imported oil used at U.S. refineries.  “The retail sales number was so bad, it gives more
credence to the idea that the Fed will have to add more
stimulus,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  August-delivery gasoline rose 3.86 cents to $2.8547 a
gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . That’s the highest
settlement since May 30 and culminates the first four-day streak
of gains since Feb. 24.  Brent for August delivery climbed $1.15, or 1.1 percent, to
$103.55 a gallon on ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract
expired today. The more-active September contract rose $1.95 to
$103.37. The premium for September Brent crude over U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil widened 64 cents to $14.56
a barrel.  Brent Strength  “The strength of Brent is the primary support for the
product markets,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in  New York . “The WTI-based cracks are also
strong because half that margin is the Brent-WTI spread.”  Gasoline’s premium to WTI, or the  crack spread , based on
August contracts, widened 29 cents to $31.47 a barrel.  The 0.5 percent decline in June retail sales followed a 0.2
percent drop in May. Purchases last fell for three or more
months in July through December 2008.  The retail sales report will influence Fed Chairman  Ben
Bernanke ’s testimony to the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow,
Pierpont securities economist Steven Stanley wrote in a note to
clients. Bernanke is scheduled to discuss the outlook for the
economy and monetary policy. The Fed under Bernanke bought $2.3
trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011
to stimulate the economy.  “It seems for oil market, more and more, we’ve put in a
Bernanke premium ahead of his speeches,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast today to 3.9 percent, less than the 4.1 percent
estimate in April, in an update of its World Economic Outlook.  The fund said a U.S. rebound is moderating, the outlook is
deteriorating for developing economies and global growth could
suffer further if European policy makers put off measures agreed
on at a June summit to arrest the region’s instability.  The  inflation  rate in the 17-country euro area was at 2.4
percent in June, the same as in May, matching the lowest level
since February 2011, the European Union’s  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said today.  A gauge of  investor confidence  in  Germany , the region’s
biggest economy, slid to minus 20 this month from minus 16.9 in
June, the median estimate of 38 economist estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed before tomorrow’s release.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao warned that the nation’s
recovery is yet to build up momentum, fueling speculation that
extra economic support measures may be announced after a cabinet
meeting this week.  “The expectation is that the Chinese government will do
something to boost their economy,” said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  August-delivery heating oil climbed 3.95 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $2.8277 a gallon on the exchange. It was the highest
settlement since May 25.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.396 a gallon, according to AAA. Prices have
risen every day but two since July 1, gaining 7 cents. Gasoline
reached a year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  