-- German Court Won’t Rule on Bailout Fund for 8 Weeks
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-16T11:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/german-court-won-t-rule-on-bailout-for-8-weeks-in-delay-for-fund.html
Germany ’s top court will take more
than eight weeks to decide whether to suspend the euro-area’s
permanent bailout fund, leaving  Europe ’s anti-crisis coffer less
than half full to respond to the debt crisis.  The  Federal Constitutional Court  in Karlsruhe will issue a
ruling on bids to halt Germany’s participation in the European
Stability Mechanism and the fiscal pact on Sept. 12, it said
today in an e-mailed statement. That’s more than two months
after it held a hearing on the measures.  “The court has held a comprehensive hearing on the issue
and will now take the time it needs to reach a decision,”
German government spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters in
Berlin today. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned the
hearing last week that a delay in activating the ESM “could
lead to a significant worsening” of the crisis.  The delay could complicate efforts to resolve the 2 1/2-
year-old crisis as European leaders squabble over the details of
bailout conditions, bank rescues and burden sharing. In an
interview yesterday,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave no ground on
German demands for more centralized control over euro member
states in return for joint liabilities.  Chiding states which sought to slow moves toward more
central control, Merkel told  broadcaster ZDF  that a so-called
banking union involving a bloc-wide financial overseer will have
to include joint oversight on a “new level.” She said efforts
to advance on “solidarity” without supervision will fail.  ‘No Chance’  “All of these attempts will have no chance with me or with
Germany,” Merkel said in the interview in Berlin.  Delaying the start of the permanent bailout fund until mid-
September or later means crisis managers will have to get by
with the 240 billion euros ($293 billion) left in the temporary
European Financial Stability Facility. The ESM will eventually
have 500 billion euros in firepower.  The high court signaled last week that its decision on
whether lawsuits to stop the euro-crisis legislation have
sufficient merit could take months instead of weeks. Should the
court issue an injunction on Sept. 12, the laws would be held up
until it issues a final verdict.  The court took the step of asking German President Joachim Gauck not to sign the legislation on June 21, which scrapped
initial plans to set up the ESM this month.  While court President Andreas Vosskuhle said that judges
“must respect” the fact that both houses of parliament
approved the laws on June 29 with a two-thirds majority,
arriving at a decision “is not easy in many respects.”  Democracy Undermined  The complaints targeting the ESM and fiscal pact were
brought by a group of lawmakers, academics and political groups
filing separate suits seeking an injunction. They argued that
the legislation designed to overcome the three-year-old debt
crisis transfers constitutionally mandated authority from German
lawmakers to Brussels and undermines democratic rule.  Vosskuhle at one point in the hearing last week asked Rolf Strauch, a board member for the EFSF, what the effects would be
if the court took longer to decide.  “I think a time frame of two or three months, or even
longer, would be quite risky,” Strauch said.  Euro Drops  The euro fell to its lowest level against the dollar in
more than two years last week, sliding as far as $1.2163 on July
13. The currency was down 0.5 percent to $1.2190 at 1:22 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 0.1 percent.  Europe’s most credit-worthy government bonds climbed last
week, with German two-year note yields down to a record minus
0.052 percent, as investors sought havens from the euro crisis.  German lawmakers will interrupt their summer vacations and
return to Berlin on July 19 to vote to approve 100 billion euros
in rescue loans to  Spain . After Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last week announced 65 billion euros in welfare cuts and
tax increases, Merkel reiterated yesterday that financial
assistance would not be doled out without conditions.  “Whoever receives assistance and where liabilities are
taken over, there has to be control,” Merkel told ZDF.  ‘Wrong Way’  French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Rajoy have pressed for faster action, including
joint liabilities, while Merkel has called jointly issued debt
the “wrong way” to fix the crisis. Merkel last month
castigated a blueprint for the summit by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  as too focused on “collectivization.”  German Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said euro leaders
had caused damage by failing to define more clearly their
conclusions at the summit. He told Dutch newspaper Het
Financieele Dagblad on July 14 that euro nations “should
discuss giving up sovereignty with the same openness as the
question of how to resolve the debt problem collectively.”  As governments in Spain and Italy struggle under the burden
of higher borrowing costs, Weidmann, Germany’s chief central
banker and a European Central Bank Governing Council member,
told Boersen-Zeitung that  Italy ’s higher yields don’t justify a
request for bailout assistance. Euro bailout funding should be
deployed only as a last resort, he said.  “If Italy stays the course on reforms, it’s on a good
path,” Weidmann told the newspaper in an interview. Asked
whether the euro area’s third-largest economy needs to tap the
fund, he said, “No, I don’t see Italy in that situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  