-- Gilead Wins U.S. Approval for First HIV Prevention Pill
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-16T18:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/gilead-wins-u-s-approval-for-truvada-as-hiv-preventative.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  won U.S.
approval to market its HIV treatment Truvada to prevent the
virus that causes AIDS in healthy people who are at high-risk of
contracting the disease.  The daily drug is the first aimed at reducing the risk of
HIV in uninfected people as part of a strategy that includes
other prevention methods such as safe sex practices, risk
reduction counseling and regular HIV testing, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in a  statement . Truvada will carry a
boxed warning to physicians and patients that the drug should
only be used by those confirmed HIV-negative prior to
prescribing the drug and at least every three months during use.  The preventative is targeted at an estimated 415,000
Americans who are among those at highest risk for contracting
HIV from sex. The strategy has divided AIDS advocates as some
say people wouldn’t adhere to the daily regimen or may spread
resistance to the treatment. Truvada’s expanded approval and how
to best use the pill will be among the topics discussed by the
20,000 activists and researchers arriving in  Washington  this
weekend for the International AIDS Conference.  “Today’s approval marks an important milestone in our
fight against HIV,” FDA Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg said
in the agency’s statement. “Every year, about 50,000 U.S.
adults and adolescents are diagnosed with HIV infection, despite
the availability of prevention methods and strategies to
educate, test, and care for people living with the disease. New
treatments as well as prevention methods are needed to fight the
HIV epidemic in this country.”  Current Use  Truvada was approved in 2004 in combination with other
antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-infected adults
and children 12 years or older. It generated $2.9 billion in
 revenue  for  Foster City , California-based Gilead last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors don’t expect
the expanded use of Truvada to add much to sales,  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst at ISI Group in  New York , said in an e-
mail when FDA pushed back its decision in June.  “Today’s decision is the culmination of almost 20 years of
research involving investigators, academic and medical
institutions, funding agencies and nearly 20,000 trial
participants around the world, and Gilead is proud to have been
a partner in this effort,” Norbert Bischofberger, the chief
scientific officer at Gilead, said in a statement.  Risk Strategy  The FDA delayed its decision June 9 on Truvada by three
months to September to review a plan by Gilead to ensure people
wouldn’t misuse the drug. The drug will include a risk
mitigation strategy to train prescribers to counsel people that
take Truvada. Gilead will provide vouchers for free HIV testing
and condoms, the company said.  The risk mitigation strategy includes information about the
importance of strict adherence to the dosing regimen and
emphasizes that Truvada is part of a comprehensive prevention
strategy and should only be used by those who are confirmed HIV
negative, Gilead said in its statement.  “Truvada alone should not be used to prevent HIV
infection,” Debra Birnkrant, director of the FDA’s division of
antiviral products at the Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said today on a call with reporters.  Michael Weinstein , president of the Los Angeles-based AIDS
Healthcare Foundation, the nation’s largest HIV/AIDS nonprofit
medical provider, said the approval without a requirement for
HIV testing “is completely reckless.”  “The FDA’s move today is negligence bordering the
equivalence of malpractice which will sadly result in new
infections, drug resistance and serious side effects among many,
many people,” Weinstein said in a statement.  As a condition of approval, Gilead also will study the
effect of the drug as a preventative on resistance to it in
treating HIV, the FDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  