-- Glaxo Said to Near Deal for Human Genome at $14 a Share
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-16T13:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/glaxo-said-to-near-deal-for-human-genome-at-14-a-share.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is nearing a
deal to buy  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  at about $14 a share, a
person with knowledge of the process said.  While the timing hasn’t been established, an announcement
may come as soon as today, the person said. Glaxo’s earlier $13-
a-share offer for  Human Genome , which valued the Rockville,
Maryland-based biotechnology company at $2.6 billion, is set to
expire at 5 p.m.  New York  time July 20. The stock rose 3.1
percent to $14 in trading before the opening of U.S. markets.  A bid in the range of $14 would be “a decent price for
GSK,”  Erik Gordon , a professor of law and business at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , wrote in an e-mail.  Human Genome shares have traded above the offer price since
Glaxo took its proposed takeover hostile on May 9, signaling
that investors expected an increased bid. Glaxo went directly to
shareholders after the U.S. company rebuffed its approaches.
Human Genome had set a deadline of today for competing bids.  A takeover would give London-based Glaxo full control over
marketing Benlysta, a treatment for lupus. The companies share
revenue and profits from the drug equally.  Experimental Drugs  Glaxo and Human Genome are also collaborating on two
experimental medicines that are in late-stage testing:
albiglutide for diabetes and darapladib for hardening of the
arteries. Human Genome has the right to receive royalties of 10
percent on sales of darapladib and 5 percent on sales of
albiglutide.  Reuters reported details of the process earlier today.
Sarah Spencer, a spokeswoman for Glaxo in London, declined to
comment on the report. Calls to Human Genome’s press office
weren’t immediately returned.  Human Genome said on May 17 it was in talks with “major”
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies about a potential
transaction and adopted a so-called “poison pill” shareholder
rights plan to deter the hostile takeover.  Glaxo shares  rose 0.2 percent to 1,448.50 pence at 1:47
p.m. in London today. Human Genome was valued at about $2.7
billion at the end of New York trading on July 13.  Bankers from Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse Group
AG are advising Human Genome, while Glaxo has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  