-- Glaxo to Pay $3 Billion for Human Genome
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-16T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/glaxo-to-pay-3-billion-for-human-genome.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed to buy
 Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  for $3 billion in cash, winning
control of its U.S. partner on the Benlysta lupus therapy after
a three-month takeover battle and two decades of collaboration.  Glaxo raised its bid 9.6 percent to $14.25 a share, almost
twice the price of the stock on April 18, the last day of
trading before public disclosure of Glaxo’s initial $13-a-share
offer. Human Genome stockholders have until midnight New York
time on July 27 to tender their shares, London-based Glaxo said
in a statement today. Including debt and cash, the deal is
valued at about $3.6 billion.  Drugmakers, facing generic competition in the U.S. and
price cuts in  Europe , have been acquiring companies to add new
medicines. Buying Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome gives
Glaxo full control over marketing Benlysta, which won U.S.
approval last year as the first new lupus drug in five decades.
Glaxo and Human Genome are also collaborating on two
experimental medicines that are in late-stage testing:
albiglutide for diabetes and darapladib for  heart disease .  The price increase to $14.25 “isn’t an excessive
valuation,”  Nick Turner , an analyst for Mirabaud Securities in
 London  who has a buy recommendation on Glaxo shares, said in a
telephone interview today. “GSK isn’t getting a hold of
anything it didn’t already have, it already did have the bulk of
the value of HGSI assets. But if Benlysta, darapladib and
albiglutide develop into multi-billion-dollar drugs, the pay
away for GSK could be significant.”  $200 Million Savings  The purchase will save at least $200 million by 2015, Glaxo
said. The company still plans to buy back as much as 2.5 billion
pounds ($3.9 billion) in shares this year. The stock rose 0.4
percent to 1,452 pence at the close of London trading, giving
the U.K.’s largest drugmaker a market value of 72.5 billion
pounds.  Human Genome  rose 4.5 percent to $14.19 at the close in
New York.  Glaxo has won U.S. approval of more than  15 new drugs  and
vaccines in the U.S. since 2008, and last year won clearance for
three new products, including Benlysta. The company is trying to
rebuild its diabetes business after the Avandia drug was
withdrawn from the market in Europe in 2010 and sales were
limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of heart
attacks. The drugmaker sold the first HIV drug a quarter century
ago and is also staging a comeback in that market.  20 Times Sales  Glaxo is paying about 20 times revenue for Human Genome,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
median of 7.9 times sales in a survey of more than 50 similar
biotechnology deals over the past five years, the data show.  “While this number is lower than the high-teens valuation
we had hoped for, it is materially higher than the original
bid,” Chris Raymond, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co.,
wrote in a note to clients today. “With the stock up 95 percent
year-to-date, we think most long-term HGSI investors will likely
call this a win.”  Glaxo’s strategy has been to acquire companies with which
it already collaborates on medicines. The U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker this year has agreed to pay 61 million pounds for the
80 percent share of Cellzome it didn’t own and increased its
stake in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) , its partner on respiratory medicines.  “The combination of GSK and HGS represents clear financial
and strategic logic for both companies and our respective
shareholders,” Glaxo Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said
in the statement.  Glaxo’s Partners  Glaxo has  stakes  in more than 10 publicly traded companies,
including DiaDexus Inc., which develops diagnostics for
detecting heart attack and stroke risk, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Glaxo also has stakes in an undisclosed
number of closely held businesses.  The biggest deal in the industry announced so far this year
is Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s $5.3 billion purchase of  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  At the same time, AstraZeneca Plc will pay
New York-based Bristol $3.4 billion to help develop Amylin’s
drug portfolio.  Glaxo and Human Genome share revenue and profits from
Benlysta equally. Glaxo reported  15 million pounds  ($23 million)
of Benlysta sales in 2011, and 9 million pounds in the  first
quarter  of this year. Human Genome has the right to receive
royalties of 10 percent on sales of darapladib and 5 percent on
sales of albiglutide.  No Bidding War  Human Genome rejected the bid in April partly out of
concern for stockholders who bought shares at an average price
that’s higher than the offer, two people with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. All but three of the 25 largest
shareholders acquired stock at a higher average price, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  “Nobody showed up to start a bidding war,” said  Erik
Gordon , a professor of law and business at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , in an e-mail. “That happens if you are a
drug development company whose future is tied too closely to a
bigger company with whom you have done licensing deals.”  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  served as financial advisers
for Glaxo, with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  and
Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz providing legal counsel. Human
Genome received financial advice from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP and DLA Piper LLP (US) acting as its legal advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  