-- Glaxo Raises Human Genome Bid to $14 a Share, Reuters Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-07-16T07:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/glaxo-raises-human-genome-bid-to-about-14-a-share-reuters-says.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  raised its
hostile takeover offer for  Human Genome  Sciences Inc. to about
$14 a share, Reuters reported, citing two people familiar with
the situation.  The proposed cash purchase is subject to approval of some
last-minute details and may be announced before markets open in
the U.S., Reuters said on its website today. Sarah Spencer, a
spokeswoman for Glaxo in  London , declined to comment on the
report. A voice mail message left with Human Genome’s corporate
communications office outside business hours wasn’t returned.  Glaxo’s earlier $13-a-share offer for Human Genome, which
valued the Rockville, Maryland-based biotechnology company at
$2.6 billion, is set to expire at 5 p.m. New York time July 20.
Human Genome rose as much as 4.6 percent to 11.55 euros ($14.13)
in German trading. Glaxo rose 0.5 percent to 1,453.50 pence at
8:42 a.m. in London.  Human Genome shares have traded above the offer price since
Glaxo took its proposed takeover hostile on May 9, signaling
that investors expected an increased bid. Human Genome was
valued at about $2.7 billion at the end of  New York  trading on
July 13. Glaxo went directly to Human Genome shareholders after
the company rebuffed its approaches. Human Genome had set a
deadline of today for competing bids.  Lupus Treatment  Buying Human Genome would give Glaxo full control over
marketing Benlysta, a treatment for lupus. The companies share
revenue and profits from the drug equally.  Glaxo and Human Genome are also collaborating on two
experimental medicines that are in late-stage testing:
albiglutide for diabetes and darapladib for hardening of the
arteries. Human Genome has the right to receive royalties of 10
percent on sales of darapladib and 5 percent on sales of
albiglutide.  Human Genome said on May 17 it was in talks with “major”
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies about a potential
transaction and adopted a so-called “poison pill” shareholder
rights plan to deter the hostile takeover.  Such defenses are engineered to make unwanted takeover bids
prohibitively expensive by allowing existing shareholders to buy
new shares at a discount when the bid is made. That drives up
the cost of the acquisition.  Bankers from Goldman, Sachs & Co. and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  are advising Human Genome, while Glaxo has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  