-- Gold Demand in India to Drop as Buyers Prefer to Hoard Cash
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-16T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/gold-demand-in-india-to-drop-as-buyers-prefer-to-hoard-cash-2-.html
Gold demand in India, the world’s
biggest bullion importer, is poised to fall for a second year as
consumers cut spending and hoard cash amid a slowdown in the
economy, the World Gold Council said.  “Demand is going to be subdued, given the state of the
economy and the sentiment,” Ajay Mitra, managing director,
 Middle East  and India at the council, said in a phone interview
from Mumbai. “People are preferring to stay invested in cash
because of uncertain times. They aren’t very optimistic about
the economy and the way the future looks.”  Consumers are trimming purchases from cars to gold as
 India’s economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the three months through
March, the slowest pace in nine years, and as inflation exceeded
7 percent for a fifth straight month in June, data showed today.
Poor monsoon rains will also crimp demand, Mitra said.  “A bad monsoon will lead to higher inflation and higher
costs for essentials, which again will leave lesser amounts of
money in the hands of consumers for discretionary spending,” he
said. “It will cut spending again across all categories.”  India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, may be less than forecast in July and will be
deficient in September, L.S. Rathore, director general of the
 India Meteorological Department , said today. Rains are 22
percent below a 50-year average since June 1, the forecaster
said on its website.  ‘Poor Start’  The nation faces challenges in sustaining record grain
harvests because of deficient monsoon rains, Agriculture
Minister  Sharad Pawar  told reporters in  New Delhi . Rural farming
areas account for about 60 percent of gold buying in India,
according to UBS AG.  “While it is certainly a poor start, it’s too early to
tell if this year’s monsoon will fall short,” London-based UBS
analyst  Edel Tully  wrote in a July 12 report. “For gold, while
the initial indicators aren’t so good, there’s still time for
some optimism to grow.”  Gold demand in India may drop to 800 metric tons to 900
tons this year from 933.4 tons,  Albert Cheng , Far East managing
director at the London-based council, said in May. Usage in
 China  will expand 13 percent to 870 tons this year, less than
the 1,000 tons forecast in May, Cheng said July 10.  Spot gold fell 0.2 percent to $1,586.55 an ounce at 2:12
p.m. in Mumbai. The metal, which reached a record $1,921.15 last
September, has rallied for 11 straight years as investors sought
protection from weaker currencies and inflation.  Inflation, Rupee  India’s  wholesale-price index  rose 7.25 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 7.55 percent in May, the commerce
ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median of
36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.61 percent.
India’s automakers group last week cut its annual forecast for
car sales growth to as low as 9 percent as high gasoline prices
and  interest rates  deterred buyers.  Bullion demand declined to 207.6 tons in the quarter ended
March 31 from 290.6 tons a year ago, it said May 17. It has yet
to release second-quarter data.  Demand may shrink 30 percent this year because of a record
decline in the rupee and higher  import taxes , Bachhraj Bamalwa,
chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation,
said on May 23. Jewelry sales probably fell 30 percent to 40
percent in the three months ended June 30 after the currency
slumped, driving gold prices to a record, he said.  Bullion for August delivery fell 0.2 percent to 29,222
rupees ($531) per 10 grams on the Multi Commodity Exchange of
 India  Ltd. at 1:11 p.m. in Mumbai. Prices reached a record
30,428 rupees per 10 grams on June 19.  The gold jewelry market “remains under pressure” as the
fall in the rupee keeps prices near record levels, Citigroup
Inc. said in an e-mailed report today.  “Rural gold jewelry purchases in India, a key element in
the Indian jewelry market, are expected to suffer as reduced
harvests negatively impact disposable incomes,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  