-- Gold Declines as Europe’s Debt Crisis Strengthens Dollar
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-07-16T18:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/gold-declines-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-strengthens-dollar.html
Gold futures fell for the fourth
time in five sessions as the Federal Reserve has refrained from
announcing more stimulus measures amid mounting signs of slowing
global growth.  The International Monetary Fund cut its 2013 global-growth
forecast to 3.9 percent from a 4.1 percent estimate in April
amid Europe’s prolonged debt crisis. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will testify before the Senate tomorrow. At its June
meeting, the U.S. central bank expanded its program to replace
short-term bonds with longer-term debt, while holding off from
announcing additional purchases.  “The market wants to know what Bernanke is thinking,”
 Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “The question now is will there will be
any hint of new stimulus measures to stem the slowdown.”  Gold futures for August delivery fell 40 cents to settle at
$1,591.60 an ounce at 1:45 p.m. on the Comex in New York. The
precious metal has declined 0.8 percent this month.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut their bets on
higher gold prices by 18 percent in the week ended July 10, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  show.  “Gold has been pulled and pushed on the back of
expectations of further quantitative easing and remains under
pressure from the stronger  U.S. dollar ,”  Suki Cooper , an
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote today in a report.  The dollar gained 3.3 percent against a basket of
currencies last quarter, while bullion retreated 4 percent.  Silver futures for September delivery slipped 0.2 percent
to $27.321 an ounce on the Comex.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery fell 1.2 percent to $1,417.30 an ounce.
Palladium futures for September delivery retreated 1.3 percent
to $577.85 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  