-- Goldman Employees Join Bain as Top Donors to Romney Group
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-16T17:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/goldman-employees-join-bain-as-top-donors-to-romney-group.html
Employees of  Goldman Sachs Group (GS) 
Inc., the biggest source of donations directly to Mitt Romney’s
presidential campaign, are also the top givers to the joint
fundraising committee he has set up with the Republican Party.  Goldman employees contributed $902,310 to Romney Victory,
according to a computer-assisted analysis of Federal Election
Commission reports. Overall, Romney Victory has raised more than
$140 million since being established on April 5. Employees of
Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, the private-equity firm co-
founded by Romney, were its second biggest contributors, giving
$820,400.  Employees of Elliott Management Corp., a New York-based
hedge fund, were third with $808,150 in donations to Romney
Victory, which raises money for the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee and state and local party committees.  Paul Singer , the president and founder of Elliott Management, has
also given $1 million to the pro-Romney super political action
committee Restore Our Future.  The super-PAC, which operates independently of Romney’s
presidential campaign, raised a record $20 million in June,
spokeswoman Brittany Gross confirmed today.  Adelson Check  The super-PAC’s haul, which exceeds by double any previous
month, includes a $10 million check from Las Vegas casino
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson . Other donors will be included in a
report to the FEC due July 20.  Employees of New York-based Goldman and their families also
have contributed $593,080 to Romney’s own campaign, more than
those of any other company, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign contributions.  Goldman employees and their families gave $1 million to
President  Barack Obama  for his 2008 campaign, more than those at
any other company. They’ve given $100,424 to him for his re-
election, according to the center.  “Romney is the candidate of Wall Street now, of course,”
said Paul Light, a professor of public service at New York
University’s Wagner School. “Obama was seen as the logical
candidate for economic stimulus in 2008, but has now launched a
campaign based on inequality and taxation of the 1 percent.”  Romney Victory reported raising $140.3 million through June
30 and had $57.7 million in the bank after transferring $68.8
million to the Romney campaign, the Republican National
Committee, and state parties in Idaho, Massachusetts, Oklahoma
and Vermont.  Other Contributors  Also supporting Romney Victory are several corporate PACs,
including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which gave $40,000, and
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , which contributed $15,000. A lobbyist
for Anheuser-Busch,  Michael Roche , brought in $25,000.  Former Kansas Governor  Bill Graves , president and chief
executive officer of the Arlington, Virginia-based American
Trucking Associations, raised $587,500 for the joint fundraising
committee. Patrick Durkin, a lobbyist for London-based  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , brought in $184,630.  Barclays’ chief executive officer,  Robert Diamond , resigned
his position earlier this month after the bank said it rigged
global interest rates. Diamond won’t co-host a forthcoming
London fundraiser for Romney, as originally planned.  Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC supporting Obama, took
in $6 million last month, co-founder Bill Burton told Bloomberg
Television on July 13.  Both super-PACs are using most of their cash to air attack
ads in battleground states.  Super-PACs can accept donations in any amount, while limits
are imposed on how much can be given to joint fundraising
committees such as Romney Victory and directly to the
candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 