-- Good Dirt Gone Dry Wilting Corn Crop as Food Costs Rally
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-17T19:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/good-dirt-gone-dry-wilting-corn-crop-as-food-costs-rally.html
Tom Flora walked into one of his
corn fields in Delphi,  Indiana , last week to survey land that
until last month he expected would yield a bigger-than-average
harvest. Eight rows in, he declared the crop a total loss.  “I’ve never seen this,” 63-year-old Flora said as he
fingered the wilted brown leaves on a four-foot corn stalk that
was half the normal height for this time of year and had cobs
almost devoid of kernels. “This is good dirt here, but not this
year. It’s too dry. I doubt this will produce anything.”  The worst Midwest drought since 1988 is baking farms from
 Arkansas  to  Ohio  and threatening corn output that the U.S. said
last week will be the second-largest ever. The price of the
grain used in food for people and livestock is surging at a time
when retail-meat costs already are near record highs. Global
food prices are poised to rebound from a 21-month low in June
because of weaker-than-expected supply in the U.S., the world’s
largest corn exporter, the  United Nations  said July 5.  With forecasters including AccuWeather Inc. predicting
worsening conditions in the next month, corn traded in  Chicago 
surged by $2.6525 a bushel since mid-June, or 52 percent. The
rally is adding to pressure on the livestock industry because
cattle feedlots are already losing as much as $200 an animal.
 Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the third-largest U.S. poultry producer,
said every 10-cent corn increase boosts costs by $2.21 million.  Corn advanced 22 percent this month to close today at
$7.7125 on the Chicago Board of Trade, the most among 24
commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which rose
5.5 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell
0.4 percent and the U.S.  Dollar Index  gained 1.7 percent.
Treasuries returned 1.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Forecasts Raised  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc raised price
forecasts by as much as 18 percent last week and Citigroup Inc.
said July 11 the grain may reach a record $8. The  bull market 
will persist for several months, Rabobank International analysts
led by Luke Chandler said in a report July 11.  “We went from feeling like we were on top of the world
with the best crop ever, to the worst ever,” said Michael
Wagler, 30, who farms several thousand acres in southern Indiana
near Montgomery with his father Dale and his brother Lynford.
“It looked really good through May and two weeks into June, and
then we got 105-degree temperatures for 10 days, and that’s when
everything went backwards.”  Conditions Worsened  About 63 percent of the Midwest had moderate to extreme
drought as of July 10, the highest since the government-funded
U.S. Drought Monitor in Lincoln,  Nebraska , began tracking the
data in 2000. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its output
forecast by 12 percent on July 11 after predicting a record
harvest last month. The USDA estimated 38 percent of the crop
was in poor or very poor condition as of July 15, the  most  for
that date since 1988 and up from 3 percent on May 18.  Most of Indiana, the fifth-largest U.S. corn grower, got
less than 50 percent of normal  rainfall  in the past three
months, with some areas below 5 percent, High Plains Regional
Climate Center data show. Wagler is plowing under 25 percent of
his corn fields to plant soybeans, which need ample moisture
this month and a delayed start to the season’s first frost to
result in a profitable harvest. While the strategy has worked
before, “it’s a long shot,” he said.  Damaged crops may not mean losses for growers as crop
insurance helps preserve farm income that the USDA predicted in
February would be $91.7 billion this year, the second-highest
ever behind the record of $98.1 billion in 2011.  Crop Insurance  Federal  crop-insurance  programs covered 265.7 million acres
in 2011, and companies including Wells Fargo & Co. and Ace Ltd.
paid out more than $10.8 billion last year, double the $4.25
billion in 2010, after drought on the Great Plains,  Mississippi 
River floods and frosts in the South.  This year, insurers will see “the largest claim that
they’ve probably ever had,” said John Cory, the chief executive
officer of Prairie Mills Products LLC, a grain processor in
Rochester, Indiana.  Even with the drought, farmers are expected to boost corn
output by 5 percent this year to 12.97 billion bushels, second
only to the record in 2010, after planting the most acres since
1937, the USDA said July 11. The higher output will help boost
inventories before next year’s harvest by 31 percent from a 16-
year low on Sept. 1 of 903 million bushels, the USDA said.  Rising feed costs are reducing livestock supplies. Beef
production will drop 2.4 percent to 24.656 billion pounds next
year, the lowest since 1993, and the U.S. cattle herd on Jan. 1
was the smallest since 1952, USDA data show. The agency cut its
forecast for poultry output on July 12 by 1.1 percent from its
June estimate, to 43.07 billion pounds.  Meat Record  “It’s a bigger picture than: Woe is the farmer because he
has a drought,” said Wes Stockdale, whose family has been
farming in Indiana for 150 years. “Soon, it’s going to be: Woe
is the consumer. There’ll be food on the shelves, but it’s going
to cost more.”  Retail ground-beef in the U.S. averaged $3.016 a pound in
March, the highest since at least 1984, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. Grocers sold whole chickens at a record
$1.401 a pound on average in April, and bone-in breasts rose 12
percent this year, government data show. The Iowa Corn Growers
Association estimates one bushel of the grain converts to 5.6
pounds of retail beef.  An index of 55 food items tracked by the UN’s Rome-based
Food & Agriculture Organization may advance through to September
or October as the grain rally boosts prices for oilseeds and
cereal products,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an FAO economist, said
July 5. The gauge fell 15 percent since reaching a record in
February 2011.  Cash Costs  Sanderson Farms, based in Laurel, Mississippi, told
analysts during a  presentation  last month that it used 22.1
million bushels of corn in the three months through April 30.  While the company is using mostly cheaper inventories to
feed its flocks now, costs probably will start rising in
September, during its fiscal fourth quarter, when Sanderson
plans to expand output, Chief Financial Officer Mike Cockrell
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Over time, the high price of grain leads to the higher
price of chicken,” Cockrell said. “The industry has to have a
margin and be profitable, so it will adjust production. When we
get to the fall and we’re facing higher grain costs, chicken
prices will have to move accordingly.”  ‘Desert’ Ranch  Feed costs will be 50 percent higher for Steve Foglesong,
55, who raises 9,000 head of cattle and farms 1,800 acres of
corn and soybeans about 65 miles southwest of Peoria, Illinois.
Soybean-meal futures advanced 49 percent to record this year in
Chicago trading. Foglesong said he may chop down his corn fields
and feed the crop to his herd.  “These pastures are bone dry,” Foglesong said by
telephone. “They are like a desert.”  In  Texas , the biggest U.S. cattle producer, the grain rally
is adding to the financial damage from a 2011 drought that was
the worst in at least a century and forced ranchers to cull
herds. The state’s losses reached $7.62 billion last year,
including $3.23 billion for livestock producers, according to
 Texas A&M University ’s AgriLife Extension in  College Station .  Most feedlots are losing $150 to $200 per animal sold for
slaughter, said Lonnie Busch, a 44-year-old who runs a feed yard
owned by Cargill Inc. in Leoti,  Kansas . Feedlots buy year-old
animals that weigh 500 pounds (227 kilograms) to 800 pounds,
fattening them on corn for four or five months until they weigh
about 1,200 pounds.  ‘Irreversible Damage’  Drought conditions in the southwestern half of the Corn
Belt, which runs through the Midwest and stretches from the
eastern Dakotas through Ohio and Michigan, are going to get
worse, after causing “irreversible damage” to some crops,
according to AccuWeather. At least 50 percent of the region will
have below-normal rainfall and above normal temperatures in the
next 30 days, said Dale Mohler, an AccuWeather meteorologist.  “You need an inch of rain a week to get a good crop, and
you’re going to be getting half an inch or less most weeks
through mid-August” in the southwestern part of the Corn Belt,
Mohler said by telephone from  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  On the 2,900 acres he farms in Indiana, Flora said he will
probably make claims on his crop insurance that will pay about
85 percent of a historical yield on the land.  Before the drought, Flora bought a 560-horsepower  Deere &
Co. (DE)  9630 tractor that cost him $360,000. “I would cancel out,
but they have my old tractor resold in Illinois,” he said. “If
not for that, I would think about backing out because  cash flow 
is going to be hurting pretty bad this year.”  Tractor Sales  Randy Allen, the store manager at the Wright Implement, a
distributor of Deere farm equipment in Crawfordsville, Indiana,
said he’s already seeing a decrease in sales. A new planter can
cost $300,000, while a combine fetches as much as $500,000 and a
tractor is priced at about $200,000, Allen said.  Less than 5 percent of normal rains fell in the past month
on ground farmed by 60-year-old David Adcock near Atwood,
Illinois. The lack of moisture probably will cut the farm’s
yields in half to about 100 bushels an acre, said his son John.  “There was a point in time we had a potential for a world
record corn crop if we had the rains,” David Adcock said in an
interview at his farm. “We’re scraping on the bottom of the bin
already. It’s going to be a big, big deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  