-- Libor Flaws Allowed Banks to Rig Rates Without Conspiracy
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-07-16T09:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/libor-flaws-allowed-banks-to-rig-rates-without-conspiracy.html
Flaws in the way Libor is set
allowed individual banks to manipulate the key global  interest
rate  for profit for years, according to traders.  While employees allegedly tried to rig the benchmark for
$500 trillion of securities worldwide, they didn’t need to
conspire with counterparts at other firms to affect where the
 rate  was set each day, as some regulators concluded, said the
people, one of whom lost his job for trying to distort the rate.
By nudging their own firms’ submissions up or down in small
increments they could boost the value of their trading books or
cut their losses, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because regulators are still investigating the Libor-
setting process.  The ability of a single bank to rig the  London  interbank
offered rate also is highlighted by e-mails disclosed when
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid a 290 million-pound ($452 million) fine to
U.S. and U.K. regulators for manipulating the benchmark, and by
academic studies. The settlement forced the resignations of the
top three executives at Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets,
including Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , 60.  “It is far easier to manipulate Libor than it may
appear,” Andrew Verstein, a lecturer at  Yale Law School , said
in a paper to be published in the Winter 2013 issue of the Yale
Journal on Regulation. “No conspiracy is required.”  Legal Costs  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are probing more than a
dozen banks worldwide over alleged rate-fixing, with British
prosecutors opening a criminal investigation on July 6. Barclays
paid a record fine to settle the claims, and others are poised
to follow.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest lender, may pay
as much as $1.57 billion in penalties and legal costs and
Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  $1.48 billion,
according to estimates published last week by Morgan Stanley
analysts  Betsy Graseck  and Huw van Steenis.  Barclays  fell  3.4 percent to 156.70 pence, the lowest in
almost eight months, as of 10.40 a.m. in London trading today.
The stock is down 11 percent so far this year.  Regulators may be especially interested in cases where
traders at several banks conspired to rig Libor, since this
could subject the firms and traders to criminal antitrust
charges and higher penalties. That banks could and did
manipulate Libor on their own may also prompt regulators to
target individual firms beyond Barclays for unilaterally
distorting the rate.  Chinese Walls  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks banks to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The rate, an indicator of
the cost of money, is used to set prices for securities from
mortgages to  car loans . Similarly, Euribor, the euro-equivalent
is overseen by the European Banking Federation in Brussels.  The so-called Chinese walls between traders and employees
making interest-rate submissions on behalf of their banks were
regularly breached, leaving the rate vulnerable to manipulation,
Bloomberg News reported in February.  Of the daily submissions by 16 banks for U.S. dollar Libor,
the top and bottom four, known as the first and last quartiles,
were excluded and an average of the remaining eight entries
calculated. For Euribor, 43 banks sit on the panel and the top
and bottom 15 percent are excluded. Three-month dollar Libor was
unchanged at 0.455 percent on July 13.  By making a submission too high to be included in the
average, a single lender can push a previously excluded rate
back into the pack to send the average higher. By submitting a
rate that falls too low to be included, the average can be
nudged down as a previously excluded rate re-enters the pack.  ‘Kicked Out’  One former trader interviewed by Bloomberg News, who asked
not to be identified as he’s being investigated by regulators,
said he and his colleagues tried to influence his bank’s rate-
setters over a period of years because it was easy and even
small movements helped their profit and loss accounts.  Barclays’s derivatives traders tried to profit by getting
colleagues to alter their firm’s Libor submissions on
“numerous” occasions between January 2005 and June 2008,
Britain’s Financial Services Authority said in its  settlement 
with the bank last month. Out of the 173 e-mails asking rate-
setters at Barclays to alter their U.S. dollar Libor entries,
only 11 came from outside the firm, according to the FSA.  On Feb. 7, 2006, a U.S. dollar derivatives trader asked for
“high” one- and three-month submissions, the FSA said, citing
internal e-mails. The employee also expressed his preference
that Barclays would be “kicked out” of the average
calculation, the FSA said.  Final Average  “Trader C’s aim was therefore that Barclays’s submissions
would be high enough to be excluded from the final average
calculation, which could have affected the final benchmark,”
the  FSA  said.  On March 10, 2006, another trader sought a “very low”
three-month fixing, saying “preferably we get kicked out.”  “We have about 80 yards fixing for the desk and each 0.1
lower in the fix is a huge help for us,” he said, indicating
the bank had an $80 billion position, according to the FSA.  Most of the time, the firm’s rate-setters complied with the
requests, adjusting Barclays’s submissions of its borrowing
rates one or two basis points up or down, according to the FSA.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Between January 2006 and
August 2007, the bank’s Libor quotes reflected traders’ requests
more than two-thirds of the time, the FSA said. In the case of
Euribor, it was 86 percent of the time.  “We’re talking about huge sums of money, so a small nudge
of the benchmark is worth quite a bit potentially on the
individual trader’s profit and loss account,” said Roger Francis, a London-based analyst at Mizuho International Plc.  Verstein Analysis  In an interview, Yale’s Verstein gave the example of eight
hypothetical banks polled to create a Libor-like rate, where the
two highest and lowest submissions are excluded. If the banks
submit one-month rates ranging from 0.18 percent to 0.27
percent, they produce a setting of 0.2325 percent. By cutting
the third-highest submission 3 basis points, a bank can
manipulate the outcome to drive Libor down by 0.5 basis point,
Verstein’s analysis shows.  Adding 5 basis points to the lowest submitted rate can
change the range of included and excluded entries by enough to
push Libor up by 0.75 basis point in this example.  That indicates the BBA, a lobbying group that oversees the
rate, and the  Bank for International Settlements  were wrong when
they said eliminating outliers would protect Libor from abuse.  Rate Vulnerability  “The decision to trim the bottom and top quartiles in the
calculation was taken to exclude outliers from the final
calculation,” according to the BBA Libor  website . “By doing
this, it is out of the control of any individual panel
contributor to influence the calculation.”  Jacob Gyntelberg and Philip Wooldridge, BIS economists,
concluded in a March 2008  report  that rates like Libor could
only be rigged “if contributor banks collude or if a sufficient
number change their behavior.”  “It is false to say, as many do, that it would have
required coordination,” Yale’s Verstein wrote in his journal
article. “At least 75 percent of the panel banks may
unilaterally affect the average by moving the quote in their
preferred direction.”  According to some estimates, the figure may be even higher.
Between Jan. 2, 2007, and Aug. 8, 2007, 95 percent of
submissions had an impact on where the rate was set, according
to “Libor Manipulation?” a 2008 paper by academics including
Rosa Abrantes-Metz, an economist with consulting firm Global
Economics Group and an associate professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business.  Coffee Coming  If the Barclays e-mails are any indication, the right
submission could at least earn an employee a cup of coffee from
grateful traders.  “If it’s not too late, low 1m and 3m would be nice,” a
Barclays trader wrote to a Libor submitter in an April 7, 2006,
e-mail released by the FSA. “Coffees will be coming your way
either way, just to say thank you for your help in the past few
weeks.”  On an $80 billion portfolio of swaps, a 1-basis-point move
on one-month, U.S. dollar Libor could benefit a trader by about
$667,000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consider a swaps trader at a bank that helps set U.S.
dollar Libor, as Barclays did. The e-mails released by
 regulators  focused on the London-based bank’s swaps desk.  Traders’ Duties  The trader’s principal duty is to help clients offset
interest-rate risks or take bets on the direction of rates via
swaps or futures. A company taking out a loan, for example, may
wish to protect itself from an increase in rates by buying a so-
called plain-vanilla swap, whereby it exchanges its variable
interest payments for fixed ones.  After entering a swap with a client, the trader either can
find a counterparty, hedge his position to mitigate potential
losses using derivatives, or look to profit by leaving all or
part of the trade on his book un-hedged.  Over hundreds of trades, a desk will build a position that
rises or falls depending on where Libor is set in different
currencies and maturities each day. A trading book with more
contracts paying variable payments than fixed payments would
benefit if Libor is lower, for example. The interests of
different desks within the bank won’t always be aligned.  “Barclays derivatives traders knew on any particular day
what their book’s exposure to a 1-basis-point movement in Libor
or Euribor was,” the FSA said in the settlement.  ‘Keep a Secret’  To be sure, profits may be more pronounced if traders at
other banks are willing to conspire. In February 2007, a
Barclays trader wrote to a trader at another bank:  “If you know how to keep a secret I’ll bring you in on it,
we’re going to push the cash downwards,” and “if you breathe a
word of this I’m not telling you anything else.”  Barclays’s settlement document says that from January 2005
to May 2009, other firms’ traders made requests to the British
bank regarding U.S. dollar Libor 11 times and Euribor 20 times.  “You have 16 banks employing people who are eating at the
same restaurants, drinking at the same pubs,” said Michael
Kraten, an accounting professor at Providence College in  Rhode
Island  and a co-author of the “Libor Manipulation?” paper.
“They look at each other as competitors, but also as friends.
It’s easy to believe that whether or not they’re explicitly
talking to each other, they understand each other well and
they’re implicitly colluding.”  Verstein Analysis  Here’s how one bank could manipulate Libor, based on
Verstein’s analysis:  Assume a panel of eight banks -- A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H
-- set a benchmark like Libor. On day 1, their costs of
borrowing U.S. dollars for a month are 0.18, 0.20, 0.22, 0.23,
0.23, 0.25, 0.26 and 0.27, respectively. Excluding the top and
bottom quartiles, the benchmark on day 1 is
(0.22+0.23+0.23+0.25)/4 = 0.2325 percent.  On day two, the rate-setter at bank C follows a trader’s
request to submit an artificially low rate of 0.19. That is then
excluded, while the other banks submit the same numbers as the
day before, meaning the 0.20 figure from bank B is pushed in.
The benchmark figure on day 2 is (0.20+0.23+0.23+0.25)/4 =
0.2275 percent -- a reduction of 0.5 basis point.  On day three, the rate-setter at bank A is asked to
increase his rate and submits 0.23, getting back into the four
average submissions and pushing bank B out again. If all other
banks file the same rate as the day before, the average of the
four middle submissions would increase: (0.23+0.23+0.23+0.25)/4
= 0.2350 percent -- a movement of 0.75 basis point.  If bank A inputs a rate of 0.27 the average would be pushed
up more, even though bank A would now get excluded from the
average for being too high. In that instance, the benchmark
would be (0.23+0.23+0.25+0.26)/4 = 0.2425 percent -- a jump of
1.5 basis points from the previous day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  