-- Libor Collusion Can’t Be Excused by Bank Crisis: Almunia
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-16T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/libor-collusion-can-t-be-excused-by-bank-crisis-almunia.html
Banks that manipulated Libor and
other interbank lending rates shouldn’t use the financial crisis
as an excuse for collusion, the European Union’s antitrust chief
said.  “A crisis is not at all an excuse” for failing to comply
with antitrust legislation, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday in an interview in Brussels.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  admitted last month that it submitted false
rates to help lower the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
during the 2007 financial crisis. Jerry Del Missier, the bank’s
former chief operating officer, told U.K. lawmakers yesterday
that he passed along instructions from then Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  about the rate because he believed the
 Bank of England  was concerned about its lending costs in 2008.  Diamond, who resigned as London-based Barclays’s chief
executive officer after the bank was fined 290 million pounds
($453 million), told British lawmakers this month that other
banks lowballed Libor submissions. Barclays also admitted to
trying to alter the rates from 2005 to 2009 at the request of
derivatives traders.  EU regulators are investigating banks over manipulation of
the  London , euro and Tokyo interbank lending rates for several
currencies. The probes focus on suspected cartel arrangements
for derivatives linked to the benchmark rates, including
possible collusion over the setting of the rates.  Almunia said he’s strengthened the allocation of resources
to EU investigators examining collusion over interest-rate
derivatives to deal with the cases as quickly as possible.  Probes Take Time  “Cartel investigations take time,” Almunia said. “We
need to be rigorous, even if I understand the need to reach
decisions as soon as possible. We should analyze carefully all
the documentation, all the information we collected, so I cannot
anticipate a deadline” for an antitrust complaint.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $500 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’s
admission that it submitted false rates.  “If a benchmark that is used every day in thousands of
millions of deals in the derivatives sector, but also to
establish the  interest rate  on the mortgages for individual
families, is manipulated, some people will win if they know in
which sense the benchmark will be modified,” Almunia said.  The manipulation of such a benchmark creates mistrust in
banks and banking groups, Almunia said.  “Knowing what has happened, everybody will agree that we
need to change the way these benchmarks are established,”
Almunia said. “We cannot rely on self-regulation.”  Daily Survey  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. The
rates are based on data from banks reflecting how much it would
cost them to borrow from one another for various periods of time
in currencies including dollars, euros and yen.  Almunia has focused increased antitrust scrutiny on
financial markets, opening separate investigations last year
into Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other
investment banks over agreements in the market for credit
default swaps.  While recent legislation to open up competition for
settling securities trades has solved some of the problems the
EU identified last year, Almunia said it wouldn’t halt his probe
into possible collusion in the swaps market.  The EU is investigating whether the banks shared most of
the pricing, indexes and other essential daily data for credit
default swaps trading only to Markit, the owner of the most
actively traded credit swap indexes and pricing services in the
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels
at   awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 