-- Libor Manipulation Probed by Five State Legal Offices
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/libor-manipulation-investigated-by-new-york-connecticut.html
Attorneys general  in at least five
states are conducting investigations tied to alleged
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, adding to
probes by U.S. and U.K. authorities.  The probes by New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Florida
and Maryland are in different stages, according to the states.
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and George Jepsen in
Connecticut are working together, and Massachusetts is talking
with other states about possible coordination.  “The New York and Connecticut attorneys general have been
looking into these issues for over six months, and will continue
to follow the facts wherever they lead,” James Freedland, a
spokesman for Schneiderman, said July 15 in an e-mail.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, last
month was fined 290 million pounds ($453 million) for submitting
false rates for Libor, a benchmark interest rate for financial
products valued at $360 trillion.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , UBS AG,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
among lenders facing inquiries over alleged rigging of Libor.  Barclays traders who allegedly manipulated rates from 2005
to 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors before Labor Day,
Sept. 3, according to a person familiar with the U.S. Justice
Department’s investigation. The scandal led to the resignation
of  Robert Diamond  as the bank’s chief executive officer.  State Losses  New York and Connecticut are investigating whether the
states incurred losses as the result of manipulation, according
to Schneiderman’s office. Jaclyn Falkowski, a spokeswoman for
Jepsen, said the states are investigating “with the goal of
providing restitution to state agencies, municipalities, school
districts and not-for-profit entities nationwide that may have
been harmed by any illegal conduct.”  Massachusetts is looking into the effect on state
investments and is working with state agencies and
municipalities, said Brad Puffer, a spokesman for Attorney
General  Martha Coakley . Massachusetts is talking with other
states about the possibility of working together. Puffer
declined to name the states.  “We are currently investigating the serious allegations
around the manipulation of the Libor and working diligently to
determine what, if any, impact it may have on Massachusetts
investments,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi’s office is “reviewing
the matter,” spokeswoman Jenn Meale said. The inquiry isn’t a
formal investigation, she said. Maryland Attorney General
Douglas Gansler is “looking into” the allegations, spokesman
David Paulson said. Meale and Paulson declined to comment
further.  Interest Rates  Declines in  interest rates  have left state and municipal
governments that sold debt with variable rates mired in swaps
they can’t afford to unwind because of high penalty rates.  The penalties are tied to Libor and other indexes that have
fallen to near historic lows since the financial crisis that
began in 2007, forcing at least $4 billion of payments to end
the agreements, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other borrowers stayed in swaps because they haven’t been
willing or able to pay the cost of unwinding them. The city of
Baltimore and the New Britain Firefighters’ and Police Benefit
Fund in  Connecticut  consolidated and amended a complaint against
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse AG,  Bank of America Corp.  and
other banks alleging they artificially suppressed Libor,
according to documents in Manhattan federal court.  Borrowers, Banks  Interest-rate swaps , designed to cut and fix the cost of
variable-rate debt, are agreements between borrowers and banks
in which they exchange interest payments, with the cost tied to
indexes such as swaps. Some interest-rate swaps backfired when
yields fell precipitously.  The California Public Employees Retirement System, the
largest U.S public pension with $233 billion of assets, is
examining the impact of Libor fixing on its portfolio and will
make a judgment about whether to seek damages, said Chief
Investment Officer  Joe Dear .  “If we were harmed by specific actions by specific banks,
we will seek remedial correction,” Dear said. “My hope is that
the authorities will review the situation and prosecute where
possible those who have done the system harm. It is difficult to
underestimate the magnitude of the Libor rate fixing as an
episode that fundamentally undermines investors’ confidence in
our capital markets.”  Shum Preston, a spokesman for California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris , declined to comment about whether the office is
investigating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  