-- Micex Rises Second Day on China Easing Optimism; Novatek Jumps
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-16T15:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/micex-rises-second-day-on-china-easing-optimism-novatek-jumps.html
Russian stocks climbed to an almost
week-high for a second day of gains as investors bet  China  will
take further efforts to support growth, boosting appetite for
riskier assets.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.4 percent to 1,422.03 by
the close in Moscow, the highest level since July 10. OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel rallied 1.9 percent before President
 Vladimir Putin ’s visit to the company today. OAO Novatek,
Russia’s second-biggest gas producer, rose 2.2 percent. OAO GMK
 Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s largest mining company, fell 1.1
percent as the metal declined in  London .  While government measures to stabilize growth in China are
“bearing fruit,” difficulties may persist, the official Xinhua
News Agency cited Premier  Wen Jiabao  as saying yesterday.
China’s State Council may this week give details of easing
measures to support growth, Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts wrote
in a note today.  “In order to reverse the Chinese slowdown, we need to see
stronger easing measures, the Russian market is waiting for
them,” Sergey Kucherenko, who manages about $30.6 million in
Russian equities at Nomos Bank in Moscow, said by phone.  Russia  equity funds posted their first week of inflows in
12 in the week ended July 11, attracting $51 million, according
to EPFR Global data. The dollar-denominated RTS Index added 0.4
percent to 1,374.02, while the  Russian Depositary (RDXUSD)  Index of stock
traded in London added 0.1 percent to 1,544.04.  “The Russian market is trying to find a definite
direction,” Kucherenko said. “We may see another drop to this
year’s low levels.”  X5 Declines  The Micex fell as much as 0.3 percent earlier. Stocks
retreated as the 0.5 percent drop in June retail sales followed
a 0.2 percent decrease the month before, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington.  Crude oil, the nation’s main export earner, was little
changed at $87.18. Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent of
Russia’s state revenue.  “The Russian market is a prisoner of the external events,
U.S. markets,” Slava Rabinovich, Moscow-based chief executive
officer of Diamond Age Capital Advisors, which manages $180
million in Russian assets, said by phone. “We’re very dependent
on energy exports, so any sign of a global slowdown reflects
negatively on the Russian stocks.”  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest food retailer by
revenue, headed for an almost three-year retreat in London,
dropping 2 percent to $20.75. Troika Dialog cut the stock to
hold from buy after Chief Executive Officer Andrei Gusev left
the company.  Russian industrial-production growth expanded 1.9 percent
from a year earlier, compared with a 3.7 percent gain in May,
the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Russia’s benchmark index, which has added 1.4 percent this
year, trades at 5.2 times  estimated earnings . That compares with
9.5 times projected earnings for the average company on the MSCI
Emerging Market Index, which has gained 1.1 percent this year.  Russian equities  have  the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  