-- Microsoft Joins Intel Facing Slower Growth as China Stalls: Tech
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/microsoft-joins-intel-facing-slower-growth-as-china-stalls-tech.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
whose products run at least 80 percent of the world’s personal
computers, are set to report lackluster sales growth as China’s
slowing economy exacerbates stalling demand for PCs.  Intel, the largest maker of microprocessors, and Microsoft,
the No. 1 software company, will report quarterly earnings this
week. Analysts project both will say sales rose 5 percent or
less from a year earlier, as consumers choose tablet computers
and smartphones over PCs or hold off on purchases altogether.  Growth is slackening in China, the world’s largest PC
market since last year. That’s fueling concern that electronics
makers can’t count on  Asia  to counterbalance diminished demand
in recession-ravaged  Europe  or in the U.S., where a recovery is
taking hold at a slower-than-predicted pace. With Intel and
Microsoft yet to gain market share in tablets against Apple
Inc., the PC industry may struggle to grow at all this year,
according to research by Robert W. Baird & Co.  “The current picture is lousy,” said Pat Becker Jr., a
 fund manager  at  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital Management
Inc., which owns Intel and Microsoft shares. “It’s Europe, it’s
the  chain reaction  into the  emerging markets .  There have already been hints that China is affecting
growth in the PC industry. Last week, Intel rival  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  disclosed that revenue unexpectedly slumped 11
percent in the second quarter. AMD, Intel’s only remaining
competitor in PC processors, blamed weakness in China and Europe
for a revenue decline that contrasted with its previous estimate
for growth of as much as 6 percent.  China Growth  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , Intel’s largest  supplier , cut its
annual targets last week, citing delayed orders for its
chipmaking equipment because of weaker end-market demand for
semiconductors in the same regions.  China recorded its weakest expansion in three years in the
second quarter when its economy advanced 7.6 percent from a year
earlier, a government report in Beijing showed July 13.  In April,  Santa Clara , California-based Intel predicted
sales of $13.6 billion, plus or minus $500 million, for the
second quarter. Analysts on average project sales will rise
about 4 percent to match the midpoint of the company’s forecast,
with per-share profit estimated to be 52 cents a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gross margin, the only
measure of profitability that Intel forecasts, was expected to
be about 62 percent, the company said.  Intel will post earnings tomorrow after 4 p.m.  New York 
time, kicking off two weeks of financial reports by the largest
U.S. technology companies. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
will follow on July 19 after the market closes.  ‘Very Poor’  While AMD’s revenue disappointment may have been caused in
part by market-share losses to Intel and Nvidia Corp. in
graphics chips, the magnitude of the miss shows just how quickly
PC demand has dropped, said Mike Burton, an analyst at Northland
Securities Inc.  ‘‘It’s indicative of a very poor environment for PCs,”
said Burton, who has a market perform rating on Intel shares.
“It’s not just AMD.”  Global PC shipments stalled in the second quarter,
declining 0.1 percent to 87.5 million units, according to a July
11 report from industry researcher Gartner Inc. The firm cited
an uneven economic recovery in the U.S., slower spending in
 China  and Europe, and the encroachment of Apple’s iPad and other
tablets. Gartner predicts the PC market will grow just 2.7
percent this year.  Intel’s Forecast  Added evidence that Europe’s economic woes are crimping
technology sales came July 12, when printer maker Lexmark
International Inc. said that revenue declined about 12 percent
in the June period, citing Europe. That’s greater the 7 percent
to 9 percent drop the company had forecast in April.  Intel may be forced to abandon its prediction for PC
shipment growth at a percentage in the high single digits this
year, Burton said. The chipmaker, whose outlook on the market
has remained higher than forecasters such as Gartner, has said
that its dominance gives it a more precise view of what’s going
on in developing nations, which are seeing an explosion in
demand as consumers there become able to afford computers for
the first time.  Chris Caso, an analyst at Susquehanna International Group,
said Intel is more likely to stick to projecting better market
conditions that analysts estimate in an effort to convince its
customers to keep ordering.  IPad Effect  “Intel realizes that their view of the market influences
the market because they are the market,” said Caso. “They’re
trying to convince customers, investors and eventually the
consumer that they’re right.”  In an attempt to fire up demand for laptops and take on
tablets, Intel last year began touting what it calls Ultrabooks,
slim-line notebook PCs that resemble Apple’s MacBook Air. The
chipmaker set the specifications for the devices which are made
by a range of PC makers including Dell Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co.  Weak computer demand from consumers switching to tablets
such as the iPad has been a drag on Microsoft’s  results  for the
past 18 months. Sales in the Windows group have missed analysts’
estimates in four of the six quarters through March as customers
shifted to tablets from lower-cost laptops running Windows.
Other consumers have been put off by a lackluster economic
recovery in the U.S. and concerns about the debt crisis in
Europe.  Analysts project Microsoft’s net income in the fiscal
fourth quarter, which ended in June, fell to 62 cents a share,
the average  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand Lull  Those predictions don’t take into account a $6.2 billion
writedown the company has already announced in its online
division, which will mean Microsoft will post a net loss for the
quarter.  Sales will rise 4.7 percent to $18.2 billion in the period,
analysts estimate.  “The first thing hurting the PC business is
macroeconomic,” said Becker. “The second thing is Apple and
the vacuum it’s created, and the third is probably some people
waiting for the new product from Microsoft. You’ve got the lull
between product cycles.”  The company’s newest version of its flagship operating
system, Windows 8, goes on sale at the end of October on
machines including PCs and tablets. The software was designed to
combat Apple’s lead in the tablet market, and Microsoft has
upped the ante by offering its own tablet hardware, called
Surface. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  told partners at
a conference last week the company is aiming to sell millions of
the devices in the coming year.  Future Focus  Becker, along with Kim Caughey Forrest, an analyst at Fort
Pitt Capital Group Inc., which manages $1.2 billion in assets,
including Microsoft shares, said Microsoft may be insulated from
the slowdown in PC demand by some of its other  businesses ,
including the Xbox video-game console and server software, and
by the fact that the company books a lot of revenue from
multiyear contracts that are recognized over the term of the
agreement. That means a chunk of the company’s sales each
quarter are secured before the period even starts.  The outlook for Windows in the near term, however, is less
rosy, and Microsoft will probably encourage investors to focus
on the future, Caughey said.  “The subtitle for this quarter’s earnings will be, ‘Look
over here,’” said Caughey. “This quarter is, well, whatever,
but look over here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  