-- Microsoft Wins Ruling Ending Novell Suit Over WordPerfect
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-16T19:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/microsoft-wins-ruling-dismissing-novell-suit-over-wordperfect.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  won dismissal of
Novell Inc.’s antitrust lawsuit over the WordPerfect computer
program.  U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz granted Microsoft’s
request to close the case in an order issued today. A mistrial
was declared in December after jurors in  Salt Lake City  said
they were unable to reach a unanimous verdict.  Novell “did not present evidence sufficient for a jury to
find that Microsoft committed any acts that violated” federal
antitrust laws “in maintaining its monopoly in the operating
systems market,” Motz wrote in his ruling.  Novell sought as much as $1.3 billion in damages over
allegations that Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, while
developing the Windows 95 operating system in 1994, blocked an
element of the software to thwart Novell’s WordPerfect and
Quattro Pro programs.  Novell is disappointed in the ruling, “still believes in
the strength of its claim and we do intend to pursue an
appeal,” Jim Lundberg, vice president of the company’s legal
department, said in an e-mailed statement.  Novell, which was bought by Seattle-based Attachmate Corp.,
claimed WordPerfect’s share of the word-processing market fell
to less than 10 percent in 1996 from almost 50 percent in 1990.  WordPerfect’s value dropped from $1.2 billion in May 1994
to $170 million in 1996, when it was sold to Ottawa-based Corel
Corp., Novell said. Novell settled separate antitrust claims
against Microsoft for $536 million in 2004.  “We’ve maintained throughout this case that Novell’s
arguments lack merit, and we’re gratified with today’s ruling
dismissing the last of Novell’s claims and putting this matter
to rest,”  David Howard , Microsoft deputy general counsel, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Novell Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 04-01045, U.S.
District Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  