-- Microsoft Unveils Office With Social Features for Windows
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-16T20:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/microsoft-unveils-office-with-social-features-for-windows.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, unveiled the next version of its Office software
with social and cloud features that will work with touch-screen
devices powered by its Windows 8 operating system.  “We are taking bold steps at Microsoft,” Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  said at an event today in  San Francisco .
“The new, modern Office will deliver unparalleled productivity
and flexibility for both consumers and business customers. It is
a cloud service and will fully light-up when paired with Windows
8.”  Revenue in Microsoft’s business division, the company’s
largest, increased 6.4 percent to $17.7 billion in the nine
 months  ended March 31, the company said. Microsoft is trying to
sell customers Web-based versions of its Word, Excel and e-mail
programs and add social features to its marquee software suite
to stave off competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE)   The updated Office will save documents to Microsoft’s
Internet-based cloud storage service SkyDrive, enabling access
to files via tablets, computers and phones. Customers will also
be able to buy the software as a subscription, which will let
them use the cloud to stream applications to any Windows-based
PC. Subscribers also get future upgrades automatically.  ‘Huge Bet’  “We are seeing Microsoft update almost its entire product
line this year with laser alignment around touch interfaces
built into Windows 8,” said Al Hilwa, an analyst at IDC, in an
e-mail. “This is clearly a process that is several years in the
making and should be seen as a huge bet the company is making to
usurp the disruptive innovation brought about by touch screens
and cloud services.”  Besides touch controls, the program will also allow users
control programs and take notes with a stylus.  Social features will include tools Microsoft is gaining
from its $1.2 billion purchase of corporate social-network
operator Yammer Inc. last month. Yammer offers a Facebook-like
experience that enables employees to collaborate in the
workplace.  Another tool, called People Card, lets users see their
contacts anywhere in Office, including photos, status updates
and information on whether they are online. The Office suite
also comes with Skype Internet-calling, which Microsoft gained
in its $8.5 billion purchase of Skype Technologies SA last year.  “This is the most ambitious release of Microsoft Office
we’ve ever done,” Ballmer said.  Touch-Enabled  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , has said it will
provide the touch-enabled versions of Word, Excel, OneNote and
PowerPoint available on its upcoming Windows RT operating
system, which will be released in late October and is designed
for tablet computers to rival Apple Inc.’s iPad.  A test version of the Office 15 programs was shared with
select partners and customers starting in  January .  The company updated its online corporate-software offerings
a year ago to include a full Web-based version of Office 2010.  Microsoft’s Business Division, which is largely made up of
Office revenue, contributed 32 percent of total sales during the
nine months through March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  