-- Life Technologies Buys Navigenics for Genetic Diagnostics
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-07-16T20:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/life-technologies-buys-navigenics-for-genetic-diagnostics.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , the maker
of machines that decode human DNA, purchased closely held
 Navigenics Inc ., bolstering its ability to provide gene
diagnostics in a fast-growing market.  The acquisition was announced today in a statement from
Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies. Terms of the sale
weren’t disclosed. Navigenics’s government-approved medical
genetics laboratory and data systems will speed development of
tests that help doctors prescribe cancer drugs, said Greg Lucier, Life’s chairman and chief executive officer.  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  and closely held  Foundation Medicine
Inc.  inspect DNA to determine individuals’ risk of cancer or
suggest how doctors can target tumor treatment. An insurance
industry study released in March predicted the U.S. market for
genetic testing will quintuple over the next decade. Life is
planning more  acquisitions  to compete in the market, Lucier
said.  “There’s more coming that will ride on top of this,” he
said today in a telephone interview.  Navigenics, based in  San Francisco , will add about 20
employees to Life, which has about 10,400 workers. Life makes
the Personal Genome Machine and Ion Proton DNA sequencers.  Navigenics was established in 2006 to help patients and
their doctors understand the health implications of variations
in their genomes, the DNA code in each cell that determines how
tissues and organs are constructed, said co-founder David Agus,
a professor of medicine and engineering at the University of
 Southern California .  Companion Diagnostics  Life will begin by using that software to provide services
for cancer doctors who want to analyze patients’ tumors for
points that might be vulnerable to treatment, he said.  Navigenics does genetic testing in a laboratory approved by
the U.S. Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services under the
 Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments . Gaining the
laboratory will help Life Technologies compete to develop cancer
companion diagnostics, tests that can tell doctors when a
specific tumor has a DNA mutation that can be targeted by a
drug, said Ronnie Andrews, Life’s president of medical sciences.  “We want to expand our capability to work with
pharmaceutical companies in this area,” Andrews said in a
telephone interview. “This allows us to move more rapidly.”  Life Technologies rose 0.4 percent at the close in  New York 
to $43.15. The shares have climbed 11 percent this year.  A March study by UnitedHealth Group Inc. predicted that
annual U.S. spending on human genetic testing will increase to
as much as $25 billion over the next decade, from about $5
billion in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  