-- Migdal Declines on Higher Provision Concerns: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-07-16T12:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/migdal-declines-on-higher-provision-concerns-tel-aviv-mover.html
  Migdal Insurance & Financial
Holding Ltd. (MGDL)  fell to the lowest since April 2009 on concern
higher provisions due to new life expectancy data may hurt
profitability.  Migdal  shares  slipped 3 percent, falling for the fourth
consecutive day, to 3.733 shekels, the lowest since April 2009,
at 1:40 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  The shares in Israel’s largest insurer by market value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, have tumbled 19 percent
since the Finance Ministry said on July 11 that insurers must
boost their reserves by about 500 million shekels due to changes
in life expectancy tables. The TA-Insurance index has fallen 9
percent in the period.  “Migdal is the most affected because most of its business
is in the life insurance sector,” Alon Glazer, an analyst at
 Leader Capital Markets (LDRC)  Ltd., said today by phone. “Insurers
will have to increase provisions, hurting profitability.”  Loan Guarantees  Migdal said on July 12 updated life-expectancy figures
could lead to higher provisions and the ministry’s draft
directives may also limit the marketing of some insurance
products.  Separately, Globes reported  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  may
demand more guarantees for the 2.4 billion-shekel ($603 million)
loan to businessman Shlomo Eliahu for his acquisition of the
insurer following the decline in Migdal shares, without saying
how it obtained the information. Eliahu agreed to buy a
controlling stake in the company from  Assicurazioni Generali
SpA. (G)  for 4.2 billion shekels in March.  The Bank Leumi spokesman’s office said in an e-mailed
response to a query on the article that bank policy wasn’t to
comment on questions about its clients.  Harel Insurance Investments and Financial Services Ltd. 
declined 0.9 percent today, bringing its decline since the
Finance Ministry announcement on July 11 to 10 percent.  Clal
Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd. (CLIS)  dropped 3 percent, bringing
its  decline for the same period to 7.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  