-- IMF, EU Delay Romanian Review to Avoid Referendum Campaign
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-16T09:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/imf-eu-delay-romanian-review-to-avoid-referendum-campaign-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union delayed a planned review visit to  Romania  by
one week to avoid political campaigning before a presidential
impeachment vote on July 29, Premier Victor Ponta said.  The IMF and the EU missions, which were initially scheduled
to start a review of Romania’s loan program on July 24, will
arrive in Bucharest on July 31, Ponta told reporters during a
news conference today. The review will last for seven to nine
days, Finance Minister Florin Georgescu said at the same
briefing today.  Romania, which is counting on a 5 billion-euro ($6.1
billion) precautionary accord as a shield against the European
sovereign-debt crisis, will hold a nationwide referendum on
whether to impeach President Traian Basescu amid a power
struggle with the ruling coalition.  “The IMF and the EU delegations have always thought it was
best to stay away from political campaigning, so practically the
week of July 22 to July 29 is the last week of the campaign and
the missions will arrive immediately after the referendum,”
Ponta said.  The turmoil prompted European leaders, including European
Commission President  Jose Barroso , EU President Herman van
Rompuy and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to voice “great
concern” over efforts by the governing Social Liberal Union to
oust Basescu and shore up power in response to austerity
measures.  Romania’s currency, the leu, depreciated to all-time lows
last week amid the tumult. Georgescu said today that he expects
the leu to strengthen against the euro after the turmoil ends.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Warnings have emerged from the European Commission that
Ponta’s actions may hamper Romania’s” deeper EU integration
“and it also casts doubt over IMF support for Romania,”
Christian Lawrence, a London-based currency strategy at
Rabobank, said in a note to clients today. “We expect the leu
to remain under pressure in the lead up to the referendum.”  EU leaders also urged Ponta to restore impeachment rules
eased by his government. The Romanian Constitutional Court ruled
that a referendum is valid only if a majority of eligible voters
take part in it, a higher bar than the government’s new rule
requiring only a majority of those who cast ballots. The ruling
last week may give the unpopular Basescu a chance to keep his
job should turnout prove low during the summer holiday.  Ponta said last week that he will abide by the ruling, even
as Ilie Sarbu, a Social Democratic leader, told Radio France
International on July 13 that the ruling coalition is
considering lengthening the referendum to two days to increase
turnout. Parliament is due to meet this week to discuss the
referendum rule changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  