-- IMF Cautions U.S. on 2013 Outlook as Fiscal Cliff Risk Rises
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-16T13:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/imf-cautions-u-s-on-2013-outlook-as-fiscal-cliff-risk-rises.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
expressed “significant concern” about the U.S. fiscal outlook
as the deadline for automatic budget cuts approaches, advocating
a more modest retrenchment to aid the economy.  Expiring U.S. tax provisions and automatic spending cuts
mandated by the 2011 Budget Control Act imply fiscal withdrawal
of more than 4 percent of gross domestic product, the
Washington-based lender said today in its semi-annual Fiscal
Monitor update.  “There is a risk in the  United States  of political
gridlock that puts fiscal policy on autopilot and results in a
sharp and sudden decline in deficits -- the ‘fiscal cliff,’”
the IMF said.  Republicans in Congress are trying to exclude tax increases
from congressional moves to tighten fiscal policy. They are
demanding that any revenue raised by removing exemptions be used
to reduce tax rates, rather than narrow the deficit.  The IMF, in its report, said the U.S. and  Japan  should try
to widen their revenue bases by ending exemptions and
unwarranted special treatment under the  tax code  rather than
just raising taxes.  Advanced economy deficits will decline by about 0.75
percentage point of gross domestic product this year and 1
percent next year, “a rate that strikes a compromise between
restoring fiscal sustainability and supporting growth,” the IMF
said in today’s report. “However, continued focus on nominal
deficit targets runs the risk of compelling excessive fiscal
tightening if growth weakens,” it said.  Advanced economies will have a shortfall in 2012 of 5.8
percent of GDP and 4.7 percent in 2013, compared with 5.7
percent and 4.5 percent in the IMF’s April report. The fiscal
gaps in  Spain , a central player in Europe’s banking and debt
crisis, are forecast to be 7 percent this year and 5.9 percent
in 2013, compared with prior estimates for 6 percent and 5.7
percent, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  