-- IMF Cuts Global Outlook as EU Ensnares Emerging Economies
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-16T18:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/imf-cuts-global-outlook-as-eu-ensnares-emerging-economies.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its 2013 global growth forecast as  Europe ’s debt crisis prolongs
Spain’s recession and slows expansions in emerging markets from
 China  to  India .  Growth worldwide will be 3.9 percent next year, less than
the 4.1 percent estimate in April, the fund predicted in an
update of its World Economic Outlook. Spain’s economy will
contract 0.6 percent instead of a prior forecast for 0.1 percent
growth, and India’s projection for next year was reduced 0.7
percentage point to a 6.5 percent expansion, it said.  Central bankers from  London  to  Seoul  have lowered borrowing
costs or increased bond buying in recent weeks in a round of
international stimulus echoing the response to the 2007-08
global financial crisis. The fund said a U.S. rebound is
moderating, the outlook is deteriorating for developing
economies and global growth could suffer further if European
policy makers put off measures agreed at a June summit to arrest
the region’s instability.  “In the past three months, the global recovery, which was
not strong to start with, has shown signs of further weakness,”
the Washington-based IMF said in the report. “Downside risks
continue to loom large, importantly reflecting risks of delayed
or insufficient policy action.”  2012 Slowdown  For 2012, the global forecast was little changed at 3.5
percent, the IMF said, as the  Germany  and  Japan ’s economies
expand faster than projected three months ago.  The U.S. will grow 2 percent this year and 2.3 percent in
2013, as forecast July 3. Too much fiscal tightening in the
world’s largest economy would pose a risk to global growth,
according to the fund, especially if policy makers fail to reach
a consensus on extending some temporary tax cuts and reversing
automatic spending reductions.  A report from the U.S. Commerce Department today showed
retail sales unexpectedly declined for a third straight month in
June as limited employment gains took a toll on the biggest part
of the economy.  The 0.5 percent drop followed a 0.2 percent decrease in
May. The decline exceeded the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey in which the median projection called for
a 0.2 percent rise. Purchases last fell for three or more months
in July through December 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent
to 1,356.25 at 2:23 p.m. in  New York  after declining as much as
0.6 percent.  Policy Action  The IMF said its latest estimates hinge on an assumption
“that there will be sufficient policy action to allow financial
conditions in the euro-area periphery to ease gradually and that
recent policy easing in emerging market economies will gain
traction.”  The fund, which co-financed bailouts for Ireland and
 Greece , lowered its growth forecast for the euro region next
year to 0.7 percent, from 0.9 percent in April, and left a
forecast for a 0.3 percent contraction this year unchanged.  Italy and  Spain , which has requested a bailout from euro
countries to help shore up its banks, have taken important steps
from fiscal consolidation to reforms of their economies, IMF
chief economist  Olivier Blanchard  said at a press conference
today in  Washington .  ‘Reasonable Rates’  “They can only succeed if they can finance themselves at
reasonable rates,” Blanchard said. “So long as these
governments are committed to reforms, other euro members have to
be willing to help so as to make the adjustment feasible.”  Jose Vinals, who heads the fund’s capital markets
department, said some action should be taken to stabilize
funding conditions in the euro region. That could be done by
restarting the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program, he
said at the press conference.  Carlo Cottarelli , his counterpart at the fiscal department,
estimated that spreads on Italian and Spanish bonds are at least
200 basis points higher than the level their economic
fundamentals call for. Other potential supportive measures
include issuing common bonds, he said.  The IMF, in a separate report released today, said risks to
the global financial system have increased since April.  “Funding conditions for many peripheral banks and firms
have deteriorated” even as the ECB provided lenders with ample
liquidity, the IMF wrote in an update of its Global Financial
Stability Report. “Interbank conditions remain strained, with
very limited activity in unsecured term markets, and liquidity
hoarding by core euro-area banks.”  Easing Room  The IMF said “there is room for monetary policy in the
euro area to ease further” and repeated its call for policy
makers to move toward a banking and fiscal union. Besides
restarting the bond-purchasing program, the Frankfurt-based ECB
could offer liquidity to banks with lower collateral
requirements or start a quantitative easing program with asset
purchases, the IMF said.  The U.K. economy will advance 1.4 percent next year, less
than the 2 percent growth seen in April, the fund predicted in
the economic outlook report.  In many  emerging markets , there is also scope for monetary
easing and “policy makers should stand ready to adjust
policies, given spillovers from weaker advanced economy
prospects and slowing export growth and volatile capital
flows,” according to the report.  India, China  The IMF reduced its forecasts for India and China this year
as well as for emerging markets as a group, where slower growth
reflects a weaker international environment, lower domestic
demand and increased risk aversion among investors.  China’s gross domestic product is forecast to expand 8
percent in 2012, compared with 8.2 percent seen in April, and
accelerate to 8.5 percent growth in 2013, compared with 8.8
percent predicted three months ago. In the medium term, the IMF
sees “tail risks of a hard landing” if overcapacity in some
industries led to a sharper decline in investment spending in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  While Asia appears more shielded, markets in the region as
well as global commodity prices are feeling the pinch from
slower Chinese growth, the IMF said. Japan’s economy is forecast
to expand 1.5 percent in 2013, less than the 1.7 percent growth
estimated in April, the fund said.  Brazil Outlook  India is forecast to grow 6.1 percent this year, from 6.8
percent previously forecast.  Brazil  will expand 2.5 percent, 0.6
percentage point less than in April, and 4.6 percent in 2013,
compared with 4.1 percent, the fund said.  “Downside risks to growth in emerging-market and
developing economies seem primarily related to external factors
in the near term,” the IMF said.  While policy makers in emerging markets tightened policies
to avoid over overheating, they have now started to reverse the
move, with Brazil and  Korea  both cutting rates last week.  “The deliberate slowing has come to an end,” Thomas
Helbling, a division chief in the  research department , said in
Washington today. “In our forecast we think that easing will
gain traction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  