-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Gain on Valuations
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-07-16T09:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-gain-on-valuations.html
Indian stocks declined for a fourth
day amid concern a global economic slowdown will hurt company
earnings.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the two
biggest software exporters, tumbled more than 2 percent each
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trimmed the global technology
spending forecast to 3 percent from 4 percent earlier. The two
companies get more than 90 percent of their sales from abroad.
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the largest engineering company, fell 1.6
percent. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, retreated 0.7
percent to 17,097.68 at 3:15 p.m. in Mumbai.  The Sensex last week fell for the first time in six weeks
and the MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index had the largest
weekly loss since May amid concern slowing growth from  China  to
 South Korea  and Australia will hurt corporate profits.  India’s inflation unexpectedly eased in June while staying
above 7 percent for a fifth straight month, indicating price
pressures may limit room to join a monetary stimulus drive
stretching from China to Europe.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.25 percent from
a year ago, after climbing 7.55 percent in May, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of
36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.61 percent.  India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rains, was 23 percent below a 50-year average this
season, data from the weather bureau show, threatening to fuel
food costs. Showers in July, the wettest month in the June-
September season, may be less than forecast, the bureau said
today.  Overseas  funds  were net buyers of domestic stocks for a
ninth day on July 12, the longest string of purchases since the
10 days through March 23, data from the market regulator show.
They have purchased a net $9.8 billion in Indian equities this
year, a record for the period and the biggest inflow among 11
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  