-- India Inflation Unexpectedly Eases; Still BRIC’s Fastest
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-07-16T13:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/india-inflation-unexpectedly-eases-while-staying-bric-s-fastest.html
India ’s inflation unexpectedly eased
in June while exceeding 7 percent for a fifth straight month,
indicating price pressures may limit room to join a monetary
stimulus drive stretching from  China  to  Europe .  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 7.25 percent from
a year earlier, after climbing 7.55 percent in May, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of
36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.61 percent.  Jumps in the cost of living in a nation where most people
get by on less than $2 per day prevented the  Reserve Bank of
India  from cutting  interest rates  last month even with economic
growth at a nine-year low. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said June’s
inflation reading is “way above the threshold level,” adding the
bank’s policy aims at “restraining demand.”  “The fall is not the start of any trend and inflationary
pressures are still predominant,” said Mumbai-based Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, chief economist at ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd. “The Reserve Bank will not take this as a big
move and they will not cut rates now.”  The rupee, which has tumbled about 19.5 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, weakened 0.3 percent to 55.3262
per dollar at the close in Mumbai. The BSE India Sensitive Index
fell 0.6 percent, while the yield on the 8.15 percent government
bond due June 2022 declined to 8.05 percent from 8.1 percent on
July 13.  Inflation Risks  Subbarao announces his next  rate decision  on July 31,
following a 0.5 percentage-point reduction to 8 percent in April.
India faces inflation threats from the slump in the rupee and a
rise in food prices that may be exacerbated by the impact of a
weaker-than-average monsoon on agricultural output.  Subbarao said the comments he made today in a speech in
Mumbai shouldn’t be interpreted as implying what the central
bank may do at the policy review. On June 19, he said inflation
exceeds acceptable levels and restraining it may require
sacrificing economic growth.  In contrast, the People’s Bank of China, the  Bank of Korea ,
the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  have all eased
policy this month to support their economies, while the
Philippines said last week it has scope to do so. Indian
inflation remains the fastest in the BRIC group of largest
 emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  Prices in the manufactured-products category rose 5 percent
in June from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Food
articles climbed 10.81 percent, while fuel and power increased
10.27 percent.  ‘RBI Cautious’  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of  core
inflation , rose 4.89 percent in June compared with 4.86 percent
in May, according to calculations by Bloomberg.  “The steady core reading tells us that we are not yet in
the clear,” Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based chief economist for
India and Southeast Asia at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report.
“With the monsoon delivering below-normal rains there are upside
risks to food inflation. This is likely to keep the RBI cautious
about easing at the next meeting.”  The central bank has to balance controlling inflation with
promoting economic activity, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  told
reporters in New Delhi after today’s release, adding India needs
to keep the cost of credit low for industry to stay competitive.  Companies from retailers to manufacturers have raised
prices in Asia’s third-largest economy. Indian steel producers,
including Tata Steel Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd.,
increased charges for the alloy used in constructing homes,
bridges and power plants by about 8 percent this year.  Singh’s Vow  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who took charge of the
 Finance Ministry  in June and has vowed to revitalize Indian
growth, needs adequate monsoon rains to boost farm production
and spur consumer demand.  About 70 percent of India’s 1.2 billion people live in the
countryside and depend on  agriculture . The monsoon accounts for
more than 70 percent of annual rainfall and was 23 percent below
a 50-year average since June 1, the weather bureau said July 12.  The  Reserve Bank  has previously flagged potential inflation
threats from the nation’s fiscal deficit, which has been fanned
in part by a subsidy program ranging from diesel to fertilizers.  Prices may rise as the government tries to curb the program
to less than 2 percent of gross domestic product in the year
that began April 1. The economy expanded 5.3 percent in the
three months ended March from a year earlier, the slowest pace
since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  