-- India, Pakistan Set for First Cricket Series Since Mumbai Attack
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-07-16T12:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/india-pakistan-set-for-first-cricket-series-since-mumbai-attack.html
India  and Pakistan will play a
cricket series for the first time since sporting ties were
scrapped following the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai, building
on a  peace process  that has already overhauled trade relations.  The nuclear-armed neighbors have agreed to play three one-
day internationals in India in December and January, according
to a statement from the  Board of Control for Cricket in India .
Further details will be announced later, the board said in the
statement.  India’s decision to invite Pakistan for their first
bilateral contest since 2007 comes after the two countries
finalized the biggest ever dismantling of restrictions on
business and investment. The U.S. has urged India and  Pakistan 
to improve ties, concerned they may engage in a proxy war in
nearby  Afghanistan  as American troops exit an 11-year war with
the Taliban.  Cricket is the most popular sport in India and Pakistan,
and the game has become intertwined with politics. In an act of
so-called cricket diplomacy, the prime ministers of India and
Pakistan watched their nations contest last year’s semi-final of
the sport’s world cup.  India broke off talks with its neighbor after Pakistani
militants killed 166 people in the attack on Mumbai. India says
the strike was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerrilla
group with the support of some members of Pakistan’s security
establishment. The government in  New Delhi  has criticized
Pakistan for failing to prosecute those it holds responsible for
the carnage in the nation’s financial capital.  Two Wars  After peace talks between India and Pakistan this month,
Indian Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai said both countries
wanted to improve sporting ties. The respective cricket boards
would decide whether to resume matches, which would raise
security concerns, he said.  Muslim Pakistan and predominantly Hindu India have fought
three wars, two of them over their conflicting claims to the
territory of Kashmir, since winning independence from Britain in
1947.  While India and  England  are due to play a series of test
and one-day matches from Nov. 15 till Jan. 27, they have no
games scheduled between Dec. 23 and Jan. 10. International teams
stopped touring Pakistan after gunmen attacked the visiting Sri
Lankan side in Lahore in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  