-- Iranian Missile Threat Needs Updating, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-16T17:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/iranian-missile-threat-needs-updating-lawmakers-say.html
Two top Republicans on the House
Armed Services Committee are pressing Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to update the Pentagon’s assessment of Iran’s
intercontinental ballistic missile program.  Committee Chairman Howard McKeon of California and
Representative  Michael Turner  of Ohio, head of the strategic
forces subcommittee, asked Panetta in a letter today for an
unclassified update before the committee completes work on an
$8.2 billion Pentagon request to shift, or reprogram, fiscal
2012 funds.  “We write out of concern with the administration’s plans
for missile defense, specifically, the continued sharp decline
in the attention and resources invested in U.S. national missile
defenses,” the lawmakers said.  Pentagon spokesman Carl Woog said in an e-mailed statement
that “the department will review the letter and reply to
Chairman McKeon and Congressman Turner.”  Former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , Panetta’s
predecessor, said in September 2009 that the intelligence
community “now assesses the threat of potential Iranian ICBM
capabilities has been slower to develop than was estimated in
2006.”  McKeon and Turner referred, as evidence of a potential
shift in that assessment, to statements in the Pentagon’s latest
unclassified report on Iranian military power sent to  Capitol
Hill  this month.  First among four sets of questions the lawmakers want
answered in unclassified form: “Have key judgments about Iran’s
efforts to develop ICBMs shifted since 2009? Does Iran now
intend to develop an ICBM, if so, what is the earliest it could
deploy such a capability?”  The Pentagon’s latest Iran report said that “with
sufficient foreign assistance,  Iran  may be technically capable
of flight-testing an ICBM by fiscal 2015,” language almost
identical to a statement in an April 2010 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  