-- Is Obama or Romney Better for Middle East Peace?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-07-16T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/is-obama-or-romney-better-for-middle-east-peace-.html
Which candidate for U.S. president
is better positioned to jump-start Middle East peace
negotiations? If you guessed the one who already has a Nobel
Peace Prize on his shelf, you guessed wrong.  Which candidate is better prepared to confront  Iran 
militarily? If you guessed the Republican with an aviary of
national-security hawks working on his campaign, well, wrong
again.  But let me explain.  President  Barack Obama  came to office in 2009 with fixed
ideas about how to revive peace negotiations. Despite the
caricature drawn by his opponents, he was not unsympathetic to
Israel and its security dilemmas -- particularly the challenge
posed by Iran’s nuclear ambitions. But he also believed that his
predecessor,  George W. Bush , had spent too much time coddling
the Israeli government, rather than challenging it to compromise
with the Palestinians.  Obama thought that an Israeli commitment to freezing the
expansion of Jewish settlements on the  West Bank  would breathe
new life into the  peace process , and he said so publicly.
Israel’s prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu , whose governing
coalition includes ideologues almost pathologically committed to
the cause of settlement, didn’t much appreciate Obama’s demand,
and he gave in only partially and temporarily. All this was
happening against the backdrop of Obama’s famous visit to Cairo,
where he delivered a message of reconciliation to the Arab world
and then neglected to stop in next door to tell the Israelis
that he hadn’t forgotten them.  No Plan B  Obama had no Plan B when Netanyahu didn’t do what he
wanted. He didn’t punish Netanyahu, he didn’t cajole him, and he
didn’t present alternative formulas for negotiations. His
resentment of Netanyahu deepened, a feeling that was
reciprocated in earnest.  So the president, early in his term, was left with an
Israeli leader who mistrusted him and a Palestinian leader,
 Mahmoud Abbas , who felt betrayed by the American inability to
move the Israelis. Abbas, who had previously negotiated with the
Israelis without benefit of a settlement freeze, thought he
couldn’t move forward now that Obama had made a freeze a virtual
precondition for talks.  There are many critics of Israel -- including many Israelis
-- who hope that Obama, if re-elected, will help Abbas by making
a settlement freeze a precondition not only for renewed
negotiations, but also for close relations between the U.S. and
Israel. The theory is simple: Israel is a client state that
depends on the U.S. for arms and for diplomatic protection in
places like the  United Nations , where it is regularly
scapegoated. If Obama demands that Netanyahu bend to his will,
and backs it up with specific threats, then the Israeli prime
minister will bend.  The theory is wrong, however. It is a political nonstarter
--  Israel  is still a popular cause among many Americans, Jewish
and non-Jewish, and Congress is adamantly pro-Israel. More than
that, it would cause the Israelis to harden their position, not
soften it.  Please don’t get me wrong: I would very much like to see
the Israelis reverse their self-destructive settlement program.
But even a cursory study of Israeli political behavior would
tell you that a public demand from the U.S. president to
evacuate territory or shutter settlements is going to paralyze
Israeli leaders, and ultimately harden their stance, especially
if voters believe they’re being forced to do something they
don’t think they should do. Israeli leaders will only make
dramatic concessions when they think the U.S. is standing with
them shoulder-to-shoulder.  Taking Risks  Why? The Palestinians go into negotiations with the
European Union, the  Arab League , the UN and most of the world’s
news media on their side. The Israelis have only the U.S. If
Israeli leaders think the American president is a fair-weather
friend, they won’t take risks for peace. They’ll hunker down and
wait until he departs the scene.  “The lesson for an American president is that if you really
want to achieve progress you have to have a partner in the
government of Israel,” said Robert Satloff, the executive
director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “You
can’t create a partner through threats. Remember that it is the
government of Israel that is going to be the one giving up
tangible assets.”  I wish Netanyahu would take unilateral steps now to reverse
some of the damaging aspects of the Israeli occupation of the
West Bank. But he certainly won’t take these steps if he’s
unsure of Obama’s support. If Netanyahu remains prime minister
for an extended period, Romney has a better chance of
resuscitating peace talks than Obama.  The depth of the friendship between Netanyahu and Romney
has been exaggerated, but it’s fair to say that Netanyahu thinks
Romney won’t sell him out if negotiations fail, so Netanyahu is
more likely to bargain with Romney at his side. And negotiations
have a greater chance if the Palestinians think the U.S.
president won’t axiomatically take their side when they make
demands for Israeli concessions. Abbas offered nothing in the
way of serious concessions in 2009 in part because he thought
Obama would do the hard work of squeezing Israel.  All this isn’t to say that negotiations would be fruitful
if Romney wins the presidency. The Palestinians are weak and
divided; the Arab world, increasingly Islamist in orientation,
is going to be less interested in peace with Israel and more
interested in confrontation; and the Israelis themselves seem
less interested in compromise than ever. But there is almost no
chance of progress if Obama wins re-election.  On the other hand, Netanyahu’s primary concern today is the
state of the Iranian nuclear program. And, as I’ll argue in my
next column, Obama is more likely to take military action
against Iran than Romney is. If Obama loses, Netanyahu might
wind up missing him quite a bit. Stay tuned.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the first in a two-part series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on breaking up  too-big-to-fail 
banks and how to control  fires in Colorado ;  Noah Feldman  on
 Tunisia ’s  continuing Arab Spring ; William Pesek on  Asia’s
slowing growth ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Republican fiscal hypocrisy ;
Luigi Zingales on  Barclays and business ethics .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 