-- Liverpool Wants to Fund Walcott Bid by Selling Carroll: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-16T06:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/liverpool-wants-to-fund-walcott-bid-by-selling-carroll-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Walcott Bid  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is ready to finance a 15
million-pound ($23.3 million) bid for Arsenal winger Theo Walcott by selling Andy Carroll, the  Sun reported .  Chelsea is ready to make an official bid for Walcott, who
has one year remaining on his contract, while Paris Saint-
Germain is also keen on the player, the Sun added.  Cut-Price Carroll  Carroll may make a permanent move back to his former club
Newcastle after Liverpool rejected the Magpies’ offer to take
the striker on a season-long loan, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Newcastle is expected to return with a cut-price bid toward
the end of the transfer window to try and force Liverpool’s
hand, the newspaper added.  French Teenager  Premier League champion  Manchester City  is set to beat
Arsenal and Tottenham to the signing of 17-year-old French
forward M’Baye Niang, the  Daily Mirror reported .  City’s Football Administration Officer Brian Marwood
approached French second-tier club Caen with a request for
Niang, who’s rated at 6 million pounds, to come for talks this
week, the Mirror added.  Academy Pitch  Manchester United  will make a move for 13-year-old central
midfielder Foday Nabay, whose registration as a Birmingham
player has expired, the  Daily Mail reported .  United is due to make a pitch for the Sierra Leone-born
player to join the club’s academy tomorrow, the newspaper said.
Manchester City, Chelsea, Arsenal, Liverpool and  Aston Villa 
also are interested in Nabay, the Mail added.  Five Million-Pound Fee  Dimitar Berbatov, United’s 30.7 million-pound record
signing, said he’s been told by manager  Alex Ferguson  that he
can leave for 5 million pounds, though he hasn’t been told why
he has no future at the club, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  “The truth is, I love this club, but I am not going to be
useful to anyone if I am not playing,” the Telegraph cited
Berbatov as saying on his Facebook page. “And I want to play, I
want to help, but for unknown reasons it’s not going to happen,
or my chances will be limited, so it’s better for everyone if we
say goodbye.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  