-- Ivy League Adopts Changes to Limit Lacrosse, Soccer Concussions
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-16T16:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/ivy-league-adopts-changes-to-limit-lacrosse-soccer-concussions.html
The  Ivy League  adopted rule changes
to cut down on concussions in lacrosse and soccer, including
less contact during practice and an emphasis on teaching safer
playing techniques. It said it found 50 concussion cases in
men’s lacrosse in the last three seasons.  Presidents of the eight schools voted to approve the
changes in men’s and women’s lacrosse and men’s and women’s
soccer, according to an e-mailed statement. The policies will
take effect for the 2012-13 academic year.  The recommendations came from the conference’s Multi-Sport
Concussion Review Committee, which arose from a concussion study
of football conducted last year. The committee used national
research in addition to three years of concussion data from  Ivy
League  schools.  “Expanding our review to include more sports is another
way to drive the discussion and help student-athletes across our
broad-based athletics programs,” Ivy League Executive Director
Robin Harris said in the statement.  Men’s lacrosse teams must designate 11 combined days of
practice in which body checking is barred, and allow only one
full-contact practice per day, according to the release. Women’s
lacrosse teams must modify 10 spring practices to exclude stick-
checking.  Lacrosse and soccer coaches will designate more time during
the season to teach proper technique for protecting athletes’
heads during competition, according to the release. They must
also continue to educate their players about the prevention,
assessment and treatment of head injuries.  Lacrosse Injuries  The committee’s report listed 50 concussions for men’s
lacrosse teams in the past three years, with 40 coming on
player-to-player contact. The study didn’t list how many
concussions it found in the three other sports.  The Ivy League is an association of eight elite, Northeast
U.S. schools that have high academic standards and don’t provide
athletic scholarships. Founded in 1954 and based in Princeton,
 New Jersey , the conference sponsors 33 men’s and women’s sports
with more than 8,000 athletes competing each year.  The changes come one month after the league announced a
partnership with the Big Ten conference to study head-injury
assessment and prevention. The  National Football League  is
facing lawsuits from more than 2,000 former players seeking
damages for head injuries sustained on the field, and the Pop
Warner youth football organization is limiting contact in
practices to reduce the risk of concussions.  Ivy League lacrosse and soccer teams will continue to
collect concussion data to advance the study, according to the
release. The conference announced that a similar review of men’s
and women’s ice hockey will be completed later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  