-- Lin Knicks Exit Would Leave Retailers With Worthless Merchandise
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/jeremy-lin-exit-would-leave-retailers-with-worthless-merchandise.html
If the  New York Knicks  don’t match
Houston’s contract offer to point guard Jeremy Lin, perhaps
nobody would be more disappointed than Mitchell Modell, whose
namesake sporting-goods retailer will have to sharply discount
its 40,000 Lin team-related items in stock.  “We’re going to have crazy, crazy prices -- like $5,”
Modell said in a telephone interview. T-shirts list for $24.99
on Modell’s website, with jerseys going for as much as $89.99.  The Knicks announced yesterday that they had re-acquired
point guard  Raymond Felton  as part of a trade with  Portland .
Along with the team’s signing of point guard  Jason Kidd  earlier
this month, the Felton trade makes it much less likely that  New
York  will match Houston’s contract offer to Lin.  The Knicks have until 11:59 p.m. New York time tonight to
decide whether they’ll match the three-year, $25 million
contract offered by the Rockets to Lin, whose apparel is the
top-selling among National Basketball Association players this
year, according to Fanatics Inc., an online retailer in
Jacksonville, Florida.  Merchandise related to Lin, a Harvard University graduate
who is the first Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to play in the
NBA, has outsold Most Valuable Player  LeBron James  of the  Miami
Heat  by more than 50 percent, Anne Lacey Whitaker, a Fanatics
spokeswoman, said via e-mail.  Modell said his company would wait until the morning after
the deadline before altering the price of any Lin New York-
related item.  Fanatics offers about 300 Lin-related items, such as T-
shirts and jerseys, Whitaker said, declining to give a total
number of products in stock.  “If Lin leaves, this product is going to be worth
virtually nothing,” said  Matt Powell , an analyst with
Charlotte, North Carolina-based SportsOneSource, an analysis
firm focused on the sporting-goods industry.  Brian Strong, a spokesman for  Nike Inc. (NKE) , whose products are
endorsed by Lin, said he didn’t immediately know how much
merchandise linked to the player the company had.  Price Rise  Lin’s rise to prominence last season was captured by the
term “Linsanity,” which the 23-year-old point guard has moved
to trademark. It also fueled a rise in ticket prices,
merchandise sales and television ratings for the Knicks.  One team sponsor, the  Coca-Cola (KO)  Co., added advertisements
in Chinese to reach the television audience in China, where the
team’s games were added to the broadcast schedule amid Lin’s
rise in popularity.  Lin was even credited for playing a role in helping the  MSG (MSG) 
cable network, part of Madison Square Garden Inc., the Knicks’
parent company, settle its pricing dispute with  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)   Season Sensation  Lin became a sensation in New York after being waived by
the Golden State Warriors and Rockets, orchestrating six
straight wins after injuries to other players landed him in the
starting lineup. He started 25 of his 35 games, averaging 14.6
points and 6.2 assists. He had surgery in April to repair a torn
meniscus in his left knee and missed New York’s opening-round
playoff loss to the Heat.  Some retail outlets aren’t waiting for the deadline to
discount their Lin merchandise amid an ESPN report that the
Knicks won’t match the offer.  At Steiner Sports, for instance, a Knicks T-shirt with
Lin’s No. 17 is priced at $9.99, down from $24.99. Brett
Schissler, an executive vice president at Westchester,  New York- 
based Steiner, said the company, which focuses on autographed
memorabilia, doesn’t have much Knicks-centered merchandise.
Rather than have a player sign a team-related item, which could
be obsolete with a trade, Steiner usually asks players to sign
basketballs.  Autograph Strength  “For us, the autograph side will always be there, whether
he’s in New York or Houston or  San Antonio ,” Schissler said via
telephone. He said his company has about 150 pieces of Lin-
related merchandise left, mostly basketballs.  MSG spokeswoman Stacey Escudero declined to comment when
asked how much Lin-related inventory the Knicks had stockpiled
and whether it would be discounted.  NBA spokesman  Mike Bass  said he didn’t know how much Lin
New York-related merchandise the league had at its store or
online shop. The league’s process, he said, is to cut prices
only after a player’s move to a new team is confirmed.  NBA teams historically wait until the last minute to inform
the other team whether its offer had been matched.  Of concern to the Knicks, according to former NBA
executives, is the structure of the offer, which provides for a
salary of almost $15 million in the third season. If the Knicks
match, they’ll have about $77 million tied up in four players:
Lin,  Carmelo Anthony , Amar’e Stoudemire and  Tyson Chandler ,
meaning a full roster will be far above the league’s more
punitive luxury tax level.  Someone calling themself “I Am Linsane” has started an
online petition urging the Knicks to retain Lin. As of 1 p.m.,
it had more than 5,200 signatures. Modell laughed when asked if
he was among them.  “No,” he said. “But I probably should sign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  