-- JPMorgan Blaming Marks on Traders Baffles Ex-Employees
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-16T21:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/jpmorgan-blaming-marks-on-traders-baffles-ex-employees.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s assertion
that traders at its London chief investment office may have
intentionally mismarked trades, masking losses that total at
least $5.8 billion, makes little sense, according to former
executives with direct knowledge of the unit’s operation.  The bank restated first-quarter results, paring profit by
$459 million, in part because an internal review revealed that
U.K. traders had priced their books “aggressively,” Mike Cavanagh, head of Treasury & Securities Services, said in a July
13 meeting with analysts. The mispricing made losses on a
portfolio of credit derivatives look smaller than they were, and
executives concluded that traders may have sought to hide the
“full amount of losses,” JPMorgan said in a  presentation .  JPMorgan requires traders to mark their positions daily so
the firm can track their profits, losses and  risk . An internal
control group double-checks the marks against market prices
monthly and at the end of each quarter, said three former
executives from the CIO and a senior executive in market risk.
The firm uses the control group’s prices, not what individual
traders submit, to calculate  earnings , making it difficult for
one trader or trading desk to rig prices, the people said.  “We just have questions about whether the traders were
doing what they need to do for accounting, which is put a mark
on their positions where they think they can exit,” Cavanagh,
who led the internal review, said on a conference call with
reporters. “Instead, it felt more like they were pricing their
marks a little bit more aggressively, but generally inside the
bid-ask spread.”  London Whale  The spread is the difference between what an investor would
pay to buy a security and the price at which someone is willing
to sell the same asset.  Bruno Iksil, known as the London Whale because his
positions became so large, ran the credit derivatives book that
generated the losses. He personally apologized in recent weeks
to almost everyone in the London unit for causing turbulence
within the group, according to one of the former CIO executives
who had been told about it by two people in the unit.  Iksil and Raymond Silverstein, his attorney, didn’t return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment. The  New York  Times
quoted Silverstein saying that Iksil is innocent of wrongdoing.  Deciding to Restate  The decision to restate results for the first three months
of 2012 was made one day before New York-based JPMorgan reported
second-quarter net income of $4.96 billion, and after executives
and lawyers interviewed employees, and reviewed thousands of
hours of calls and about 1 million e-mails, said Cavanagh, 46.  The firm didn’t elaborate on the content of those e-mails
and  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the doubts expressed by the former executives.  JPMorgan’s shares fell 2.7 percent to $35.09 in New York.
The KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders dropped 0.1 percent.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , has
seen its market value plunge $36 billion since April 5, when
Bloomberg News first reported the London unit’s illiquid bets on
credit derivatives were big enough to move markets. The trade, a
wrong-way bet on credit derivatives, cost the bank $5.8 billion
in the first six months of this year and the tab could climb by
$1.7 billion, the bank said.  Price Verification  Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, 55, who retired four
days after the initial losses were disclosed on May 10,
voluntarily forfeited as much as two years of compensation.
JPMorgan said it ousted the three London executives responsible
for the loss and that it will claw back as much as two years of
their bonuses, without naming the individuals.  Iksil’s boss, Javier Martin-Artajo, and former Europe CIO
head Achilles Macris were among executives who also oversaw the
trades.  Some securities, such as interest-rate derivatives or
foreign-exchange contracts, are easier to price because they’re
generally traded on exchanges, making them more transparent to
investors. Credit derivatives and other securities traded by
Iksil were more difficult to price because they traded less
frequently, and not on open exchanges.  Even then, traders have to submit documentation verifying
their pricing and the internal control group generally would
solicit prices from about two dozen outside firms to verify the
marks, the people said. Executives including Dimon had said
previously that Iksil’s positions were “marked-to-market,”
indicating that they were available market prices that confirmed
his valuations.  The CIO also valued some trades at prices that differed
from those of JPMorgan’s investment bank, people familiar with
the matter said in May.  Short Position  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender by  assets , shut down all
synthetic trading at the chief investment office and transferred
the rest of the position to the investment bank. The CIO has
retained an $11 billion short position in “basically liquid
indexes” to hedge other credit assets, Dimon, 56, said during
the meeting with analysts. Positions in Series 9 of the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-swaps
benchmark known as IG9 that’s at the heart of much of the loss,
were cut by 70 percent, he said.  The investment bank has the expertise to manage it, Dimon
said. The bank transferred about $30 billion of risk-weighted
assets to the investment bank, an amount that is “down
substantially” from an earlier peak and back to levels at the
end of 2011, he said.  Federal Investigations  The stock jumped 6 percent on July 13 as investors
expressed “relief that it wasn’t worse,” said  Gary Townsend ,
head of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, said of the trading loss. It
was “substantially better than many of the estimates that I was
hearing,” he said.  Agencies scrutinizing the bank’s handling of the loss
include the Securities and Exchange Commission, U.S.  Justice
Department  and  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine said July 14 that he is
seeking to lead a proposed class-action lawsuit against JPMorgan
after state pension funds lost more than $27.5 million due to
the “alleged fraud.” Two funds for state employees held about
10.2 million JPMorgan shares as of March 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Pension-fund managers acting on behalf of Ohio retirees
were given false and misleading information by JPMorgan Chase
that hid the true nature of the bank’s risky trades, causing
Ohio teachers, school employees and public employees to lose
tens of millions of hard-earned retirement dollars,” DeWine
said in a statement.  Dimon transformed the unit in recent years to boost profit
by buying higher-yielding assets such as structured credit,
equities and derivatives, Bloomberg News reported on April 13,
citing former employees.  Dimon dismissed initial news reports about the London
operation as a “tempest in a teapot” when the bank reported
first-quarter earnings April 13. He reversed course less than
four weeks later, disclosing a $2 billion loss that he said
could grow to $3 billion or more during the quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  