-- Kitty Wells, ‘Prototype’ for Female Country Singers, Dies at 92
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/kitty-wells-prototype-for-female-country-singers-dies-at-92.html
Kitty Wells, the singer whose
achievements as a solo artist broke down barriers to country-
music stardom for women, has died. She was 92.  Wells died yesterday at her home in Madison, Tennessee, of
complications from a stroke, the  New York  Times reported, citing
her grandson John Sturdivant Jr.  Wells was the first female artist to have a No. 1 country
single. She reached the milestone in 1952 with “It Wasn’t God
Who Made Honky Tonk Angels,” a  song  that blamed unfaithful men
for causing “many a good girl to go wrong.” Afterward, she
became known as the queen of country music.  Twenty-three singles she recorded made  Billboard  magazine’s
country top 10 between 1952 and 1965.  Before her rise to prominence, women were typically
confined to country duos or groups. She blazed a trail for
singers such as Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn,  Dolly Parton  and
Tammy Wynette to become household names on their own.  “Kitty Wells is the prototype,” said Kyle Young, director
of Nashville, Tennessee-based Country  Music Hall  of Fame and
Museum, which  inducted  her in 1976. “Her success in selling
records and concert tickets led  record companies  to open their
doors to women artists.”  For more than 70 years, she was married to Johnnie Wright,
who toured with her and also worked with his brother-in-law in
Johnnie and Jack, a country duo. Wright came up with her stage
name, found in the title of a folk song, “Sweet Kitty Wells.”  School Dropout  Wells  was born Ellen Muriel Deason on Aug. 30, 1919. Her
parents, Charles and Myrtle Deason, were both musicians.  After living on the outskirts of Nashville, the family
moved to the city before she entered high school. She learned to
play guitar, sang in the church choir and went to country shows
at the  Grand Ole Opry  with her mother.  Wells dropped out of high school in 1934, during the Great
Depression, to work at a shirt factory. The following year, she
joined two of her sisters, Mae and Jewel, and a cousin, Bessie
Choate, to start the Deason Sisters. The group had a show on a
local radio station.  Wright and Wells were married in 1937, and the couple
performed with his sister, Louise, as Johnnie Wright and the
Harmony Girls. In 1939, they added Jack Anglin, a singer who wed
Louise that year. The group’s name changed to the Tennessee
Hillbillies and later to the Tennessee Mountain Boys.  Louisiana Hayride  Wells sang only occasionally with the band after having her
first child, a daughter named Ruby, in October 1939. She later
gave birth to a son, Bobby, and another daughter, Carole Sue.
Anglin was drafted into the U.S. Army in 1942, and she and
Wright then performed as a duo.  Once Anglin’s military service ended, he and Wright began
performing as Johnnie and Jack. They played at the Opry
regularly for two years before moving to a new show, the
 Louisiana Hayride , in 1948.  Wells appeared with the duo at the Hayride. When RCA
Records signed the men to a contract in 1949, she recorded songs
with them and their backup band. Her performances didn’t produce
any hits and RCA dropped her.  Johnny and Jack were more successful. The duo rejoined the
Opry in 1952 and returned to Nashville from the Hayride’s home,
Shreveport,  Louisiana .  Decca Records  then offered her “Honky
Tonk Angels,” a song written by J.D. Miller that answered a
country hit, Hank Thompson’s “The Wild Side of Life.”  Too Suggestive  Wells’s single climbed to the top of Billboard’s country
chart even though the NBC radio network banned the song as too
suggestive. Decca ended up selling more than 1 million copies of
the recording, and she was asked to join the Opry.  The “queen of country music” designation soon followed,
courtesy of Fred Rose, who co-owned a music-publishing company
with singer Roy Acuff. The designation stuck even after it was
applied to another singer, Reba McEntire, years later.  Decca signed Wells to a lifetime contract in 1959. Wright
became her touring partner after Anglin was killed in an auto
accident while traveling to Cline’s funeral in 1963. At about
this time, he began spelling his name Johnny, according to his
New York Times  obituary .  Wells starred in a syndicated television show in 1968 and
Wright joined her the following year. The program ran into the
1970s and featured their three children, who each went on to a
musical career.  After MCA Records took over Decca in 1973, she stopped
working for the label. Later in the decade, she made albums for
Capricorn Records and her own label, Ruboca Records, named for
the children. She and Wright kept touring until 2000, when they
retired. Wright  died  in 2011 at 97.  Wells was presented with a lifetime achievement award by
the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, the  Grammy
Awards’  sponsor, in 1991. She became the first female artist in
country music to receive the honor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  