-- Klimt’s ‘Kiss’ Partner Emilie Shares Limelight in Vienna
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-07-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/klimt-s-kiss-partner-emilie-shares-limelight-in-vienna.html
She was the woman  Gustav Klimt  spent
his life with, yet they never lived together or married. His
offspring -- as many as 14, including two baby Gustavs born from
different mothers in the same summer -- were by other women.  Emilie Floege shares the spotlight in Vienna, where an
array of exhibitions honors Klimt’s  150th birthday . He portrayed
himself in a clinch with Floege in “The Kiss,” one of the most
rapturous -- and popular -- homages to love ever painted.  The  Belvedere  still has the best and blingiest collection
of Klimt’s paintings worldwide, even after losing 10 through
restitutions to the heirs of pre-World War II owners. The golden
“Judith” is among its possessions on display, along with some
wonderful landscapes and works by the next generation of
painters, including  Egon Schiele  and Oskar Kokoschka.  Two new Klimt acquisitions from a donor are also in the new
exhibition: “Family,” portraying a woman and two children,
their pale sleeping faces shining from a dark canvas; and
“Sunflower,” where the flower stands in for Floege, a fashion
designer, in a long baggy dress of a type she often wore during
vacations at Attersee, east of Salzburg.  Klimt spent summers with her there, yet there’s no evidence
of a physical relationship. For the first time, the Belvedere is
showing seven love letters, dated from 1895 to 1899, that only
recently surfaced. They are penned in Klimt’s beautifully
stylish, barely legible hand and addressed to Emilie.  Love Mystery  In one he calls her “my treasure, my life,” and they are
evidence, at least, of his feelings for her -- if “The Kiss”
were not proof enough. Did she reciprocate? Her face is turned
to the side in the painting, away from his embrace.  A poem he wrote in her dance-card at a ball suggests his
love was unrequited. We may never know the answer as Emilie
(whose sister was the widow of Klimt’s brother Ernst) destroyed
her letters to Gustav.  It’s a shame the letters aren’t transcribed and translated.
Their content will be lost on the hundreds of foreign visitors
who traipse through the Belvedere this summer.  The  Leopold Museum  doesn’t have as many spectacular
paintings as the Belvedere, yet it has done a better job with
what it has in an absorbing exhibition, “Klimt: Up Close and
Personal.” Impressive loans include a golden knight on a black
horse against a glittering background from a museum in  Japan .  Artist’s Photos  Black-and-white photos show the artist relaxing by the
Attersee in his loose painting smock, stroking a cat or hugging
Floege’s 5-year-old niece. About 400 postcards from Klimt to
Emilie over 20 years wind through the exhibition and at least
here each one is transcribed and translated.  The content is by no means earth-shattering -- many of
Klimt’s missives are to make theater dates, report on the
weather from his travels, cancel French lessons, complain of
hangovers or just to tell her when to expect him.  Yet they are touching testimony to a lifelong, day-to-day
intimacy, preserved in a way impossible in our age because such
correspondence takes place by text message or phone calls.  Perhaps we should think twice before deleting that text
saying “Bad head. See you tomorrow.” It may end up in a
museum.  Klimt Kitsch  An exhibition at the  Wien Museum , which has an enormous
collection of Klimt drawings, asks good questions. Where is the
border between “city-branding” to attract tourists and Klimt
overkill? How far has he become kitsch?  As well as Klimt’s famous oil portrait of Floege --
undoubtedly a masterpiece -- the museum is showing its drawings
irreverently close together to line the walls. Not all are
masterworks, though many are.  The museum’s collection of Klimt kitsch records the impact
the artist has had on Vienna’s image. Along with the predictable
umbrellas, fridge magnets and ashtrays, such marvels as a Klimt
toilet seat came to light through a Facebook campaign. I was
amused to note that the display includes the Klimt-labeled wine
sold in the museum’s shop -- a nice touch of self-irony.  The winner of the museum’s “Worst of Klimt” award went to
a plastic egg that opens to show miniature “Kiss” figures
which rotate to the tune of Elvis’s “I Can’t Help Falling in
Love With You.” Beautiful.  Two Viennese institutions have built platforms to make
their Klimt frescoes more accessible to the public in honor of
the anniversary. At the  Secession , artist Gerwald Rockenschaub’s
bright yellow construction allows viewers to see Klimt’s
“Beethoven Frieze” at eye level.  A bridge in the extravagant arcaded stairwell of the
 Kunsthistorisches Museum  offers close-up views of decorative
personifications of stylistic periods and regions that Klimt
painted as a young man, working together with his brother Ernst
and painting partner Franz Matsch.  “150 Years Gustav Klimt” runs at the Belvedere through
Jan. 6, 2013. “Klimt: Up Close and Personal” is at the Leopold
Museum until Aug. 27. The Wien Museum is showing “Klimt: The
Wien Museum’s Collection” through Sept. 16. The Secession
platform remains in place through Jan. 13, 2013, and the
Kunsthistorisches Museum has extended “Face to Face With Gustav
Klimt” through Jan. 6, 2013.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on auctions and  Craig
Seligman  on art.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 