-- Kumar’s Rajaratnam Cooperation ‘Extraordinary,’ U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-17T00:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/kumar-s-rajaratnam-cooperation-extraordinary-u-s-says.html
Former McKinsey & Co. partner Anil Kumar provided “extraordinary” cooperation as a government
witness against hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  and former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta , prosecutors said.  At Rajaratnam’s trial last year, Kumar’s testimony “was
nothing short of devastating,” prosecutors said today in a
letter to Denny Chin, the federal judge who is scheduled to
sentence Kumar July 19. Kumar pleaded guilty to participating in
an insider-trading scheme with Rajaratnam.  In June, Kumar told a jury how Gupta, his former mentor,
teamed up with Rajaratnam, co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC
hedge fund, in 2006 to try to raise $2 billion for an investment
fund. Gupta and Rajaratnam were both convicted.  “Kumar’s cooperating with the government was absolutely
essential in two of the most important  securities fraud  trials
in history,” assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and Richard
Tarlowe said in the letter.  The prosecutors said they only needed two in-person
meetings after Kumar’s October 2009 arrest before he agreed to
sign a cooperation deal, providing evidence against Rajaratnam
and others tied to Galleon, as well as telling the U.S. about
his own “extensive criminal conduct,” which the government
hadn’t previously been aware of.  ‘Most Important’  “From the first day of Kumar’s cooperation through the
present, he’s been one of the best and most important
cooperating witnesses” for the  Manhattan  U.S. attorney’s
securities fraud unit, Brodsky and Tarlowe said.  Few other people ensnared in the insider-trading
investigation tied to Rajaratnam have cooperated with the U.S.,
the prosecutors said.  “In the world of Rajaratnam and his co-conspirators,
cooperation was sadly viewed as a fundamental breach of trust to
one another, and cooperators were viewed by many Galleon
employees and other members of Rajaratnam’s criminal schemes as
‘ratting out’ a trusted friend,” Brodsky and Tarlowe said.  Rajaratnam and his cohorts “apparently believed it was
better to go to jail than breach their criminal partnership,”
they added. Kumar’s testimony against Gupta “directly and
substantially undermined Gupta’s defenses,” they said.  Gupta, who was convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy
in June, is awaiting sentencing. Rajaratnam is serving an 11-
year prison term in a federal medical facility in  Massachusetts .  Investigation Slowed  The prosecutors said their investigation into criminal
wrongdoing at Galleon has been slowed by the failure of others
to cooperate.  “There remain active, ongoing criminal investigations of
former Galleon employees that, although moving forward in a
deliberate manner, would have been undoubtedly accelerated had
additional Galleon employees agreed to cooperate,” Brodsky and
Tarlowe said.  Kumar, who worked at McKinsey from 1986 until November
2009, pleaded guilty in January 2010, to one count of conspiracy
and one count of securities fraud. Under the statutes,
conspiracy is punishable by as long as five years in prison
while securities fraud carries a maximum term of as long as 20
years in prison. Kumar also agreed to pay $2.6 million in
forfeiture.  At Rajaratnam’s trial, Kumar testified that he passed
information about some of his clients, including  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s deal to sell chips to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , and a
second deal about AMD’s acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc.  ‘Corrupt World’  Prosecutors said Kumar became co-opted by “Rajaratnam’s
corrupt world,” and the praise the billionaire fund manager
gave him as well as money he received in offshore accounts.  Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Kumar, didn’t return a voice-
mail or an e-mail message seeking comment about the case.  Adam Smith , a former Galleon fund manager who pleaded
guilty and testified against Rajaratnam, was sentenced in June
to two years’ probation after prosecutors called him a “key”
cooperating witness. He was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over Gupta’s case. Gupta is scheduled to be
sentenced Oct. 18.  Kumar testified in June that Gupta approached him in 2006
saying he wanted to start an investment fund after his scheduled
retirement from McKinsey in 2007. Kumar said Gupta sought out
Rajaratnam, who was Kumar’s classmate at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, because of his expertise as a
prominent hedge fund manager.  The case is U.S. v. Kumar, 10-cr-13, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  