-- Kuwait Energy, Turkiye Petrolleri, Dragon Sign Iraq Oil Deal
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-07-16T13:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/kuwait-energy-dragon-turkiye-petrolleri-sign-iraq-oil-deal-1-.html
Kuwait Energy Co., Dubai-based
 Dragon Oil Plc (DGO)  and Turkiye Petrolleri AO signed an agreement to
explore for crude in southern Iraq along the Iranian border.  The companies won rights to explore block 9 in a May
auction, bidding a fee of $6.24 a barrel. Kuwait Energy will be
the project’s operator, holding 40 percent, while Turkiye
Petrolleri and Dragon Oil will each have 30 percent, the Kuwaiti
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  The service contract is one of three that the Iraqi Oil
Ministry awarded at the auction.  Pakistan Petroleum Ltd. (PPL)  signed
an agreement yesterday to search for natural gas in block 8 in
eastern Iraq. Russia’s OAO Lukoil and  Inpex Corp. (1605)  of  Japan  are
due to sign an agreement tomorrow for crude exploration rights
in block 10 in southern Iraq, for a fee of $5.99 a barrel.  The contracts contribute to an energy-industry resurgence
that has raised Iraq into second place among the 12 members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, nine years
after the U.S.-led invasion that toppled the former president
 Saddam Hussein . Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude
reserves, according to data from  BP Plc (BP/)  that include Canadian
 oil sands , and the Middle East’s fifth-biggest gas deposits.  First Exploration  The auction on May 30 and May 31 was for exploration rights
at undeveloped sites, Iraq’s first such sale in three decades,
Abdul Mahdy Al-Ameedi, director general of the Oil Ministry’s
licensing department, said yesterday. In its three previous
auctions since 2003, the ministry awarded licenses for fields
already discovered or in operation.  The Kuwait Energy-led group holds exploration rights to its
area for five years and will have 20 additional years to develop
any oil it may find, according to the Kuwait Energy statement.
Iraq’s cabinet must approve the agreement before a final accord
can be signed, Abdul Mahdy Al-Ameedi, director general of the
ministry’s licensing department, said at today’s ceremony in
Baghdad.  The government made no awards for nine of the 12 energy
blocks it tried to auction in May. The ministry agreed later to
sell rights to one of the unawarded areas to Russia’s  OAO
Bashneft (BANE) , for a fee of $5 a barrel.  Bashneft will partner with London-based Premier Oil Plc to
explore for oil in block 12 in southern Iraq, Al-Ameedi said
yesterday. Bashneft will hold a 70 percent stake, and Premier
the rest. The ministry will sign an initial agreement with
Bashneft within two weeks, Al-Ameedi said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  