-- N.Z. Dollar Falls After Inflation Slower Than Estimated
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-16T23:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/n-z-dollar-falls-after-inflation-slower-than-estimated.html
The  New Zealand dollar  declined,
snapping a two-day gain, after the slowest consumer-price growth
in 12 years prompted speculation the central bank will keep
 interest rates  at a record low for longer.  Losses in the so-called kiwi and Australian dollar against
the greenback were limited before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies before the Senate Banking Committee today,
amid speculation he may signal additional bond purchases.
 Australia ’s dollar fell for a second day against the yen on
signs global growth is slowing.  “The  New Zealand  dollar can see some softening on the CPI
data,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. “It suggests that the central bank have room to
move interest rates if they need to and the economy is not
growing as robustly as they might like.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to 79.61 U.S. cents
as of 9:40 a.m. in Sydney from yesterday. It also lost 0.2
percent to 62.80 yen.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.60 percent.  Australia’s dollar was little changed at $1.0241 from
$1.0249 yesterday when it added 0.2 percent. The Aussie bought
80.77 yen from 80.83 yen yesterday, when it slid 0.2 percent.  New Zealand consumer prices rose 0.3 percent from the first
quarter, when they advanced 0.5 percent,  Statistics New Zealand 
said in Wellington today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists was for a 0.5 percent increase. Prices
rose 1 percent in the year ended June 30, the slowest annual
pace since the final quarter of 1999.  Bernanke Testimony  Fed Chairman Bernanke will deliver his monetary policy
report to the Senate today. The Federal Open Market Committee’s
June 19-20 meeting debated the need for further stimulus
measures, the minutes released July 11 showed. Two participants
supported additional bond purchases, while two others said only
a further deterioration in the economy would warrant them.  “The last few days have been all about the lead up to the
Bernanke’s testimony and that will continue to be the main
driver of the markets,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in
Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest
lender. “I expect the Aussie to be higher on the day.”  Retail sales  in the U.S. decreased for the third straight
month in June, Commerce Department data showed yesterday. Sales
fell 0.5 percent, worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey in which the median projection called for
a 0.2 percent increase. Purchases last fell for three or more
months in July through December 2008.  Aussie Longs  Futures traders increased their bets that the Australian
dollar will gain versus the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared with
those on a drop was 19,065 on July 10. The so-called net longs
were 9,348 a week earlier.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will release minutes of its
July 3 meeting today in Sydney. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board left the overnight cash-rate target at a 2 1/2-year low of
3.5 percent this month, saying its recent reductions in
borrowing costs will help the economy weather a more subdued
global outlook. The decision was predicted by all 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  