-- Nebraska, Not California, is King of Municipal Collapse
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/nebraska-not-california-is-king-of-municipal-collapse.html
Busted land deals and empty
subdivisions bankrupted more governmental entities in Brian C.
Doyle’s home state than anywhere in America. With the recent
financial collapse of three of its cities, it might be easy to
assume he’s from  California .  Doyle, however, lives in  Nebraska .  Quirks in local, state and federal law have made Nebraska
home to almost one-fifth of the more than 220 Chapter 9
bankruptcies filed in the U.S. since 1981, according to a
nationwide review of federal court records. California, with
more than 20 times Nebraska’s population, is second, followed by
 Texas  and  Alabama . California may soon add to its total, as San
Bernardino decides whether to seek court protection this week.  The main difference between Nebraska and its larger
brethren is the kind of governmental bodies that file for
bankruptcy. No town, city or county has sought court protection
in the state. All 45 of Nebraska’s Chapter 9 cases were by
special tax districts, most of them owned by residential
subdivision developers who used property-tax revenue to pay for
streets, sewers and other infrastructure.  “Chapter 9 is an effective tool that can be used to
protect taxpayers and treat creditors fairly,” said Doyle, a
land-use attorney in Omaha who represents bankrupt subdivisions.
Those special tax districts become vulnerable to bankruptcy when
housing sales slow, he said.  Chapter 9 Filings  Only about 20 percent, or 43, of the Chapter 9 cases filed
in the U.S. since 1981 were by towns, cities or counties. Of
those, California, Alabama and Texas led the way, accounting for
more than two-fifths of such filings, according to a Bloomberg
News review of court filings.  The three states share the regulatory confluence of strong
restrictions on revenue-raising and low bars on bankruptcy
filing.  In California, five of its 39 Chapter 9 petitions were made
by cities or counties: Orange County in 1994, and the cities of
Desert Hot Springs in 2001, Vallejo in 2008, and Stockton and
Mammoth Lakes in the past month. Alabama had seven such filings
by cities and counties, including one repeat, and Texas had six
filings by five cities.  Elected officials in San Bernardino, a town at the foot of
a mountain range that shares its name and about 60 miles (97
kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , voted July 10 to seek U.S.
court protection. Since then, they have been trying to decide
whether to file a Chapter 9 case immediately or use state-
mandated mediation with creditors first.  San Bernardino’s City Council will hear advice from lawyers
today about whether it should declare a fiscal emergency and put
the municipality into bankruptcy without going through the 60-
day mediation process.  Five States  Just five states account for more than half of all types of
Chapter 9 filings in U.S. bankruptcy courts: Nebraska,
California, Texas, Alabama and  Oklahoma .  Their numbers are dwarfed by those of corporate
reorganizations. Since 1981, more than 20,000 companies have 
sought protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code.  Chapter 9, used by local governments and entities they
create, differs significantly from Chapter 11, the section
written for private companies and nonprofit groups. State
lawmakers must pass a law authorizing local governmental bodies
to file for bankruptcy before they can do so.  About half of the states allow full, or conditional, access
to bankruptcy court, according to a legal analysis by Jim Spiotto, a bankruptcy attorney with Chapman & Cutler LLP in
 Chicago  who helped write a book about municipalities in
financial distress. Nebraska grants special tax districts
unobstructed access to bankruptcy courts, Doyle said.  Difficult Politically  For cities and counties, filing a Chapter 9 case is also
more difficult because it requires a vote of elected officials.  “Political will is clearly an important factor,” said
Lary Stromfeld, a New York-based attorney who specializes in
 capital markets  and distressed municipal debt at Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP, of Chapter 9 filings. “It’s a difficult
thing to do politically.”  Once in bankruptcy, Chapter 9 gives cities and counties an
advantage over companies using Chapter 11 to reorganize. Unlike
a company, municipalities don’t need to ask the bankruptcy court
for permission to pay any bills they ran up before filing for
court protection, including wages, utility bills and rents.  That means creditors can’t put as much pressure on a city
over its spending habits, as sometimes happens in Chapter 11
cases, said Lee Bogdanoff, an attorney with Klee Tuchin
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP. The Los Angeles law firm represents
Mammoth Lakes and Alabama’s Jefferson County, which filed the
biggest municipal bankruptcy in the U.S. last year, listing more
than $4 billion in debt.  Reorganization Plans  Chapter 9 creditors also can’t offer their own
reorganization plan and aren’t entitled to form an official
committee with legal fees paid by the municipality. Unsecured
creditors typically have those rights under Chapter 11, which is
used by companies to try to stay in business and reorganize.  Small tax districts are more easily reorganized than cities
or counties, mainly because the districts typically don’t have
to contend with labor unions, Doyle said.  In Nebraska, Chapter 9 bankruptcies are more like
prepackaged Chapter 11 cases because the district owners and
creditors most often work out an agreement beforehand, he said.  Cases in Nebraska usually take only a few months to go
through the federal court system and most are approved by a U.S.
bankruptcy judge based on whatever deal is worked out with
creditors. Those deals almost always guarantee full repayment of
bondholders’ principal, stretched over a longer period of time
and at a lower  interest rate , Doyle said.  Housing Slump  Most of the subdivisions that own the special tax districts
are located in or around Omaha, Doyle said. In the next two
years, as many as 10 more of the special districts may go
bankrupt as debt comes due for subdivisions built during the
housing slump that followed the credit crisis, he said.  Since the Great Depression of the 1930s, no U.S.
municipality has used bankruptcy to force bondholders to take
less than the full principal due, according to Spiotto and
 Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois .  That may change, if Stockton’s lawyers have their way. The
bankrupt municipality has begun a historic effort to be the
first American city to use bankruptcy to successfully impose
losses on bondholders.  Similar Traits  California, Alabama and Texas share several traits that
help explain why they have such a large share of municipal
bankruptcies, Spiotto said.  All three allow cities and special tax districts to file
bankruptcy with few, if any, conditions. While California
requires cities to first go through mediation with creditors, a
loophole lets officials declare an emergency to shorten, or even
eliminate, the talks.  In Alabama, a state supreme court ruling this year in the
Jefferson County case made it easier for municipalities in that
state to meet Chapter 9 eligibility standards.  “One of the things that many states are asking is, ‘Should
we have more active supervision?'" Spiotto said.  The three states also restrict the power of local officials
to increase existing taxes or impose new ones.  Sewer System  In Alabama, only state lawmakers can authorize new local
taxes. Jefferson County lost about $70 million in revenue when
the state high court struck down a wage tax.  The decision, combined with a sewer system that doesn’t
generate enough money to cover payments on about $3.2 billion in
debt, forced the county into bankruptcy, according to court
documents.  In California, cities struggle with the effects of the
1970s tax reform known as Proposition 13, which limits how
quickly property taxes can increase, said Michael A. Pagano,
dean of the College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs at the
 University of Illinois  at Chicago.  And in Texas, the state constitution limits how much cities
with more than 5,000 people can collect annually in property
taxes, Spiotto said.  Public officials have traditionally been wary of Chapter 9
for fear of alienating the  bond market  and driving up the future
cost of borrowing, said Spiotto, who represents a group of
Jefferson County’s creditors.  Political Stigma  Those fears and the political stigma may be fading as
cities, especially in California, face increased budget
pressures, said Matt Fabian, a managing director for Municipal
Market Advisors, based in Concord,  Massachusetts .  “Stockton has a potential to reverse the precedent,”
Fabian said. “Cities tend to follow the example within their
states. Things that happen tend to keep happening.”  Stockton on June 28 became the biggest U.S. city to seek
court protection, listing assets of more than $1 billion and
debt of more than $500 million. The collapse of the housing
market left Stockton, a city of about 292,000, to contend with
mounting retiree health-care costs and an eroding tax base in
the wake of the recession, while accounting errors overstated
municipal revenues.  Mammoth Lakes, a High Sierra resort town of 8,200, followed
Stockton into bankruptcy on July 3 to shield itself from a 
$43 million judgment won by a land developer in a lawsuit.  San Bernardino  In San Bernardino, a city of 209,000, officials are looking
to Chapter 9 after being confronted with a $45 million fiscal-
year deficit fueled by declining tax revenue and growing
employee costs.  Despite any perceived stigma, the option for municipalities 
to seek court protection may be gaining favor due to political 
expediency, bankruptcy attorney Stromfeld said.  “Municipalities are recognizing that it can be a very
valuable tool to address these difficult financial situations,”
he said.  The California cases are in Re Stockton, 12-32118, and In
re Mammoth Lakes, 12-32463;  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the
Eastern District of California ( Sacramento ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware 
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  