-- NYSE Liffe U.S. Begins to Trade in Futures on DTCC Repo Index
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-16T10:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/nyse-liffe-u-s-begins-to-trade-in-futures-on-dtcc-repo-index.html
NYSE Liffe U.S. began trading in
futures contracts based on the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
repurchase agreement indexes to enhance dealers ability to hedge
short-term  interest rates .  The futures contracts, which began today, track movements
in the $400 billion market for general collateral finance
repurchase agreements using three  DTCC GCF Repo indices . Changes
in repo rates affect dealers financing costs, which use them to
finance debt holdings as well as to increase leverage.  The scandal impairing confidence in the London interbank
offered rate, a benchmark for $360 trillion in securities, may
help drive demand for the futures. Libor’s reputation has been
dented by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false Libor
rates. Other banks have lowballed submissions, according to
testimony before British lawmakers this month week from  Robert Diamond , who resigned as  chief executive officer after Barclays
was fined 290 million pounds ($451 million) in the scandal.  “The new repo futures will be met with strong interest,”
 Brian Smedley , a strategist in  New York  at Bank of America
Corp., said in a telephone interview on July 9. “It will be
attractive for both those who need funding, like  hedge funds  or
dealers, and want to hedge as well as from investors. Repo is
certainly one of the most important money market rates.”  In a repurchase, or repo, agreement, U.S. government
securities are exchanged for cash, with the debt held as
collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date and cash is sent back to the lender.  General Collateral  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day through repurchase, or repo, agreements, climbed to a
22-month high of 0.297 percent July 2, up from minus 0.001
percent on Dec. 30, the  DTCC index  shows. The measure was 0.207
percent on July 13.  In a general collateral repo transaction, the lender of
funds is willing to accept a variety of Treasury, mortgage-
backed securities or agency collateral.  The NYSE Liffe U.S., a unit of NYSE Euronext, is listing
30-day contracts for 24 consecutive months based on DTCC’s repo
index for Treasuries,  agencies  and agency MBS. The New York-
based DTCC’s Fixed Income Clearing Corporation processes more
than $3 trillion in repos each day.  GCF repo, a fraction of the $5.5 trillion repo market, was
introduced in 1998 by DTCC’s Fixed Income Clearing Corp. unit
with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
clearing banks that function as the agent and collateral holder
in tri-party repo transactions.  Eurodollar Futures  Trading in the repo futures may reach 500,000 contracts a
day, Citigroup Inc. analysts Neela Gollapudi and Timothy Chung
wrote in a July 6 note to clients. “We would not be surprised
if it takes several quarters to several years” to get to that
level, they said.  In March 2011, the NYSE Liffe U.S. began offering futures
trading for Eurodollar contracts, as part of an overall effort
to take on  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange.
Eurodollar futures have historically been one of CME Group’s
most-traded interest-rate products.  CME Group Inc. still has the most-popular interest-rate
future in the Eurodollar, even as trading volume in the first
quarter fell 19.2 percent from a year earlier, according to
statistics compiled by the  Futures Industry Association , an
industry trade and lobbying group. The contract tracks interest-
rate movements over three months and settles against Libor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  