-- Obama Campaigns on Republican Turf in Battle for Ohio
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-16T19:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/obama-campaigns-on-republican-turf-in-battle-for-ohio.html
President  Barack Obama  stepped up
his attack on  Mitt Romney ’s tax and economic plans, accusing the
Republican presidential candidate of advocating policies that
would create more jobs overseas than in the U.S.  Campaigning in an area of southwestern Ohio long dominated
by Republicans, Obama hit Romney on taxes and his background as
head of the private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC as he sought to
hold on to support in the Midwestern swing state.  “We don’t need a president who wants to ship more jobs
overseas,” Obama today told about 1,200 supporters at a
campaign forum at the Cincinnati Music Hall.  Obama is spending four days this week campaigning and
raising money as he faces what polls show is a close race for
election in November.  Ohio , with 18 electoral votes, has been a
bellwether in modern presidential politics, voting for the
winner in every election since 1964. No Republican has won the
presidency without also winning the state.  Obama and his surrogates spent last week questioning
Romney’s veracity when 2002 Securities and Exchange Commission
records surfaced that listed him as Bain’s chief executive
officer -- three years after he said he had quit running the
company and during a period when the firm fired workers and
outsourced jobs overseas.  Romney Response  Romney today said he was “very proud” of his business
record, charging the president with trying to distract from
economic issues.  “I’d say to the president, ‘Wouldn’t it be interesting,
Mr. President, wouldn’t it be interesting if you spent some time
speaking about your record?’” he said in an interview on  Fox
News .  Obama today focused in on differences in  tax policy ,
including how corporations are taxed on earnings outside the
U.S. Citing an analysis today by economist Kimberly Clausing in
the publication Tax Notes, Obama said Romney’s call for a so-
called territorial system of taxes for multinational
corporations would create 800,000 jobs.  “There’s only one problem,” Obama said. “The jobs
wouldn’t be in America. They’d be in other countries.”  Under current tax law, U.S.-based companies owe U.S. taxes
based on the income they earn around the world. They can get tax
credits for payments to foreign governments and defer that
residual U.S. tax until they bring the money home.  Taxing Companies  Since the 2008 campaign, Obama has been proposing changes
that would make it harder for companies to defer the U.S. taxes,
arguing that the current system provides incentives for
companies to shift profits and jobs out of the U.S. His most
significant proposals haven’t become law.  Romney wants the U.S. to follow the examples set by the
U.K. and  Japan  and switch to what’s known as a territorial tax
system, which doesn’t attempt to tax the overseas income of
their companies. Corporate executives and groups such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce say U.S. multinational companies are
disadvantaged in foreign markets because their competitors don’t
have that residual tax in their home countries.  The Romney campaign hasn’t provided any details on how his
international tax proposal would work. Romney wants to lower the
corporate  tax rate  to 25 percent from 35 percent, which would
reduce the incentive to relocate jobs and profits. He hasn’t
said what other changes he would make or what tax breaks he
would curtail.  Economic Growth  “Mitt Romney has a comprehensive plan to reform the
corporate  tax code  that will lower rates, get rid of incentives
for firms to create jobs in other countries, and encourage the
kind of economic growth President Obama has been unable to
deliver,” Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  The area where Obama is campaigning today, Cincinnati and
its suburbs, is home turf for Republican House Speaker  John Boehner , former Ohio Governor Bob Taft, a Republican, and
Senator  Rob Portman , a potential Romney running mate.  “That’s Romney territory,” said  David Cohen , a political
science professor at the University of Akron. “The point of
Obama going there is not to cede any turf to Romney. He’s got to
eat away at Romney’s margins.”  Obama, who won Ohio in 2008 over Republican Senator  John McCain , led Romney by 47 percent to 38 percent in a June 27
Quinnipiac University poll. In the last election, Obama was the
first Democrat in 44 years to win Hamilton County, which
includes Cincinnati. The surrounding suburban counties backed
McCain that year by a roughly 2-to-1 margin.  Ohio’s Politics  “It’s a fairly balanced state with a slight Republican
advantage,” said Herb Asher, a professor emeritus of political
science at  Ohio State University  in Columbus. “More Ohioans
think of themselves as conservative rather than liberal.”  Working in Obama’s favor is the pace of Ohio’s economic
recovery, which is faster than the national average, Asher said.  Ohio ranks sixth among the 50 states in its rate of
improving economic health, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States from the first quarter of 2011 through the
first quarter of this year.  The state’s unemployment rate was 7.3 percent in May, lower
than the national rate of 8.2 percent that month and down from a
high of 10.6 percent in January 2010, according to figures from
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  In a sign of Ohio’s electoral importance, Obama has made 10
visits to the state since filing for re-election in April 2011,
not including today’s trip.  Romney has likewise made Ohio a frequent campaign
destination. He gave a speech in Cincinnati on June 14 -- the
same day Obama was speaking across the state in  Cleveland .  Before the forum with voters, Obama held a closed-door
fundraiser at the  Music Hall  for the Obama Victory Fund, a joint
fundraising committee of Obama for America, the  Democratic
National Committee , and several state Democratic parties,
according to the Obama campaign. The event drew 25 donors at
$25,000 per person, the campaign said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Cincinnati at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  