-- Obama, Romney Bash Each Other With 90% Negative Ads
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/obama-romney-bash-each-other-with-90-negative-ads.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  are decrying negative attacks
even as they focus almost all of their television advertisements
on bashing one another.  About 89 percent of Obama’s ads in the 14-day period ended
July 9 carried an anti-Romney message and 94 percent of Romney’s
ads criticized Obama, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, which tracks advertising. The Democratic president’s
campaign ran more than twice as many negative spots as Romney
during the period, 37,022 to 13,962, CMAG data show.  The negative ads underscore that Obama and Romney are
sharpening their attacks 16 weeks before a Nov. 6 vote that
national polls indicate will be close. Obama led Romney by 50
percent to 43 percent among registered voters in a survey taken
June 28-July 9 by the Pew Research Center for the People and the
Press.  Obama’s most popular ad during the 14-day period says
Romney promoted an “outsourcing” of U.S. jobs overseas as a
private-equity executive. Romney’s most frequently aired spot
includes footage of Secretary of State  Hillary Rodham Clinton 
criticizing Obama’s campaign tactics as they competed for the
2008 Democratic presidential nomination.  The CMAG data don’t include some hard-hitting ads released
in the past few days. An Obama ad released July 14 shows Romney
singing “America the Beautiful” at a campaign event as it
accuses Romney of sending jobs to  Mexico ,  China  and  India , and
keeping personal funds in accounts in Switzerland and  Bermuda .  ‘The Problem’  “Mitt Romney’s not the solution. He’s the problem,” the
ad closes.  Obama’s campaign unveiled the ad as the president completed
a two-day campaign swing in  Virginia , during which he criticized
the negative tone of the election.  “It’s understandable that as you watch these TV ads, that
you start thinking that politics just doesn’t seem to get what’s
going on in your lives, that there’s so much negativity and so
much cynicism,” Obama said in  Virginia Beach  on July 14.  Obama’s campaign ran more negative ads in the two weeks
ended July 9 than in the previous 11 weeks. Since April 10,
Obama’s campaign supplied 73,315 negative ads and 54,279
positive spots, CMAG data show.  Give Money  Obama has encouraged donors to give money to an independent
super-political action committee, run by his former aides,
that’s airing anti-Romney ads. The super-PAC, Priorities USA
Action, ran ads more than 2,780 times in the 14-day period ended
July 9, all of them attacking Romney’s business record at Bain
Capital Partners LLC, the Boston-based private-equity company he
co-founded.  The Obama campaign’s accusation that Romney shifted U.S.
jobs overseas is “patently false, it’s a lie, and it’s sad to
see the Obama campaign reduced to this kind of -- you know,
these kinds of reckless, baseless charges,” senior Romney
adviser  Ed Gillespie  said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program.  Romney’s campaign says the president’s attacks contradict
his statements from his 2008 campaign, during which candidate
Obama promised to run a campaign based on “hope and change.”  “What happened?” a narrator asks in a Romney ad that
began running July 14 and uses footage of Obama speaking at the
2008 Democratic National Convention in Denver.  “If you don’t have any fresh ideas, then you use stale
tactics to scare voters,” Obama is shown saying. “If you don’t
have a record to run on, then you paint your opponent as someone
to run from,” Obama said.  Attack Strategy  The president’s remarks are interspersed with headlines
about Obama’s attack strategy against Romney. One cites Obama’s
outsourcing attacks as “unfair.”  “We expect more from a president,” the ad closes.  Another Romney ad, released yesterday, shows footage of
television commentators analyzing the tone of Obama’s campaign.  Obama’s campaign responded to the ad yesterday by saying
Romney needs to “come clean” about his involvement with  Bain
Capital  and also release additional federal tax returns.  “Until then, we are left to wonder just what he is
hiding,” Lis Smith, a campaign spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  The  Republican National Committee  has also entered the
fray, using its first presidential ad to say Obama failed to
meet the “big plans” he set at the beginning of his
administration, including cutting  federal budget  deficits in
half and lowering a national  unemployment rate  that has been
above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months.  “He tried,” a narrator says. “You tried. It’s OK to make
a change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  