-- Local Debt Cheap to Treasuries Longest Since 2009: Muni Credit
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/local-debt-cheap-to-treasuries-longest-since-2009-muni-credit.html
Municipal debt is set to remain
cheaper than Treasuries for the  longest  stretch in three years,
signaling a buying opportunity to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
and Samson Capital Advisors LLC.  Yields on tax-exempt bonds maturing in 10 years have been
above their federal counterparts since mid-May, the lengthiest
span since September 2008 through May 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Investors have been favoring Treasuries as a
haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis, a slowing economy and spreading
municipal bankruptcies in  California .  The benchmark yield on 10-year munis touched 1.77 percent
last week, the lowest since mid-May, according to Bloomberg
Valuation data. Yet it was still as much as 125 percent of the
 interest rate  on similar-maturity Treasuries, close to a three-
year high.  “No question that municipals represent a far better value
than the high-grade taxable markets,” said Ken Potts, who
manages about $1 billion of munis at Samson in New York. The
company has been exiting taxable securities in the past few
months and “trying to put that money to work in munis,” he
said.  With state revenue rising for nine straight quarters in the
wake of the longest recession since the 1930s and defaults on
the decline, tax-free bonds are proving a haven. After adjusting
for volatility, the $3.7 trillion muni market is on a pace to
beat Treasuries and corporate debt for a second straight year.  Yields Tumble  Yields on top-grade munis due in 10 years sank last week by
the most since March, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.
Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields touched about  1.45 percent ,
within 0.02 percentage point of a record low.  The yield on AAA 10-year munis is equivalent to about a 2.7
percent taxable rate for investors in the highest tax bracket.  “It’s a lot easier to digest these nominal yields when
they have such attractive ratios to Treasuries,” said Tom Boylen, a trader at Chicago-based Performance Trust Capital
Partners, which invests in fixed-income securities. “The longer
we stay down at these levels, the more money that will come off
the sidelines” into munis, he said.  The decisions by three California municipalities in as many
weeks to seek  bankruptcy protection  are contributing to elevate
the ratio, said Alan Schankel, a managing director at Janney in
Philadelphia.  Bankruptcy Decisions  On July 10, San Bernardino’s City Council voted to file for
protection, following moves by Stockton and the town of Mammoth
Lakes since the end of June.  Surging municipal issuance has also limited the drop in
local-government interest rates. Issuers have been taking
advantage of yields close to the lowest since the 1960s to
refinance higher-cost debt, boosting supply by more than 70
percent this year over the same period in 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Demand for muni mutual funds hasn’t been damped by the
fiscal crises in California. The funds added about $653 million
in the week through July 11, the most since mid-May, Lipper US
Fund Flows data show.  Individual-investor clients are finding tax-free debt
“more attractive and we’re telling them that it’s more
attractive on a relative basis,” said Schankel at Janney. “No
one likes the low yields.”  The elevated ratio may persist through 2012, according to
John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York .  “It’s going to go straight to the end of the year, post-
election,” in part because of the looming debate among federal
lawmakers on how to shrink the nation’s deficit, he said.  The ratio of muni yields to federal interest rates, a
measure of relative value between the two asset classes, has
averaged about 92 percent since the start of 2001, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It reached a peak of about 195 percent in
December 2008.  Following are pending sales:  DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK plans to sell
$1 billion of debt backed by personal-income-tax revenue as soon
as July 17 through competitive bid, according to bond documents.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects for the State
University of New York system and the  City University  of New
York and support environmental infrastructure projects. (Updated
July 13)  MIAMI-DADE COUNTY,  Florida , is set to issue $540 million of
revenue bonds as soon as this week. The sale will refund debt
and help finance transportation projects, according to bond
documents. (Updated July 13)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  