-- Offshore Wind Slump Means No Firm Orders for GE, Siemens
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-17T17:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/offshore-wind-slump-means-no-firm-orders-for-ge-siemens.html
Sales of offshore  wind turbines 
collapsed in the first half, a sign the power industry and its
financiers are struggling to meet the ambitions of leaders from
 Angela Merkel  in  Germany  to Britain’s  David Cameron .  One unconditional order was made, for 216 megawatts, 75
percent less than in the same period of 2011 and the worst start
for a year since at least 2009, according to preliminary data
from MAKE Consulting, a Danish wind-energy adviser.  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  of  Denmark , the largest manufacturer, won the
contract while Germany’s  Siemens AG (SIE)  was among those shut out.  That’s a setback for  Chancellor Merkel  and Prime Minister
Cameron, who are targeting a 10-fold expansion in offshore wind
to limit fossil fuel use and create jobs. Banks have curbed
lending to developers as Europe’s financial crisis spread, and
utilities held off on new projects because of delays in
connecting existing ones to high-voltage transmission grids.  “The industry in Germany has been frozen for a few months
because of grid issues,” said Jerome Guillet, the Paris-based
managing director of Green Giraffe Energy Bankers, which advises
on offshore wind projects. In the U.K., there’s a “lull” as
the government moves to a new round of contracting, he said.  Those nations have the most projects. Connections to grids
are being held up in both by a lack of investment, cable,
engineers and ships capable of doing the work after European
Union countries called on companies to build the world’s biggest
collection of sea-based wind parks in the North and Baltic Seas.  7,000 at Sea  Together the group has set out to operate about 3,400
offshore turbines by 2015 and another 3,600 by 2020, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance estimated. The forecast, which projects
windmills contributing 2.7 percent of the EU’s power demand, is
contingent on government support remaining stable.  More than two decades after the first wind farm at sea was
installed in Denmark in 1991, the industry is grappling with how
to expand beyond the current 1,290 offshore turbines operating
in Europe, with 3,500 megawatts of capacity, serving about 3
million households, according to BNEF.  The 216-megawatt order Vestas won for a wind farm off
 Belgium  compares with 855 megawatts amassed by manufacturers
from January and June 2011, MAKE said. The deal is the Danish
company’s only firm and unconditional offshore order this year,
Kasper Ibsen Beck, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  Orders become unconditional when prepayment is received and
developers must ensure financing is in place. Most U.K. and
German projects have reserved turbines needed through 2015,
though with conditions, said Robert Clover, research director at
MAKE.  Siemens, RWE  Siemens, with the most offshore wind turbines installed
last year, announced its last offshore wind order in December
2011, Eva-Maria Baumann, a spokeswoman at the company, said by
e-mail. Those were unconditional, she said.  In Germany’s section of the  North Sea , utility  RWE AG (RWE)  is
working on foundations for its $1.2 billion Nordsee Ost
development but can’t install turbines until a grid connection
is made. Competitor  EON AG (EOAN)  said in February its Amrumbank West
project will be delayed 15 months because of grid issues.  The financial crisis has helped draw out negotiations on
funding.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , Dong Energy A/S and Siemens in June
completed a $660 million financing for the Lincs wind farm off
the U.K.’s shores two years after talks first started.  European nations are leading the push to generate
electricity offshore, harnessing relatively steady breezes in
the North Sea, where waves in winter can often top 15 feet and
gusts more than 90 miles per hour.  German Underestimation  Grid operators and their suppliers in Germany
underestimated the challenges of connecting projects, Hermann Albers, head of the BWE wind-energy lobby, said in an interview
earlier this year. Albers expects Germany won’t reach its 10-
gigawatt goal by 2020, installing not more than 6 gigawatts by
then.  While government goals are long-term, “any delays today
put achievement of those targets at risk,” said Clover of MAKE,
which counts  General Electric Co. (GE)  among its customers.  In the U.K., government plans announced in May to overhaul
the  electricity market  has blurred the picture about what
developers can earn over the coming decades.  “It’s hard for the developer to commit to building without
a clear framework,” Clover said. “The longer we see
uncertainty in the U.K., then the greater the prospects of
delays and the less likelihood orders will be placed.”  As a result, Vestas in June shelved plans to build one of
the biggest offshore turbine factories in southeast  England . The
Aarhus, Denmark-based company’s plant making a 7-megawatt
machine would have created 2,000 jobs. Offshore machines are
bigger and generate more revenue than land-based turbines.  Vestas Shares  Shares of Vestas, the world’s biggest wind turbine maker,
have fallen 80 percent in the past year, underperforming the 56
percent decline in the Bloomberg Industries  Wind Turbine Pure-
Play Index (BIWINDP)  tracking 14 companies in the industry. Siemens, which
with Vestas dominates the offshore business, dropped 27 percent
over the same period.  “The major hindrance from 2013 to the sector will be
reducing investor uncertainty that is stalling the development
of the sector,” said Fraser Johnston, a wind analyst at New
Energy Finance in London.  As offshore wind farms move further out to sea from nations
including Germany and Belgium, the installation and capital
costs of heavier foundations and longer cables have increased.  Project Costs Climbing  The cost of projects commissioned in the first quarter
averaged $232.20 a megawatt-hour, 32 percent higher than the
$176.37 for the same period last year, based on the base case
project data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Those costs will come down in the middle of the decade as
technology improves and installation methods become more
standardized, the researcher said.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s German unit Repower Systems SE didn’t
get unconditional orders this year, president for offshore Frank Zimmermann said. He said by e-mail there are “realistic
opportunities” this situation will change in the second half.
Repower’s March order for  332 megawatts  at the German Gode Wind
I project had conditions, he said.  General Electric got no unconditional offshore orders this
year, spokeswoman Karin Funke-Rapp said. GE, based in Fairfield,
Connecticut, finished a trial run of its 4.1-113 offshore
machine in Goteborg, Sweden. It’s working with customers on
further developments and will announce orders as it gets them,
Funke-Rapp said by e-mail.  While  Areva SA (AREVA)  didn’t get unconditional orders for the
period, spokesman Maxime Michaut said by phone the Paris-based
company has a backlog of 600 megawatts of unconditional orders.
It’s also in discussions for 600 megawatts more, he said.  Alstom, Gamesa  Alstom SA (ALO)  and Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA., both
still  developing  their offshore machines, got no unconditional
offshore orders, according to the companies.  Alstom agreed to supply its turbine to 1,428 megawatts of
French offshore projects  Electricite de France SA  and Dong
Energy A/S are developing.  That order, worth about 2 billion euros ($2.4 billion) if
it goes through, will be booked over several years and run on a
site-by-site basis from 2014. Orders cannot become firm or
unconditional until feasibility studies for each project are
completed, under French tender rules, a spokeswoman at Alstom
who declined to be named said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  