-- Oil Trades Near Seven-Week High on Iran, Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-17T06:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/oil-declines-from-seven-week-high-amid-global-economic-concern.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
seven weeks in  New York  amid speculation U.S. stockpiles will
decline and tension with  Iran  may escalate.  Futures swung between gains and losses after rising for a
fourth day yesterday. Crude stockpiles probably fell 750,000
barrels last week, a fourth weekly drop that further erodes the
biggest glut since 1990, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The U.S. will use
“all elements” of American power to prevent Iran from
obtaining nuclear weapons, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said yesterday in  Jerusalem .  “It’s been a volatile ride up from $81.50 and it wouldn’t
be surprising to see that volatility continue,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“Any escalation in Middle East hostilities could see oil break
out of the top of the range” at $88.50 a barrel, he said.  Crude for August delivery was at $88.16 a barrel, down 27
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2:20 p.m. Singapore time. The contract rose 1.5 percent to
$88.43 yesterday, the highest close since May 29. Prices have
declined 11 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid 22 cents to $103.15 a barrel. The
European benchmark front-month contract was at a $14.60 premium
to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, from $15.12
yesterday.  U.S. Stockpiles  Refineries in the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer,
probably boosted production to 93.1 percent of capacity last
week, according to the median estimate of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. That would be a five-year high and an increase of
0.4 percentage point from a week earlier.  Gasoline inventories may have increased  1.1 million
barrels , the survey showed. Stockpiles of distillates, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, are expected to
have gained 1 million barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
supply data in  Washington  today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Oil in New York may be advancing too quickly for further
gains to be sustainable, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude’s 30-day stochastic oscillators have climbed to
almost 70, a level that would indicate prices are overbought.
Futures also formed a so-called “death cross” yesterday when
the 100-day moving average fell below the 200-day mean, a signal
for investors to sell contracts.  Iran Tension  Clinton departed  Israel  for Washington today after a nine-
country, 12-day trip. She met with Israeli leaders on issues
including Iran, upheaval in the Arab world, the stalled Israeli-
Palestinian  peace process  and the political transition in  Egypt ,
where she spent a day and a half.  “We all prefer a diplomatic resolution, and Iran’s leaders
still have the opportunity to make the right decision,” Clinton
told reporters. “The choice is ultimately Iran’s to make. Our
own choice is clear: We will use all elements of American power
to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  Iran has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for about a fifth of the global oil shipments, in
response to sanctions on its nuclear program. The Persian Gulf
nation, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, said the program is for civilian use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  