-- Tokyo Anti-Nuclear Rally Attracts Thousands as Protests Grow
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a ,   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   S c i l l a   A l e c c i
-- 2012-07-16T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/tokyo-anti-nuclear-rally-attracts-thousands-in-growing-protests.html
Tens of thousands of people packed
Tokyo’s Yoyogi Park yesterday for  Japan ’s biggest anti-nuclear
rally since the Fukushima disaster last year in growing protests
against government moves to restart atomic reactors.  Speakers at the demonstration, which broke up at 1:30 p.m.
into three separate marches through Japan’s capital, included
Nobel laureate Kenzaburo Oe and musician Ryuichi Sakamoto, who
wrote the score for the movie “ Merry Christmas , Mr. Lawrence.”  Japan’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  angered nuclear
opponents last month when he approved the restart of two
reactors at  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) ’s Ohi plant, which were
shutdown along with other units for safety checks after the
meltdown and radiation release from the wrecked Fukushima
station. A Mainichi newspaper poll on June 4 showed as many as
71 percent of Japanese opposed the restart.  “The government allowed the Ohi nuclear reactors to
restart and it’s going to allow more reactors to restart. We
feel we are insulted by the government,” said Oe in his speech
to the rally. “We have to stop the government’s plan,” said
Oe, 77, who received the  Nobel Prize  for Literature in 1994.  “No to Nuclear Restarts” has become the rallying cry of
protesters every Friday evening since the end of March in
demonstrations outside Noda’s official residence. Police
estimate around 10,000 people protested there on July 6, blocked
from entering by a fleet of pale-blue police buses and dozens of
uniformed and plainclothes officers.  Yoyogi organizers,  http://sayonara-nukes.org , said as many
as 170,000 people attended the rally yesterday. National
television broadcaster NHK said the figure was 75,000, citing
the police. In two phone calls by Bloomberg News, the Tokyo
Metropolitan Police said they were not providing any estimate
for the Yoyogi rally.  ‘Something Wrong’  “There’s something wrong in this country when even if
thousands of people protest in front of the prime minister’s
residence they still reactivate the plants,” said Koichiro
Mori, a literature student at  Kyoto University . “We’ve
developed an economy that is capable of sacrificing its own
people; our goal is to change such a society,” said Mori, who
was at Yoyogi with students representing about 15 universities
from Okinawa in the south to Tohoku in the north.  The Yoyogi gathering attracted people from regions
throughout Japan, including Fukushima. Beside some singing and
drums, the thousands attending -- mostly families and the
elderly -- were seated on the grass waving banners and listening
to the speeches, though the speakers were sometimes drowned out
by half-a-dozen helicopters circling above.  Musician Sakamoto said he last attended a rally in the same
park 42 years ago when he was 18 years old and demonstrators met
to oppose the 1970 revision of the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty.  Fukushima Disaster  “This is the first time in more than 40 years that
citizens in Japan go to the streets to make their voices
heard,” he said. “Anger against the Japanese government’s
nuclear policy fills this nation. It’s barbarous to keep silent
after the Fukushima disaster.”  Japan’s anti-nuclear demonstrators have been galvanized by
a report released on July 5 by the Fukushima Nuclear Accident
Independent Investigation Commission. The commission found that
the reactor meltdowns and release of radiation at  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant stemmed from “man-
made” failures before and after last year’s earthquake and
tsunami.  The March 11 disaster “cannot be regarded as a natural
disaster,” Kiyoshi Kurokawa, who headed the six-month
investigation, wrote in the report. It “could and should have
been foreseen and prevented.” The commission’s report found
evidence of “collusion” between Tokyo Electric and the Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency to avoid implementing safety
measures.  No to Noda  “Some children from Fukushima city fled to our town after
the nuclear disaster and they experienced health problems, such
as bleeding from the nose and blood in urine,” said Tatsuko
Takahashi, 63-year-old housewife who traveled from Ito city in
 Shizuoka prefecture  to attend the Yoyogi rally.  “Their experience has never been reported by the Japanese
media, which ignored inconvenient facts, so we came here to say
no to nuclear power and no to Prime Minister Noda,” she said.  While the anti-nuclear crowds rally in Tokyo, rural
communities in Japan that have come to depend on atomic  power
plants  for investment, jobs and subsidies aren’t joining in.  On July 8, pro-nuclear Governor Yuichiro Ito, 64, won re-
election in the south-western prefecture of Kagoshima against a
challenger who opposed restarting reactors at  Kyushu Electric
Power Co. (9508) ’s plant.  Ito, who won almost two-thirds of the votes cast, favors
allowing Kyushu Electric to restart two reactors at its Sendai
plant, while calling for a freeze on plans to build a third one.  The election was the first since Noda authorized the
restart of the two Kansai Electric reactors northeast of  Osaka .  ‘Powerful Movement’  Radiation fallout from the Fukushima reactors forced the
evacuation of about 160,000 people and left land in the area
uninhabitable for decades. The potential for a repeat of the
disaster at another nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Japan is
what is bringing Japanese old and young out on to the streets in
large demonstrations not seen in decades.  “I’ve been taking part in the Friday protests every week,
it’s a powerful movement,” Hidetsugu Odawara, 80, a former
Citigroup Inc. employee and now retired, said at Yoyogi.  “One person alone can’t do much but 100,000 people can
make a difference. I’m here to be one of the 100,000.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Scilla Alecci in Tokyo at 
 salecci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  