-- Olympic Chief Praises London Over Handling of Security Shortfall
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-16T10:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/olympic-chief-praises-london-over-handling-of-security-shortfall.html
Jacques Rogge , president of the
 International Olympic Committee , praised London 2012 organizers
and the U.K. government for the way they’ve handled a shortage
of security guards.  The government assigned 3,500 extra soldiers to Olympic
venues after G4S Plc, the world’s largest security company, said
it couldn’t meet the terms of its 284-million pound ($442
million) contract to provide 13,700 guards for the games, which
start on July 27. That takes the total number of troops at the
games to 17,000.  “It’s been handled well,” Rogge said on a conference call
today. “What counts is the flexibility of the organizing
committee and the government when something comes up. They have
been very flexible and very adaptive.”  Nick Buckles, chief executive officer of Crawley, southern
England-based G4S, has been summoned to testify before the House
of Commons Home Affairs Committee tomorrow. G4S said in a
statement on July 13 it expects to lose as much as 50 million
pounds on the contract. Its shares dropped as much as 10 percent
today.  “There will be an extra input of soldiers, and this is
something that gives us tranquility, because the soldiers will
compensate for the security people that will not be provided by
G4S,” Rogge said.  The IOC’s Coordination Commission has been informed of the
problems, he added.  The IOC isn’t worried that the extra military presence may
affect the image of the London Olympics.  Won’t Spoil Fun  “They will not be running around with machine guns,”
Rogge said. “There’s always been security in place, but not too
visible, not obtrusive, and this will definitely not spoil the
fun.”  The British government yesterday said it wasn’t at fault
over G4S’s failure to supply enough security guards for the
London Olympics and the security of the games won’t be
compromised.  “We, of course, have been monitoring the situation with
G4S and their management told us right up until last week that
everything was on track,” Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , the
minister responsible for the Olympics, told BBC television
yesterday. “We were asking the right questions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  