-- Olympic Cyclists Fight Each Other for London Gold: Book Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-07-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/olympic-cyclists-fight-each-other-for-london-gold-book.html
What makes a champion? That
question underlies Chris Cleave’s “ Gold ,” a novel about
cyclists training for the 2012 Olympics in  London .  With two women who are best friends and rivals, a man
who’s the husband of one and the ex-lover of the other, a
melancholy coach and a brave little leukemia victim all
living in Manchester,  England , the possibilities for
suspense, and soap, are rife.  Cleave  doesn’t pass one up.  He makes his cyclists 32 and declares 2012 their last
chance to bring home gold. Two of them, Zoe and Jack, have
first-place medals from  Athens  in 2004; the third, Jack’s
wife, Kate, missed out because taking care of their new
baby, Sophie, put a crimp in her training.  Sophie’s illness, a later development, kept Kate from
racing in Beijing in 2008, so the plot turns largely on
whether Kate is going to make it to London: a serious
question, since Sophie’s cancer, which had been in
remission, has returned.  We see much of the story through the eyes of the
women’s coach, Tom, who missed out on an Olympic bronze in
1968 by a 10th of a second, then wrecked his family by
being over-demanding and his body by overtraining.  Of the five, Zoe is the most fascinating: a near-
psychotic competitor with no qualms about messing with her
best friend’s mind if it means gaining an advantage on the
track. Cleave is the kind of novelist who feels he has to
account for Zoe’s weirdness by dredging up a terrible event
in her past.  Tense Race  (He saves the most brutal details for the climax, so
he can use them to interrupt a tense race and torture the
reader, who’s already sweating bullets from the suspense.)  Jack and Kate, in contrast, are good-natured doofuses
who just happen to be among the fastest human beings on
wheels. If Cleave over-explains Zoe, he fails to pinpoint
the lust for victory that makes these two champions. When
it’s a choice between racing and rushing to their sick
child’s bedside, they never hesitate.  I didn’t buy it. I certainly believed that Jack and
Kate would do the right thing when Sophie needed them, but
not that there wouldn’t be a split second (or maybe more)
of aching to get back on their bikes and win.  We’ve all had that ego-driven moment of wanting to
shirk a responsibility -- even one we’ve eagerly sought --
before our better nature prevailed. It’s a real subject,
but Cleave doesn’t explore it.  Champions’ Daughter  He’s much more enterprising with Sophie, the chemo-
depleted eight-year-old. Whatever skepticism you may have
about her parents’ commitment to victory, it’s easy to
believe she’s the daughter of champions.  Sophie is a stoic little sufferer aghast at the
thought of holding her parents back. A perversely funny
scene in which she vomits secretly because she doesn’t want
to worry them, then has to clean up the mess without their
noticing, shows Cleave doing what he does best: etching
sentiment with acid instead of syrup.  But the good will he’s accumulated dissipates when he
sets Zoe against Kate in a to-the-death match and cross-
cuts it with Jack rushing a possibly dying Sophie to the
hospital. Will Kate find out? Will it give Zoe the edge she
needs to trounce her rival? Will Sophie die?  It works -- I admit it. But it’s an awful way to win.  “Gold” is published by  Simon & Schuster (CBS)  in the U.S.
and Sceptre in the U.K. (384 pages, $27, 16.99 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on auctions and
 James Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 