-- Honda-Toyota Record North American Output Helps Elvis Home: Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-07-17T18:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/honda-toyota-record-north-american-output-helps-elvis-home-cars.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s North American plants, stalled by parts shortages a year
ago, are leading an industrywide assembly surge buoying cities
from the Midwest to the deep South amid a languid  U.S. economy .  In Tupelo, Mississippi, 18 miles from Toyota’s new Blue
Springs plant,  Elvis Presley ’s birthplace has seen its jobless
rate drop to 8 percent with the start of Corolla production last
year, from 12.5 percent previously, said Mayor Jack Reed Jr. The
arrival of the plant and parts makers helped the city of 35,000
rebound from furniture-making jobs lost to China, he said.  “Both unemployment and revenues have been affected by
Toyota,”  Reed  said, adding that sales-tax collections have
increased 6.4 percent this year. “It’s a great thing when you
get people back employed; when instead of using a food pantry
now they volunteer at one.”  Rebounding auto production and sales are bright spots this
year amid tepid job growth and wavering consumer sentiment.
Honda, with an industry-leading 75 percent output surge,
followed by Toyota’s 66 percent increase, and Japan’s Nissan
Motor Co. aim to keep raising North American assembly and parts
purchases to blunt losses from the yen’s sustained strength.  Rising production is particularly significant for states
such as Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Alabama that have the
highest concentration of vehicle and parts plants, said  Gus Faucher , a senior economist in Pittsburgh for PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. Toyota and Honda are both on pace this year
to break their 2007 records for North American output.  “There is a lot of pent-up demand for autos, and it’s
likely to stay strong for the next few years,” Faucher said.
“The currency effects are also going to favor the U.S. for some
time.”  Currency Impact  The Japanese currency traded yesterday at 78.8 yen to the
dollar, compared with 86.6 yen to the dollar two years ago and
121.9 yen five years ago. The stronger yen makes it harder for
companies to make vehicles in Japan and sell them profitably in
the U.S., which encourages more North American manufacturing.  “Our fundamental philosophy is produce where we sell,”
Tom Lake, Honda’s head of North American purchasing, said in a
May interview in Raymond, Ohio. “That holds true of our
purchasing plans as well. The philosophy hasn’t changed, but the
urgency has stepped up.”  More than 87 percent of the Honda and Acura models sold in
the U.S. through June this year were made in  North America , up
from 84 percent a year earlier.  Honda built a record 894,196 cars and light trucks in North
America in the first half, up from 510,658 a year ago, while
Toyota produced 944,570, a 374,429-unit increase from 2011’s
first half.  Records Reachable  “Barring any unforeseen developments, it’s conceivable”
that Toyota will make a record number of vehicles in North
America this year, said  Mike Goss , a spokesman for the
automaker’s Erlanger, Kentucky-based manufacturing and
engineering unit for the continent.  Toyota, which regained the global sales lead in the first
quarter, and Honda both declined to provide their North American
production targets for 2012.  The first half was “a great start and we’re expecting to
continue strong production levels in the coming months,” said
 Ron Lietzke , a spokesman for Honda’s manufacturing unit in
Marysville, Ohio. “We’re still scheduling overtime production,
including daily overtime and Saturday work. We continue to
produce beyond the capacity of our plants.”  Output Rising  North American auto production grew 21 percent to 7.9
million cars and light trucks in the first half, according to
trade publication Automotive News.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. automaker, built 6
percent more vehicles in the first half and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
raised production 3 percent. Chrysler Group LLC raised output 23
percent.  Nissan, which is adding 1,000 workers to make Sentra small
cars at its Canton, Mississippi, plant, and is building a third
auto-assembly factory in Mexico, raised production 21 percent.  Affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , both
based in Seoul, expanded assembly at plants in Alabama and
Georgia a combined 18 percent, according to Automotive News.  “The first half was about rebuilding inventory, but demand
has also been in the sweet spot for cars like Toyota’s Camry,”
said  Mike Jackson , at industry forecaster at IHS Automotive in
Northville, Michigan.  With new versions of Nissan’s Altima, Ford’s Fusion and
Honda’s Accord midsize sedans coming out in the second half,
“that space is going be particularly strong,” Jackson said.  The rebound for Toyota and Honda and total industry growth
should push North American production to 14.9 million vehicles
this year, up from 13.1 million a year ago, according to IHS
Global Insight.  Suppliers Benefit  Makers of automotive seats, brakes, tires, glass, carpet,
plastics and electronics all benefit when automakers increase
production and local parts sourcing.  “The effects of auto manufacturing are so much more than
just the automakers themselves,” said Faucher, the economist.
“And equipment and parts manufacturers account for much more
employment than do the automakers.”  Steelmakers are among the biggest beneficiaries.  Honda uses an average of one ton of steel in every vehicle
it builds in North America, said Randy Luther, the company’s
U.S. senior administrator for purchasing. So as production
rises, steel purchases do, too.  55% Increase  Honda is on pace to build 1.7 million autos in North
America this year, topping its 1.43 million-unit record in 2007.
That indicates a 55 percent increase in coated steel purchased
from Midwest mills run by  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  and  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
compared with the automaker’s 1.1 million vehicles assembled in
North America last year.  “The North American automotive market is performing well
and has continued its gradual and steady recovery from the
recession of 2009,” said Bill Steers, a U.S. spokesman for
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker.  He declined to discuss increased sales to Toyota and Honda,
two of the Luxembourg-based company’s customers.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, last week
reported second-quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts’
estimates as a result of an increase in orders from the
automakers including Ford, Toyota and Honda.  U.S. Exports  U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 15 percent in the first half
to 7.27 million new vehicles, led by volume gains for Toyota,
Chrysler and Honda. The world’s second-largest auto market
remains on pace for a third straight year of at least 10 percent
increases and the highest annual total since 2007.  Beyond rising deliveries in the U.S., North American auto
plants will become a bigger source of exports, Jackson said.  “Certainly what we are seeing in production is strong
domestic demand, but also some international pull,” Jackson
said. “Particularly with German brands, but also with Ford, GM,
Toyota, Honda and others, they are leveraging North America for
international markets.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
export SUVs made in South Carolina and Alabama to Europe and
other markets, while Honda and Toyota ship U.S.-built midsize
sedans to South Korea.  Honda forecasts exporting about 100,000 vehicles this year
from the U.S. to countries other than Canada, Rick Schostek,
senior vice president at Honda of America Manufacturing, said
today in Washington.  While Tupelo’s Reed is enthusiastic about continued auto
industry benefits for his community, the city isn’t going to be
a “one-company town,” he said.  “We’re still Tupelo, Mississippi -- not Toyota,
Mississippi,” the mayor said. “We haven’t all of the sudden
changed who we are.”  The home of the annual  Tupelo Elvis Festival  plans to
unveil a  statue  of the singer at  city hall  next month in
connection with the 35th anniversary of the King of Rock and
Roll’s death.  “Elvis business is good too,” Reed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  