-- London Heathrow Olympic Surge Spurs Record Traffic Plan
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-07-16T15:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/london-heathrow-olympic-surge-spurs-record-traffic-plan.html
London’s  Heathrow airport  is
grappling with a record passenger surge as competitors begin
arriving for the Olympics amid mounting concern about travel and
security arrangements for an event that starts next week.  Europe ’s top air hub anticipates attracting 236,955 people
today, 47,000 more than the average and 3,393 more than on July
31 last year, when the previous record was set. The surge has
increased demands on the already stretched U.K. Border Force,
while travelers to central London will find the main M4 highway
restricted by the opening of a special lane for Olympic VIPs.  Britain’s Olympic preparations are subject to increased
scrutiny after  G4S Plc (GFS)  said last week it couldn’t meet the terms
of a 284-million pound ($441 million) contract to recruit 13,700
guards for the Games, forcing the government to assign 3,500
extra soldiers to provide emergency security. About 500 multi-
lingual volunteers will greet arrivals from more than 50
countries at Heathrow today, according to its owner  BAA Ltd. (FER)   “Today heralds the start of Britain’s biggest peacetime
transport challenge and Heathrow’s busiest-ever period,” Nick Cole, BAA’s head of Olympic planning, said in a statement.  Return Trip  Of today’s 1,027 Games-related arrivals, 335 will be
athletes, BAA said. That number should peak on July 24, with
1,262 competitors and coaches arriving out of 3,008 people
linked with the competition, excluding tourists, while the
busiest 24 hours of all will come on Aug. 13, the day after the
closing ceremony, when people will rush to leave, it said.  Competitors from countries including the U.S.,  Russia , the
Netherlands, Cuba and the  Ivory Coast  arrived this morning, BAA
spokesman Simon Baugh said, with Heathrow’s baggage carousels
coping as planned with sports gear including sails from yachting
teams, and immigration queues lasting no more than 25 minutes.  Activity was focused on Terminal 4, the main base of
SkyTeam alliance members such as Dutch carrier KLM and Moscow-
based OAO Aeroflot, while most media and sponsors flew to the
British Airways-dedicated Terminal 5, he said.  Slow Progress  Athletes also received accreditation for the Olympic
Village in east  London  before boarding buses there or to various
training venues. Their journey became less smooth once they hit
the roads, with activation of a 3.5-mile “Games Lane” on the M4
motorway insufficient to overcome all disruption from emergency
 road repairs  and an accident during the morning rush hour.  A tweet ostensibly from U.S. sprinter and hurdler Kerron
Clement said that he and teammates were “lost on the road for
four hours,” adding: “Not a good first impression of London.”
The message didn’t say where the delays had occurred, or why.  Games organizer Locog said in an e-mailed statement that
while “there may have been one or two journeys taking longer
than planned, the vast majority were completed successfully.”  Preferential Treatment  The M4 Games Lane, open to Olympic participants, sponsors,
officials, dignitaries, the international media and black cabs,
won’t be operational round the clock, though people traveling
for non-Olympic reasons face disruption, said Stuart Thompson,
spokesman for the Department for Transport’s Highways Agency.  The former bus-only route was suspended by Britain’s
coalition government in 2010 after it was blamed for slowing
other vehicles. Further  Olympic-only lanes  will open next week,
aimed at speeding competitors and officials between venues.  “The key thing is for people to plan their journeys and
leave as early as they can or use public transport,” Thompson
said. “It’s important that we are able to get the athletes and
the Games family to and from events.”  Torch Test  Roads are about 20 percent busier today, with traffic
likely to increase as more visitors arrive, according to local
authority-controlled  Transport for London , which predicts that
congestion will worsen as the Olympic torch reaches the capital
next weekend before easing off when people realize they need to
change their travel habits. Something similar happened last
month, when road journeys fell by about 50 percent during Queen
Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations, TfL estimates.  London has spent 6.5 billion pounds improving its subway,
rail, tram and cycling infrastructure, according to the office
of Mayor  Boris Johnson .  G4S Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles will appear before
lawmakers tomorrow to explain the company’s staffing shortfall.
Shares of the Crawley, England-based company fell as much as 10
percent today, the steepest decline since Oct. 17, after it said
a 50 million-pound loss may be incurred from the failure.  Cameron Pledge  Prime Minister  David Cameron , commenting on security
concerns, told reporters in Birmingham that the government
“will do whatever it takes to deliver a safe  Olympic Games .”
That’s after Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  told BBC television
yesterday that G4S management had insisted “right up until last
week that everything was on track.”  Jacques Rogge , president of the  International Olympic
Committee , said today on a conference call that the shortfall in
security guards had “been handled well” by the London 2012
organizers, who had been “very flexible and very adaptive.”  Still,  Harriet Harman , deputy leader of the opposition
 Labour Party , says protestations that ministers aren’t to blame
“won’t wash” and is seeking a probe once the Games are over.  Waiting times at Heathrow’s immigration desks have been
within targets set by the  Home Office  since new resources were
added yesterday, BAA said in its statement. The airport operator
said April 27 that waiting times had reached unacceptable levels
after the Border Force was split from the Border Agency on March
1 with a brief to impose more rigorous checks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  