-- Hong Kong Court Refuses to Strike Deutsche Bank Lawsuit
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-07-16T06:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hong-kong-court-refuses-to-strike-deutsche-bank-lawsuit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost a bid to
dismiss a lawsuit by a developer claiming he was coerced into
covering a HK$279 million ($36 million) shortfall in a rental
fraud, with a Hong Kong judge ruling a trial is required to
resolve the case.  Tin Lik, the developer, sold the Gateway Plaza in Beijing
to the bank’s  RREEF China Commercial Trust (625)  in 2007 and alleged
that investment bankers inflated rents from the property before
the trust’s Hong Kong listing in June that year. His claim can’t
be called imaginary, High Court Judge A.T. Reyes said.  “It seems we really need to go to trial and the court
needs the benefit of cross-examination,” Reyes said at a
hearing today. The trial is set to begin on June 3, according to
the  Hong Kong  judiciary’s website.  RREEF China REIT Management Ltd., the manager of the trust,
said it discovered in 2007 a discrepancy between rents set out
in leases and the amount of money actually received by the
trust. Tin is suing to get back a total of HK$289.4 million,
including the HK$279 million he says Deutsche Bank’s investment
bankers coerced him into paying to cover the rental shortfall.  Tin’s allegations amounted to a “tissue of lies” because
building leases showing higher rents than actually collected
were being used before the bankers began working on the deal,
Martin Rogers, a lawyer representing Deutsche Bank, said today.  ‘Pure Fiction’  “The claims by Tin Lik are pure fiction and will be proven
so when this matter goes to trial next year,”  Michael West , a
Deutsche Bank spokesman in Hong Kong, wrote in an e-mail today.
West said the bank had obtained an independent report showing
that a “complex fraud was perpetrated” against the trust and
reported the matter to the authorities in 2007.  Tin’s claims are “wholly without merit and will continue
to be vigorously defended” by the Deutsche parties as well as
the trustee and co-defendant, HSBC Institutional Services (Asia)
Ltd., RREEF China REIT said in a May stock exchange filing.  RREEF also said in May its board will delay final
distributions in the liquidation and delisting of the trust
pending the conclusion of the court case.  The case is Tin Lik and Deutsche Bank AG, RREEF China REIT
Management Ltd., HSBC Institutional Trust Services ( Asia ) Ltd.,
HCCL17/2011, in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  