-- Monsoon Worst in Three Years Threatens India Food Harvests
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-07-16T11:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/monsoon-worst-in-three-years-threatens-india-food-harvests-1-.html
India, the world’s second-biggest
rice, wheat and sugar producer, faces challenges in sustaining
record food grain harvests as a 22 percent deficit in monsoon
rain threatens planting, Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar  said.  “With the monsoon playing hide and seek, it is a challenge
for our farmers and scientists to maintain the food-grain output
achieved in last two years,” Pawar said in New Delhi. Rainfall
in July, the wettest month in India’s June-September rainy
season, will be less than a 50-year average of 98 percent
predicted in June, L.S. Rathore, director general of the  India
Meteorological Department , said in a phone interview.  Dry weather from the U.S. to  Australia  has parched fields,
pushing up corn, wheat and soybean prices in  Chicago  on concern
global supplies will be curbed. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is
counting on growth in farm output, which accounts for about 15
percent of gross domestic product, to curb inflation in India,
where the  World Bank  says more than 75 percent of the people
live on less than $2 a day.  “Food inflation is still ticking up and with monsoons
having so far delivered below-normal rains, there are upside
risks to food inflation,” Leif Eskesen,  Singapore-based chief
economist for India and Southeast  Asia , at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said in a report. “We are only still mid-way through the summer
monsoon, so there is a chance that heavier rains in the second
half can eradicate the deficiency. But, there is obviously no
guarantee that this will happen.”  Contingency Plan  India’s  inflation  unexpectedly exceeded 7 percent for a
fifth straight month in June. The wholesale-price index rose
7.25 percent from a year earlier, after climbing 7.55 percent in
May, the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi 
today. The median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
7.61 percent.  The government is ready with a contingency plan to deal
with a drought, Pawar said. The country won’t ban exports of
rice and wheat as it has ample stockpiles, he said.  “We have not come to level where we can apprehend a
drought,” Pawar said. “We will wait up to second week of
August.”  Soybean and mustard futures in India rallied on concern
that dry weather will hurt oilseed harvests. August-delivery
soybeans jumped as much as 3.9 percent to a record 4,692.50
rupees ($85) per 100 kilograms on the National National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai, while mustard
for delivery in the same month surged as much as 2.9 percent to
4,379 rupees per 100 kilograms. Sugar for July delivery advanced
as much as 3.3 percent to 3,245 rupees per 100 kilograms.  Wheat Exports  Food-grain production reached a record 252.6 million metric
tons in the year ended June 30 after a second year of normal
rains boosted harvests, according to the farm ministry. That
prompted the government to lift curbs on exports of wheat and
rice last year.  The State Trading Corp. (STC) ,  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC)  and PEC Ltd.
last week offered a combined 240,000 tons of milling wheat for
exports from state stockpiles of about 50 million tons.  Monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of India’s
annual rainfall, was  22 percent  less than a 50-year average
since June 1, the weather bureau said yesterday. The nation got
232.5 millimeters of rainfall in the June 1 to July 15 period,
compared with the 298.6-millimeter average considered normal for
the period, it said.  More than 235 million farmers depend on monsoon for growing
crops such as rice, peanuts, soybean and cotton. Sowing of
monsoon crops begins in June and harvesting starts in September.
A delay in onset of rain over some oilseed and rice growing
areas has lowered sowing, according to the farm ministry.  El Nino Threat  Rice planting dropped 19 percent to 9.68 million hectares
(24 million acres) this year from 12.04 million hectares a year
earlier, the farm ministry said July 13. Oilseeds area declined
22 percent to 6.77 million hectares from a year earlier, while
corn was sown over 2.17 million hectares, less than the 3.13
million hectares a year earlier, it said.  “There may be some deficiency in rains in July and
September,” the weather bureau’s Rathore said. El Nino weather
conditions, which parch parts of Asia, may emerge in August or
September, he said.  Rainfall in the northwestern region, the nation’s grain
belt, and some parts of southern Karnataka state may be
deficient in the next four days, while showers may improve in
the rice-growing areas in the east, Rathore said.  Good showers in central  India  will help soybeans while
deficient showers in oilseed-growing areas of Gujarat state may
hurt peanut sowing, he said. Sugar cane won’t have any problem
as it’s mostly irrigated, Rathore said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  