-- Orlen May Return to Dividends as Debt Falls, Margins Improve
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-07-16T10:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/orlen-may-return-to-dividends-as-debt-falls-margins-improve.html
PKN Orlen SA (PKN) , Poland’s largest oil
company, is considering resuming dividend payments after its
debt declined and refining margins improved.  The refiner, Poland’s biggest company by sales, hasn’t paid
dividends since 2008 as the zloty slumped on the global crisis,
boosting the value of its foreign-currency denominated loans. In
2008, Orlen exceeded covenants in its bank loans and had to
agree to pay higher interest on its debt. Since then the company
has reduced its  net debt  by 44 percent to 7.1 billion zloty
($2.1 billion) at the end of the first quarter.  “There was no room for dividends” in past years as the
company focused on cutting debt and completing investments,
Chief Financial Officer Slawomir Jedrzejczyk said in an
interview in Warsaw on July 10. “But now, we’re now entering a
phase when we should have adequate resources” to pay out part
of profits to shareholders.  Jedrzejczyk said it’s “premature to declare” whether the
state-controlled company will return to dividends next year as
 Poland ’s economy is slowing amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The zloty, which weakened by 2 percent against the euro in
the second quarter, and falling oil prices that cut the value of
the company’s crude inventory depressed earnings by “a few
hundred million” zloty in the second quarter, Jedrzejczyk said.
The company will report preliminary first-half earnings on July
19.  ‘Good’ Quarter  The so-called LIFO-based earnings before interest and
taxes, or the profits based on last-in first-out accounting
method that excludes the impact of oil prices on mandatory
reserves, were “quite good” in the  second quarter , the CFO
said, as refining margins rose to the highest since 2008. Third-
quarter margins will fall as the oil price is in an “upward
trend again.”  “It’s difficult to say if the third-quarter LIFO Ebit will
rise or fall from the second quarter,” Jedrzejczyk said. “On
the one hand, the third quarter is usually the best of the year
from the volumes point of view. On the other hand, we expect
refining margins to decline.”  Orlen plans to spend from about 500 million zloty to 1.5
billion zloty this year on “growth initiatives,” including
“upstream” projects and power plant investments, the CFO said,
adding that such spending will increase next year.  The company this quarter will pick the builder of its
Wloclawek gas-fired power plant, which it plans to complete in
2015. It’s also speeding up shale gas exploration as it’s
seeking to expand into resources production.  ‘Huge Pressure’  Orlen, whose  foreign operations  include neighboring
countries of Lithuania,  Germany  and the  Czech Republic , last
month decided to close its smallest refinery Paramo, belonging
to its Czech unit Unipetrol AS.  “At this stage we don’t make any decisions about other
operations but we need to remember that due to the economic
slowdown our Czech operations are under huge pressure,” he
said.  The company faces “exceptionally costly logistics” of
crude delivery from state-owned Mero in the Czech Republic and
Transpetrol in Slovakia, Jedrzejczyk said. Orlen is in talks
with the companies to lower the rates.  In Poland, Orlen is in “advanced” talks with the
government, which could result in cutting its debt. The company
has 8.5 billion zloty “frozen” on its balance sheet as it
needs to finance the storage of obligatory reserves. The
government may take over 30 percent of the stored oil within
several years as one of the options, Jedrzejczyk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  