-- Mortgage Lender Group Says Libor Woes Won’t Hurt U.K. Homeowners
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-07-16T09:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/mortgage-lender-group-says-libor-woes-won-t-hurt-u-k-homeowners.html
A group representing U.K. mortgage
providers said the scandal surrounding the Libor interbank
offered rate won’t hurt homeowners.  “It’s very unlikely that Libor-fixing will have had any
material impact at all on consumers,” said Sue Anderson, the
head of member relations at the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  in
London, whose 110 members include HSBC Holdings Plc and  Barclays
Plc. (BARC)  “If anything, a downward impact on Libor is going to be
advantageous overall to the wider influence on rates and pricing
of the mortgage.”  Only a “small proportion” of U.K. home loans such as buy-
to-let and specialist mortgages tend to track Libor, said
Anderson. New buy-to-let lending totalled 3.7 billion pounds
($5.8 billion) in the first quarter, a drop of 5 percent from
the last three months of 2011, according to  CML  data.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the  British Bankers’ Association  in London, with
lenders asked how much it would cost them to borrow over various
periods in different currencies. Banks are accused of massaging
down submissions for the benchmark for $360 trillion of global
securities during the financial crisis and artificially
increasing them before it.  ‘Spivvy Activity’  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  was cited this month
in the Sun newspaper and  the Scotsman  as saying “it is
outrageous, frankly, that homeowners may have paid higher
 mortgage rates  and small businesses may have paid high  interest
rates  because of spivvy and probably illegal activity in the
City.” Trades tied to Libor “affect the mortgage payments and
loan rates of millions of families,” Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  told lawmakers on June 28.  “Much of the mainstream media commentary has focused on
the fact that by manipulating Libor the banks were hurting high-
street borrowers as Libor determines the rate off which retail
mortgages are being set,”  Sean Keane , the managing director of
financial advisory group Triple T Consulting in Auckland, New
Zealand, said in a July 4 note to Credit Suisse Group AG
clients.  “Aside from the fact that many mortgages have no
relationship at all to the Libor fixing, these comments also
ignore the fact that the banks were reportedly setting Libor too
low, not too high,” he said. “If there was any manipulation
going on, it was actually aiding not hurting.”  The benchmark  three-month dollar Libor  rate fell to 0.455
percent at the end of last week from as high as 5.725 percent in
September 2007. At least a dozen banks are being investigated
for manipulating the benchmark, prompting Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to quit this month after the
U.K.’s second-biggest lender was fined a record $451 million.  “I know that my mortgage rate will not be affected by
Libor,” said James Cain, 51, a London-based  fund manager  and
Barclays customer. “The whole thing is a political witch-
hunt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  