-- Otkritie Says Fraud Paid for Ferrari of Banker’s Sister
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-16T14:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/otkritie-says-fraud-paid-for-ferrari-of-banker-s-sister-1-.html
The sister of a banker accused of
defrauding Otkritie Financial Corp. of $183 million bought a
Ferrari, a Bentley and a luxury home in  Spain  with the proceeds,
lawyers for the brokerage told a U.K. judge.  Otkritie, part-owned by Russian state-run VTB Group, is
suing several former employees including George Urumov and
Sergey Kondratyuk over an alleged fraud involving Argentine
warrants and bonuses for colleagues. Otkritie’s lawyers today
won a court order against Kondratyuk’s sister Natalia Demakova
and two companies because they hadn’t offered any defense in the
case.  Demakova, a 43-year-old Russian, bought the cars, property
and Russian bonds within months of the fraud being carried out,
according to Otkritie’s lawyer, James Willan. She “should be
ordered to give those assets up,” he said. “They are ours.”  The default order granted by the judge Nigel Teare today
means that Demakova doesn’t have a valid defense and Otkritie
can start trying to recover the assets in  Switzerland , where she
held bank accounts.  “We are pleased with the significant progress made
today,” Alexey Karakhan, deputy chief executive officer of
Otkritie, said in an e-mailed statement. “Teare’s orders will
enable us to recover over $28 million in assets that are already
frozen in Switzerland and Spain.”  Demakova wasn’t present or represented in court and hasn’t
responded to Otkritie’s attempts to contact her, Willan said.  Willan didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail asking for
Demakova’s contact details. Otkritie believes she is living in
Spain, according to legal papers filed by the bank.  Default Judgment  Urumov denies any wrongdoing and says he was fired for
exposing fraud involving his bosses and counterparties including
OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, according to court
documents from his employment lawsuit against Otkritie. He was
detained by London police investigating the fraud in October,
and no charges have been filed.  Otkritie is also seeking a default judgment against
Kondratyuk, who is in prison in Switzerland while prosecutors
investigate his role in the alleged fraud, Willan said. Details
of Demakova’s purchases were handed over to prosecutors by Swiss
bankers who documented them.  Judge Teare said he would expect a fraudster to “lie low
for a while” after committing the crime, rather than buy cars
and property.  The purchases were “unusually well-documented for a fraud
of this sort” because of detailed records kept by the Swiss
bank, Willan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  