-- P&G Said to Seek Advisers to Help on Ackman Amid Pressure
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-16T13:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/p-g-said-to-seek-advisers-to-help-on-ackman-amid-pressure.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  has spoken to
financial and communications advisers to help manage an activist
investor as demands grow to jettison executives or assets, said
people familiar with the matter.  P&G may hire both an external public-relations firm and
banks in coming days, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private. The
Cincinnati-based company has typically used Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley as advisers on deals.  The  maker  of Tide, Pampers and Crest is under pressure from
investors frustrated after Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald  reduced P&G’s  profit forecasts  three times this year.
Investor  Bill Ackman  last week bought into the company with what
he called his biggest initial stake ever and is likely to push
for a management change and large asset sales, said another
person familiar with the matter.  The Duracell battery and Iams pet food  units  are seen
inside P&G as businesses where innovation is needed to justify
keeping them, people familiar with the matter said. Even before
Ackman’s purchase, P&G had spoken with advisers to assess
interest in those assets, other people familiar with situation
said. Duracell may fetch as much as $4 billion and Iams would
probably sell for about $3 billion, one person said.  “We will not comment on wild rumor and speculation,” said
Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G. “We are very focused on
returning to growth.”  McDonald Pressure  Ackman’s involvement “intensifies pressure on McDonald and
his team to execute,”  Matt McCormick , a  fund manager  who helps
oversee $6.2 billion, including  P&G shares , at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said in a telephone interview.  Some P&G directors are dissatisfied with McDonald and are
discussing a possible leadership change, people familiar with
the matter said last week. The 59-year-old CEO has come under
fire as being slow to cut costs and recognize challenges from
currency and commodities, and for mistiming price increases.  “Their brands are all viewed with a positive, but the
margins aren’t there and then when you get commodities pressure
coming in, it eats into those margins and then it’s reflected in
the stock price,” fund manager McCormick said.  During McDonald’s three-year tenure,  P&G shares  gained
about 25 percent through July 13, compared with 58 percent for
Huggies and Kleenex maker  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , 52 percent for
Unilever and 46 percent for  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  P&G fell 0.9
percent to $64.48 at 9:33 a.m. in New York. The shares  advanced 
3.7 percent on July 12 after U.S. Federal Trade Commission
disclosed that Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP
had invested in P&G.  Ackman Stake  Ackman’s stake was valued at about $2 billion, a person
familiar with the matter said.  McDonald became CEO of the world’s largest consumer
products company in July 2009, handpicked by predecessor A.G. Lafley. Unlike Lafley, who bought Gillette for $57 billion in
2005, McDonald declined to bet on a big acquisition to build
sales. Instead, he opted to win new customers by extending
brands and bringing more products to the developing world.  To reach P&G’s goal of attaining 5 billion customers by
2015, the hands-on McDonald has walked store aisles around the
world, making sure the company’s products are displayed
correctly, e-mails top retail customers regularly and
scrutinizes data from P&G’s own marketing information systems
that can crunch up 10,000 scenarios simultaneously. He has made
home visits from  Russia  to  China  to see how customers use P&G
shampoo, skin cream and detergent.  As McDonald traveled, cost pressures were building. Prices
for everything from wood pulp to resin were on the rise. Plus,
during the boom years, P&G added management layers.  Reducing Expenses  P&G is “fat around the middle,” said  Connie Maneaty , an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York. “It’s not a nimble
company anymore. Decisions don’t appear to be made easily.”  The company waited until February to start a comprehensive
cost-cutting program, vowing to reduce $10 billion in expenses
through 2016 by cutting headcount and streamlining operations.  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who
said he welcomes Ackman’s involvement, questioned the planned
savings in a note last week, estimating that P&G’s plan would
actually save closer to $4 billion.  P&G must cut “significantly more costs,” particularly in
overhead and manufacturing, Dibadj wrote July 13.  Dibadj, who is based in New York, also prodded the company
to prune its “convoluted, redundant, heavy organizational
structure” and to present a  succession plan  by year-end.  Developing Markets  The increased dependence on markets outside the U.S. has
made the company more vulnerable to currency swings, with a
strengthening dollar this year reducing the value of its
overseas sales. And in the developing world, P&G lost market
share for certain items as it raised prices to counter rising
commodities costs.  In May, P&G said it would renew emphasis on its developed
markets and focus on the 40 top businesses that account for more
than half of its sales.  “We may have overextended ourselves a bit with the pace of
our portfolio and geographic expansions,” Chief Financial
Officer Jon Moeller said at a conference in New York.  P&G raised prices in the past year to lessen the impact of
rising costs. By January, however, McDonald noted on an earnings
conference call that the move had hurt market share the previous
quarter. In April, the company said that while consumers had
come to accept most of its increases, it would roll them back in
six categories including laundry and oral care in the U.S.  Market Share  “They tried to manage through the short term with price
increases but finally realized they couldn’t do it, because
competitors didn’t follow,” said Peter Golder, a professor at
the  Tuck School  of Business at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire . “What they need to be most concerned about is losing
market share. Only 10 percent of leading brands that lose market
share ever get it back.”  Analysts on an earnings conference call in April grilled
McDonald about P&G’s performance compared with competitors.  “I’m just trying to understand how long do you expect
investors to wait,” Dibadj said on the call. “How long does
your current plan have to work? How much patience does the board
have?”  McDonald responded by saying he would put the right leaders
and programs in place to boost growth.  “It is my fault,” he said. “I am the CEO of the company.
I do take responsibility.”  Size Challenge  The company’s sheer size -- it has dozens of brands and
operates in about  80 countries  -- is one challenge. To achieve
even the bottom end of its forecast 2 percent to 4 percent
revenue growth this fiscal year, P&G would have to add more than
$1.65 billion in sales, or almost a third of Kimberly-Clark’s
2011 total. P&G reports its 2012 fiscal-year results Aug. 3.  Executives have highlighted revenue growth, including
strong sales of premium-price products such as Gillette Fusion
ProGlide razors, and say they’re working to forge a more
efficient culture. The company has had 10 consecutive quarters
of organic  sales growth  averaging 4 percent, in line with its
peers, McDonald said at an investor conference last month.  “Our execution has been inconsistent,” McDonald said.
“We’re working to instill a much bigger focus on productivity
and cost savings throughout the organization to fuel investments
in growth, while becoming a faster, more agile company.”  The company’s  operating margin , or the percentage of profit
left after subtracting product and selling costs, has narrowed
to about 16.5 percent, from a five-year average of about 19.6
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dibadj, who has even advocated that the company consider a
breakup if results don’t improve, said it could be too little,
too late.  “Can it be fixed?” Dibadj said in a telephone interview.
“Absolutely. Are they on the path to fixing it? I think so, but
it’s just too slow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  