-- Par Pharmaceutical Agrees to Be Bought by TPG
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-07-16T20:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/par-pharmaceutical-agrees-to-be-bought-by-tpg.html
Par Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX) , a maker of
generic drugs, agreed to be acquired for $1.9 billion by TPG
Capital as the private-equity firm looks to gain from efforts to
curtail health-care costs.  Par stockholders will receive $50 a share in cash, the
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based company said in a statement
today. The offer carries a 37 percent premium over Par’s closing
share  price  on July 13. Par rose to $50 at the close in  New
York , indicating that investors are expecting a higher bid.  Under the agreement, Par will seek a better offer through
Aug. 24, the company said. The price is low compared with recent
deals for generic-drug makers and Par probably will draw other
bidders, said Jim Molloy, an analyst with ThinkEquity LLC in
 Boston . Potential buyers may include Endo Health Solutions Inc.
or Mylan Inc., he said.  “I think this is an opening bid,” Molloy said in a
telephone interview. “Endo or someone that is looking to expand
in the generic space would be able to pay higher.”  Par shares had  gained  6.7 percent in the past 12 months
through yesterday.  Nina Devlin, a spokeswoman for Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-
based Mylan, and Kevin Wiggins, a spokesman for  Chadds Ford ,
Pennsylvania-based Endo, both declined in an e-mail to comment
on whether their companies would be making a bid for Par.  50 Products  Par generated $926 million in revenue last year and has
more than 50 products on the market and 30 in development. The
drugmaker’s shares had  gained  6.7 percent in the past 12 months
through yesterday.  “The company is positioned to benefit from the strong
macro trends of a greater focus on cost-effective health-care
solutions and the increasing demands from an aging population,”
said Todd B. Sisitsky, a partner at  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG,
in the statement.  Health insurers are pushing patients to switch to generic
drugs, which can cost 90 percent less than brand-name
equivalents. Medicines valued at $123 billion have lost patent
protection since 2003, opening the door to cheaper copies.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. acted as financial adviser to Par, and
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP acted as Par’s legal adviser.
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as independent legal counsel
to Par’s Board of Directors.  TPG Advisers  Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. acted as financial advisers and provided financing to
TPG. Ropes & Gray LLP acted as legal adviser to TPG.  Private-equity deals in health-care products and services
fell 46 percent in the past 12 months to $15.6 billion as the
total value of private-equity deals fell 27 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Total deal making in the second
quarter fell about 2 percent to the lowest level since 2009 as
 Europe  struggled to contain its debt crisis, heightening
concerns about the fallout on global economic growth.  Last month, bandages-supplier BSN Medical agreed to be
bought by EQT Partners AB, the private-equity firm partly owned
by  Sweden ’s Wallenberg family, for about 1.8 billion euros ($2.2
billion) in  Germany ’s largest buyout since before the financial
crisis. In April, Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., the U.K.
buyout firm founded by  Guy Hands , said it would buy Four Seasons
Health Care Group Ltd. for as much as 825 million pounds ($1.3
billion).  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them or taking them public within about
five years for a profit.  TPG has health-care investments including Aptalis Pharma
Inc., Biomet Inc. and IASIS Healthcare LLC. The firm oversees
$51.5 billion of assets under management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  