-- Pennsylvania Cut to Aa2 by Moody’s on Pension Concerns
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-16T20:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/pennsylvania-cut-to-aa2-by-moody-s-on-pension-concerns.html
Pennsylvania  had its general-
obligation debt rating cut a step to Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said rising pension liabilities will weigh on the
state’s economic recovery.  The grade, Moody’s third-highest rating, also reflects
moderate economic growth and the state’s relatively high debt
level, according to a statement today from the New York-based
company. Moody’s also changed its outlook for the credit to
stable from negative.  “Large and growing pension liabilities and moderate
economic growth will challenge the return to structural balance,
contributing to a protracted financial recovery,” Moody’s said
in the statement. The state’s financial position deteriorated in
fiscal 2012, according to the company, which said Pennsylvania
probably will borrow to cover its cash-flow needs in 2013.  Republicans who lead the Legislature in Pennsylvania,
considered a swing state in this year’s presidential election,
passed a $27.7 billion budget for 2013, which began July 1. The
spending plan signed by Governor Tom Corbett, also a Republican,
cut business taxes and eliminated a general-assistance program
for the poor and disabled.  Eric Shirk, a Corbett spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone call seeking comment on the downgrade.  Yield Spread  Investors demand  higher yields  to hold state bonds. Ten-
year Pennsylvania general-obligation debt had a yield of 0.56
percentage point more than top-rated municipal securities of
similar maturity on July 13, the most since Oct. 6.  “It’s a bit of a wake-up call that pensions really
count,” said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. While
Pennsylvania joined other recession-racked states in failing to
make full pension contributions, “you have to pay the piper at
some point,” Schankel said by telephone.  Neither of the Keystone State’s two retirement systems have
enough assets to meet projected liabilities, according to recent
financial reports.  The Pennsylvania State Employees’ Retirement System had 65
percent of what it needed as of December 2011, down from 75
percent a year earlier, according to a financial statement
released May 31. The Pennsylvania Public School Employees’
Retirement System reported Jan. 31 that it had 69 percent of the
assets it needed as of June 30, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  