-- Pentagon Completing Lockheed Talks on Next F-35 Contract
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/pentagon-f-35-contract-negotiations-in-end-game-kendall-says.html
The Pentagon’s long-running
negotiations with  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  over the next F-35
production contract may wrap up soon, the military’s top weapons
buyer said.  “We’ve gotten a lot closer, and I’m hopeful we’ll have a
settlement before too much time goes by,” Undersecretary for
Acquisition Frank Kendall told reporters yesterday at the
Pentagon.  Negotiations for the fifth production contract of as many
as 30 of the Joint Strike Fighters have been under way since
last year. The Pentagon said in December that it reached
agreement with Lockheed to spend a maximum of about $4 billion
on the production lot. The terms may change when a final
contract is signed.  Pentagon officials have promised Congress to get tougher in
negotiations with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, the
world’s largest defense contractor. The first four contracts for
63 jets are exceeding their combined target cost by $1 billion,
according to congressional auditors.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office said in a review
released on June 14 that the F-35 will require $12.7 billion a
year on average through 2037. That’s up from $9.1 billion
requested for fiscal 2013.  The final negotiations on the next production contract
involve the Pentagon’s first extensive use of a “should cost”
analysis. It involves a detailed review of prior F-35 contract
data, historical cost data and “reasonable extrapolations” of
what the next aircraft cost should be, Kendall said.  Well-Documented Costs  “We started the negotiations on the government side with a
very well-documented set of costs and then we were able to
compare it to the bid we received, item-by-item, line by line,”
Kendall said. “Going through and trying to resolve the
differences has been the process that has taken so long.”  Kendall outlined his goals as chief weapons buyer in the
session with reporters, including making systems more
affordable, protecting the U.S. industrial base and providing
industry with sufficient financial incentives to reduce costs.  Kendall called himself a believer in “evolutionary”
thinking when it comes to weapons acquisitions instead of a
“transformational thinker,” a term made popular by former
Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld .  Protecting the health of the industrial base is becoming a
greater priority as defense budgets decline, Kendall said.
“Healthy means profitable, but it also means lean and
productive,” he said.  The Pentagon’s view of mergers and acquisition hasn’t
changed, he said. While he said officials would oppose mergers
among the biggest defense companies, “‘we are certainly open to
some moves” among second- and third-tier companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  