-- Peregrine’s Wasendorf Sued for Mixing Firm, Client Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-16T18:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/peregrine-s-wasendorf-sued-for-mixing-firm-client-funds.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr., the chief
executive officer of bankrupt futures brokerage Peregrine
Financial Group Inc. facing criminal charges, was sued by a
customer claiming the CEO and his son illegally commingled firm
and client money.  U.S. regulators sued the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm and
Wasendorf Sr. in federal court in Chicago on July 10 alleging
they misappropriated at least $200 million in client money.  Michael LaSalvia of Naperville,  Illinois , in a complaint
filed in the same courthouse July 13, seeks class-action, or
group, status on behalf of anyone who had money on deposit with
Peregrine from January 2010 to July 10, 2012.  “It is a bedrock principal of regulation” that a futures
commission merchant such as Peregrine, which accepted client
orders for the purchase and sale of commodities for future
delivery, “is not allowed to commingle funds helds in customer
accounts with its own funds in any circumstances,” LaSalvia
alleged.  Russell Wasendorf Jr., who served as Peregrine’s chief
operating officer, and two other executives are named as co-
defendants in the complaint, which seeks unspecified money
damages for alleged violations of the U.S. Commodity Exchange
Act.  Wasendorf Sr., 64, is charged criminally with making false
statements to Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulators
about how much client money the firm had on deposit. Jane Kelly,
a federal public defender representing Wasendorf Sr. in the
criminal case, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The elder Wasendorf, who founded the firm in Cedar Falls
and later established offices in  Chicago , attempted to commit
suicide outside the  Iowa  office on July 9.  Signed Statement  Found with him in his car was a signed statement in which
he said he’d been stealing from the firm for about 20 years,
according to an affidavit by  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
Special Agent William Langdon filed with the criminal complaint.  Wasendorf Sr., who is being held in U.S. custody pending a
bail hearing on July 18, admitted to stealing at least $100
million, according to Langdon.  The firm filed for liquidation under the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  on July 10, listing more than $500 million in assets and
more than $100 million in liabilities.  The case is LaSalvia v. Wasendorf, 12-cv-05546, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa ( Cedar Rapids ).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-cv-05383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  