-- Peregrine, CFTC, Boeing, Libor, Offshore: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-16T12:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/peregrine-cftc-boeing-libor-offshore-compliance.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. said in a signed
statement linked to his suicide attempt that he committed fraud
for two decades at his Cedar Falls, Iowa-based company,
according to a federal complaint.  U.S. prosecutors on Friday charged Wasendorf, 64, with
making false statements to federal regulators.  In the signed statement -- a copy of which Wasendorf also
left for his son at the company office before trying to kill
himself -- Wasendorf said he had embezzled millions of dollars
from customer accounts through a scheme of using false bank
statements. He verified that he wrote the statement, according
to the complaint.  Peregrine filed for bankruptcy on July 10, one day after
the National Futures Association said it identified a shortfall
of about $200 million in customer funds on deposit. Wasendorf
told the Federal Bureau of Investigation that the estimated
amount of loss from his fraud exceeded $100 million.  Its bankruptcy petition lists more than $500 million in
assets and more than $100 million in liabilities. The broker
estimates it has more than 10,000 creditors, according to the
filing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12mj131, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).
The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Compliance Action  Boeing Fined $13.6 Million by U.S. for Tank Guidance Delays  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration proposed to fine
 Boeing Co. (BA)  $13.6 million, its second-largest penalty ever, for
delays in telling airlines how to prevent fuel-tank explosions
on 383 aircraft.  Boeing was given a Dec. 27, 2010, deadline to submit
instructions on how to add explosion-prevention devices in its
U.S.-registered 747 jumbo jets and 757 single-aisle planes,
according an e-mailed statement Friday by the Federal Aviation
Administration. The Chicago-based company missed the deadline
for 747s by 301 days, and was 406 days late for 757s, according
to the FAA release.  “We are committed to ensuring the safety of the flying
public,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in the
statement. “Manufacturers must provide the necessary
instructions so the airlines can comply with this important
safety regulation.”  The fine is the largest proposed by the FAA since it sought
$24.2 million from  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines in 2010 for
maintenance lapses that grounded its fleet of Boeing MD-80s in
2008. Firms typically negotiate lower payments with the FAA.  The agency’s action stems from a regulation that requires
airlines to install devices that blanket center fuel tanks with
non-flammable nitrogen gas. The rule resulted from the explosion
in a Trans World Airlines 747 off New York on July 17, 1996,
that killed all 230 aboard.  Airbus SAS, Boeing’s main competitor for civilian aircraft,
met the deadline, according to the statement.  The fuel-tank rule requires that airlines install the
devices on half their fleets by 2014 and complete the effort by
2017.  For more, click here.  HSBC Senior Executives to Face U.S. Senate Panel on July 17  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s North American head Irene Dorner and
global legal chief  Stuart Levey  will face Senate investigators’
questions about the firm’s failure to protect against  money
laundering , according to a list of witnesses released Friday.  The Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations will
question Dorner, president and chief executive of HSBC North
America Holdings Inc., and Levey, a former U.S. Treasury
undersecretary hired by the London-based bank in January, at a
July 17 hearing, according to the subcommittee’s list.  The panel, working from its own report of about 400 pages,
will probe the bank’s dealings with embassy accounts,
transactions with Iranian firms and risks of money laundering in
its Mexican operations, according to a person briefed on the
matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the report
hasn’t been released.  During the hearing, senators will question a total of six
current and former HSBC executives and five current and former
government officials. The list includes U.S. Comptroller of the
Currency Thomas Curry, Treasury Undersecretary for Terrorism and
Financial Intelligence David S. Cohen and Leigh Winchell, an
assistant director in the Homeland Security Investigations unit  HSBC’s North American units reached agreements in 2010 with
the OCC and the  Federal Reserve  to fix “critical deficiencies”
in its compliance programs for protecting against money
laundering and terrorist financing.  U.S. Justice, Regulators Must Widen Libor Probe, 12 Senators Say  The U.S. Justice Department and a council of financial
regulators should widen their investigation into possible
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, 12 Senate
Democrats said July 12 following a $448 million settlement with
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “This scandal calls into further question the integrity of
many Wall Street banks and whether our prosecutors and
regulators are up to the task of regulating them,” the senators
said in letters to Eric Holder, U.S. attorney general, and
members of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is
led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and includes
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . “Much more needs to
be done.”  The letter was signed by Senators  Carl Levin  of Michigan,
 Jack Reed  of Rhode Island,  Dianne Feinstein  of California,  Tom
Harkin  of Iowa,  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio,  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon,
 Robert Menendez  of New Jersey,  Patrick Leahy  of Vermont,  Sheldon
Whitehouse  of Rhode Island,  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey,
 Daniel Akaka  of Hawaii and Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire.  Barclays, the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last month
to pay 290 million pounds ($448 million) in regulatory fines for
rigging Libor, which spurred resignations of the chairman, the
chief executive officer and its chief operating officer. The
fines raised speculation about penalties that may be imposed on
other banks involved and the cost of lawsuits that follow.  Axius CEO Kaufmann Pleads Not Guilty to Stock-Fraud Charges  Axius Inc. (AXIU)  Chief Executive Officer Roland Kaufmann pleaded
not guilty in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, to charges
that he participated in a scheme to manipulate the share price
of his Dubai-based company.  Jean-Pierre Neuhaus, a financial professional also charged
in the alleged scheme, pleaded not guilty along with Kaufmann at
a hearing on Friday before U.S. District Judge John Gleeson. The
two men, who are Swiss citizens, are charged with conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud ,  wire fraud , money laundering and other
crimes.  The men are accused of trying to artificially inflate the
value of Axius stock by enlisting a person they believed would
direct corrupt stock brokers to buy shares in exchange for
kickbacks of as much as 28 percent. That individual was an
undercover enforcement agent, the government said.  “I’m very confident in this judge and we’ll see how this
is going to play out,” said Johanna S. Zapp, a lawyer for
Neuhaus, after the hearing. A lawyer for Kaufmann, Eric J.
Snyder, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Neuhaus, 12-cr-00439, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Compliance Policy  MF Global, Peregrine Spur CFTC Call for Electronic Bank Access  U.S. regulators, seeking to bolster protection of futures
customer funds after shortfalls at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., are seeking electronic access to
banks’ accounts to monitor records.  “We need to ensure regulators have direct daily access to
bank accounts and custodial accounts of the futures commission
merchants,” Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said Friday in a telephone interview. “In addition, I
think we need direct access to acknowledgment letters and
confirmations, and that all of this should be 24 hours a day, 7
days. That means electronic access.”  The CFTC and the National Futures Association, an industry-
funded self-regulator, are facing new scrutiny from lawmakers
and market participants amid allegations of a $200 million
shortfall in customer funds at Peregrine. The agency sued the
brokerage over the alleged shortfall less than a year after
being scolded for poor oversight following the collapse of MF
Global, which left an estimated $1.6 billion fund gap.  The drive for electronic access to monitor customer funds
has gained bipartisan support on the five-member CFTC.  Scott
O’Malia , a Republican commissioner, has called a July 26 meeting
of the agency’s technology advisory committee to consider an
industry-funded solution for electronic oversight.  Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner, said the agency
needs “robust data dives” to protect customer funds.  “We shouldn’t take the word of a firm, but rely upon
electronic banking with secure communications,” Chilton said in
an e-mail.  The CFTC on Friday approved changes proposed by the NFA to
require additional reporting by brokers about customer funds.
The rules will bar futures brokers from using an alternative
method for calculating how much margin to keep in accounts used
for trading on foreign exchanges. In the U.S., brokers must keep
funds sufficient to handle liquidation of an account.  IRS Ends Deals That Let U.S. Companies Skip Repatriation Tax  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service will prevent companies
from entering into transactions that allow them to tap their
offshore cash stockpiles without paying taxes, the government
said.  “The IRS and the Treasury Department believe that these
transactions raise significant policy concerns,” the agencies
said in a notice Friday. The rules, once written, will be made
effective as of July 13.  Companies owe U.S. taxes on income they earn around the
world after receiving credits for foreign taxes paid. Under U.S.
tax law, they must pay those taxes only when they repatriate the
income.  That system has led companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to keep foreign profits outside
the U.S. Data compiled by Bloomberg in March showed that 70
companies have $1.2 trillion in untaxed profits around the
world, up 18.4 percent from a year earlier.  Those companies and others lobbied Congress unsuccessfully
in 2011 for a temporary tax holiday on repatriated profits.
Republicans including presidential candidate Mitt Romney favor
changing the tax system permanently to allow companies to bring
most overseas profits into this country without facing the
residual U.S. tax.  The IRS notice describes two types of transactions it is
trying to prevent and says the agency is “aware” that
taxpayers are engaging in them. One involves selling a patent
from a U.S. company to a foreign subsidiary without triggering
an immediate U.S. tax.  In the other type of transaction, a company uses its
offshore money to purchase a U.S. company and quickly
reorganizes to move the purchased company outside the U.S.  In the Courts  Visa, MasterCard Settle Swipe-Fee Antitrust Suit With Merchants  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and some of the biggest U.S.
banks agreed to a settlement of at least $6.05 billion in a
price-fixing case brought by retailers over credit-card swipe
fees.  The total value of the settlement is $7.25 billion to a
class of about 7 million merchants in the U.S. that accept Visa
and MasterCard credit cards and debit cards, a law firm for the
merchants, Robins Kaplan Miller & Ciresi LLP, said in a
statement.  Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, said its share
of the settlement filed July 13 in federal court in Brooklyn,
New York, was about $4.4 billion. Visa said the proposed
settlement payments, including costs incurred by MasterCard Inc.
and card-issuing banks, would be about $6.6 billion. That amount
would include about $525 million for individual claims.  “We believe settling this case is in the best interests of
all parties,” Visa Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders
said in a statement.  Noah Hanft, MasterCard’s general counsel, said in a
statement that, “Our decision to settle is based on our belief
that MasterCard and our stakeholders are best served by an
amicable resolution.”  The agreement, which provides for a temporary reduction in
rates for merchants and allows them to impose surcharges on
customer purchases, follows a seven-year legal battle with U.S.
retailers that accused the two largest payment networks of
conspiring with banks to fix swipe fees, or interchange.  “It’s been an extraordinarily intense and difficult
settlement to reach,” K. Craig Wildfang, a lead lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in a phone interview.  The dispute began in 2005, a year before MasterCard’s
 initial public offering  and three years ahead of San Francisco-
based Visa’s. Merchants alleged the companies violated antitrust
law by fixing the swipe fees, which average about 2 percent of
the purchase price. Proceeds generate more than $40 billion a
year for U.S. banks.  The case had been set for trial in September before U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn.  The settlement includes a $6.05 billion cash payment,
according to a July 13 filing. That amount would be reduced if
some plaintiffs don’t agree to participate.  The settlement also provides for a temporary rebate of
about one-tenth of a percentage point on the fees charged
retailers, according to the filing. The agreement includes
modifications in Visa and MasterCard rules to allow merchants to
tack surcharges on to bills based on the fees.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Mortgage Database MERS Reaches Settlement With Delaware  Merscorp Holdings Inc. , which operates a mortgage registry,
settled a lawsuit brought by the Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  that accused the company of engaging in deceptive
practices.  Merscorp Holdings agreed to conduct regular audits of its
records for accuracy and maintain a database that allows
homeowners to learn who owns their mortgage, Biden said July 13
in a statement.  The MERS system, which tracks ownership interests in
mortgages and servicing rights, has been targeted in lawsuits by
the attorneys general of New York and Massachusetts. Biden
contended in his lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington that the company’s records were inaccurate and that
it impeded the ability of homeowners to fight foreclosures and
obtain loan modifications from lenders.  Banks created MERS to reduce costs and speed up the process
of bundling mortgages into securities, according to Biden. The
company built “an unregulated shadow mortgage registry” that
allows mortgage records to be changed without any oversight,
Biden said in court papers.  Merscorp Holdings’ shareholders include  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and mortgage-finance companies Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, according to its website. Bank of America
and Wells Fargo were among five banks that reached a $25 billion
settlement with state and federal officials this year over
foreclosure practices.  Biden said his settlement will increase the transparency
and accuracy of mortgage records.  The settlement agreement requires Merscorp Holdings to
maintain a database accessible online and by phone that allows
homeowners to see who owns their mortgage and services the loan,
according to Biden’s office. Records of the MERS system must be
audited, with the results reported to Biden’s office, the
attorney general said.  Merscorp Holdings already has implemented the measures in
the settlement nationally except the reports to Biden’s office,
Jason Lobo, a company spokesman, said in a phone interview. The
Reston, Virginia-based company didn’t admit to wrongdoing.  “We are pleased to have come to an agreement with the
state of Delaware that both serves the best interests of
Delaware homeowners and protects the value Merscorp Holdings
brings to its members,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Beckmann
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Delaware v. Merscorp Inc., CA6987, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  