-- Peugeot Has 51% Chance of Debt Default, Credit Swaps Show
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-16T15:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/peugeot-has-51-chance-of-debt-default-credit-swaps-show.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  bond-insurance
costs surged to a record, trading as if the French automaker has
a 51 percent chance of defaulting as it cuts thousands of jobs
and closes a plant.  Credit-default swaps on the carmaker’s debt jumped 50 basis
points to an all-time high of 800 basis points at 4:30 p.m. in
 London , Bloomberg swaps prices show. The contracts have doubled
since March and now signal a 51 percent probability of default
within five years. Caroline Brugier-Corbiere, a spokeswoman for
Peugeot, declined to comment.  Europe ’s second-largest  carmaker  announced plans to close a
French factory and eliminate a total of 14,000 jobs. Peugeot is
burning through 200 million euros ($244 million) of cash each
month and Moody’s Investors Service placed its Ba1 rating,
already junk, on review July 13 for a possible downgrade.
Peugeot’s manufacturing and sales organizations had financial
assets and undrawn credit facilities of 9.6 billion euros as of
December 31, the last date for which they provided full data.  Peugeot’s cash reserves allow it to “survive for one to
two years,” said Xavier Caroen, a Zurich-based Kepler Capital
Markets analyst who has a “hold” rating on the company. “We
hope the French government lets them cut production and shut
some sites in  France , or they won’t have any earnings in the
future,” Caroen said.  Widening Losses  French President  Francois Hollande , elected in May after
pledging to block a “parade of firings,” said July 14 he would
lean on Peugeot to rework the plan intended to stem losses and
trim production capacity. The government will report the
findings of a review later this month, as well as measures to
prop up the French auto sector.  Peugeot said last week its automotive division will post a
first-half operating loss of 700 million euros compared with a
profit of 405 million euros a year earlier. Peugeot is selling
assets, including a stake in its profitable Gefco trucking unit
to raise cash. The Paris-based automaker earlier this year also
issued 1 billion euros in new stock to existing shareholders.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros annually. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The shares  dropped  44 cents, or 6.8 percent, to 6.04 euros
in Paris trading today. The French company has declined 77
percent in the last year, valuing it at 2.14 billion euros.  Peugeot formed a strategic alliance this year with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  in which the American carmaker took a 7 percent stake
to become the second-largest shareholder after the founding
family. The two plan to work on joint development and purchasing
to reduce costs. GM is also planning to close a factory in
 Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  