-- Pirate Attacks Drop to Lowest Since 2008 as Somalis Deterred
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2012-07-16T08:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/pirate-attacks-drop-to-lowest-since-2008-as-somalis-deterred-1-.html
Pirate attacks fell to the lowest
since 2008 this year as the presence of naval forces helped
deter Somalis from attacking merchant shipping off the East
African country’s coast.  There were 177 incidents worldwide in the first six months
compared with 266 in the same period of 2011, the London-based
International Maritime Bureau said in a report today. Somali
pirate attacks fell to 69 from 163, the largest contribution to
the wider decline.  Pre-emptive and disruptive counter-piracy attacks by
international navies helped reduce the number of incidents off
Somalia, according to the report. The European Union force
operating near  East Africa  conducted its first air strike to
destroy Somali pirates’ equipment on land on May 15, a new
tactic to protect the region’s merchant shipping.  “The naval actions play an essential role in frustrating
the pirates,” IMB Director Pottengal Mukundan said in the
report. “There is no alternative to their continued presence.”  While incidents off East Africa are declining, the opposite
is happening in the Gulf of Guinea, on the continent’s western
coastline, the IMB said.  There were 32 incidents in the Gulf of Guinea compared with
25 a year earlier. Reported Nigerian attacks climbed to 17 from
six, the maritime bureau said.  Crew Held Hostage  Twenty vessels were hijacked worldwide, 334 mariners were
taken hostage and at least four people were killed, according to
the report. Twenty-five vessels were fired on, it showed. The
total number of attacks in the first six months was the lowest
since 2008, when 114 took place globally, according to the
bureau. Eleven vessels and 218 seamen were being held hostage as
of June 30, the IMB said.  Owners’ ability to free them may be curbed as U.K. banks,
until this year a major source of the physical dollars used to
release crew, refuse to issue dollars for ransom drops.  The supply of dollars from the nation’s lenders dwindled
since Prime Minister  David Cameron  created a 14-nation  task
force  in February to halt the payments, the International
Association of Independent Tanker Owners, the industry’s biggest
trade group, said in June.  As well as increased naval protection, ships are securing
themselves against attack by implementing on-board measures that
make the vessels harder to board, the IMB said.  Owners including Stena AB, which controls a fleet of 300
ships, are ordering new vessels with customized emergency
strongrooms to protect crews against hijackings.  Governments spent almost $1.3 billion last year on military
interventions including naval patrols, according to the One
Earth Future Foundation, a Broomfield, Colorado-based nonprofit.
Attacks cost the industry and governments $6.9 billion last
year, it estimated in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  