-- Pound Proves Recession-Resistant to Exporters Bemoaning Gain
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-16T16:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/pound-proves-recession-resistant-to-exporters-bemoaning-gain-1-.html
Paul McCairn says the pound’s
appreciation to a more than 3 1/2-year high against the euro is
cutting profit at the machinery manufacturer his father set up
near Birmingham,  England , in 1984.  “We’ve got about 30,000 pounds ($46,884) of stock sitting
in a warehouse in Paris and I am watching that stock fall in
value,” McCairn, managing director of  Bri-Mac Engineering Ltd .,
which sells about 45 percent of the bearing housings it produces
abroad, said in a telephone interview on July 13. “It makes the
U.K. product, our product, less competitive and less attractive
for the French and the Germans to buy.”  Even with the U.K. in its first double-dip recession since
1975, exports to  Europe  falling and the  Bank of England  adding
to the supply of sterling by injecting 375 billion pounds of
stimulus, the pound rose 3.2 percent the past six months. That’s
the best performance in a basket of 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and including the euro and yen.  The strength of the pound, boosted by investors seeking
refuge from the turmoil in the euro area, is frustrating Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s plan to turn the economy around.  “I don’t think the pound is going to weaken,” Shinji Kunibe, who helps manage the equivalent of $69 billion as chief
 money manager  for fixed income at Nissay Asset Management Corp.
in Tokyo, said in a July 11 interview. Britain “is receiving
funds fleeing the euro. The U.K is a preferred haven,” he said.  Record Yields  The pound strengthened 0.3 percent to 78.43 pence per euro
at 12:27 p.m. New York time and reached 78.32 pence, the
strongest level since Oct. 31, 2008. It advanced 0.9 percent
last week. Sterling rose 0.3 percent to $1.5628 after climbing
0.5 percent last week.  Investors seeking an alternative to euro-denominated assets
pushed 10-year gilt yields to a record low of 1.439 percent on
June 1. The rate fell five basis points to 1.50 percent today.  Sterling is 4.8 percent too expensive against the euro, a
reversal from 2.1 percent undervalued at the end of 2011,
according to Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development data based on purchasing power. It’s 2.6 percent
overvalued versus the dollar, the gauge shows.  “Hopes of an export-led recovery are likely to be
disappointed by the rise of the pound and the further weakening
in the euro-zone economy, which is the U.K.’s biggest export
market,”  Vicky Redwood , a London-based economist at  Capital
Economics  Ltd., said in a July 13 phone interview. Trade “is
likely to be a drag” for the next 12 to 18 months, she said.  Shrinking Economy  U.K. exports to Germany declined 2.3 percent in the three
months through May, compared with the same period a year ago,
Office for National Statistics data showed last week. Sales to
France fell 9.1 percent and those to Italy dropped 20 percent.  Britain’s gross domestic product contracted 0.2 percent in
the three months through June, the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research estimated on July 10, the third-
straight quarterly decline. The country emerged from the
previous recession in 2009.  GDP will increase 0.1 percent this year, while the euro
region shrinks 0.4 percent, according to economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Economics, founded by former adviser to the U.K.
Treasury  Roger Bootle , forecasts the pound will appreciate to
75.76 pence per euro by year end and 71.43 by December 2013,
Redwood said.  ‘Alarm Bells’  A level stronger than 76.92 pence per euro would “set some
alarm bells ringing” Kulwant Singh, the finance director of
 Delcam Plc (DLC) , a Birmingham, U.K.-based exporter of software for
businesses, said in a phone interview on July 11.  The firm, which employs 560 people and sends 45 percent of
its products to Europe, will be under pressure as the pound
strengthens toward that level, he said. Singh forecasts Delcam
stands to lose 200,000 pounds the rest of this year when it
converts sales equivalent to 12 million pounds back to sterling.  Sterling has failed to slide amid Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King ’s bond-buying program as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  also eased monetary policy to stimulate their
economies.  Debt Turmoil  The pound rose 2.5 percent versus the euro since July 4,
the day before British policy makers increased the target for
their asset-purchase program by 50 billion pounds, and the ECB
also cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 0.25 percentage point to
a record-low 0.75 percent. The Fed said on June 20 it would
extend to year end its program of selling short-term debt and
using the proceeds to buy long-term bonds.  An intensification of Europe’s debt turmoil may undermine
the pound, according to Valentin Marinov, London-based head of
European Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc.  That’s because sterling’s value in the foreign-exchange
market is becoming more closely tied to the euro’s. The 90-day
rolling correlation between the euro’s and the pound’s moves
against the dollar strengthened to 0.74 this month, the highest
in almost four months. A reading of 1 would signal the assets
moved in lockstep.  “Sterling will struggle to decouple from the euro in a
meaningful way,” Marinov, who was the most-accurate forecaster
of the euro-pound  exchange rate  in a second-quarter Bloomberg
survey, said on July 9.  Citigroup estimates the pound will trade at 80 pence per
euro and $1.52 by year end, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as the Bank of England expands its bond purchases to
500 billion pounds.  Unemployment Rate  Small and medium-sized business such as Bri-Mac account for
59 percent of U.K. employment, according to a  government report 
published in February. The nation’s  jobless rate  was at 8.2
percent in the three months through April, the ninth time in a
row it exceeded 8 percent.  McCairn said he and his wife, who own the business and
employ 12 people, rely on exports to boost Bri-Mac’s earnings.  “The pound’s rise against the euro is knocking us,”
McCairn said. “This time last year I wasn’t looking at it every
day. In the last six weeks, it’s been moving away from us and we
have to be more careful.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  visited Bri-Mac
in July 2010 as part of the government’s campaign to jumpstart
regional companies.  “Lots of small family businesses like mine have had to
start exporting to find other markets and that’s bringing other
pressures,” McCairn said. “I don’t think the government is
doing enough.”  Cameron’s Ratings  Cameron’s coalition government has suffered politically for
prioritizing deficit-reduction plans while the Bank of England
moves to stimulate growth.  The prime minister fell behind Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  in public approval for the first time, according to a
ComRes Ltd. poll for the Independent on Sunday and Sunday Mirror
newspapers published on May 20. His favorability rating dropped
seven percentage points from the previous month to minus 28,
while Miliband’s climbed 12 points to minus 19.  Speaking at a press conference today in Birmingham, Cameron
said that more needs to be done to shift the economy away from
its reliance on  government spending  and that the coalition is
“absolutely committed” to achieving it.  ‘Painstaking Work’  “We’ve got an incredibly active industrial policy,” he
said. “We really want to see this economy rebalanced. It’s hard
and painstaking work when you are recovering from economic
problems as hard as they have been, but it’s absolutely vital.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth forecasts
for the U.K. economy today. GDP will increase 0.2 percent this
year and 1.4 percent in 2013, the Washington-based lender said
in a report published today. That compares with forecasts of 0.8
percent and 2 percent published in April.  “The BOE has tried to weaken the pound as much as it can
but now we are moving from cheap valuations to more fair
valuations for sterling,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in
a July 10 interview.  The central bank has “tried to revive the manufacturing
sector by basically printing money and making the pound as
unappealing as possible,” he said. “Since the euro is even
less appealing the pound is being driven higher and that is a
process that the BOE can’t really control.”  -- With assistance from Masaki Kondo in Singapore and Andrew
Atkinson in London. Editors:
Philip Revzin,  Paul Dobson   To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 