-- S. Africa Yields Fall to Record on U.S. Retail Sales; Rand Gains
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-16T14:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/rand-weakens-against-dollar-before-inflation-rates-decision.html
South African bond yields fell to
record lows after U.S. retail sales declined, adding to evidence
of a global slowdown that may prompt the South African  Reserve
Bank  to lower interest rates. The rand gained.  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.895 percent
as of 3:50 p.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest on a closing basis
since at least 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rand strengthened 0.2 percent to 8.2464 per dollar.  Retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly declined for a third
straight month in June, a sign limited employment gains are
taking a toll on the biggest part of the economy. Investors are
betting that slowing inflation and the deteriorating growth
outlook will prompt the South African Reserve Bank to cut its
benchmark repo rate in the next six months, forward-rate
agreements show.  “Lower inflation gives the Reserve Bank room to manoeuvre;
now the question is whether growth anxieties are or will become
severe enough to prompt a cut,” Bruce Donald, a Johannesburg-
based strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in e-mailed
comments. “Arguments for a cut sooner rather than later have
built up steam” following monetary easing in  Brazil ,  China  and
 India , he wrote.  South Africa ’s inflation rate probably dropped to 5.6 in
June, from 5.7 percent the previous month, according to the
median estimate of 16 economists polled by Bloomberg. The
central bank’s mandate is to keep the  consumer price index 
within a 3 percent to 6 percent target band.  Interest Rate  The Monetary Policy Committee is expected to leave its main
 interest rate  unchanged at 5.5 percent when it concludes a
three-day meeting on July 19, according to 14 of the 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest
rates, are paying 5.21 percent, or 37 percentage points less
than the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating traders
are pricing in more than a 70 percent probability of a rate cut
by January.  “We expect the MPC to keep the repo rate unchanged at
Thursday’s policy announcement,” Theuns de Wet and Mamello
Matikinca, analysts at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments. “However, the statement is likely to be
more dovish than the one delivered in May, leaving little doubt
the Reserve Bank will become much more willing to react with
policy easing should the need arise. We expect that falling
inflation and economic growth will push policy makers to act at
either the September or November meetings.”  The government forecasts the economy will grow at 2.7
percent this year, the slowest pace since a recession in 2009,
as slowing global growth damps demand for the nation’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  