-- Traxis Partners Founder Barton Biggs Dies at Age 79
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2012-07-16T23:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/traxis-partners-founder-barton-biggs-dies-at-age-79.html
Barton Biggs , the  money manager 
whose attention to  emerging markets  during a 30-year career at
Morgan Stanley made him one of the first global investment
strategists, has died. He was 79.  Biggs died on July 14, Morgan Stanley Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  said yesterday in a memo to
employees obtained by Bloomberg News. The cause was
complications from a bacterial infection, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  The New York native predicted the bull market in U.S.
stocks that began in 1982 and warned investors away from
Japanese shares in 1989 before they collapsed. He sealed his
fame telling investors to sell technology companies as they
soared in the late 1990s, a judgment dismissed by the press and
other investors until the dot-com bubble burst.  “Barton was an exceptional financial strategist and a
great friend,”  Julian Robertson , founder of hedge fund Tiger
Management LLC, said in a statement. “He had an immense impact
on the financial industry for five decades. I shall miss him
greatly.”  After retiring from Morgan Stanley in 2003 at age 70, Biggs
started Traxis Partners, a hedge fund, with two other  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  alumni. While he was blindsided by the credit crisis
that sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2008 to its biggest
annual decline since 1937, he correctly called the bottom in
U.S. stocks in March 2009, and Traxis’s flagship fund returned
three times the industry average in 2009.  Traxis Trading  Biggs largely invented the role of chief global strategist,
which he assumed at Morgan Stanley in 1985, said  Stephen Roach ,
who joined the firm as an economist in 1982 and became chairman
of Morgan Stanley Asia.  “When I joined Morgan Stanley, we were a U.S.-centric
business, and within three years, he said, ‘Look, I’m going to
step down as U.S. strategist and redefine myself as a global
strategist,’” Roach said. “He was way ahead of the pack in
discovering and committing himself personally to being one of
Wall Street’s first global investors and global strategists.”  Biggs’ calls on  U.S. stocks  in 1974 and 1982 established
his reputation as a prognosticator.  In 1974 he recommended industrial and natural resources
stocks instead of the so-called Nifty 50 large companies, which
subsequently collapsed. In 1982, he said U.S. stocks were
beginning a major bull market. The  S&P 500  rose for eight
consecutive years.  Japanese Shares  He warned investors away from Japanese stocks in 1989 as
the  Nikkei-225 (NKY)  stock index approached a peak from which it is
down more than 77 percent.  He grew increasingly bearish on U.S. equities as the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  posted annual  gains  that averaged 25
percent from 1995 to 1999. In a July 1999 Bloomberg Television
interview, Biggs said the U.S. stock market was “the biggest
bubble in the history of the world.”  Biggs’s view proved right when the  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP) 
 tumbled  78 percent starting in March 2000.  “I think of an icon, of someone who was always very
delighted to cause people to think rather than just react,”
 Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based Holland & Co., said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.” Holland remembered socializing with Biggs and
Louis Rukeyser, the late host of “Wall Street Week,” the
investing program on PBS.  ‘Great Evenings’  “I think of a dinner in Rye, New York, at a fancy
restaurant with Louis Rukeyser and his wife and Barton Biggs and
his wife and my wife and myself as one of the great evenings of
entertainment and wisdom that I’ve experienced,” Holland said.
“He’s left a treasure behind.”  For three years, Biggs’s reports regularly cited his
bullish plumber to illustrate the conventional wisdom of common
investors. In 2000 he acknowledged that he had fabricated all
the quotes but the first one, “Buy the dips,” which the
plumber had told him while unclogging a sink at Biggs’s Sun
Valley, Idaho, vacation home in 1997. After Bloomberg News
identified the plumber, Biggs apologized and said he had used
him as a literary device.  In March 2003, Biggs predicted gains of as much as 50
percent in U.S. stocks, more for  emerging markets . The S&P 500
climbed as much as 88 percent, while the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index rose more than fourfold.  ‘Totally Independent’  “He was totally independent,”  John Mack , former Morgan
Stanley CEO, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “He
thought out of the box, and he got people to think out of the
box. That’s how I’ll remember him, always as someone who was
taking a much broader view or something that others had not
thought of.”  Biggs, who majored in English and studied creative writing
at  Yale University , wrote a memoir, “Hedgehogging,” published
in 2006. “Wealth, War and Wisdom,” published in 2008, explored
how financial markets discounted major turns of events during
World War II. He also wrote a novel about a money manager during
the boom-and-bust first decade of the 21st century.  “There have been many bear markets that we’ve all lived
through, but this has been the most severe, and certainly has
had the most personal effects on people’s lives,” Biggs said in
2009, discussing his novel. “I’m interested as to how hubris
and arrogance have destroyed people’s lives, and not just the
lives of the hedge-fund money managers, but the lives of their
wives, children, dogs and everything else.”  Investor’s Son  Barton Michael Biggs was born on Nov. 26, 1932, in  New York
City , named for his maternal grandmother, whose last name was
Barton. He was raised on Manhattan’s East Side and in
Washington. His paternal grandfather, Hermann M. Biggs, was the
top public-health official in New York and instituted measures
that stopped the spread of tuberculosis.  His father, William Biggs, held positions including chief
investment officer at  Bank of New York  from 1931 until his death
in 1974, according to his obituary in the New York Times. In
Washington, the elder Biggs renegotiated defense contracts for
the government during World War II and was executive committee
chairman of the Brookings Institution, the public-policy
research organization.  Barton Biggs, who was given a portfolio of about 15 stocks
worth about $150,000 when he turned 18, he had little interest
in financial matters.  After his graduation in 1955 from Yale, his father’s alma
mater, he served three peacetime years with the U.S. Marines,
taught English at a private school and wrote short stories that
publishers rejected.  Graham’s Book  Bored and feeling left out of dinner-table conversation
between his father and younger brother, Jeremy, who worked for a
pension fund, Biggs chose his career.  On his father’s advice, he twice read “ Security
Analysis ,” the guide to value investing by  Benjamin Graham  and
 David Dodd  first published in 1934. He enrolled in business
school at New York University, graduated with distinction, and
went to work as an analyst at E.F. Hutton, then the most
prestigious retail brokerage, in 1961 through a family
connection.  Hedge funds , mostly private pools of capital whose managers
participate substantially in the profits from their speculation
on whether asset prices will rise or fall, were in their
infancy. Biggs helped start one of the first, Fairfield
Partners, in 1965. The fund returned 133 percent over the eight
years he was there, compared with 19 percent for the S&P 500.  Morgan Stanley  In May 1973 he accepted a partnership offer from Morgan
Stanley to create equity research and investment management
divisions. While he was best known for the strategist role,
Biggs also led Morgan Stanley’s investment management arm and
managed money personally.  In “Hedgehogging,” Biggs wrote that he overheard
derogatory comments at a conference in August 1999 after he
predicted a panic in technology stocks. Clients withdrew money
managed by Morgan Stanley, and Biggs in particular, in the
months before equities began their plunge, he said.  Biggs was voted among the top three U.S. portfolio
strategists in  Institutional Investor  magazine’s poll every year
from 1976 to 1984. His global asset-allocation team garnered the
top ranking in 1998 and 1999, and his global equity strategy
team was first in 2000 and 2001.  The record reflected his work ethic,  Byron Wien , the vice
chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners LP who worked at Morgan
Stanley with Biggs, said yesterday in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Research Books  “I remember once when Phantom of the Opera opened in
London and it was a big hit and I managed to get tickets for it
and I took him,” Wien said. “He took a stack of research
materials to read during the intermission. It was classic. Now
that I remember that story, that describes it better than
anything I could tell you.”  A lifelong fitness buff, he read stacks of reports while
exercising in the Morgan Stanley gym, Roach said. In addition to
playing tennis, he routinely climbed mountains in the 12,000 to
15,000 foot range, including Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn in
the Alps and Mount Rainier in Washington State, until 2008.  Biggs and his wife, Judith Anne Lund, had three children.
The marriage ended in divorce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  