-- RBC’S Porcelli Sees September QE3 on Deflation Risk
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-16T19:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/rbc-s-porcelli-sees-september-qe3-on-deflation-risk.html
Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist
at RBC Capital Markets LLC, said the  Federal Reserve  may need to
consider a third round of quantitative easing as early as
September to counter deflationary risks.  Porcelli, in a television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt, said the minutes
of the Fed’s June meeting indicated the central bank would
“study the impact” of additional asset purchases. Porcelli
said the discussion about possible deflation will “gather a lot
of momentum” if inflation starts to drift lower.  “It’s going to start the broader market talking about
deflation,” Porcelli said. “It’ll embolden the doves at the
Fed to basically say, ‘Hey look we are in a potential
deflationary environment. Maybe it’s time to kick in QE3.’”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing after cutting its benchmark
 interest rate  to zero in December 2008. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled in June the U.S. central bank is prepared to increase
its record stimulus if the economy fails to make sufficient
progress in creating jobs.  “The data will lend itself to QE in September,” according
to Porcelli, who said he previously predicted the Fed would act
at its meeting ending on Aug. 1. The policy-making  Federal Open
Market Committee  is also scheduled to meet on Sept. 12-13.  Porcelli said today he expects the  consumer price index  to
fall to “some 1 percent” this year. The index rose 1.7 percent
from a year earlier in May.  New Program  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said last week the central bank may need to begin a new program
of asset purchases if economic growth continues to lag.  Lockhart joins the ranks of Fed officials who are prepared
to consider additional stimulus after a report showed that
payroll growth lagged behind forecasts in June. The Atlanta Fed
president cited the release of minutes from the last meeting as
showing as many as four policy makers are “quite receptive at
this time” to further easing.  The minutes also show policy makers considering the risk
that further easing might pose. Some members of the committee
noted that excessive purchase of Treasuries could “at some
point, lead to deterioration in the functioning of the Treasury
securities market that could undermine the intended effects of
the policy.”  Prices rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier in May, as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures price index,
the Fed’s favored measure. The gauge is the lowest since January
2011 and has dropped from a 2011 peak of 2.9 percent in
September.  Slowing Growth  Porcelli also said economic growth is likely to slow to 0.9
percent in 2013 if the combination of budget cuts and tax
increases known as the “fiscal cliff” kicks in at the start of
the year.  “Our call is actually built on the fiscal cliff actually
hitting,” Porcelli said. “That’s a call on just the basic
ineptitude of  Washington , D.C. If they find religion, then we’ll
change our call.”  Unless Congress acts, the George W. Bush-era income tax
cuts will expire, as will a temporary cut in the  payroll tax .
About $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over a decade
will be poised to start, expanded jobless benefits will expire,
and the government will approach the legal limit on federal
borrowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  