-- RBI’s Subbarao Says India Inflation ‘Way Above’ Threshold Level
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-07-16T14:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/rbi-s-subbarao-says-india-inflation-way-above-threshold-level.html
Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the
 Reserve Bank  of  India , comments on inflation, growth and
monetary policy. He was speaking at a book release event in
 Mumbai  today.  The Wholesale-Price Index unexpectedly eased last month to
7.25 percent from a year earlier, a government report showed
today. The gauge gained 7.55 percent in May. The central bank
will release its interest rate decision on July 31.  On Inflation:  “Certainly, high inflation leads to loss of growth and
with WPI inflation at 7.25 percent, the number that came this
morning, and CPI inflation in double digits, we are way above
the threshold. People have asked us what is the threshold level
of inflation? That may be around 5 percent.”  “I’m not implying anything by way of what decision we
might take at the policy review at the end of July. I’m only
saying that inflation is above the threshold.”  On Growth:  “It is true that inflation is inimical to growth. Low and
stable inflation is an essential precondition for securing
medium-term growth. Only in a situation of price stability can
investors and consumers make informed decisions. So, the RBI’s
monetary stance has been aimed at restraining demand and
managing inflationary expectations. Our monetary tightening has
resulted in some sacrifice of growth in the short term. But that
is an inevitable price to pay for price stability. But I must
hasten to add, sacrificing growth is only in the short term. In
the medium term there is no trade off between growth and
inflation.”  “The relationship between growth and inflation is non-
linear and there is a threshold level of inflation. Below the
threshold, maybe there is a trade off between growth and
inflation, but above the threshold there is definitely no trade
off between growth and inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 