-- Treasury 5-Year Note Yield Drops to Record as Retail Sales Fall
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-16T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/treasury-5-year-note-yield-at-record-low-after-retail-sales-fall.html
Treasury five-year note yields fell
to record lows as an unexpected decline in retail sales for a
third straight month raised concern the economic recovery is
stalling and drove investors to the refuge of government debt.  Investors seeking the safest assets amid concern global
growth is faltering and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening also drove yields to all-time lows in the U.K.,
 Canada ,  France , Germany and the Netherlands. Treasuries gained
earlier after Germany’s top court said it will take more than
eight weeks to rule on the euro-area’s bailout fund. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to testify in
Washington tomorrow amid speculation he will call for more
economic stimulus.  “We’ve had very disappointing economic data in the U.S. of
late, and the weak retail sales number underscores this,” said
 Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells
Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “Add in the fact that Europe
continues to struggle with the sovereign-debt problem and
recession, and that is a lot of drag on the global economy and
support for Treasuries.”  The  five-year note yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.60 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 0.577
percent, less than the old mark of 0.5884 percent set June 1.  The benchmark U.S. 10-year  yield  fell two basis points to
1.47 percent, touching 1.4403 percent. The yield on the 30-year
bond declined two basis points to 2.56 percent after reaching
2.52 percent. Both set record lows on June 1, 1.4387 percent for
the 10-year and 2.5089 percent for the long bond.  ‘Continued Weakness’  The 0.5 percent drop in retail sales followed a 0.2 percent
decrease in May, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The decline was worse than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey in which the median
projection called for a 0.2 percent rise. The June decrease was
broad-based, including car dealers, department stores and
gasoline stations.  The Fed Bank of New York’s  general economic  index rose to
7.4 from 2.3 in June, another report showed, with the median
forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News calling for
an increase to 4.0. Readings greater than zero signal expansion
in the so-called Empire State Index that covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The last negative
reading was in October.  “Everything is going to hit a record, except for the two-
year note,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “If you don’t have the consumer continuing
to spend, the likelihood of continued weakness in the economy
goes up. It’s not a surprise we’re rallying.”  Germany, Bernanke  The 10-year note will drop to 1.25 percent and the 30-year
bond will drop to 2.25 percent over the next two months, Jersey
forecast.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe will issue a
ruling on bids to halt  Germany ’s participation in the European
Stability Mechanism and the fiscal treaty on Sept. 12, it said
today in an e-mailed statement. That’s more than two months
after it held a hearing on the measures on July 10.  The delay may compound efforts to resolve the 2 1/2-year-
old crisis as European leaders disagree over the details of
bailout conditions, bank rescues and burden-sharing.  Bernanke is scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking
Committee tomorrow, discussing the outlook for the economy and
monetary policy, and he will speak before the House Financial
Services Committee the following day.  ‘Wrong Direction’  The Fed under Bernanke bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 to stimulate the economy
under qualitative easing.  The central bank decided in June to extend a policy known
as Operation Twist, where it sells short-term securities and
uses the proceeds to buy longer-term debt, to $667 billion from
$400 billion. The Fed purchased $1.843 billion of Treasuries
maturing from August 2022 to February 2031 today as part of the
operation.  “Yields are coming down as the economy is headed in the
wrong direction faster than the market had anticipated” said
Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at
Barclays Plc, a primary dealer. “The market is increasingly
pricing the Fed switching from Operation Twist to outright
quantitative easing.”  Ten-year notes yields will fall to as low as 1.25 percent,
and will close the year at 1.5 percent, according to Barclays,
which previously expected the security to close out the year at
2 percent.  Vanguard’s View  Vanguard Group Inc., whose $148.2 billion of Treasuries
makes it the largest private owner of  U.S. debt , says the nation
has until 2016 to contain its borrowings before bond investors
revolt and drive up  interest rates .  “In the absence of a long-term credible plan, we are
somewhere around four years away on where the markets are going
to say ‘enough is enough,’” said Robert Auwaerter, head of the
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard’s fixed-income group
since 2003 and who this year was inducted into the Fixed Income
Analysts Society Inc.’s Hall of Fame.  The U.S. has avoided the turbulence rocking Europe, where
five nations have sought bailouts as their borrowing costs
soared because investors boycotted their bonds. Instead, they
have sought U.S. assets as a haven because of the dollar’s
status as the world’s primary reserve currency, pushing note
yields to record lows even though the amount of  public debt 
outstanding has grown to $15.9 trillion from less than $9
trillion in 2007.  “There’s continued weakness in the economy,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP, a primary dealer. “People still need to buy Treasuries --
there’s still demand there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  