-- Treasuries Hold Gain as Bernanke May Emphasize Slowdown
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-16T10:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/treasury-futures-stay-lower-before-retail-sales.html
Treasury yields extended last week’s
decline after Germany’s top court said it will take more than
eight weeks to rule on the euro-area’s bailout fund, holding up
crisis resolution efforts and boosting demand for safer assets.  Benchmark  10-year yields  were about four basis points from
a record low amid speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will highlight the need for low borrowing costs to spur
the economy when he speaks tomorrow. U.S. retail sales rose for
the first time in three month in June, economists forecast
before a report today.  “Investors are focused on holding high-quality bonds, like
Treasuries, as policy makers focus on accommodative policy and
because of the problems in Europe,” said Piet Lammens, head of
research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “What Bernanke says this
week will be closely watched. We need to see a stronger
indication that more stimulus is coming before the Treasury
yields can make new lows.”  The benchmark U.S. 10-year  yield  fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.48 percent at 6:45 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2022 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 102 14/32.  The yield dropped six basis points last week and reached an
all-time low of 1.4387 percent on June 1.  German Ruling  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe will issue a
ruling on bids to halt  Germany ’s participation in the European
Stability Mechanism and the fiscal treaty on Sept. 12, it said
today in an e-mailed statement. That’s more than two months
after it held a hearing on the measures on July 10.  The delay may compound efforts to resolve the 2 1/2-year-
old crisis as European leaders disagree over the details of
bailout conditions, bank rescues and burden-sharing.  Bernanke is scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking
Committee tomorrow, discussing the outlook for the economy and
monetary policy. He will speak before the House Financial
Services Committee the following day.  “There’s a flight to quality,” said Kevin Yang, head of
bond investment in Taipei at Hontai Life Insurance Co., which
has $6 billion in assets. “The Fed will maintain a low-
interest-rate environment.”  ‘Price Strength’  Treasury 10-year futures expiring in September advanced 0.1
percent to 134 22/32.  Futures are “bullish” while they trade above a support
level at 134,  Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical
strategy in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note. This indicates
“further price strength,” he said.  A break above the record high of 134 31/32 reached on June
1 “will be the next bullish development,” he wrote, saying the
next target level would be 135 28/32.  The Fed under Bernanke bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt to stimulate the economy. The central bank
decided in June to extend a policy known as  Operation Twist ,
where it sells short-term securities and uses the proceeds to
buy longer-term debt, to $667 billion from $400 billion.  The Fed is scheduled to buy as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries maturing from August 2022 to February 2031 today as
part of the plan, according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s
 website . Bernanke has also pledged to keep the central bank’s
target for overnight bank lending at almost zero through at
least late 2014.  U.S.  retail sales  rose 0.2 percent last month, after
dropping 0.2 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists before the Commerce Department report.  Too Expensive  The decline in yield made Treasuries too expensive for
Roger Bridges at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd.  “I wouldn’t buy them,” said Bridges, who oversees the
equivalent of $15.3 billion of debt as the Sydney-based head of
fixed income at Tyndall, a unit of Nikko Asset Management Co.  The  term premium , a model created by the Fed that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, showed
Treasuries were the most expensive ever last week. The gauge
fell to a negative 0.9617 percent, a record low.  Vanguard Group Inc., whose $148.2 billion of Treasuries
makes it the largest private owner of  U.S. debt , says the nation
has until 2016 to contain its borrowings before bond investors
revolt and drive up interest rates.  “In the absence of a long-term credible plan, we are
somewhere around four years away on where the markets are going
to say ‘enough is enough,’” said Robert Auwaerter, head of the
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard’s fixed-income group
since 2003 and who this year was inducted into the Fixed Income
Analysts Society Inc.’s Hall of Fame.  The U.S. has avoided the turbulence rocking  Europe , where
five nations have sought bailouts as their borrowing costs
soared because investors boycotted their bonds. Instead, they
have sought U.S. assets as a haven because of the dollar’s
status as the world’s primary reserve currency, pushing note
yields to record lows even though the amount of  public debt 
outstanding has grown to $15.9 trillion from less than $9
trillion in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  