-- Republicans Urge Romney to Release Taxes, Change Debate
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-16T12:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/republicans-urge-romney-to-release-taxes-change-debate.html
Anxious that Democrats are gaining
an edge with voters, Republicans are pressuring  Mitt Romney  to
reveal more about his income taxes and his record at Bain
Capital LLC as his campaign strategists weigh how to respond.  “If you have things to hide, then maybe you’re doing
things wrong,” Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican,
told reporters at the National Governors Association meeting on
July 14. “I think you ought to be willing to release everything
to the American people.”  The calls come as top Romney aides discuss how to manage
the  tax-return  issue in a way that refocuses the political
debate on Obama’s economic and job creation record. The decision
whether to release more personal financial information, one
adviser said, rests with Romney. So far, he has remained firm in
his decision not to disclose any tax information beyond his 2010
and 2011 filings.  “We’re going to put out two years of tax returns,” Romney
said this morning on  Fox News ’s “Fox and Friends” program,
adding that the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona , had also released only two years of
returns. Romney said his 2010 return is out already and the 2011
return -- “hundreds of pages of documents” -- will be released
when it is completed.  Requirement ‘Made’  “None of those tax returns are required by law to be put
out,” he said. “What is required, the financial disclosure,
has already been made.”  President  Barack Obama  and his surrogates spent last week
questioning Romney’s veracity when 2002 Securities and Exchange
Commission records surfaced that listed him as Bain’s chief
executive officer -- three years after he said he had quit
running the company and during a period when the firm fired
workers and outsourced jobs overseas.  Obama’s camp used the SEC discrepancy to also draw
attention to Romney’s bank accounts and investments in
Switzerland and  Bermuda . The two-pronged attack is part of an
effort to depict Romney as secretive about his wealth and
business practices, and shift the focus away from the slow
economic recovery.  “Either the filing with the SEC is accurate and his
personal financial disclosure is not honest, or that’s honest
and the SEC isn’t, but both can’t be accurate,” said Chicago
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a former White House chief of staff, on
ABC’s “This Week.”  Retired ‘Retroactively’  The attacks are making Republican party strategists
increasingly uneasy, as they watch the candidate and his
surrogates struggle to respond.  In an interview on CNN yesterday,  Ed Gillespie , a senior
campaign adviser, said Romney retired “retroactively” after
initially thinking he was leaving the firm temporarily.  “There may have been a thought at the time that he could
be part-time,” he said on “ State of the Union .” “He took a
leave of absence and, in fact, he ended up not going back at all
and retired retroactively to February of 1999.”  That explanation contrasted with Romney’s own recounting of
events two days earlier, when the campaign hastily scheduled
interviews on all five evening television newscasts to address
the charges. Romney said in the July 13 interviews that he
retired from all management duties at Bain in 1999, although he
failed to provide an explanation for the SEC filings dating to
2002.  Political Distraction  In an interview this morning, Romney said he was “very
proud” of his business record, charging the president with
trying to distract from economic issues.  “I’d say to the president, ‘Wouldn’t it be interesting,
Mr. President, wouldn’t it be interesting if you spent some time
speaking about your record?’” he said in an interview on Fox
News.  Romney’s campaign also started a new wave of television
commercials to criticize the Democratic attacks, releasing an ad
yesterday that says the tenor of Obama’s campaign conflicts with
his 2008 message of “hope and change.”  “Whatever happened to hope and change,” CBS News host Bob Schieffer is seen asking, in a television clip.  Losing Ground  At the same time, Romney’s team has tried to downplay
concerns that they were losing ground in the race. In a memo
publicly released this morning, Romney’s pollster,  Neil
Newhouse , says that even after being outspent by more than two
to one, the race has tightened.  Those steps have failed to stem grumbling among Republicans
that Romney isn’t effectively answering questions raised by
Obama’s campaign or presenting a compelling case for his
election.  “He should release the tax returns tomorrow. It’s crazy,”
said Republican commentator Bill Kristol, who recently attended
a weekend-long retreat for top Romney donors and strategists, on
“Fox News Sunday” yesterday. “You gotta release six, eight,
10 years of back tax returns.”  The Romney campaign sees a more complicated political
calculation. It must weigh the benefits of greater transparency
against the potential damage the returns could cause if they
reveal politically-edgy investments or evidence that the
candidate used the tax system to significantly reduce his
payment rates, aides familiar with the deliberations said.  Romney’s team doesn’t want to do anything that would
further distract from their strategy of making the election
about Obama’s stewardship of the economy. And they worry about
slipping into a political trap set by their rivals, advisers
said.  Romney’s Releases  As Romney considers a path forward, campaign advisers said
a major strategic shift is not under consideration.  “The plan was always that when the president attacked and
it was an attack that mattered that he would counter-punch,”
said  Charlie Black , a Republican campaign strategist who is
advising Romney.  Romney gave in to public pressure during the Republican
primaries to release his 2010 tax return and has said he will
disclose his 2011 filing later this year, when it is complete.
His father, George, released 12 years of returns when he ran for
president in 1968, and Mitt Romney gave 23 years of filings to
Republican presidential nominee Senator John McCain when he was
under consideration for the vice presidency during the 2008
race.  Thus far, Romney has said repeatedly that he has no
intention of releasing additional returns. “That’s -- that’s
all that’s necessary for people to understand something about my
finances,” he said in his June 13 interview with  CNN .  Weekend With Grandchildren  The candidate spent much of the weekend relaxing with
family at his lakeside home in Wolfeboro,  New Hampshire . News
photographers captured him working outside on his iPad and
escaping with some his grandchildren for an afternoon boat ride
on Lake Winnipesaukee.  Romney is spending only a portion of his time attending
campaign events, as he nears the final stages of his search for
a vice president and prepares for a trip to  Europe  on July 24.
He has two appearances planned in Ohio and  Pennsylvania  this
week, limiting his public opportunities to push his campaign
message and respond to the Democratic attacks.  Meanwhile, Obama campaign aides say they plan to keep
hammering his business record and keep up a drumbeat of
questions about when, exactly, Romney left Bain.  A new ad released by the Obama campaign this weekend, set
to footage of Romney singing “America the Beautiful,” charges
Romney with outsourcing jobs and stashing money in off-shore
accounts.  “They want to talk about anything but President Obama’s
dismal record when it comes to the economy, and it’s working,”
Gillespie responded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  