-- Republicans Bring Charge of Obama ‘War on Coal’ to Virginia
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-16T19:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/republicans-bring-charge-of-obama-war-on-coal-to-virginia-1-.html
Republicans took their complaints
about President  Barack Obama ’s rules to curb pollution from coal
power plants to rural  Virginia , saying the regulations will harm
the economy of the election battleground state.  Joining the lawmakers at a hearing in the coal-dependent
southwest corner of the state were representatives from coal
miner  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) , power generator  Dominion
Resources Inc. (D) , and a unit of energy holding company  PPL Corp. (PPL) 
The executives said the Environmental Protection Agency’s
proposed greenhouse-gas rules would effectively prohibit the
construction of new coal-fired plants, leading to job losses and
higher electricity costs.  “Under this proposal, I don’t see a way forward” for new
coal plants, John Voyles, vice president of LG&E and KU Energy
LLC, a unit of PPL, told a panel of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee today in Abingdon, Virginia. The regulation
would require that coal plants have carbon-capture technology,
which is “currently undemonstrated” and “not cost-effective
under current market conditions,” he said.  In March, Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency proposed
the first limits on greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants,
setting a standard that natural-gas facilities can meet. With
natural gas near decade-low prices, no new coal plants are being
built, with or without the EPA rules, according to the agency’s
analysis.  Latest Rules  By establishing that standard, however, it will start
prodding the nation away from relying on coal-fired electricity,
the biggest source of the carbon dioxide that contributes to
global warming, while encouraging economic growth, supporters
say.  “The new standard reinforces what most power company
executives and investors already understand -- that carbon
pollution and  climate change  are serious concerns,”  David Doniger , climate policy director for the  Natural Resources
Defense Council , said in a statement. “If and when new coal
plants make a comeback, they will need to be designed with
carbon-capture and storage technology.”  For critics, from mining companies and utilities to coal-
country lawmakers, the rules are the latest in a string of EPA
regulations they say are meant to put the  fossil fuel  out of
business. And Republicans in crucial electoral states such as
Pennsylvania, Ohio and Virginia are using that threat to take
aim at Obama and his fellow Democrats.  ‘Cure, Cause’  “Under President Obama, the Environmental Protection
Agency has cranked out one costly anti-coal regulation after
another,” Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican,
said at the hearing. “The agency tells us we need these
measures to protect us from global warming, but in my view the
cure is considerably worse than the disease.”  Coal had provided as much as half the electricity in the
U.S. in recent years and more than 86,000 mining jobs. The boom
in natural gas extracted by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
is already cutting into coal’s primacy, as the two fuels
generated the same share of electricity production in April for
the first time.  Main Complaints  The EPA rules may further reduce coal’s share.  The industry critics made two main complaints about the
EPA’s proposal today. They said the EPA, for the first time,
issued a standard for all power producers, regardless of fuel
type. Instead, the agency should revise the rule, issuing one
standard for coal plants, and another for natural-gas
facilities. Gas emits about half the carbon dioxide as coal when
burned for fuel at a plant.  “The adoption of EPA’s proposed standard will lead, in our
view, to an undesirable national policy: abandoning coal, one of
our most abundant natural resources,” said Thomas Farrell,
chairman and chief executive of Dominion.  The agency also has issued this proposal for new  power
plants , and not for existing ones. The industry executives
warned that rules for existing coal plants, if they are
structured in a similar way, could be more damaging.  Obama, who captured 53 percent of the vote in Virginia in
2008, campaigned in the state for two days this past weekend,
visiting suburban areas of Richmond and  Washington , D.C. The
president held a 3 percentage point lead over the presumptive
Republican candidate,  Mitt Romney , in an average of six polls
taken since mid-May, as compiled by the website Real Clear
Politics.  “If we win Virginia, then we will win the election,”
Obama said in a weekend interview with WAVY-TV in  Glen Allen .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  