-- Retail Purchases in U.S. Unexpectedly Decrease 0.5%
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-16T20:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/retail-purchases-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decreased-0-5-in-june.html
Retail sales  in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell for a third month in June as limited
employment gains took a toll on consumers.  The 0.5 percent drop followed a 0.2 percent decrease in
May, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
decline exceeded the most pessimistic  forecast  in a Bloomberg
News survey that called for a median 0.2 percent gain in sales.
Other reports today showed manufacturing in the  New York  region
picked up this month and U.S. inventories increased in May.  The retail figures prompted economists at Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse to lower their
forecasts for economic growth in the second quarter. A cooling
job market is sapping the household spending that makes up 70
percent of the economy, curbing sales at retailers such as
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)   “Weak spending growth and weak employment are reinforcing
one another in a disconcerting negative feedback loop,” said
 Jay Feldman , a director of U.S. economics at Credit Suisse in
New York, who cut his tracking estimate for second-quarter
economic growth to 1.6 percent from 2 percent.  Stocks trimmed losses as a rally in crude  oil prices 
boosted shares of energy producers. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,353.64 at the close in New York. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note slid to 1.47 percent from
1.49 percent late on July 13.  Retail sales estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 81
economists ranged from a decrease of 0.4 percent to a gain of
0.5 percent. Purchases last fell for three months or longer in
July through December 2008.  ‘Anemic’ Growth  “The economy in  North America  continues to be fragile as
 consumer confidence  lags and job growth remains anemic,” Vernon Nagel, chairman and chief executive of  Acuity Brands Inc. (AYI) , a
lighting-fixture maker, said during a July 2 earnings call. “We
expect the macroeconomic environment for the balance of 2012 to
continue to be influenced by external concerns, including fiscal
and monetary policy in U.S and the  European debt crisis .”  The  International Monetary Fund  today cut its 2013 global
growth forecast as Europe’s crisis prolongs Spain’s recession
and slows expansions in  emerging markets  from China to  India .
Growth worldwide will be 3.9 percent next year, less than the
4.1 percent estimate in April, the fund predicted in an update
of its World Economic Outlook.  Nine of 13 major retail sales categories showed a decline
last month, led by a 1.8 percent slump at gas stations that
reflected declining fuel costs. Regular fuel in June averaged
$3.49 a gallon, or 22 cents less than in May, according to AAA,
the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Department Stores  Spending decreased 0.7 percent at department stores, 0.8
percent at furniture outlets and 0.6 percent at  motor vehicle 
and parts dealers. The drop in sales of furniture was the
biggest in a year. Demand at building-material stores fell 1.6
percent.  Industry figures show retailers’ same-store sales slumped
in June. Purchases at the more than 20 companies tracked by
Retail Metrics Inc. increased 0.3 percent in June from the same
time last year following a 4 percent gain in May.  Demand at Target rose 2.1 percent last month, falling short
of the average projection for a 2.8 percent gain from analysts
surveyed by Retail Metrics. Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S.
department-store chain, posted a 1.2 percent increase compared
with a 2.3 percent estimate.  Today’s figure on auto dealer sales contrasts with data
from Ward’s Automotive Group, which reported that cars and light
trucks  sold  at a 14.1 million annual rate in June, up from the
13.7 million pace in May that was weakest this year.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending  climbed at a 2.5 percent rate in the
first quarter, according to Commerce Department data. Economists
surveyed earlier this month before today’s data forecast it
increased at a 1.9 percent rate from April to June while the
economy as a whole expanded at a 1.8 percent pace.  A less optimistic consumer will probably restrain demand.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary sentiment
index for July  dropped  to the lowest level this year as
Americans grew more pessimistic about their finances, a report
showed last week.  “People are just pulling back, and you’re not likely to
see a significant pickup from here,” said  Michael Carey , chief
economist for North America at Credit Agricole CIB in New York.
“This was certainly a slowdown from the first quarter.”  American employers added fewer workers to payrolls than
forecast in June and the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent, a
report from the Labor Department showed on July 6.  June Employment  The 80,000 gain in employment followed a 77,000 increase in
May. Economists projected a 100,000 rise, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Growth in private
payrolls was the weakest in 10 months.  Some Federal Reserve policy makers said the central bank
will probably need to take more action to boost the labor market
and achieve its inflation goal, according to minutes of their
June meeting.  “A few members expressed the view that further policy
stimulus likely would be necessary to promote satisfactory
growth in employment and to ensure that the inflation rate would
be at the Committee’s goal,” according to the record of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 19-20 gathering released
July 11 in Washington.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will address the outlook for
the economy when he delivers his semi-annual monetary policy
report to Congress tomorrow and July 18. He may hint at steps
that can be taken to revive the expansion.  Excluding Vehicles  Purchases excluding autos decreased 0.4 percent, today’s
retail sales report showed. They were projected to be unchanged,
the survey median showed.  Sales excluding automobiles and service stations fell 0.2
percent, compared with a projected gain of 0.2 percent in the
survey.  The retail sales category used to calculate gross domestic
product, which excludes purchases at auto dealers, building
material stores and service stations, decreased 0.1 percent
after no change in the previous month.  Manufacturing may maintain its role as a bright spot for
the economy. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general
economic index  rose to 7.4 this month from 2.3 in June. The
median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 4.0. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the so-called Empire State Index that covers New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Inventories increased 0.3 percent for a third month in May,
Commerce Department data showed. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey projected a 0.2 percent gain. Sales fell 0.1
percent in May for a second month.  Businesses had enough goods on hand to last 1.27 months at
the current sales pace in May, up from 1.26 months in April and
the highest in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  