-- Ringgit Advances for a Second Day on Global Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-07-16T08:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/ringgit-advances-for-a-second-day-on-global-stimulus-speculation.html
Malaysia’s ringgit advanced for a
second day on speculation policy makers in major economies will
step up efforts to bolster growth, increasing demand for
emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  index  of stocks rose ahead of U.S.
data due today, which economists predict may show retail sales
in the world’s biggest economy rose 0.2 percent in June from a
0.2 percent decrease the month before. China’s Premier Wen
Jiabao warned over the weekend the momentum for a recovery in
economic growth isn’t yet in place. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  will present his semi-annual report on the outlook
for the  U.S. economy  and monetary policy to Congress tomorrow.  “People are turning to riskier assets on expectation that
policy makers will come out with more stimulus measures to boost
economic growth,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a foreign-exchange
trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.1755 per dollar
as of 4.15 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 6.5 percent.  “The Malaysian currency will likely be in the 3.15 to 3.20
range against the dollar before Bernanke’s speech this week,”
Azmi said.  China ’s gross domestic product increased 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the least in three years,
the statistics bureau said on July 13.  Inflation Report  Malaysian consumer prices probably rose 1.7 percent in June
from a year earlier, matching May’s slowest pace in two years,
according to the median estimate of 17 analysts polled by
Bloomberg before government data due July 18.  Ten-year  government bonds  gained. The yield on the 3.418
percent notes due August 2022 decreased one basis point to a
four-month low of 3.43 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The
treasury will auction 3.5 billion ringgit ($1.1 billion) of
Shariah-compliant bonds maturing August 2017 on July 20, the
central bank said on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  