-- Matt Forte, Ray Rice Get Long-Term Contracts Before NFL Deadline
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/running-backs-forte-rice-reach-long-term-deals-before-deadline.html
Pro Bowl  running backs  Matt Forte  of
the Chicago Bears and  Ray Rice  of the  Baltimore Ravens  received
new contracts ahead of the  National Football League ’s deadline
for franchise players to sign long-term deals.  Forte and the Bears agreed yesterday on a four-year
contract, while Rice and the Ravens came to terms on a five-year
deal, the teams said without disclosing financial terms. Forte’s
contract is worth about $32 million and Rice’s is for $40
million, according to ESPN.  Both Forte and Rice were assigned their club’s franchise
tag during the offseason. Had either running back not reached a
long-term deal by yesterday, the NFL’s deadline for franchise-
tagged players, his only option for playing this season would
have been under a $7.75 million one-year deal.  “I’m proud to be a Chicago Bear and excited to be here for
another four years,” Forte said on the Bears’ website. “I’m
glad the business part is done and we can all turn our attention
to football and our goal of winning a championship.”  Pro Bowl wide receiver  Wes Welker  failed to reach an
agreement on a long-term contract with the New England Patriots
yesterday, NFL.com said, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the negotiations. As the Patriots’ designated franchise
player, Welker will earn a guaranteed $9.5 million in 2012.
Welker, who caught 122 passes for a career-high 1,569 yards last
season, would become a free agent after next season if the
Patriots don’t use their franchise player tag on him again.  Pro Bowler  Forte, a Pro Bowl selection in 2011, has spent his four-
year career with the Bears. Last season he averaged a career-
high 83.1 yards rushing per game before missing the final four
games of the season with a sprained knee ligament.  The 26-year-old is the only player in NFL history to have
at least 900 yards rushing and 400 yards receiving in each of
his first four seasons, according to the Bears.  Rice, 25, was drafted by the Ravens in the second round of
the 2008  NFL Draft . A Pro Bowl selection in 2009 and 2011, he’s
rushed for more than 1,200 yards in each of the last three
seasons.  “Ray has been an integral part of us earning the playoffs
in each of his four seasons, and that includes helping us get to
two AFC Championship games,” Ravens General Manager Ozzie Newsome said in an e-mailed statement. “His production on the
field speaks for itself, and his leadership in the locker room
is outstanding.”  Scobee Signs  Elsewhere around the league, the  Jacksonville Jaguars 
agreed to a new long-term deal with kicker Josh Scobee, who
received the team’s franchise tag this offseason. The four-year
deal is worth around $14 million, according to ESPN.  Had Scobee and the Jaguars been unable to agree by the
deadline, he would have had to sit out the 2012 season or play
under a one-year, $2.9 million deal.  The  Oakland Raiders  agreed to a four-year, $26.6 million
contract with their designated franchise player, safety Tyvon Branch, ESPN said.  Among the designated franchise players who failed to sign
long-term deals were Kansas City Chiefs receiver Dwayne Bowe,
Detroit Lions defensive end Cliff Avril and San Francisco 49ers
safety Dashon Goldson, NFL.com said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  