-- Russia Calls for Immediate Syrian Cease-Fire, Troop Pullout
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-07-16T10:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/russia-calls-for-immediate-syrian-cease-fire-troop-pullout-1-.html
Russia wants an immediate and
synchronized cease-fire in  Syria  monitored by the  United Nations 
to end the “horrible” events unfolding in that country,
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said.  Speaking before talks in Moscow today with special envoy
 Kofi Annan , Lavrov said that as part of its draft UN resolution
Russia has proposed enlisting the organization’s observers to
negotiate a withdrawal by government and opposition forces.  “Only a simultaneous end to violence is possible, followed
by a simultaneous pullout of troops -- both government forces
and combat detachments of the opposition from all towns,”
Lavrov told reporters. “We think that to achieve that, UN
observers should be charged with coordinating a concrete plan
with both sides for every town involved in a military
confrontation.”  Russia has said it will continue to use its veto to protect
its Soviet-era ally as world powers prepare for a July 18 vote
in  New York  on a Western-drafted Security Council resolution
threatening President Bashar al-Assad with measures such as
sanctions. The International Red Cross yesterday declared the
Syrian conflict a civil war, a status that could facilitate
prosecutions for  war crimes , the  Associated Press  reported.  Government forces yesterday stormed neighborhoods in Deraa
and used helicopters and heavy artillery in Deir al-Zour in the
east of the country, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
said in an e-mailed statement. Heavy fighting involving mortars
and artillery also erupted in central Damascus late yesterday,
it said.  ‘Sole Interest’  Lavrov reiterated that Russia isn’t backing Assad’s regime
and the country’s “sole interest is to prevent the
destabilization of the Syrian state.”  “We aren’t taking any side in the Syrian conflict,” he
said.  Time is running out for Annan’s peace efforts, which in
five months have failed to secure a promised cease-fire. His
transition plan, which envisions Assad’s mediated exit within a
year, hinges on  Russia  withholding its veto.  Western requests for Russia to facilitate Assad’s ouster
are “unrealistic,” Lavrov said.  ‘Very Sizable’  “He won’t leave not because we are defending him but
because a very, very sizable part of the country’s population is
behind him,” he said.  Lavrov also urged a continued investigation into killings
carried out at the Sunni Muslim village of Tremseh in Hama
province. The opposition Syrian National Council said as many as
305 people were killed there in a July 12 assault. The team of
observers still hasn’t been able to determine the number of
casualties. Interviews with 27 local residents revealed that the
attack started with a shelling of the village followed by ground
operations.  Reports of the death toll in Tremseh are “contradictory,”
Lavrov said. The attack started after a government military
patrol near the village came under fire from members of the
Syrian Free Army, he said.  Opposition fighters then retreated to the village, where
they were pursued and attacked by Assad’s forces, according to
Lavrov. About 40 opposition gunmen were killed in the 1 1/2-hour
assault that followed, he said.  According to Syrian National Council member Abdulrahman
Alhaj, the attack began at dawn when Syrian troops surrounded
the town of 10,000 residents, most of them  Sunni Muslims , with
150 tanks and armored vehicles and started shelling. Then
soldiers, backed by the pro-government Shabiha militia, stormed
the town for five hours, he said.  That version is challenged by the state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency, which said the deaths were the result of a clash
between security forces and “terrorist” groups -- as the
government characterizes anti-regime fighters -- after local
residents called for help.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  