-- Russia Mulls Targeting Foreign-Funded Media, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-07-16T16:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/russia-mulls-plan-targeting-foreign-funded-media-lawmaker-says.html
Russia  will discuss extending a
special status to foreign-funded media outlets whose coverage of
international and Russian news may be dictated from abroad,
according to one of two ruling-party lawmakers behind the plan.  The lower house of parliament, which last week approved
restrictions on non-governmental organizations that receive
financial aid from abroad, will discuss the proposal during its
fall session,  United Russia ’s Ilya Kostunov said in a phone
interview today from the central Russian city of Voronezh.  If the measure is approved in public and parliamentary
discussions, foreign-funded media may be branded “foreign
agents,” a classification that can already be applied to NGOs,
Kostunov said. He cited misleading reports and photographs
published without a “second opinion or reaction from the
Russian side” as examples of skewed coverage where the reader
would benefit from knowing the financial interests at stake.  The Russian government pushed three laws through the  State
Duma  last week, tightening controls over the Internet and
foreign-funded NGOs engaged in political activities and making
libel a criminal offense. Lawmakers allied with President
 Vladimir Putin  approved a bill last month that increased fines
150-fold to 300,000 rubles ($9,200) on people who organize or
take part in unsanctioned protests.  Putin, 59, was re-elected to the Kremlin in March after
confronting the biggest anti-government rallies in his 12 years
in power.  “We want our people to know who is funding the so-called
fourth estate,” Kostunov said. “Of course we should be
flexible while branding these media. Newspapers that write about
kittens are different from those writing about earthquakes.”  The initiative was prompted by complaints made to lawmakers
by Russian journalists, he said, adding that a final proposal
will be made after a discussion involving the Russian Union of
Journalists.  “Foreign media investors are very active in Russia, but
it’s mostly about glossy magazines and not political media
outlets,” Mikhail Fedotov, Putin’s adviser on human rights,
said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  