-- Russia’s Retail Boom Lures Aberdeen to Micex-Beating Magnit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-16T15:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/russia-s-retail-boom-lures-aberdeen-to-micex-beating-magnit-2-.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd. is
investing in OAO Magnit,  Russia ’s largest retailer, as the
economy’s expansion boosts consumer spending and spurs the best
performance on the benchmark Micex Index.  Magnit has surged  31 percent  in 2012, beating the Micex’s
1.4 percent advance. That pushed the valuation to the highest
level this year at 26 times  estimated earnings  on July 13.  Aberdeen’s Russia-dedicated fund holds 31 percent of its
assets in energy stocks and 25 percent in consumer companies,
according to Peter Taylor, senior investment manager at Aberdeen
Asset Managers Ltd., who manages about $1.5 billion in Russian
equities.  “What we’re trying to build is an exposure to Russian
growth, in particular, the growth of consumption, growth in the
domestic economy,” Taylor said by phone July 13. “Our
conviction has always been quite high” on Magnit, Taylor said.  The economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter expanded
4.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as  consumer
spending  boosted retailers, according to Federal Statistics
Service data. Real wages increased as fast as 12 percent in the
first three months as inflation slowed and the government pushed
more of its annual spending to the front of the year. Retail
sales grew 6.8 percent from a year earlier in May.  Magnit posted a 34 percent sales increase last month as it
opened 109 new stores in June. The stock pared declines of as
much as 2.3 percent to trade down 1.2 percent at 3,691.30 rubles
by the close in Moscow.  MTS, Synergy, O’Key  Aberdeen also holds shares in OAO Mobile TeleSystems,
Russia’s biggest mobile operator, OAO Synergy, the Russian vodka
maker, and supermarket chain O’Key Group SA, Taylor said.  “The way we play the Russian market is to not to take a
position on commodity prices,” Taylor said. “What we’re trying
to do in the Russian fund is avoid it being excessively oriented
towards oil and gas companies and excessively oriented towards
commodity stocks.”  Out of  30 stocks  on the  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , seven are non-
commodity or energy producers. Aberdeen holds shares of OAO
Rosneft and OAO Lukoil, Russia’s largest oil companies, and
potash producer OAO Uralkali, Taylor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  