-- Rwanda Bars UN Return of Alleged Defectors from Congo Rebellion
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-07-16T13:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/rwanda-bars-un-return-of-alleged-defectors-from-congo-rebellion.html
Rwanda  has blocked a  United Nations 
attempt to repatriate 29 men who say they are Rwandan and
defected from a rebellion in the eastern  Democratic Republic  of
Congo, the United Nations said.  The East African nation said the men had not finished the
identity-verification process coordinated by the two countries
and the UN peacekeeping mission in Congo, known by its French
acronym MONUSCO. Rwanda stopped the men from being repatriated
on July 14, saying they were Congolese and not Rwandan, MONUSCO
spokesman  Madnodje Mounoubai  said by phone today from Kinshasa,
the Congolese capital.  “The decision by MONUSCO to attempt the sudden
repatriation of this group without warning or prior notification
is highly irregular and well outside established procedures,”
Rwanda’s military spokesman, Brigadier General Joseph
Nzabamwita, said in an e-mailed statement today from Kigali, the
Rwandan capital.  The Congolese and a UN Group of Experts have both accused
Rwanda of providing recruits for a rebellion that has displaced
more than 220,000 people in mineral-rich eastern Congo. Rwanda
has denied involvement.  Eleven of the men are still being investigated by Congolese
and Rwandan authorities, while there is “no basis for knowing
the background or nationality of the other 18,” Nzabamwita
said.  The defectors are still in Goma, the capital of Congo’s
North Kivu province on the Rwandan border, Mounoubai said.  “The mission will be working together with the Congolese
authorities and other UN agencies to see what course of action
to take,” he said. “We still continue to work with the
Rwandans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  