-- Sands Wins Extension on Macau Casino After Delay Penalty
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-16T10:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/sands-gets-extension-for-new-macau-casino-to-pay-penalty-1-.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928)  said it was given
more time to build a casino resort in  Macau  on land granted by
the government and expects to pay a penalty for the delay.  The Macau government extended a deadline to develop a plot
called Parcel 3 to April 17, 2016, from April 2013, Sands said
in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. The
government also said the casino operator will be notified about
the penalty amount for delaying the construction, according to
the statement.  Construction has yet to begin on Parcel 3, which is slated
for the company’s biggest project after the $5 billion Cotai
Central resort opened this year. Sands’s rivals  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) ,  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  and  MGM China Holdings
Ltd. (2282)  are also awaiting land grants or government approvals for
construction in the world’s largest gambling hub.  The new resort will target the mass-market and feature
“family-oriented” facilities, Sands said in a separate
statement. Sands China shares rose 2.4 percent to HK$23.30 at
the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong.  The Parcel 3 resort would increase Sands’s presence on
Cotai, a strip of reclaimed land. Operators are adding resorts
there to draw more of the Chinese tourists who boosted Macau’s
casino gambling revenue by 42 percent last year.  In regulatory  filings  with the U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission, parent  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  had said it would apply
for the extension because it would be unable to meet the April
deadline.  If the extension isn’t approved, the company may have to
take a charge for some or all of its $96.7 million in
capitalized construction costs and land premiums as of March 31,
2012, Las Vegas Sands estimated in a May filing.  The company was initially required to complete the
development by August 2011 and the Macau government had already
given it one extension, according to the May filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  