-- Occupy Hong Kong Protesters Given Two Weeks to Respond
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-07-16T09:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hsbc-asks-court-to-order-hong-kong-occupy-protesters-off.html
Protesters occupying the plaza under
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Hong Kong headquarters were given two weeks
to respond to the bank’s lawsuit asking for permission to remove
them.  Master K. Lo at Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance today
set Aug. 13 for the next hearing of the case against the nine-
month protest, one of the longest-running demonstrations sparked
by the Occupy  Wall Street  movement. HSBC had requested occupiers
leave voluntarily on May 29 and wants to clear the area for a
number of community events, bank spokesman Gareth Hewett said
earlier.  Protesters for Occupy Wall Street, whose movement to
highlight  income inequality  spread from  New York  to other cities
globally, were evicted in November, and others in  London  were
evicted from their Finsbury Square camp on June 14. In  Hong
Kong , protesters numbering about 50 at the peak have pitched
tents and laid out couches as they played guitars and ran
photography classes in the ground floor plaza under HSBC’s
Central building.  “HSBC believes possession of the ground floor of its main
building should be given to the bank to allow it to restore
proper pedestrian access to be enjoyed by all members of the
public in Hong Kong,” Hewett said in an e-mailed statement.  Lo reminded the defendants that they should submit all
relevant information in their filing, as the court may decide
without a detailed hearing.  Seoul, Tokyo Protests  “Our victory or defeat is not determined by the court,”
Leung Wing-lai, a participant of Occupy Central, said by phone
today. “We’re not going to leave. We’re still operating. We’re
not going to pay any attention to the court’s decision.”  Hong Kong is one of several Asian cities including Seoul,
Taipei and  Tokyo  which have seen protests inspired by the  Occupy
Wall Street  movement in New York spread to their streets since
last October.  “I hope to maintain my little corner there,” said Ho Yiu-
shing, one of the defendants named by HSBC in the lawsuit. He
said last month he had written to the bank to ask for permission
to remain there, and that he will decide on his next move after
he has studied the court documents.  The case is Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. and The
occupiers of the ground floor of 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong
Kong, HCMP1271/2012 in the Court of First Instance, Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  