-- HSBC Executive Resigns at Senate Money-Laundering Hearing
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-07-23T16:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hsbc-aided-money-laundering-by-iran-drug-cartels-probe-shows.html
(Corrects Senate panel’s erroneous reference to John
Root’s title in 21st paragraph of story published July 17.)  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s head of group
compliance, David Bagley, told a Senate hearing he will step
down amid claims the bank gave terrorists, drug cartels and
criminals access to the U.S. financial system by failing to
guard against  money laundering .  Bagley was among at least six HSBC executives who testified
before the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
today after the panel released a 335-page report describing a
decade of compliance failures by Europe’s biggest bank. London-
based HSBC enabled drug lords to launder money in  Mexico , did
business with firms linked to terrorism and concealed
transactions that bypassed U.S. sanctions against Iran, Senate
investigators said in the report.  “As I have thought about the structural transformation of
the bank’s compliance function, I recommended to the group that
now is the appropriate time for me and for the bank for someone
new to serve as the head of group compliance,” Bagley said. “I
have agreed to work with the bank’s senior management towards an
orderly transition of this important role.”  Irene Dorner, president and chief executive officer of HSBC
North America Holdings Inc., was also among executives who
appeared before the committee.  Risk ‘Sinkhole’  “The problem here is that some international banks abuse
their U.S. access,” Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat
who heads the subcommittee, said at the start of the hearing.
“The end result is that the U.S. affiliate can become a
sinkhole of risk for an entire network of bank affiliates and
their clients around the world playing fast and loose with U.S.
rules.”  Senate investigators focused on New York-based HSBC Bank
USA NA as a “nexus” for U.S. dollar services and transfers.
Senator Thomas Coburn of Oklahoma, the subcommittee’s senior
Republican, pointed out that HSBC isn’t alone and that “similar
problems exist at other banks.”  Senior executives from HSBC, credited with providing
millions of pages of documents for the investigation, expressed
contrition and promised changes in response to the findings
after Levin said the bank’s failings should provide sufficient
cause for U.S. regulators to consider revoking its charter.  “I recognize that there have been some significant areas
of failure,” Bagley said at the hearing. “HSBC has fallen
short of our own expectations, and the expectations of our
regulators.”  Paul Thurston, head of HSBC’s retail banking and wealth
management unit, said the company will close the Mexico unit’s
U.S. dollar accounts in the Cayman Islands, a jurisdiction that
Levin said is “known for secrecy and money laundering.”  Terrorist Links  The lender ignored links to terrorist financing among its
customer banks, including  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia-based  Al Rajhi 
Bank, which had ties to terror groups through its owners,
according to the report. Internal documents show HSBC decided to
cut ties with the bank before reversing itself under pressure
from Al Rajhi, which received shipments of $1 billion in cash
from HSBC’s U.S. operation from 2006 to 2010, according to the
report.  HSBC’s U.S. unit “offers a gateway for terrorists to gain
access to U.S. dollars and the U.S. financial system,”
according to the report. “HSBC has a legal obligation to take
reasonable steps to ensure it is not dealing with banks that may
have links to or facilitate terrorist financing.”  Mohammad Al Yami, an Al Rajhi spokesman, didn’t respond to
an e-mail requesting comment on the report.  Some of HSBC’s alleged dealings with state sponsors of
terror and Mexican drug dealers were earlier reported by
Bloomberg Markets magazine.  U.S. Fine  An article in the July 2005 issue documented the bank’s
ties to Iran, Libya, Sudan and Syria. It reported the U.S.
Treasury Department had fined HSBC for a transfer in April 2000
of $100,000 benefiting the Taliban, which at the time was
running Afghanistan, and providing  Osama bin Laden  with the base
from which he plotted the Sept. 11 attacks.  Then-HSBC CEO  Stephen Green  wrote a letter in response,
saying, “This was a singular and wholly irresponsible attack on
the bank’s international compliance procedures.”  A story in the magazine’s August 2010 issue reported that
an investigation by the Mexican  Finance Ministry  found that drug
dealers used shell companies to open accounts at HSBC.  HSBC bolstered its presence in Mexico in 2002 when it
bought the nation’s fifth-largest bank, Grupo Financiero Bital
SA, better known as Bital, which Senate investigators found had
a history of deficiencies in anti-money-laundering controls. At
the time, Bital had “no recognizable compliance or money-
laundering function,” Bagley wrote in an internal e-mail.  Lowest Rating  From 2000 to 2009, HSBC gave its lowest risk rating to
Mexico “despite overwhelming information indicating that Mexico
was a high-risk jurisdiction for drug trafficking and money
laundering,” Senate investigators wrote. HSBC’s Mexican clients
included casas de cambio, or currency-exchange firms, that were
identified in U.S. Treasury Department warnings as hubs for
laundering drug money.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia Bank unit paid $160 million in
2010 to resolve a criminal probe that cartels were using such
exchange houses to launder cash through the lender.  HSBC’s Mexican bank shipped $7 billion in bulk cash to the
firm’s U.S. bank in 2007 and 2008. That was more than all HSBC
affiliates and other banks in Mexico and left U.S. and Mexican
authorities concerned that the volumes could only be supplied by
the illegal drug trade, according to the report.  ‘Rubber-Stamping’ Risk  In 2007, a senior manager of group compliance at HSBC sent
an e-mail to a colleague condemning the Mexican affiliate for
“rubber-stamping unacceptable risks,” according to the report.  “What is this, the School of Low Expectations Banking?”
the executive, John Root, wrote in the e-mail.  Leopoldo Barroso, a former HSBC anti-money-laundering
director, told company officials in an exit interview that he
was concerned about civil and criminal sanctions and that there
were “allegations of 60 percent to 70 percent of laundered
proceeds in Mexico” going through HSBC’s affiliate, according
to the report.  The report also cited HSBC’s violations of Treasury
Department sanctions on dealings with Iran, which the U.S. is
working to isolate from the global banking system. The
sanctions, enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or
OFAC, seek to punish Iran for operating a nuclear program
outside international inspection. Internal communications show
the U.S. bankers were aware that some of the transactions were
linked to Iran in violation of U.S. sanctions.  Outside Audit  An outside audit by Deloitte LLP showed that 25,000
transactions totaling more than $19.4 billion involved Iran,
according to the report. Of those, as many as 90 percent passed
through the bank’s U.S. accounts with no disclosure of ties to
Iran, the report shows. Senate investigators documented similar
transactions from a list of other prohibited jurisdictions
including  North Korea , Cuba, Sudan and Burma.  Bank documents also showed HSBC’s U.S. unit cleared dollar
transactions through U.S. accounts for at least six Iranian
banks.  Since 2009, the U.S.  Justice Department  entered deferred-
prosecution agreements with six banks over OFAC violations,
including  ING Groep NV (ING) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , ABN Amro Holding NV,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Most
violations involved stripping information from wire-transfer
documentation to hide the role of a banned person or country.  Manhattan Investigation  HSBC has said that it’s cooperating with investigations by
the Justice Department, Manhattan District Attorney’s Office,
 Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency into possible Iran sanctions violations. It’s also
cooperating in unrelated probes by the Justice Department and
 Internal Revenue Service  into whether it helped Americans evade
taxes through HSBC India.  The bank may face a fine from regulators of as much as $1
billion according to some estimates, James Antos, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. wrote in a note to investors today.  “This is an overhang that will be impossible to ignore
when results are announced” for HSBC’s first half on July 30,
wrote Antos.  Many of the Iran transfers described in the Senate report
involved so-called U-turn transactions, which were allowed under
Treasury regulations before November 2008. Those rules let U.S.
banks process dollar payments involving Iran that began and
ended with non-Iranian institutions.  U-Turn Transactions  In 2005 and 2006, HSBC processed about 1,800 U-turn
transactions through a correspondent account at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  The report quoted an e-mail from HSBC Middle East Deputy
Chairman David Hodgkinson, who wrote that HSBC’s U.S. unit was
“unwilling to process them for reputational-risk reasons.”  The Senate probe also accuses the OCC, the primary
regulator of HSBC’s U.S. bank, of failing to treat repeated
findings of violations in money-laundering controls with
sufficient weight. The OCC tolerated severe money-laundering
deficiencies “for years,” according to the report, while
HSBC’s examiners were suggesting action to their supervisors at
the agency.  “We agree with the concerns reflected in each of the
recommendations and will take actions in response,” Comptroller
of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said in testimony prepared for the
hearing.  Anti-money-laundering deficiencies will threaten banks’
safety-and-soundness ratings, as recommended by the report, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  