-- HSBC Said to Face Senate Criticism on Mexico, Iran Lapses
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-16T01:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hsbc-said-to-face-senate-criticism-on-mexico-iran-lapses.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s failure to
implement adequate  money-laundering  controls in  Mexico  is among
lapses that U.S. Senate investigators will criticize tomorrow,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  HSBC bought Grupo Financiero Bital SA in 2002, pumping $800
million into the Mexico City-based bank to meet capital
standards. Money-laundering controls were largely absent in
HSBC’s operations there in ensuing years, said the people, who
requested anonymity because the findings of the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations aren’t yet public.  The compliance failures in Mexico, a nation struggling to
rein in drug cartels, as well as unreported Iranian transactions
and insufficient attention to U.S. anti-money-laundering rules
will be among allegations leveled at HSBC at tomorrow’s hearing,
the people said. London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, will
be cited as an example of the financial system’s exposure to
drug cartels and terrorists hiding cash, according to a
statement from the subcommittee.  The  hearing , titled “U.S. Vulnerabilities to Money
Laundering, Drugs, and Terrorist Financing: HSBC Case History,”
will accompany the release of a 400-page committee report, one
of the people said. Investigators were interested in the bank’s
failure to disclose transactions with firms in  Iran , the people
said, and the allegations will come a month after  ING Groep NV (ING) 
agreed to pay $619 million to settle U.S. charges it falsified
financial records and bypassed sanctions on Iran and Cuba.  ‘Unacceptable Behavior’  HSBC should be held accountable “for fixing what went
wrong,” Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in a July
10 internal memo to employees. “We failed to spot and deal with
unacceptable behavior.”  The company adjusted its global compliance policies after
the deficiencies surfaced, Gulliver, 53, said in an earlier
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Too often, we have fallen short of our own expectations
and that must change,” Gulliver, who took over as CEO last
year, told employees in the April 30 memo. The bank’s compliance
programs would follow “a single standard globally that is
determined by the highest standard we must apply anywhere,”
which will most often be U.S. regulations, he said.  The Senate panel has examined HSBC practices for more than
two years, and the people said the bank will be criticized for
devoting insufficient resources to anti-money-laundering
compliance in its U.S. operations.  ‘Fully Cooperating’  A settlement between HSBC and the U.S. Justice Department
to resolve a criminal probe into laundering of drug-cartel and
other money could be reached within weeks, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing people familiar with the investigation.  “HSBC has been fully cooperating with the PSI and
regulatory authorities in the  United States  in relation to these
issues,” Robert Sherman, a New York-based spokesman for the
company, said in a statement. The company has “already made
significant changes to our organization’s structure,” he said.  Tara Andringa, a spokeswoman for Senator  Carl Levin , the
Michigan Democrat who leads the panel, declined to comment on
specifics of the investigation.  U.S. prosecutors may take criminal or civil enforcement
measures involving the bank, HSBC said in February. The lender
has more than tripled the size of a U.S. compliance team and
said it will exit businesses it sees as too risky.  HSBC’s North American units reached agreements in 2010 with
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and  Federal
Reserve  to fix what the OCC described as “critical
deficiencies” in compliance programs for protecting against
money laundering and terrorist financing.  Improvement Promised  From mid-2006 through mid-2009, the bank didn’t monitor
bulk cash transfers and failed to conduct enough due diligence
on who moved money through bulk cash or wire transfers, the OCC
found. The company had also promised regulators including the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in 2003 to improve its anti-
money-laundering performance.  Other banks also have drawn scrutiny for ineffective money-
laundering safeguards. In April,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, agreed to improve its practices
after regulators accused the firm of failing to conduct proper
due diligence on customers.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia Bank
unit agreed in March 2010 to pay $160 million to resolve a
criminal investigation into drug cartels’ use of the bank to
launder money through Mexican exchange houses.  “Oh sure, a bit of drug-cartel money here or there is a
longstanding compliance problem, but this is different,” Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Washington-based research
firm Federal Financial Analytics, wrote in a July 13 client note
about the hearing. She called HSBC’s practices “a wink/nod
business model” that showed “a profound lack of controls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  