-- Schering-Plough’s K-Dur Pay-for-Delay Ruling Reversed
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-07-16T19:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/schering-plough-s-k-dur-pay-for-delay-ruling-reversed.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Schering-Plough unit
must face a challenge to its agreement with competitors to keep
generic versions of its drug K-Dur off the market, an appeals
court ruled, reversing a lower-court antitrust decision.  Wholesalers and pharmacies sued Schering-Plough beginning
in 2001 over allegedly unlawful agreements to delay the entry
into the market of generic versions of K-Dur, a treatment for
low blood levels of potassium. Consumers incurred extra costs of
more than $100 million because of the deals, according to the
plaintiffs.  A lower court ruled in favor of the company in 2010. The
federal appeals court in Philadelphia overturned that decision
today and asked the lower court to reconsider its ruling.  “This is a landmark decision that clarifies why these pay-
for-delay deals violate mainstream antitrust law,” said  David Balto , a Washington-based antitrust attorney who represents
consumer groups opposed to such agreements. “The decision will
finally reverse the past decade of misguided decisions that have
cost consumers billions in higher drug prices.”  “We are disappointed with today’s ruling,”  Ron Rogers , a
spokesman for  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are reviewing the decision and
will consider all our options.”  Merck  bought  Schering-Plough in 2009.  Appeals Panels  Federal appeals panels in  New York , Atlanta and  Washington 
have upheld such agreements as long as they don’t delay generic
drugs beyond the expiration of the underlying patents. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission has campaigned to block the deals,
which are sometimes reached on the eve of patent trials, saying
they cost consumers about $3.5 billion a year in higher
prescription drug prices.  “We cannot agree with those courts that apply the scope of
the patent test,” the Philadelphia panel said in its opinion.
“In our view, that test improperly restricts the application of
antitrust law.”  “The Third Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have gotten
it just right: These sweetheart deals are presumptively
anticompetitive,” said FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  in a
statement. “It’s time for the pharmaceutical companies to
return to the side of consumers.”  Supreme Court  Leibowitz has said he was hoping there would be conflicting
decisions among the circuit courts, making it more likely that
the U.S.  Supreme Court  would review the issue.  The agreements, also known as reverse payments, permit the
sharing of “monopoly rents” between would-be competitors
without any assurance that the underlying patent is valid, the
appeals panel said.  The appeals court directed the lower court to apply an
analysis based on “the economic realities of the reverse
payment settlement rather than the labels applied by the
settling parties.”  In a statement, Ralph G. Neas, president and chief
executive officer of the Washington-based Generic Pharmaceutical
Association, called the decision “inconsistent” with other
federal court rulings.  Potential Deals  “Pro-consumer patent settlements have never prevented
competition beyond a patent’s expiration,” he said. “Indeed,
they have resulted in making lower-cost generics available
months and even years before patents have expired, saving
consumers billions of dollars.”  Drug companies completed 28 potential deals to delay
generics in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, according to
the FTC. That’s just under the record of 31 such agreements in
the previous fiscal year, the FTC said.  Prices for generics typically are 20 percent to 30 percent
less than the name-brand counterparts, and in some cases are as
much as 90 percent cheaper, according to the FTC.  Brand-name and generic-drug makers have said the deals
protect patent holders’ rights while lowering legal costs.  “The plaintiffs still have a tough row to hoe because it
is public policy to encourage settlement of legal disputes,
including patent disputes,”  Erik Gordon , a business professor
at the  University of Michigan , said in an e-mail. “It’s a
tricky area very much driven by the facts of each particular
case because there can be an antitrust violation or no violation
whatsoever in circumstances that at first glance appear to be
the same.”  The case is In re K-Dur Antitrust Litigation, 10-2077,
10-2078, 10-2079,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  