-- Senate Republican Can Block Law of Sea Pact, Demint Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-16T22:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/senate-republican-can-block-law-of-sea-pact-demint-says.html
Enough Republicans oppose the Law of
the Sea Treaty backed by the Obama administration to prevent the
measure from winning ratification in the U.S. Senate this year,
according to Senator  Jim DeMint .  Four additional senators now say they oppose the treaty,
bringing the number of opponents to 34, the level needed to
defeat it if it were brought to a vote. DeMint, a South Carolina
Republican, said today in a blog post. The added opponents are
Mike Johanns of Nebraska,  Kelly Ayotte  of New Hampshire,  Rob Portman  of Ohio and  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia. A treaty requires
the support of 67 of the 100 senators.  “With 34 senators against the misguided treaty, LOST will
not be ratified by the Senate this year,” DeMint wrote.  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry, a
Massachusetts Democrat and leading advocate for the treaty,
isn’t giving up, said his spokeswoman, Jodi Seth. He’ll proceed
with plans to seek approval after the November elections, in a
“lame duck” session of Congress, she said.  “It’s not news to anyone that right now we’re in the
middle of a white-hot political campaign season where ideology
is running in overdrive,” Seth said in an e-mail. “That’s why
Senator Kerry made it clear there wouldn’t be a vote before the
election and until everyone’s had the chance to evaluate the
treaty on the facts and the merits.”  Rumsfeld’s View  The Obama administration says ratifying the 30-year-old
treaty is key to exerting U.S. influence in the Asia-Pacific
region, a focus of the revamped global strategy the Pentagon
presented in January. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chairman General Martin Dempsey all appeared before the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee in May urging ratification.  Some Republicans, including former Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld , say a system of royalties outlined in the treaty would
force rich countries to give to poorer ones. DeMint also calls
the accord a method of forcing a “backdoor Kyoto protocol”
that would lead the U.S. to adopt cap-and-trade restrictions on
carbon emissions that Congress hasn’t approved.  Companies involved in international trade, including
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , are
seeking approval of the treaty. They say it would help resolve
disputes over matters such as tapping rare-earth minerals that
aid in making high-technology products and in deploying undersea
communications cable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  