-- Senate Republicans Block Campaign Donor Disclosure Bill
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-17T19:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/senate-bill-would-require-nonprofits-to-reveal-donors.html
Senate Republicans for the second
day in a row blocked legislation requiring nonprofit groups such
as Crossroads GPS and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to reveal who
is paying for their political ads.  While a majority of Senate lawmakers voted in favor of
advancing the bill, the 53-45 vote was short of the 60 votes
needed to overcome Republican opposition. After the measure was
blocked yesterday,  Senate Democrats  debated the legislation into
the evening and renewed their efforts today.  The legislation is a response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s
Citizens United decision in 2010 that removed limits on
independent spending by corporations and labor unions. The bill,
known as the Disclose Act, would require groups that spend at
least $10,000 on an election to report donations of more than
$10,000 within 24 hours of spending the money.  Under current law, political action committees are required
to disclose their donors, who can give no more than $5,000 each
year. The Citizens United ruling freed corporations and unions
to use their general-treasury money for independent spending to
support or oppose candidates.  “The least we should do is require groups spending
millions on political attack ads to disclose their largest
donors,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said today. “We owe it to voters to let them judge for
themselves the attacks, and the motivations behind them.”  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, who had been a
long-time champion of campaign finance limits, opposed the
legislation as a “clever attempt at political gamesmanship.”  Organized Labor  McCain said the $10,000 reporting threshold “forces some
entities to inform the public about the origins of their
financial support, while allowing others - most notably those
affiliated with organized labor - to fly below the  Federal
Election Commission ’s regulatory radar.”  The $10,000 threshold was designed to avoid requiring
membership organizations, such as labor unions or the  National
Rifle Association , to disclose each donation to the group.  Groups that kept their donors secret favored Republicans
over Democrats in 2010 by $117 million to $13 million, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign
contributions. Such groups included the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobby, and Crossroads
GPS, co-founded by Republican strategist  Karl Rove .  Such spending overcame a Democratic fundraising edge in
2010 among candidates and party committees, helping Republicans
win a U.S. House majority and increase their numbers in the
Senate.  Priorities USA  Former aides to President  Barack Obama  have set up a
nonprofit group, Priorities USA, to raise money to support his
re-election.  The Federal Election Commission approved creation of super-
PACs, which can take unlimited donations. While donors to super-
PACs are supposed to be disclosed, some contributors have used
shell corporations to avoid identification.  For example, the super-PAC backing Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , Restore Our Future, received $235,000
from corporations created by payday lenders in the two months
after Obama made a recess appointment of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau director, who oversees that industry.  None of the payday companies’ business interests were
identified in disclosure filings. Bloomberg News identified the
payday lenders through state corporate and other federal
campaign finance records.  The Democratic bill would require such donations to be
disclosed.  Chamber of Commerce  The Chamber of Commerce, other business groups, and
Republican-leaning nonprofit groups sent a letter to lawmakers
urging them to reject the measure.  “The legislation is intended to facilitate retaliation
against unpopular or unfavorable political views,” the letter
said.  Groups that support campaign finance disclosure rules urged
the Senate to pass the bill.  “Citizens are entitled to know the identities of the
donors financing campaign expenditures to influence their votes,
and the amounts they gave,” said the letter signed by leaders
of the Campaign Legal Center,  Public Citizen  and the League of
Women Voters.  House Democrats  have filed a bid in that chamber to push
their version of the Disclose Act to the floor.  The legislation is S. 3369 and H.R. 4010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  