-- Seven Banks Under U.K. Libor Investigation as FSA Criticized
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-17T09:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/seven-banks-under-u-k-libor-investigation-as-fsa-criticized.html
The U.K. financial regulator said
it’s investigating seven lenders over attempts to manipulate
interbank offered rates as lawmakers criticized it for not
opening the probe earlier.  The regulator didn’t pay attention to warning signs or
react fast enough to reports of problems with Libor rates,
lawmaker George Mudie told Financial Services Authority Chairman
 Adair Turner .  The FSA investigation, which led to a record $453 million
fine last month against  Barclays Plc (BARC)  by U.K. and U.S.
authorities, wasn’t opened until 2010, despite press reports and
submissions from bank employees that the  London  interbank
offered rate was being manipulated as early as 2007.  “This was under-regulated,” Mudie, a member of the
opposition Labour party, said at a hearing of Parliament’s
Treasury Select Committee yesterday in London. “You were warned
about it and warned about it.”  The FSA is now investigating seven banks on suspicion of
submitting false  interest rates , and regulators in other
countries are looking into additional lenders, Tracey McDermott,
the regulator’s acting head of enforcement, told the panel,
without identifying any of the firms. The FSA is seeking to levy
more civil fines, she said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are among the lenders regulators
in  Europe ,  Asia  and the U.S. are investigating.  False Rates  Turner said Barclays employees who contacted them “weren’t
being entirely honest” when discussing problems with setting
Libor. Barclays employees talked about “dislocations” in the
benchmark and didn’t say that anyone was submitting false rates,
Turner told the Treasury Select Committee.  The reports only reached the junior level and weren’t
escalated to senior management, he said. He has asked the
regulator’s internal audit department to review any contact with
Barclays to determine whether the agency missed red flags on
Libor.  “I think we should have spotted it earlier,” Turner said.
“There was a failure in general to see this whole financial
crisis coming.”  The first time Turner was notified was in November 2009,
when the FSA’s then-Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants  told
him about the case they were working on with the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Geithner Warning  Timothy F. Geithner , then the head of the  New York  Federal
Reserve bank, in June 2008 warned the Bank of  England  that the
method used to set the London interbank offered rate was open to
abuse.  U.K. fraud prosecutors didn’t begin a criminal
investigation until last week, though they were kept informed of
the regulator’s probe, McDermott said.  Barclays traders involved in allegedly manipulating Libor
rates between 2005 and 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors
before the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3, said a person familiar
with the Justice Department investigation in  Washington .  Turner and  Andrew Bailey , the regulator’s head of banking
supervision, said the cultural issues at London-based Barclays
came from the “tone at the top,” including former CEO  Robert Diamond .  Officials at the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee, which includes Governor  Mervyn King , put pressure on
the FSA to crack down on “aggressive” behavior at Barclays,
according to a board meeting summary dated Feb. 9 published by
lawmakers yesterday.  Barclays Letter  Members of the committee, including Turner and  Paul Tucker ,
deputy governor of the central bank, are testifying to the same
panel of lawmakers today on a report into U.K. financial
stability.  Barclays was warned by Turner in an April letter to
Chairman Marcus Agius that it aggressively interpreted rules,
took advantage of complex structures and submitted misleading
estimates of capital levels.  Turner said the letter was the only one of its kind he has
written to a bank chairman and was meant to drive home the
message that the bank was “gaming the system.”  Jerry del Missier, Barclays’s former chief operating
officer, told the same group of lawmakers yesterday that Diamond
instructed him to submit artificially low Libor rates, and
blamed compliance managers for failing to act. Del Missier, 50,
said Diamond told him those instructions came from the  Bank of
England , which he then passed along to Mark Dearlove, the head
of the bank’s money-markets desk.  Derivative Benefits  The FSA also found in its investigation of Barclays that
its derivatives traders were colluding with other banks to
submit false rates in order to benefit their own positions.  “It’s worthwhile saying that what was going on in ’05, ’07
was not something that anyone, including the CFTC, expected”
when they began their investigation, Turner said. “The
derivatives trader is not asking the submitter to change his
submission on a note that he believes is hidden but by shouting
it across the floor, and that indicates that there is something
deeply wrong with the culture.”  Turner said it hadn’t occurred to him before 2009 that the
rate was something that could be manipulated.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $500 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’s
admission that it submitted false rates. Diamond, who resigned
as Barclays’ CEO after the bank was fined, told the committee
this month that other banks low-balled submissions.  “Members are increasingly wondering how such a large
industry has been allowed to grow up on such a finger-in-the-
wind number,”  Steve Baker , a U.K. Conservative lawmaker who
isn’t a member of the Treasury Select Committee, said in a
telephone interview after yesterday’s hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  