-- Shareholders Have Hammer to Smash Too-Big-to-Fail Banks
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-16T22:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/shareholders-have-hammer-to-smash-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
Ever since the financial crisis
began, the U.S. has struggled to address the problem of banks
that are deemed too big to fail, those that would need a
government bailout if they were about to collapse because they
might take down the economy.  But instead of counting on government to resolve this
quandary, the industry should try a free-market, investor-
friendly approach to curbing systemic risk: Too-big-to-fail
banks should break themselves up and unleash value for
shareholders if management can’t deliver top-notch results.  Banks that are smaller, less complex, easier to manage and
more profitable might be less likely to get into trouble. If
they do trip up, smaller banks have a better chance of being
bailed out with industry-financed funds, via the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  Plus, the time for breakups is when U.S. markets
are relatively stable, as they are now, rather than in turmoil
-- which is when government might be called on again to rescue
the financial industry.  Let’s face it, banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. have been subpar
performers by most measures, undermining the very rationale for
becoming larger in the first place.  The stock market offers a stark verdict. Shares of all
three now trade at a discount to book value, or what management
says a bank’s assets are worth after subtracting liabilities.
These discounts range from 72 percent of book for JPMorgan to 43
percent for Citigroup, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This suggests that investors have ample doubts about the value
of the banks in their present form.  Performance Laggards  These banks also are laggards in the most basic
profitability and efficiency benchmarks, such as return on
assets (how efficiently a bank invests deposits and other funds)
and return on equity (how much it earns on investors’ capital).  As a rule of thumb, well-run banks post a 1 percent return
on assets and 15 percent on equity. During the past five years,
Citigroup has had a negative return on equity of 4.8 percent and
a return on assets that amounts to zero, according to Bloomberg
data. JPMorgan checks in at 8.5 percent and 0.72 percent,
respectively, still well below industry standards.  Bank of
America  is just a hair better than Citigroup.  Many other financial measures lead to the same conclusion:
The benefits of offering checking accounts,  investment banking ,
securities trading,  money management  and every other imaginable
financial good or service under one roof are missing in the
share prices.  One of the arguments used by former and current chief
executive officers such as Sanford Weill of Citigroup, Hugh McColl of Bank of America and  Jamie Dimon  of JPMorgan to justify
the mergers that created these banks was that heft produced
economies of scale. But  studies  have shown that the benefits of
size tend to diminish once a bank has about $200 billion in
assets. JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup are all about 10
times larger than that. By comparison, U.S. Bancorp, based in
 Minneapolis , is roughly a fifth the size of the megabanks and at
least twice as profitable. Moreover, its price-to-book  value  is
more than 2 ½ times more than that of JPMorgan.  Bankers shouldn’t be put off by the idea of breakups, which
happen all the time in other businesses.  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News
Corp. (NWS) , for instance, is planning to split amid a phone-hacking
scandal. There are plenty of other examples, including Time
Warner’s decision to undo its disastrous merger with AOL.  Banking Wisdom  Even some bankers have seen the wisdom of carving up a firm
with disparate businesses that don’t yield the synergies touted
at the time they were combined. As former Morgan Stanley CEO
Phil Purcell wrote last month,  splitting  the firm’s securities
business from its Discover credit-card unit in 2007 produced
more value for shareholders.  Because some too-big-to-fail banks are worth less than the
sum of their parts, breakups might yield similar gains for
shareholders. Mike Mayo, an analyst at independent research firm
CLSA Ltd., took a look at  JPMorgan (JPM)  and concluded it might be
worth as much as a third more if it were split.  It took visionary leaders to create these banks, and at the
time Weill, McColl and Dimon made compelling cases for building
empires that spanned the globe and offered the full array of
financial services. It was a worthy experiment, yet one that
hasn’t worked out for investors and leaves the public exposed in
the event of a collapse. This is why there is so much hand-
wringing over JPMorgan’s $5.8 billion trading loss: Not because
it couldn’t absorb this particular blow, but because it
underscores how risky the biggest banks are to taxpayers.  To end the too-big-to-fail threat, some pundits and
sympathizers with the  Tea Party  and  Occupy Wall Street  movements
have called for restoring the Depression-era  Glass-Steagall Act ,
which split commercial banks from investment banks. That’s a
heavy-handed solution that might have unintended consequences,
and banks would resist mightily. Size gives the biggest banks a
competitive advantage through lower funding costs because
markets assume the government has extended an implicit guarantee
to prop them up.  Regulators have put their faith in the Dodd-Frank Act,
passed two years ago, and the requirement that banks draft so-
called  living wills . These plans, made public this month, are
supposed to be road maps for an orderly shutdown of a bank on
the verge of failure. The trouble is, when one big bank is sick,
others probably are, too. Orderly shutdowns sound great in
theory but will be elusive in reality.  Weill and McColl have retired, but Dimon is still around.
He’s in a position to lead again by taking the steps that would
reward his shareholders and make the country’s banking system
safer.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to control  fires in
Colorado ;  Noah Feldman  on  Tunisia ’s  continuing Arab Spring ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Romney and Middle East peace ; William Pesek
on  Asia’s slowing growth ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Republican fiscal
hypocrisy ;  Luigi Zingales  on  Barclays and business ethics .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 