-- Shaw Gussis, Kirkland, DLA Piper: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-16T13:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/shaw-gussis-kirkland-dla-piper-business-of-law.html
Clifford Chance  LLP, Ropes & Gray
LLP and Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP received
approval to open law offices in South  Korea .  The three firms will receive final approval today to their
applications to operate in the country as foreign legal
consultants, South Korea’s Ministry of Justice said in an e-
mailed statement July 14.  Clifford Chance, based in  London , has worked with clients
in South Korea for more than 30 years. The firm has 3,200
lawyers in 34 offices in 24 countries.  “Our strategy here is for long-term sustained growth, in
common with our other international offices,” Brian Cassidy,
who will lead Clifford Chance’s office, said in a statement.
“The Republic of Korea is home to some of the most recognised
businesses in the world, and our team looks forward to working
with these Korean companies, particularly using our
international expertise to assist their overseas activities.”  Hyun Kim, head of Clifford Chance’s Korean practice, will
continue to be based in  Hong Kong  and travel throughout the
region on behalf of Korean clients. He is applying for foreign
registered lawyer status in the Republic of Korea and will
transfer to Seoul upon approval, the firm said.  Ropes & Gray, of the U.S., employs more than 1,000 lawyers
and professionals in office locations including  Boston ,  Chicago ,
Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong, according to its  website .  Sheppard Mullin, also based in the U.S., has more than 550
attorneys practicing in 14 offices, including New York, London,
Beijing and Brussels, its  website  shows.  News  Peregrine Bankruptcy Judge Lets Firm Run Through Sept. 13  Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s Chapter 7 liquidation
trustee can operate the firm until at least Sept. 13, a  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  judge said after Robert Fishman, a lawyer for
Trustee  Ira Bodenstein , of Shaw Gussis Fishman Glantz Wolfson &
Towbin LLC, said his client needed time and a number of critical
employees to complete work that was in progress when the firm
filed for bankruptcy on July 10.  There were “numerous transactions in the middle of being
executed” at the time of filing, Fishman, also of Shaw Gussis,
said. Without the requested time and retained staff it would be
“simply impossible” to accurately assess the firm’s holdings
and figure out who they belong to, he said.  Peregrine, based in Cedar Falls,  Iowa , with offices in
Chicago, filed for bankruptcy a day after the  National Futures
Association  said it identified a shortfall of about $200 million
in customer funds on deposit.  Its petition lists more than $500 million in assets and
more than $100 million in liabilities. The broker estimates it
has more than 10,000 creditors, according to the filing.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in Chicago appointed
attorney Michael Eidelman, of Vedder Price PC, as receiver for
the business and its founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr.  Wasendorf, 64, is in custody, charged by U.S. prosecutors
with making false statements to federal regulators. He confessed
to a 20-year fraud in a signed statement linked to his suicide
attempt, according to a federal complaint unsealed July 13.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more click here and here.  Kirkland, DLA Piper, Sidley, Skadden Top Campaign Donors  Lawyers and law firms, including Kirkland & Ellis LLP and
DLA Piper LLP, were among the top donors to presidential
candidates’ campaigns, the Washington Post reported.  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  and
the  Republican Party  raised $106 million last month, more than
the $71 million raised by President  Barack Obama  and his allied
Democratic committees.  Lawyers and firms were Romney’s third highest donor by
industry, with Kirkland the only firm with a spot among his top
20 contributors, the Post said. The firm’s employees and their
families contributed $264,302.  Lawyers and firms ranked second for Obama, with six of his
top 20 contributors major law firms the Washington Post said.
They were: DLA Piper with $306,727; Sidley Austin LLP, $257,296;
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP , $169,753; Morgan &
Morgan, $135,145; Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP,
$117,661; and Kirkland, $113,770, according to the Post.  The Post also reported that lawyers acting as bundlers,
people who help obtain contributions from family and friends,
were at the top by industry among Obama’s fundraisers, with
$22.4 million. One in four bundlers are lawyers at firms
including Blank Rome LLP, Winston & Strawn LLP, Greenberg
Traurig LLP, and  O’Melveny & Myers LLP .  Romeny does not disclose his bundler list but out of 25
registered lobbyists who are bundling for Romney, five are at
big firms including Barnes & Thornburg LLP, DLA Piper, Dow
Lohnes PLLC and Fagre Baker Daniels the Post said.  It was the second straight month that Romney and Republican
Party committees raised more money than Obama and the Democrats.  Romney’s campaign and his allied Republican committees said
they raised $77 million in May, compared with $60 million raised
by Obama, 50, and the  Democratic Party . The Romney campaign
committee itself raised $23.4 million, while Obama’s campaign
brought in $39.1 million, FEC reports showed.  Deals  Black’s Apollo Increases Insurance Bet With $415 Million Deal  Athene Holding Ltd., the reinsurer backed by  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , agreed to buy  Presidential Life Corp. (PLFE)  for about
$415 million.  Proskauer Rose LLP and Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
advised Presidential Life on the transaction, and Sidley Austin
LLP advised Athene. The deal is expected to close late this
year.  The deal was led by Proskauer partners Julie Allen,
corporate, Michael Album, employee benefits & executive
compensation and Andrea Rattner, tax and associates Charley
Lozada, Daniel Cocca, corporate and Stephen Brecher, tax.  Sidley Austin didn’t respond to requests for information
about the partners involved.  Athene Annuity & Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of
Bermuda-based Athene Holding, will pay $14 a share for Nyack,
New York-based Presidential Life, the companies said July 13 in
a statement. The price is 38 percent higher than Presidential
Life’s closing share price of $10.14 July 12.  Leon Black , who built Apollo into an $86 billion asset
manager by investing in distressed debt and bank loans, has used
Athene to tap a new source of capital, by reinsuring fixed
annuities and investing the proceeds for a profit. Athene agreed
in 2010 to buy Royal Bank of Canada’s U.S. life insurance
business for $628.1 million and last year acquired Scor SE’s
Investors Insurance Corp. subsidiary for $55 million.  Moves  Mayer Brown JSM adds Two Corporate partners in Beijing  Mayer Brown JSM announced the arrival in mainland China of
partners Henry Wang and Billy Au. They will expand the firm’s
capability in the areas of mergers and acquisitions as well as
public and private offerings of equity and debt securities.  Wang will be based in Beijing as a partner and the head of
investments, China. He was formerly the managing partner of
Dechert LLP’s Beijing office, the firm said. He has 20 years
experience in advising tier one multinational companies and
industry leaders on corporate matters, the firm said.  Au was an of counsel at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP
in Hong Kong and Herbert Smith LLP in Beijing, respectively,
prior to joining  Mayer Brown , the firm said. He has experience
in global offerings, inbound and outbound mergers and
acquisitions and other corporate finance exercises of Chinese
state-owned and privately-owned enterprises, according to the
firm. He will be stationed in Beijing but also working out of
the Hong Kong office.  Mayer Brown has 20 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  McDermott Expands State and Local Tax Practice Group  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired Scott M. Susko as a
partner in its state and local tax practice group, based in
Boston. He was previously with Nixon Peabody LLP.  Susko advises clients on SALT controversies throughout the
country. He assists clients with changes in their business that
could affect their state and local tax posture, such as entry
into new geographic or product markets, merger and acquisition
activity or state legislative developments, the firm said. He
has experience in multistate tax planning as well as assessing
state and local tax risks for financial statement purposes.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers with offices in the
U.S., Europe and a strategic alliance with MWE China Law Offices
in Shanghai.  Bingham Adds to New York Real Estate Practice  Bingham McCutchen LLP has added Fred Gallo as a partner in
the firm’s real estate practice group. He joins from the New
York office of Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, the firm said.  Gallo concentrates his practice in the areas of real estate
development, acquisitions, dispositions, preferred equity
investments, joint ventures, and construction and mezzanine
financing on behalf of both borrowers and lenders.  There are more than 75 lawyers in Bingham’s real estate
group in New York. The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers in 14
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  