-- PTTEP Left Sole Bidder for Cove as Shell Pulls Out of Race
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-07-17T09:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/shell-drops-out-of-race-for-cove-leaving-pttep-as-winner-2-.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ,
Thailand’s only listed oil and gas explorer, stands the sole
bidder for  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  pulled
out of the race for the East Africa-focused explorer.  Shell has “decided not to revise its offer of 220 pence in
cash for each share of Cove, and not take part in the auction
procedure,” The Hague-based Shell, Europe’s largest energy
producer, said yesterday in a statement.  The 240 pence-a-share proposal from state-controlled PTTEP,
which plans to spend about $20 billion on expansion by 2016 to
triple daily output, remains the highest bid, valuing Cove at
1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion). PTTEP shares fell to a two-
week low today on concern the company may need to raise funds to
develop Cove’s asset in Mozambique.  “PTTEP will definitely have to sell new shares to fund the
acquisition,” Naphat Chantaraserekul, an analyst at DBS Vickers
Securities ( Thailand ) Co., said by phone. “Cove will also need
a large investment over the next few years. This would be a
negative for PTTEP in the short term.”  PTTEP slumped 1.2 percent to 171 baht at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Bangkok, the lowest since June 29. PTTEP Chief
Executive Officer Tevin Vongvanich declined to comment on the
offer when contacted by phone today.  Cove slid 14 percent to 238 pence yesterday in  London , the
steepest drop since Aug. 4, as investors withdrew bets on a
higher bid after a five-month takeover battle. Before Shell’s
announcement, it had traded above the 240 pence offered by
Bangkok-based PTTEP.  Rovuma Asset  Cove’s largest asset is an 8.5 percent holding in
Mozambique’s Rovuma Area 1, where a group led by  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found as much as 60 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable natural gas, more than six times the U.K.’s existing
reserves. Cove raised its estimate of the find in June.  “Assuming PTTEP can gain 90 percent shareholder approval
and conclude the deal - which seems likely, PTTEP now have a
stake in the world’s most promising new liquefied natural gas
frontier,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based oil and gas
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said today in a note.  The deal would be the biggest overseas takeover by a Thai
company, squeezing out  Banpu Pcl (BANPU) ’s 2010 acquisition of
Australia’s Centennial Coal Co., which had an announced value of
$1.85 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘In the Lead’  PTTEP is “in the lead” if it maintains its offer that was
extended yesterday until July 25, said  Peter Hutton , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. Shell is “taking the heat out
of the market” by dropping out of the auction, he said, adding
that the producer had other options.  The U.K. Takeover Panel last week laid out the process for
an auction to end the bidding war for Cove, whose shares have
more than doubled this year. For Shell, the world’s largest
manager of LNG ships and member of joint ventures supplying 30
percent of global LNG volumes last year, the acquisition offered
a foothold in  East Africa .  Both Anadarko and  Eni SpA (ENI) , local project operators in
Mozambique, have said they plan to sell down part of their
stakes in the fields to share development costs, which may
exceed $50 billion. Cove’s discoveries open the way for
 Mozambique  to become an exporter of liquefied natural gas,
shipping fuel to Asian economies including India and China.  ‘Development Capex’  “While the resource base appears prolific, we remain
concerned that this acquisition could trigger a capital raise
from PTTEP,” Bernstein’s Beveridge said. “PTTEP had $1.76
billion cash - end first quarter - and will not only need to
fund this deal, but will also need to fund the additional
exploration and development capex, plus other M&A as they seek
to aggressively expand production.”  PTTEP plans to form a small bank club led by UBS AG to
finance the transaction, a person familiar with the matter said
last month. The banks would provide a 950 million pound 12-month
bridge loan to PTTEP Offshore Investment Co., a unit of PTTEP,
the person said.  PTTEP has been advised by UBS. Standard Chartered Plc has
been advising Cove. Morgan Stanley acted for Shell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Kennedy  in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  