-- Short Sales on NYSE Top 2011 Peak as September Bets Lost 21%
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-07-16T13:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/short-sales-on-nyse-top-2011-peak-as-september-bets-lost-21-1-.html
Short sales  on the New York Stock
Exchange have climbed above last September’s peak, a level that
preceded a five-month rally and heralded losses for bears.  Shares borrowed and sold reached 5.35 percent of stock
available for trading last month, according to data compiled by
 NYSE Euronext. (NYX)  That eclipses 5.28 percent on Sept. 15, when
bearish bets peaked last year and the 25 most-shorted companies
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  began a 21 percent advance,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors speculating on declines have pushed up short
sales each of the  last two years  only to see the trades fizzle
as actions by central banks helped stoke rallies. Bulls say the
same thing will happen in 2012 as European leaders work to
contain the debt crisis and companies beat earnings projections
for a 14th straight quarter. For bears, slowing economies from
 China  to Germany mean the bets will finally pay off.  “To the extent people have gone short U.S. domestic
equities, I think they’re kind of wasting their time,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New York,
which oversees more than $2 billion, said July 11. “As I said
last year when  Europe  was falling apart and the U.S. was going
down, once this panic is over we’ll go straight back up again.”  Stocks fell four straight days  last week , before JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s quarterly earnings report boosted the  S&P 500  on
July 13, giving the index a gain of 0.2 percent for the week.
Earlier losses came as companies from Applied Materials Inc. to
Cummins Inc. cut sales  forecasts .  April Peak  Almost $1 trillion has been erased from U.S. equities since
shares peaked this year on April 2, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The S&P 500 declined 0.4 percent to 1,351.12 at 9:47 a.m.
New York time today.  Concern that recessions in Europe and slowing growth in
China will kill the global recovery helped pushed bearish bets
to levels seen in 2011 and 2010. Short sales crested in
September as the S&P 500 approached 1,099.23, its lowest level
of 2011. The index  surged  29 percent in the next six months.  “A pattern that appears to be unfolding again is a third
year of weakness during the summer,” Eric Teal, chief
investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which
manages $4.5 billion in Raleigh, North Carolina, said July 11.
“But as in the past years, the U.S. market remains attractive.
I still believe it possesses bullish fundamentals: earnings and
valuations and potential for growth versus the other markets.”  PulteGroup, Whirlpool  Investors making bearish bets in September suffered as
stocks such as PulteGroup Inc. and  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  with the
highest short interest rallied 21 percent on average through
April 2, 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
advance is about 3.4 percentage points more than the S&P 500’s
climb.  Gains in the most-hated stocks have hurt returns for
professional money managers.  Hedge funds  with a short bias have
lost 8.3 percent in 2012, the most of the 19 strategies tracked
by Hedge Fund Research Inc. in  Chicago .  Applied Materials (AMAT)  and Cummins were among the 100 stocks in
the S&P 500 with the fewest short sales. Bearish investors
missed out as the stocks tumbled 10 percent and 9.4 percent,
respectively, since September.  Cummins, based in Columbus,  Indiana , cited weaker demand
and a slower economy when it cut its revenue forecast last week.
The maker of truck engines plunged the most in almost a year
July 10, after saying it saw “demand in some markets weaken
recently as growth in the global economy has slowed.”  Forecast Cut  Applied Materials, the chipmaking-equipment provider based
in  Santa Clara , California, cut its fiscal 2012 sales and profit
 forecasts  last week amid weakness in Europe and China. Advanced
Micro Devices Inc., the second-biggest maker of processors for
personal computers, said second-quarter sales fell for the same
reasons.  “Both China and Europe are quite weak,” Mike Splinter,
chief executive officer at Applied Materials, said last week in
 San Francisco . “Both markets are worse than they were at this
time last year.”  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years. In
Germany, the largest economy in Europe, business confidence has
slumped to the lowest level in more than two years last month
and retail sales unexpectedly decreased in May.  In the U.S., the  unemployment rate  has remained above 8
percent since 2009 and fewer jobs than estimated were added in
the past four months, according to Labor Department figures. The
world’s largest economy is expanding at its slowest post-
recession rate in six decades, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Most Shorted  Investors betting on losses since the S&P 500 reached a
four-year high on April 2 have been rewarded. The 25 most-
shorted stocks have fallen 12 percent in the past three and a
half months, almost triple the S&P 500’s loss, according to the
median return compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bearishness spiking over the last month or so is really a
function of the global slowdown and the global fear that China
continues to see downward adjustments to their GDP,” said Chris Baggini, a  fund manager  at Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based Turner
Investment Partners Inc., which oversees about $18 billion.  Short sales are climbing while another measure of investor
concern holds below its historical average. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , derived from prices to
protect against losses in S&P 500 shares, has declined 28
percent this year to 16.74 and hasn’t exceeded 20 since June 25.  Earnings Beat  Four out of the six S&P 500 companies that reported results
last week beat analysts’ earnings estimates while one missed,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Overall, profits probably
decreased 2.1 percent in the second quarter, the first drop in
almost three years, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to expand 2.1 percent in 2012
after growing 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the median of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Reports last week showed the
 U.S. trade deficit  narrowed for a second straight month in May.  PulteGroup was the 12th most-shorted S&P 500 stock in
September as reports on new home starts and sales signaled
weakness in the U.S. housing market. The largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, based in Bloomfield Hills,  Michigan , has
more than doubled since then as its first-quarter loss narrowed
and it reduced costs and sold houses at higher prices.  Stronger Demand  “It was the first quarter in several years that
fundamental demand came in stronger than expected, allowing us
to beat our forecast for the period,” Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Dugas  said on a call with analysts in April.  Whirlpool  gained more than twice  the S&P 500 from September
to the April 2, 2012, high. Almost 12 percent of shares
available were sold short in September, making it one of the 25
stocks with the most bearish bets in the S&P 500.  The world’s largest appliance maker  beat  the average
analyst projection for profit in the fourth quarter and the
first three months of 2012. On Feb. 1, the Benton Harbor,
Michigan-based company projected full-year earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The ratio of bullish positions to short positions fell to
11.3 this month, down 12 percent from the 12-month high in
April, according to Markit, a London-based research firm.  Higher profits have kept the S&P 500  trading at a discount 
to its historic mean. The average price-earnings ratio this year
was 13.8, 16 percent below the average since 1954 according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The healthiest spot of the economy is ironically the
corporate sector,”  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based
global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of
BlackRock Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview last
week. His firm oversees $3.68 trillion. “Equities are
reasonably priced, arguably cheap compared to bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  