-- Singapore’s Home Sales Drop May Curb Price Gains: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-07-16T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/singapore-s-home-sales-drop-may-curb-price-gains-southeast-asia.html
Singapore ’s biggest decline in home
sales in 2 1/2 years may slow gains that pushed property prices
to a record, easing concerns of further government curbs.  The island state’s private residential property sales
dropped 17 percent to 5,572 units in the three months ended June
30 from the previous quarter, according to  data  released by the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority  yesterday. That’s the biggest
quarterly decrease since the three months ended December 2009.  “It’s an indication that things are slowing down,”
Carolyn Goh, a spokeswoman at PropNex Realty, a Singapore-based
real estate brokerage with 4,000 agents, said in an interview
yesterday. “It looks like further cooling measures are
unwarranted but it also depends on how the market responds in
the second half.”  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when it barred interest-only loans for some housing projects and
stopped allowing developers to absorb interest payments for
apartments still being built. The government said last week it’s
prepared to enhance measures aimed at ensuring a “stable and
sustainable” housing market, even as gains in  home prices 
slowed this year.  Home sales have climbed to 12,254 units this year through
June 30, according to data from the authority. About 9,000 homes
were sold in the first half of last year, according to PropNex.
Suburban projects will be the “driving force” for developers
in the second half of 2012, PropNex said.  June Sales  Home sales fell 20 percent to 1,371 units in June from a
month earlier, according to yesterday’s report. Private housing
sales slid to their lowest this year from the 2012 peak of 2,496
units in April, according to the data.  Singapore’s economy unexpectedly contracted last quarter as
manufacturing fell. Gross domestic product dropped an annualized
1.1 percent in the three months through June from the previous
quarter, when it climbed a revised 9.4 percent, the government
said on July 13.  The city’s residential prices rebounded to a record in the
second quarter, a separate government report showed earlier this
month. The property price index rose 0.4 percent in the three
months ended June 30 after falling 0.1 percent in the previous
quarter.  “Price resistance amid record high prices would likely
keep July’s sales volume at below the sizzling levels seen from
February to April 2012,” Chia Siew Chuin, director of research
and advisory at Colliers International, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, predicting second-half sales will be
between 8,000 and 10,000 units.  Stocks Rise  The measure tracking  property stocks  in Singapore was
little changed yesterday, declining less than 0.1 percent. The
gauge climbed 26 percent this year, twice the advance in the
Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   The increase in stock prices came even as more housing
measures were introduced in December. Foreigners and corporate
entities have to pay an additional 10 percent stamp duty. The
extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents purchasing a
second home and for citizens buying their third property.  The government earlier imposed a 1 percent duty on the
first S$180,000 ($142,000) of the property price, 2 percent on
the next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder. In January
2011, the government also raised down-payment requirements for
second mortgages and extended the period homeowners must hold
their properties to avoid a sales transaction tax to deter
speculators.  “Sales have been unnaturally high from January to May,”
said Nicholas Mak,  executive director  at SLP International
Property Consultants, a real estate consulting company. “It’s
good news that the sales have come off a little as it might now
take some pressure off on additional government measures, now
that prices have stabilized and sales are down to more
sustainable levels.”  Private home price growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the
first half, compared with a 6 percent increase for the whole of
2011, the Ministry of National Development said in a  statement 
on its website last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  