-- SMRT to Be Fined S$2 Million for December Train Breakdowns
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-07-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/smrt-to-be-fined-s-2-million-for-december-train-breakdowns.html
SMRT Corp. (MRT) , Singapore’s biggest
subway operator, will be fined the maximum S$2 million ($1.6
million) penalty for two service disruptions in December, the
Land Transport Authority said.  SMRT failed to meet licensing obligations and the probe by
LTA, as the transport regulator is known, showed that the subway
disruptions on Dec. 15 and Dec. 17 were “preventable,” it said
in a statement on its website yesterday.  The metro operator, “failed, among other things, to
exercise due diligence and vigilance expected of a public
transport operator, and to maintain its network in good and
efficient working condition,” according to the LTA.  The December breakdowns, the most disruptive in SMRT’s 25-
year history, prompted protests and forced the company to boost
spending on upgrades amid the government’s biggest transport-
related inquiry since 2004. The breakdowns also led the LTA to
consider raising the maximum penalty from S$1 million for each
service disruption.  The  stock  rose 0.6 percent to $1.705 at the close in
Singapore yesterday, before the announcement was released. SMRT
shares lost 3.7 percent since the start of the year, compared
with the 13 percent gain in the Singapore benchmark  Straits
Times Index. (FSSTI)   “The maximum penalty did not come as a surprise given the
severity of the train disruptions and the subsequent public
dissent,” UOB Kay Hian analysts including Toh Yongrui and
Andrew Chow, who rate the stock a sell, said in a report
yesterday.  “Though the fine of S$2 million accounts for just 1.5
percent of our fiscal 2013 net profit estimate, we view this as
a signal that the government will be harsher on future
transgressions,” they said.  Major Upgrades  A total of S$900 million will be spent over eight years for
major upgrades to the subway network, including its signaling
system, SMRT has said, adding that it’s asking the LTA to share
that cost. The two disruptions over a 36-hour period left more
than 200,000 commuters stranded along the rail line for the
Orchard Road retail strip during the year-end holiday shopping
season, with some trapped in the tunnel.  About 2.7 million passenger trips are made on  Singapore ’s
subway every day, the city-state’s Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew said April 9 in Parliament.  The fine will be donated to help needy families with
transport fares, LTA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  