-- MSNBC Website Renamed NBCNews.com After Microsoft Split
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-16T20:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/msnbc-website-renamed-nbcnews-com-after-microsoft-split.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal paid
about $300 million to buy out  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s half of their
 MSNBC .com news-website joint venture, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal.  The person declined to be named because the terms weren’t
made public when NBCUniversal announced the agreement earlier
today. The July 13 transaction ended a 16-year partnership
between the two companies.  By taking complete control over the website, NBC can link
it more closely with the MSNBC television channel, a property it
already bought back from the Microsoft joint venture. The MSNBC
site will redirect to NBCNews.com for now, and then get its own
makeover in 2013 to help it match the cable channel. Microsoft,
meanwhile, will continue to provide news through a new software
application.  “We have already built up a profitable business with
healthy margins with Microsoft,” NBC News Senior Vice President
Vivian Schiller said on a conference call. “There’s a
tremendous amount of value wrapped up in the venture. Now
instead of owning 50 percent of the business, we’ll own 100
percent. That’s what we paid for.”  The company will bring all of NBC News’s online properties
into a new division called NBC News Digital, which will be
overseen by Schiller. She declined to comment on the price paid.  24-Hour News  Microsoft and NBC started MSNBC in 1996, teaming up to
create a 24-hour news channel and companion website. NBC agreed
to acquire the news channel in 2005, leaving the Internet
portion as a joint venture. Comcast, the largest U.S. cable-
television provider, purchased a majority stake in  NBC Universal 
last year.  The latest deal will allow Comcast to better sell
advertising against a unified MSNBC TV and MSNBC.com, according
to  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. He
values all of MSNBC at $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion.  Microsoft isn’t leaving the news business, said Bob Visse,
general manager of the company’s online services division.
Microsoft will rely on its new Bing News app for Windows 8 to
provide “a broader perspective on what’s happening in the
world,” he said.  ‘Multiple Perspectives’  “A big part of why we wanted to unwind the joint venture
is we had an exclusivity clause where we had to use the
MSNBC.com news content only,” Visse said in an interview. “We
were hearing from users who wanted us to show multiple
perspectives.”  Shares of Philadelphia-based Comcast were little changed in
today’s trading, closing at $31.83. Microsoft, based in Redmond,
 Washington , rose less than 1 percent to $29.44.  The transaction gives NBC News complete control over the
MSNBC Digital Network, including MSNBC.com, Today.com,
NightlyNews.com, BreakingNews.com and other sites. Microsoft’s
MSN Web portal, which competes with Yahoo! Inc. and AOL Inc.,
will remain a distribution site for NBC News.  While the “MS” in the name relates to Microsoft, NBC
won’t rename MSNBC, which has become a valuable brand, said NBC
News President Steve Capus. Now NBC wants the website to better
reflect what people are seeing on their televisions, Capus said.  “Cable deserves its own dedicated home online, and we’d
like there to be brand alignment with the name,” Capus said on
the conference call. “This is going to clear up the brand
confusion that does exist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  