-- South Korea’s Bahk Rules Out Additional Fiscal Stimulus
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-07-17T04:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/south-korea-s-bahk-rules-out-additional-fiscal-stimulus.html
South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan ruled out additional fiscal stimulus for now, saying it
could do more harm than good because the global economy is too
weak to make it meaningful.  “You don’t plant a tree in winter,” Bahk said yesterday
in an interview with Bloomberg News in  Seoul . While  Asia ’s
fourth-largest economy retains room to boost growth both through
monetary and fiscal measures, 3 percent growth “is not bad,
given the global economy,” he said. Gross domestic product rose
2.8 percent in the first quarter from a year before.  South Korea ’s government and central bank have stepped up
efforts to ease the impact from  Europe ’s debt crisis, a Chinese
slowdown and muted U.S. job creation. The Bank of  Korea 
unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate last week and the Finance
Ministry announced economic support measures on June 28.  Bahk, 57, said there was no way to say if the effect on
South Korea’s economy from the  European debt crisis  has peaked,
though the situation may improve later this year with
“occasional hiccups.” Policy makers in Seoul “still have
ammunition” and would favor joining other nations in a
coordinated approach if the global economy worsens
significantly, he said.  The central bank lowered its main rate a quarter percentage
point to 3 percent on July 12, the first reduction since
February 2009, as it joined a global stimulus push from Europe
to  China . The following day, the BOK pared its 2012 growth
forecast to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, the second cut this
year.  Won Gains  The won strengthened for a third day, rising 0.4 percent to
1142.70 per dollar at 12:22 p.m. in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark Kospi stock index rose 0.6
percent.  “They do not need too much additional policy support
beyond monetary easing” to achieve 3 percent growth this year,
Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore , said in an e-mail today. “The real issue that the
Finance Minister and BOK are concerned with is what happens to
growth next year and the year after.”  When the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
sparked a global financial crisis, South Korea accompanied
monetary easing with rounds of stimulus. Parliament in April
2009 approved a 17.2 trillion-won ($15 billion) package of cash
handouts, cheap loans, labor-market aid and infrastructure
spending that added to 50 trillion won in relief measures.  Woori Plans  Meanwhile, South Korea will push ahead with efforts to sell
Woori Finance Holdings Co., the country’s biggest banking group,
and labor unions should drop plans for a nationwide strike, Bahk
said. Bank employees across South Korea plan their first
nationwide strike in more than a decade on July 30 in an effort
to get higher wages, improve  job security  and block the sale of
Woori.  Elsewhere in Asia, Singapore’s export growth unexpectedly
quickened in June and  New Zealand ’s consumer  prices  rose at the
slowest rate since 1999 last quarter.  China’s railway infrastructure investment may double in the
second half of this year from the first six months, according to
a statement dated July 6 on the website of the National
Development and Reform Commission’s Anhui branch.  In Europe, the U.K. will probably say inflation was 2.8
percent in June, matching the pace in May, while growth in the
retail-price index eased, according to Bloomberg News surveys
ahead of data due today.  Spain  is due to report trade data for
May.  U.S. Prices  The U.S. consumer-price index was little changed in June,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
before a report due today. Industrial production probably rose
0.3 percent last month, a separate survey showed.  Speaking hours after  North Korea ’s official news agency
announced the removal of its military chief, Bahk said he hoped
his northern neighbors move toward reform. The  Finance Ministry 
has a team analyzing North Korea and contingency plans, he said.  The downfall of Ri Yong Ho, who oversaw the North’s 1.2
million-strong army, followed a push by leader Kim Jong Un to
deploy military resources for infrastructure projects. North
Korea’s economy, isolated from most of the world’s markets over
the country’s pursuit of nuclear weapons, contracted in four of
the past six years, according to South Korea’s central bank.  “I hope they move toward reform and greater cooperation
with surrounding nations,” said Bahk, a Harvard University-
educated former bureaucrat who was labor minister before taking
the helm at the Finance Ministry last year. He also said that
predicting what’s ahead for North Korea is harder than
forecasting the future of the euro region.  Cutting Estimates  The  Bank of Korea ’s more pessimistic outlook for the
South’s economy came less than a month after the Finance
Ministry on June 28 lowered its 2012 growth estimate to 3.3
percent from 3.7 percent. The government also said it would
provide 8.5 trillion won to support demand, including assistance
for small businesses and low-income earners.  Policy makers last month also announced incentives to
attract foreign-currency deposits to banks to protect against
volatility in capital flows. The central bank’s rate cut last
week might have been intended to prevent so-called hot money
from flooding into Korea, Bahk said.  “It was either a preemptive step to boost growth or a
means of keeping interest- rate  differentials intact after rate
cuts overseas,” Bahk said, adding that he couldn’t speak for
the central bank.  Global Easing  The  European Central Bank  on July 5 cut borrowing costs to
a record low after Spain and Cyprus joined  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  in asking for external aid. People’s Bank of China also
reduced borrowing costs, while the  Bank of England  boosted the
size of its asset-purchase program.  “Given the government’s determination to support the
economy, China will start to recover in the third quarter,”
Bahk said yesterday. “This will have a positive impact on South
Korea.”  South Korea’s consumer prices are expected to rise 2.7
percent this year, down from an earlier forecast of a 3.2
percent price gain, the central bank said on July 13. The
inflation rate slid to a 32-month low of 2.2 percent in June as
commodity prices moderated and the government expanded free
school lunch and child care services.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell to the lowest
level in four months for July while  consumer confidence  dropped
to a three-month low in June, according to Bank of Korea reports
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  