-- Spain Presses Biggest Companies to Rein In Executive Pay
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-16T14:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/spain-presses-biggest-companies-to-rein-in-executive-pay.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos called on the nation’s biggest companies to rein in
executive pay, saying a recovery from the economic crisis will
be quicker if citizens feel sacrifices are shared evenly.  “In the current situation, shared effort and all pulling
in the same direction are especially important values,” he told
a conference at the IESE business school in  Barcelona  today,
after referring to a report on executive pay. “I’d ask the
companies of the Ibex 35 to be conscious of the situation.”  Spaniards, already suffering an unemployment rate of almost
25 percent, are being asked to accept the deepest austerity
measures on record even as the economy contracts in the second
 recession  since 2009. The government’s latest round of budget
cuts announced last week included a reduction in jobless
benefits and an increase in  sales tax .  “The exit from difficult situations is easier and quicker
when there’s a perception that efforts are being shared
equitably,” said de Guindos, a former Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. banker and civil-service economist.  The government, run by the pro-business People’s Party,
tightened rules in February on the salaries of directors at
banks that had received government assistance. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  also eliminated the year-end bonus for public
workers and high-level officials last week as part of his
deficit-cutting efforts.  The average pay per board member at companies in  Spain ’s
main Ibex 35 stock index rose 5 percent from a year earlier in
2011, the CNMV markets regulator said in the July 11 report to
which de Guindos referred. Average pay per board member climbed
4.4 percent, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  