-- Spill Remedy Questioned by Coast Guard as Shell to Tap Arctic
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/spill-remedy-questioned-by-coast-guard-as-shell-to-tap-arctic.html
The U.S. Coast Guard is awaiting
permission from the Environmental Protection Agency before
including chemical dispersants among the tools to respond to any
oil spills once  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  begins drilling in Arctic
waters.  Admiral Robert Papp, the Coast Guard commandant, said EPA
approval is necessary before his agency can use the dispersants.
He said he’s not convinced the technology will be as successful
in limiting damage from any potential spill in Arctic waters, as
it was in the warmer  Gulf of Mexico  after the  BP Plc (BP/)  disaster
two years ago.  “I’m not confident what it will do in the colder water up
in  Alaska ,” Papp said in an interview during a Bloomberg
Government breakfast July 13 in  Washington .  Shell’s rigs are on their way to the Chukchi and Beaufort
seas, where the company plans to tap fields estimated to hold
more than 20 billion barrels of oil. Drilling may start as early
as next month.  The company spent $4.5 billion acquiring drilling rights in 
the Arctic seas and meeting safety requirements set by
the Obama administration after the explosion at BP’s Macondo
well in 2010. They include the installation of a cap and
containment system similar to the one that eventually plugged
the BP gusher, after 4.9 million barrels of oil fouled Gulf
waters.  Shell, based in  The Hague , has dispersants in its response
plan. Environmental groups say the technology is unproven.  Shell Confident  Papp said he’s “confident” in Shell’s ability to respond
to any spill, especially in waters off the Alaskan coast that
are less than 200 feet deep. The BP spill in the Gulf was at a
depth of nearly a mile.  Both the U.S. Interior Department and the SINTEF Group, a
Trondheim, Norway-based research organization, have tested
chemical dispersants and found them to be effective, Kelly op de
Weegh, a Shell spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Environmental
groups such as Oceana oppose Shell’s plan, saying more research
on dispersants is needed before drilling begins.  Oceana criticized the use of dispersants during the BP
spill, saying that the chemicals helped spread oil in the deep
waters and caused a toxic response to the crude from plankton
and other organisms. 