-- Stada’s Hemofarm Says Drug Safety Restored After FDA Warning
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-07-16T15:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/stada-s-hemofarm-says-product-safety-restored-after-fda-warning.html
Hemofarm AD , a Serbian drugmaker
owned by  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , said it fixed contamination
threats in its aseptic production line found by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration, which halted its exports to the U.S.  The Vrsac, Serbia-based drugmaker has suspended production
for the U.S. market for “commercial reasons” while it
continues to “take all FDA findings very seriously and to do
everything to ensure that” their “production meets
standards,” it said in a statement posted on its  website  today.
Hemofarm was responding to FDA findings released on July 10
which questioned its ability to detect microbial contamination
in its manufacturing.  FDA  said  the drugmaker lacked “scientifically sound and
appropriate specifications, standards, sampling plans, and test
procedures” for products. It warned of possible contamination
with Burkholderia cepacia, bacteria that can cause pneumonia in
patients with weakened immune system.  “Your firm failed to adequately evaluate the impact of the
contamination hazards,” FDA said last week.  Hemofarm said it suspended deliveries of vials to European
and U.S. markets in the third quarter of 2011 when it sought to
upgrade production and the FDA’s visit to its plant in November
was part of the program. FDA recommendations were implemented
and “no product from the aseptic  production line  distributed to
any market was under the influence of the problem,” Hemofarm
said.  Import Alert  FDA also said it will maintain an import alert and refuses
admission to products made at the Vrsac plant into the U.S.
until manufacturing practices comply with U.S. laws.  The FDA report led to a 1.6 percent fall in Stada shares on
July 10. Serbian health authorities found no trace of the
bacteria in Hemofarm products,  Tanjug  newswire reported today,
citing Health Minister Zoran Stankovic. He criticized the FDA
for causing damage to Hemofarm.  The state-controlled newswire also reported that  Serbia ’s
 Medicines and Medical Devices Agency  requested “inspection
data” from Hemofarm as it wants to conduct its own
investigation.  The pharmaceutical company was bought by Stada for 480
million euros ($588 million) in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  