-- Stephen Covey, Author of ‘7 Habits’ Books, Dies at 79
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-07-16T18:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/stephen-covey-author-of-7-habits-self-help-book-dies-at-79.html
Stephen Covey, whose 1989 book,
“The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People,” won millions of
followers worldwide and helped fuse the genres of business and
self-help, has died. He was 79.  He died today at Eastern  Idaho  Regional Medical Center in
Idaho Falls, Idaho, of complications from injuries sustained in
a bicycle accident in Utah three months ago, according to a
statement from his family. He was knocked unconscious in the
April 19 crash in Provo, which occurred while he was riding
downhill and wearing a helmet, according to  an account  in the
Deseret News of Salt Lake City.  According to his website, Covey sold more than 20 million
books in 38 languages and had four titles that each sold more
than 1 million copies. In addition to “The 7 Habits of Highly
Effective People,” those were “First Things First,”
“Principle-Centered Leadership” and “The 7 Habits of Highly
Effective Families.”  He also served as vice chairman of Salt Lake City-based
 Franklin Covey Co. (FC) , an international business-consulting firm
and maker of Franklin daily planners and the Franklin Covey
Planning System. Franklin Covey was formed in 1997 when the
Franklin Quest Co., which held seminars on time management, paid
$160 million in stock for Covey’s Provo, Utah-based Covey
Leadership Center.  ‘Human Potential’  Covey and Franklin Covey’s other co-founder, Hyrum W. Smith, stepped aside as co-chairmen in 1999 as part of the
company’s plan to raise $75 million from investors by issuing
preferred shares.  Calling Covey a “human-potential guru,” Time magazine in
1996 named him to its list of the 25 most influential people.
“The essence of Covey’s message -- that self-knowledge and
control must precede effective dealings with the world at large
-- seems unremarkable,” the magazine wrote. To which Covey
responded, “What’s common sense just isn’t common practice.”  Covey’s seven “habits” included setting priorities,
taking initiative and seeking “win-win” relationships. His
2004 follow-up book, “The 8th Habit: From Effectiveness to
Greatness,” urged his many adherents to find their “voice” --
their unique mixture of talent, passion, need and conscience --
“and inspire others to find theirs.”  Covey was born on Oct. 24, 1932, in  Salt Lake City . He
earned an undergraduate degree from the University of Utah in
1952, a master’s in business administration from  Harvard
University  in 1957 and a Ph.D. in organizational behavior from
 Brigham Young University  in 1976, according to a 2004 profile in
 USA Today . He taught at BYU for 24 years.  A devout Mormon, he spent time as a missionary in the U.K.
in the 1950s, during which he proselytized on a soapbox in
 London ’s Hyde Park, the newspaper reported. He always denied
that religious beliefs, his or any others, were involved in his
writings.  With his wife, Sandra, Covey had nine children and, as of
2009, 50 grandchildren, according to a story in the Dallas
Morning News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  