-- Sun Hung Kai Declines After Co-Chairmen Charged: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-07-16T08:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/sun-hung-kai-declines-after-co-chairmen-charged-hong-kong-mover.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) 
declined in Hong Kong trading after its billionaire co-chairmen
were charged with bribery by the city’s anti-graft agency last
week.  The shares, which were halted on July 13, fell as much as
1.4 percent and closed down 1 percent at HK$94.50. Barclays Plc
lowered the price target for Hong Kong’s biggest developer by 5
percent to HK$87.50 while maintaining an underweight rating on
the shares, analysts, led by  Andrew Lawrence , wrote in a report
today.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok and two other men conspired to
provide Rafael Hui, the city’s former No. 2 official, with
payments and loans totaling HK$34 million ($4.4 million) for
unspecified favors involving Hui’s role as the government’s then
chief secretary, according to court documents. Sun Hung Kai
promoted two executives to deputy managing directors to assist
the co-chairmen, who will retain their current roles at the
company, the developer said in a separate statement.  “The company’s two key decision makers will likely have
limited time for company business,” wrote the analysts, adding
that the charges against the Kwok brothers “allows the court to
potentially award compensation to the government for the
advantages gained from any proven bribery.”  Sun Hung Kai’s stock has fallen 15 percent since the
brothers were arrested March 29, compared with a 4 percent
decline in the Hang Seng Property Index.  Political Pressure  Hong Kong ’s highest profile graft case adds to pressure on
the city’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took office July
1, to address public concern over the conduct of government
officials. His development secretary resigned last week after
the  Apple Daily  reported he had misused government housing
allowances. Leung himself has been accused of misleading the
public about illegal structures built at his home.  Magistrate David Dufton on July 13 allowed bail for the
Kwoks and Hui.  Moody’s Investors Service said on the same day it was
maintaining a negative outlook on Sun Hung Kai because “the
latest development is credit negative” for the developer “as
its reputation is now further at risk.”  Sun Hung Kai has been run by Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  since
the ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder brother Walter.
Walter is still a non-executive director.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok will continue to discharge their
duties with the assistance of new deputy managing directors Mike Wong and Victor Lui, Sun Hung Kai said in the stock exchange
filing on July 13. Wong and Lui are both executive directors at
present. In addition, Adam Kwok, a son of Thomas, and Edward
Kwok, a son of Raymond, were named as alternative directors to
their fathers, the developer said.  The appointments “fail to sufficiently address the
concerns of minority shareholders and misses the opportunity to
address corporate governance issues at the board level,” wrote
the Barclays analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  