-- Supervalu Loans Cost Bondholders $471 Million: Corporate Finance
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2012-07-16T15:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/supervalu-loans-cost-bondholders-471-million-corporate-finance.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s plans to reverse a
35 percent drop in its stock this year has cost bondholders $471
million as they deem the debt of the third-largest U.S. grocer
to be in distress.  The bonds are the worst performers among the 50 biggest
issuers in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch B rated index this
month, with the extra yield investors demand to hold the debt
instead of Treasuries widening 4.55 percentage points to 11.87
percentage points, more than the 10 percentage-point gap
indicating distress. The index spread narrowed 6 basis points to
6.32 percentage points.  Investors are concerned that a new credit agreement
Supervalu reached for its loans that doesn’t have financial
maintenance restrictions will encourage the  Eden Prairie ,
Minnesota-based operator of the Shaw’s and Save-A-Lot chains to
increase leverage as it seeks to boost profitability. The
company announced last week that its first-quarter  net income 
fell 45 percent and that it would cut prices to increase sales.  “Credit metrics will get worse in the near term,” Edward Mui, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “Now that the company is no longer
constrained by financial covenants they can pursue a more
dramatic policy in their operating strategy."  New Loans  Supervalu is arranging $2.5 billion in loans that allow
the company to get rid of covenants in its prior credit
agreement that restricted the amount of debt it can have
relative to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  At the same time, the grocery chain plans to accelerate
price reductions and cut costs by an additional $250 million
over the next two years as part of its strategic review,
according to a July 11 statement.  “It’s a risky maneuver because usually when you mark down
prices competition will follow,” Mui said.  Michael Siemienas, a spokesman for Supervalu, declined to
comment beyond what was included in the statement.  Supervalu’s $1 billion of 8 percent notes due May 2016 fell
16.4 cents in the two days ended July 13 to 85.13 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The yield rose to
13.1 percent, the highest since the debt was issued in 2009.  Bondholders Lose  The value of all the grocer’s bonds fell to $2.64 billion
from $3.11 billion on July 10, the day before the statement was
released, the index shows. Loomis Sayles & Co. is one of the
largest investors in Supervalu’s notes, holding 6.3 percent of
the debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supervalu’s bank group -- Credit Suisse Group AG, Barclays
Plc, Wells Fargo & Co. and U.S. Bancorp -- met with lenders July
13 to discuss details of the new loan, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because the terms are private. The underwriters are
proposing to offer the $850 million, covenant-lite portion of
the credit facility to lenders at the higher of 7.5 percent or
6.25 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate. Libor, a lending benchmark, was fixed at 0.46 percent on
July 13.  Supervalu was required to maintain a  leverage ratio  no
greater than 3.75 times under its previous credit agreement,
according to an April 19 annual earnings report filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That ratio was 3.47
times as of February 25, and may increase to 3.8 times at the
end of Supervalu’s fiscal year, a breach of the old covenant,
according to a July 12 CreditSights report.  Ratings Cut  Fitch Ratings  cut its  rating  on Supervalu July 12 to CCC,
indicating “high  default risk ,” from B, with the report citing
deteriorating operating results and the potential for higher
financial leverage if the company is sold.  “The challenge is how quickly traffic will respond to
lower prices,” Philip Zahn, an analyst at Fitch, said in a
telephone interview. “It will take some time and exactly how
consumers respond is difficult to predict.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. are helping
Supervalu evaluate strategic alternatives, according to the
company statement.  Credit-default swaps tied to Supervalu jumped 2.6
percentage points to 29.3 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
That’s in addition to 5 percent annually, meaning it would cost
$2.93 million initially and $500,000 a year to protect $10
million of Supervalu’s debt.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Falling Income  Net income  in the company’s fiscal first quarter fell 45
percent to $41 million, or 19 cents a share, from $74 million,
or 35 cents, a year earlier, the company said in the statement.
Sales declined 4.7 percent to $10.6 billion, trailing the $10.8
billion average of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Supervalu’s stock lost value after the new strategy, which
included suspending the 8.75 cent quarterly  dividend , was
announced. The shares, which closed before the July 11
announcement, fell 56 percent the following two days to $2.32
each. They rose 5 cents, to $2.37, at 11:38 a.m. in New York
today. That brought the  cumulative  year-to-date loss to 70.8
percent, Bloomberg data show.  The new  term loan  will be secured by real estate assets,
according to Fitch’s Zahn, effectively subordinating the
unsecured bondholders. The grocer’s $490 million of 7.5 percent
senior unsecured bonds due November 2014 fell 0.8 cent to 89.2
cents on the dollar today, the lowest level since they reached
83 cents on Dec. 22, 2008, Trace data show.  “With the company’s new credit agreement carrying no
financial covenants, Supervalu’s priority of protecting profits
and credit metrics will be diffused,” Mui at CreditSights wrote
in a July 12 report. “Accordingly, we expect deteriorating
credit metrics and strategic uncertainty to weigh on current
trading levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  