-- Surging TCL in China Adds to Woes of Japanese TV Makers: Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-17T06:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/surging-tcl-in-china-adds-to-woes-of-japanese-tv-makers-tech.html
TCL Corp. (000100)  televisions now hang in
Beijing’s Great Hall of the People, replacing  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
sets in a sign that  China ’s biggest flat-panel TV maker is
piling on to the woes besetting  Japan ’s industry.  The  TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. (1070)  unit leapt past
both Panasonic and Osaka-based Sharp Corp. in the first quarter
to become the world’s fifth-biggest liquid-crystal display TV
maker by market share, according to researcher to DisplaySearch.
 Sony Corp. (6758) , which has said it’s counting on expanded sales
channels in China to help narrow losses on TVs, came third
behind  South Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)   TCL Multimedia’s rise in the ranks comes as a near postwar
-high yen, falling TV prices, South Korean competition and slack
demand in  Europe  and the U.S. have left Sony, Sharp and
Panasonic with a combined 1.6 trillion yen ($20 billion) in
annual losses. Panasonic has even lost the distinction of
world’s largest high-definition 3D TV at 103 inches, bested
again by TCL, which makes a 110-inch model.  “The Japanese makers are in a lot of trouble at the
moment, so they are taking their eye off the ball a little bit
in China,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI  Asia 
in  Hong Kong . “That is good for TCL.”  The retrenchment of Japanese electronics makers, which have
idled production lines and slashed output of TVs to pare
inventories, adds to the challenge of winning customers like Hu
Fugui, a Beijing-based advertising executive.  Made in China  At a Suning Appliance Co. store in the capital last month,
Hu watched “Rise of the Planet of the Apes” on a 46-inch TCL
set as he shopped. He ended up buying TCL’s Internet-ready
 L46V7300A-3D smart TV , for 6,599  yuan  ($1,035). The price was 14
percent less than for the comparable Sony model and a 21 percent
discount to the closest Panasonic set in the same store.  “The quality of the TCL brand is just as good as anything
you get with imports,” Hu said.  To spur  sales  in China, TCL in April said it would open
3,000 new stores this year. The expansion will focus on the
country’s interior, where many buyers have yet to switch to
flat-screen TVs from older sets with cathode-ray tubes. Those
consumers are also further from coastal markets like  Shanghai 
and Guangzhou, where Japanese and South Korean imports have
dominated sales.  Tier Drops  TCL Multimedia intends to boost sales in so-called third-
tier to fifth-tier cities and rural areas while increasing
market share nationwide, spokeswoman Linda Wang said by e-mail.  Sony expects its TV sales in China to outperform the
industry’s after it expanded its retail network in regional
cities, not just Beijing and Shanghai, said Yasuhiro Okada, a
Shanghai-based spokesman for the company.  “We are trying to boost our position by expanding our
retail network and by strengthening large sets and high-end
models,” Okada said. “China is a very competitive market.”  Sony’s TV business lost money for an eighth straight year
in the 12 months ended March 31, contributing to a record 457
billion-yen  net loss . The unit will probably lose about 80
billion yen this fiscal year as sales drop 11 percent to 17.5
million sets, the company forecast in May.  China Target  Panasonic expects to stop losing money on TVs in the
quarter starting Jan. 1, the company said in May. The Osaka-
based company reported a record 772 billion-yen net loss last
fiscal year and its TV unit has posted four consecutive years of
losses.  China is important as part of Panasonic’s strategy to sell
more products in  developing countries , said Yuko Hosaka, a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman. The company has seen “sluggishness”
in China partly because of local competition, Hosaka said.  “There is an overheated battle between TV makers,
including local manufacturers, trying to win a large share of
the market,” Hosaka said. “TCL is a big competitor to us that
has a high market share.”  Overseas Stumbles  TCL Multimedia’s success in China contrasts with its
stumbles in expanding sales in Europe and North America. The
company set up a joint venture in 2004 with Thomson SA, maker of
RCA brand TVs, and then took over Thomson’s business in North
America and Europe in 2005.  The operations lost money and dragged TCL Multimedia to  net
losses  that totaled more than HK$4.6 billion ($593 million) from
2005 to 2010. The company reported net losses very year except
2009.  The TCL unit returned to  profit  again last year after
shutting plants in Europe in 2008, and ending sales of RCA-
branded TVs in  North America  in the second quarter of 2010.  “They can earn a profit in the China market, but the
profit in their home market has been eroded by loss-making
overseas operations,” said Yuji Fung, an analyst at Oriental
Patron Securities. “According to management, they are now doing
less overseas and building up the brand in the home market,
which is driving a turnaround.”  One way TCL Multimedia is appealing to Chinese consumers is
by offering models that make it easier for to watch video,
movies and television shows via the Internet.  Comparable Quality  Shopping at Suning, Hu stops to look at TCL’s L46V7300A3D
smart TV, scrolling through the set’s Internet menu and
selecting the icon for  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s online video
site. With a click of the remote, he’s watching actor Sean Bean
in the film “Cash.”  Foreign brands including Sony and Panasonic have lost much
of their allure for Chinese consumers now that local sets offer
comparable quality at lower prices, said Hu.  Investors have also noticed the company’s focus
technologies, including light-emitting-diode displays, which
yield sharper images, and the Chinese government’s support for
industry.  TCL’s performance has gained the attention of investors
like Lu Yu, the San Diego-based co-portfolio manager of Allianz
AGIC  Emerging Markets  Opportunities Fund.  Yu’s fund was the largest buyer of TCL Multimedia shares in
the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 stock  has surged about 34 percent this year, compared with the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index ’s 5.4 percent advance.  Attractive Investment  “We think TCL is an attractive investment because the
migration toward more LED TVs will improve their product mix,”
said Yu. Yu’s fund  acquired  a 872,000 shares of TCL in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The Chinese
government is expected to focus on developing domestic
consumption, which favors TCL, who sells most of their TVs
within China.”  TCL Multimedia is  projected  to report its second
consecutive annual profit this year for the first time since
2003-2004.  Net income will jump 63 percent to HK$736 million this
year, the average of eight analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The TCL unit is rated buy by 10 analysts and hold by
six others, according to the  data .  China has announced 26.5 billion yuan in subsidies for five
types of energy-saving appliances, including LCD TVs, TCL said
in a June 6 statement.  TCL Multimedia said it has 259 models that qualify for the
rebates, the most of any manufacturer.  Some Sony models qualified, according to spokesman Okada,
without specifying how many. Panasonic spokeswoman Hosaka said
none of its models are receiving subsidies.  At the Suning store where Hu bought his TCL set, there were
nine TCL models with subsidies of 300 to 400 yuan each, while
only three Sony models had the subsidy.  “TCL were already expanding their market share before the
subsidy program began,” said Fung of Oriental Patron. “Now the
subsidy can help them further expand their sales of high-end
products.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  