-- Syms, Ambac, Jefferson County, Peregrine: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-07-16T12:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/syms-ambac-jefferson-county-peregrine-bankruptcy.html
Dissident  Syms Corp. (SYMSQ)  creditors are
dissatisfied with the plan negotiated by the official creditors’
committee and intend to block approval of the reorganization
plan in  bankruptcy court  at the Aug. 29 confirmation hearing.  Through mediation in June, liquidated retailers Syms and
subsidiary Filene’s Basement LLC reached settlement with the two
official committees representing shareholders and creditors.  The revised Chapter 11 plan, filed last week, “turned the
 Bankruptcy Code  on its head by proposing to pay equity before
unsecured creditors,” Joe Sarachek, Managing Director of
Special Situations at CRT Capital Group LLC said in an
interview.  The plan allows existing shareholders to retain their stock
while unsecured creditors of parent Syms are paid in full
without interest over time on their $54 million in claims. The
plan calls for Marcy Syms, who owns about 54.7 percent of the
existing stock, to sell her holding to the company for $2.49 a
share, or a total of $19.5 million.  Combined with other unsecured creditors with similar
attitudes, Sarachek said there are enough dissent votes to block
plan approval. Bankruptcy law requires that two-thirds in dollar
amount of claims in each class must vote in favor of the plan.
For details on Syms’ newly revised plan, click here for the July
13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Bankruptcy law contains so-called cramdown provisions where
the bankruptcy judge may approve a plan even if a class votes
“no.” Using cramdown, however, requires that shareholders
receive nothing. Were cramdown utilized, the settlement wouldn’t
work because shareholders would receive nothing.  At a hearing on July 13 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Delaware , the judge approved disclosure material explaining the
newly revised plan. Creditors now can vote in anticipation of
the Aug. 29 confirmation hearing to approve the plan, court
records show. For a Bloomberg story on the confirmation hearing,
click here.  Sarachek said the plan is a “really poor result” that
came about because “the creditors’ committee just got worn
down.” He said it was “hubris” for the plan to make a “three
year interest free loan” for the benefit of existing
shareholders.  The plan provides that interest will only begin to accrue
on unsecured creditors’ claims if they haven’t been paid full by
October 2015.  “There is a real risk that this plan will be voted down,”
Adam Moskowitz, managing partner from ASM Capital LP said in an
interview. ASM owns unsecured claims it intends to vote against
the plan, Moskowitz said.  The revised disclosure statement, filed last week, told
shareholders that they can expect the stock they retain in the
reorganized company to be worth $1.50 to $2 a share assuming the
real estate in lower  Manhattan  is worth $147 million. If the
property is developed and sold four or five years later, the
value could rise as much as $120 million, increasing the value
of equity by $7.22 a share, the disclosure statement shows.  A call to lawyers for the creditors’ committee after
business hours wasn’t returned.  The Syms stock lost 48 percent of its value on July 12 when
the new disclosure statement was filed. The stock closed that
day at $4.05 in over the counter trading. The stock recovered
some lost ground by rising 11.1 percent on July 13, closing at
$4.50. During bankruptcy, the stock’s peak was $12.65 on Dec.
12, 2011. The shares last traded at $7.76 just before the
Chapter 11 filing on Nov. 2.  Secaucus, New Jersey-based Syms purchased Filene’s through
a bankruptcy auction in June 2009 in Filene’s second Chapter 11
reorganization. At the outset of Chapter 11 case in November,
there were 25 Syms stores and 21 Filene’s locations.  The stores were closed and inventory sold. Leases were
terminated, leaving Syms with owned real estate.  Assets were listed in the Chapter 11 petition for $236
million, including real estate on the books for $97.7 million.
Liabilities were listed at $94 million, including $31.1 million
owing on a revolving credit with  Bank of America NA  as agent. In
addition, there were $11.1 million in letters of credit
outstanding on the revolver.  The case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Tribune Judge Ready to Sign Plan Confirmation Order  Tribune Co. finally has a Chapter 11 reorganization plan
that passes muster. In a 35-page opinion handed down July 13,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey dismissed the last
objections to the plan, refused to modify prior rulings, and
directed the parties to submit a confirmation order approving
the plan.  Carey’s signature on a confirmation order will allow
Tribune to emerge from a reorganization begun in December 2008,
once federal regulators approve the transfer of media licenses.  Although objections were winnowed down to a handful, three
classes of creditors, including senior noteholders and holders
of so-called Phones notes, still voted against the latest
iteration of the reorganization.  Carey ruled that expense claims by indenture trustees for
senior noteholders are properly classified along with claims on
the notes themselves. The judge explained in his opinion why
they shouldn’t be classified among general unsecured claims. He
said that the indenture trustees always allied themselves with
the noteholders, making it logical to classify their expense
claims along with claims on the notes.  Resolving another classification dispute, Carey ruled that
claims of tendering noteholders are subject to the subordination
provisions governing the Phones notes and thus should be
classified along with non-tendering Phones noteholder claims.  There was also a dispute over the lack of a reserve to
cover the outcome of appeals regarding the classification of
claims on the Phones notes. Carey said that reserves were
properly removed from the plan because he has ruled on the
treatment they are entitled to receive. Consequently, he said
that the creditors must seek a stay pending appeal to preserve
their claims.  Carey directed the parties to confer among themselves and
give him a confirmation order to sign approving the plan,
including language to reflect his rulings.  Carey’s latest rulings came as result of the last round of
confirmation hearings that began June 7 after some creditor
classes were permitted to vote on the plan again.  In April, Carey ruled that the $759.3 million in Phones
notes are subordinated to senior notes when it comes to
distributions from the trusts to be created under the plan.
Wilmington Trust Co., indenture trustee for the Phones
noteholders, along with Citadel Equity Fund Ltd. and Camden
Asset Management, were among the parties with remaining
objections to the plan.  The plan was revised after the judge ruled in October that
neither Tribune’s plan nor a competing proposal could be
approved. The judge decided that a modified company plan would
be easiest to confirm.  Before the plan can be implemented, the Federal
Communications Commission must approve a change in ownership of
Tribune’s television stations.  For details on the judge’s opinion and defects he found in
both plans, click here for the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. For a summary of the company’s plan as modified in April
2011, just before the confirmation trial ended, click here for
the April 7, 2011, Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a report on
how the bankruptcy judge modified his October ruling, click here
for the Dec. 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. Tribune owns the  Chicago Tribune , Los Angeles
Times, six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Wasendorf Confesses to 20-Year Fraud at Peregrine  Russell R. Wasendorf Sr. confessed to conducting a fraud
for 20 years at futures broker Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
where he was chief executive officer. A U.S. magistrate judge
ordered him held in custody pending a preliminary hearing July
18.  Wasendorf said in a statement for prosecutors that he
pulled off the fraud during the past 20 years by using his
authority as Peregrine’s sole owner to prevent anyone else from
seeing bank documents or interacting with the bank. He was
therefore able to forge bank documents showing about
$200 million more in customers’ deposits held at the bank than
was actually the case.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission alleged that
more than $200 million in supposedly segregated customer funds
has been misappropriated.  For Bloomberg coverage with details of Wasendorf’s
confession, click here.  At a quickly-convened hearing on July 13, the bankruptcy
judge authorized the Chapter 7 trustee to operate Peregrine’s
business on a “limited basis” through Sept. 13.  The CFTC filed a receivership action on July 10 in U.S.
District Court in  Chicago , where the judge appointed a receiver
and froze the assets the same day. The company itself filed a
liquidating Chapter 7 petition later that day, with a trustee
was appointed.  The fraud surfaced when Wasendorf unsuccessfully attempted
suicide outside the firm’s head office in Cedar Falls,  Iowa , on
July 9. He left behind a suicide note disclosing the fraud.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The CFTC receivership case is U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago). The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131,
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Iowa ( Cedar
Rapids ).  MF Global Parent’s Unpaid Fees Total $24.9 Million  Louis Freeh  and lawyers from his firm who are representing
him as trustee for MF Global Holdings Ltd. have run up
$15.7 million in fees that can’t be paid because there isn’t
available cash, according to the June operating report filed
with the bankruptcy court in New York.  On top of fees for the trustee, lawyers for the official
creditors’ committee have $9.2 million in currently unpayable
fees.  MF Global Holdings is the parent of MF Global Inc., the
liquidating commodities broker $1.6 billion short in accounts
holding customer property. The expenses of the separate trustee
for the broker are paid by the Securities Investor Protection
Corp.  The MF Global companies under Freeh’s control generated
$2.25 million in cash in June, when the outflow was $4 million.
The net outflow in the month was $2.25 million.  Freeh ended June with $16.5 million in cash still available
for use in paying expenses other than professional fees. During
June, $1.66 million of cash was used from so-called cash
collateral of secured lender  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA. (JPM)   At the outset of bankruptcy in October, the holding company
had no available cash other than $25.3 million in an account
held by the bankrupt finance subsidiary MF Global Finance USA
Inc. The account was maintained at JPMorgan, which claimed the
money in the account was collateral for loans the bank made and
could only be used with the bank’s permission. Arrangements were
later made to use the bank’s cash collateral to pay expenses
other than professional fees.  Last week, the bankruptcy judge approved $17.3 million in
fees for the primary counsel for James Giddens, the trustee
liquidating the brokerage subsidiary. The approved fees cover
the period from the beginning of the case through Feb. 29. About
$3 million in fees, or 15 percent, are being held back for
payment later in the case. SIPC approved the amount of fees
paid.  The MF Global Holdings parent and the commodity brokerage
subsidiary went into separate bankruptcies on Oct. 31.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  Dewey Has Approval for Returning Files to Clients  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct  law firm , was given
permission from the bankruptcy judge last week to return files
to clients and hire nine law firms and other professionals to
assist the liquidation.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn approved procedures
where clients or former Dewey lawyers will have 45 days to
decide whether to take possession of files. Former clients must
pay the cost of retrieving files in storage.  Glenn for now isn’t allowing Dewey to discard or destroy
files clients don’t want. Disposing of unwanted files presents
ethical problems because files contain confidential information.
If files were merely discarded rather than shredded,
confidential client information or communications might be
disclosed. Shredding several hundred thousand boxes of files
would be costly.  Glenn scheduled another hearing on July 25 to resume
discussion of how to dispose of unwanted client files.  The judge gave final approval to hire Dewey’s primary
bankruptcy counsel and another firm to deal with pension
matters.  Glenn refused to allow Dewey to hire Proskauer Rose LLP for
employment law issues resulting from failure to give workers 60
days’ notice before being fired. The U.S. Trustee charged that
the Proskauer firm had a conflict of interest because, among the
63 partners, lawyers and staff it hired from Dewey, some would
be entitled to sue for lack of notice.  The judge is allowing Dewey to make a revised request to
hire Proskauer for other employment-related matters. The judge
also allowed Dewey to hire seven non-lawyer professional firms
to assist in managing the liquidation.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers before the liquidation under
Chapter 11 began in May. There are two official committees, one
representing creditors and the other for former partners.  There is secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ambac Shareholder Settlement Upheld in Appeals Court  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the holding company for an
insurance company partially in rehabilitation, defeated
shareholders when the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan ruled
that the bankrupt company had the right to settle a
shareholders’ class-action suit.  Shareholders were attempting to overturn a ruling from
December by a U.S. District Judge who upheld the bankruptcy
court’s approval of settlement of class-action securities
lawsuits begun by shareholders before Ambac filed for bankruptcy
reorganization. The settlement, upheld by the appeals court on
July 12, means that shareholders can’t proceed with lawsuits
against officers and directors even though some of them believe
the settlement is inadequate.  The lawsuits, naming Ambac and executives as defendants,
alleged that the company didn’t accurately reflect liabilities
being taken on guaranteeing bonds. While in Chapter 11
reorganization, Ambac took the position that it owns the lawsuit
and had the power to settle. The bankruptcy court and the
district court agreed.  In the settlement, Ambac paid $2.5 million the company put
into escrow before bankruptcy. Insurance companies providing
directors’ and officers’ liability policies agreed to pay $24.6
million. The settlement was contingent on barring dissent
shareholders from continuing the suits or filing new ones.
Lawyers representing plaintiffs in derivative suits were
excluded from the mediation leading to the settlement.  The 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the lower
courts that once in bankruptcy, the “derivative claims became
property” belonging to Ambac. Consequently, the circuit court
ruled in its unsigned, two-page opinion that shareholders didn’t
have any “cognizable interest” in how the suit was settled
because it belonged to the company, not to them.  For details on the lower court’s opinions, click here for
the Dec. 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Ambac Financial Group Inc. overcame opposition from
shareholders and won the signature of the bankruptcy judge on a
confirmation order in March approving a Chapter 11
reorganization plan. Creditor classes were all in support of the
plan. For details on the plan, click here for the March 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Ambac parent filed under Chapter 11 in November 2010.
It listed assets of $90.7 million and liabilities totaling
$1.624 billion, virtually all unsecured. Most of the debt was
$1.622 billion owing on seven note issues. One issue for $400
million was subordinated.  The circuit court appeals case is Police and Fire
Retirement System of the City of Detroit v. Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (In re Ambac Financial Group Inc.), 11-4743, 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan). The appeal in district
court was Police and Fire Retirement System of the City of
Detroit v. Ambac Financial Group Inc. (In re Ambac Financial
Group Inc.), 11-7529, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The parent’s Chapter 11 case is In re
Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The state insurance
rehabilitation case is In re The Rehabilitation of Segregated
Account of Ambac Assurance Corp., 2010cv001576, Dane County,
Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison).  Jefferson County Bondholders Headed to Circuit Court  Jefferson County,  Alabama , sewer bondholders are being
permitted to appeal directly to the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Atlanta from a ruling on Jan. 6 by the bankruptcy judge. In his
opinion early this year, the bankruptcy judge ruled that the
county’s Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy filing automatically
divested a receiver from control of the sewer system and its
revenue.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham said
at the end of February that the appeal from his January opinion
involved “a matter of public importance.” Avoiding an
intermediate appeal to a U.S. district judge, he said, would
“materially advance the progress of the case.”  The Court of Appeals agreed and signed a series of orders
on July 12 permitting the bondholders to avoid an intermediate
appeal in district court.  Bennett concluded in his 57-page opinion in January that
the county’s filing for municipal debt adjustment automatically
divested the receiver who had been appointed by the state court
to take over the sewer system at the behest of bondholders. In
favor of the bondholders, the judge ruled that the lien
continues on sewer revenue.  Both the bondholders and the county are appealing various
aspects of the Jan. 6 opinion. For details on Bennett’s January
opinion, click here for the Jan. 9 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Where bondholders lost in January, they won on June 29 when
Bennett ruled that the bond indenture limits what the county may
deduct from sewer revenue before paying the remainder to
bondholders. Bennett said that the Bankruptcy Code doesn’t
permit deductions greater than those allowed by the indenture.
The county is deciding whether to appeal.  Jefferson County began the country’s all-time largest
Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy in November, saying long-term
debt is $4.23 billion, including about $3.1 billion in defaulted
sewer debt where the debt holders can look only to the sewer
system for payment. The sewer debt default is at the core of the
county’s financial ills.  The appeal in circuit court is Assured Guaranty Municipal
Corp. v. Jefferson County, Alabama, 12-13654, U.S. 11th Circuit
Court of Appeals.  The Chapter 9 case is In re Jefferson County, Alabama,
11-05736, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Alabama
(Birmingham). The lawsuit over control of the sewers and revenue
is Bank of New York Mellon v. Jefferson County, Alabama (In re
Jefferson County, Alabama), 12-00016, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District Alabama (Birmingham).  Wynnchurch Set to Buy Northstar for $70 Million  Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc. received no competing bids
and as a result will ask judges in the U.S. and  Canada  on July
24 to approve sale of the business to private-equity investor
Wynnchurch Capital Ltd. for $70 million.  The company said the price won’t be enough to repay first-
lien lenders in full. Northstar makes gears and gearboxes for
military helicopters.  Northstar’s principal lender,  Fifth Third Bank (FITB) , is loaning
a maximum of $22 million to finance the Chapter 11 effort. The
bank is already owed $39.5 million on a revolving credit and
$18.9 million on a  term loan . There is also a $7 million junior
loan from  Boeing Co. (BA)  financing the bankruptcy.  Northstar filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on June 14
with the sale to Wynnchurch already negotiated.  U.S. operations are based in Bedford Park, Illinois.
Northstar makes components and assemblies for Chinook, Apache
and Blackhawk helicopters, as well as the F-22 Raptor fighter.
There are six facilities in the U.S. and Canada. Revenue in 2011
was $189.6 million. The two largest customers are the U.S.
military and Boeing.  Northstar’s books show assets of $165.1 million, with
liabilities totaling $147.5 million. Trade suppliers are owed
$21.7 million. Canadian affiliates filed for reorganization in
Canada under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act.  The case is In re Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., 12-11817,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  LightSquared Lost $82 Million in 7 Weeks of Bankruptcy  LightSquared Inc. reported a net loss of $81.7 million on
revenue of $5.8 million from the beginning of the bankruptcy
reorganization on May 14 through the end of June.  The principal constituents of the loss were $20.7 million
in operating expenses, $16.6 million in depreciation, and
$45.1 million in interest expense. The results were disclosed in
an operating report filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court tomorrow for
approval of $30 million in financing provided by the so-called
Inc. lenders owed $322.3 million.  Some of the so-called LP lenders disagree with the proposal
to charge 80 percent of costs to LP under the proposed financing
agreement. They are owed $1.7 billion from a secured borrowing
in October 2010 by LightSquared LP.  LightSquared is developing a wireless communications
systems using earth-based and satellite technology. It filed in
Chapter 11 after the Federal Communications Commission denied
permission to build out the system from concern it would
interfere with reception by global-positioning devices.  Assets were listed for $4.48 billion, with liabilities
totaling $2.29 billion. The company says it spent $4 billion
developing the satellite system that LightSquared can’t
implement for lack of FCC approval.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital Partners LLC acquired
LightSquared in March 2010 for $1.05 billion in cash.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Auto Hauler Allied Has Final OK for $20 Million Loan  Auto hauler  Allied Systems Holdings Inc.  received final
approval near the end of last week for a $20 million loan from
an affiliate of controlling shareholder Yucaipa Cos.  Previously, the bankruptcy court in Delaware had approved
an interim $10 million loan. The loan is secured by liens ahead
of existing debt.  Allied’s new bankruptcy began in May when secured creditors
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC and Spectrum Group
Management LLC filed an involuntary Chapter 11 petition.
Controlled by Yucaipa, Allied consented to being in bankruptcy
reorganization again in June. Allied emerged from a prior
Chapter 11 reorganization in May 2007, 70 percent-controlled by
Yucaipa.  Allied’s debt includes $244 million owing on a first-lien
loan and $30 million on a second-lien obligation. The loans have
been in default since 2009. Allied’s reorganization in 2007 gave
creditors $265 million in first-lien debt plus
$50 million on a second-lien obligation.  The new case is In re Allied Systems Holdings Inc.,
12-11564, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The prior Chapter 11 was In re Allied Holdings,
Inc., 05-12515, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  NewPage, Creditors, Lenders to Mediate after Plan Filed  Paper maker NewPage Corp. has a mediator in its future.  The official creditors’ committee has been lobbying since
early May for the right to sue secured lenders. NewPage has been
saying in response that unsecured creditors are “hopelessly out
of the money” and there is no theory under which success in a
suit would bring them a recovery under a Chapter 11 plan.  At a hearing last week, the bankruptcy judge said he will
appoint a mediator once the company files a reorganization plan,
court records show.  The official committee contends that the lenders financed
an acquisition in 2007 and a refinancing two years later that
included fraudulent transfers. In return for financing to
support the Chapter 11 case, the company is barred from suing,
the committee says. For details on the creditors’ claims, click
here for the May 9 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  At a hearing in June, the bankruptcy court granted NewPage
an extension until Sept. 1 of the exclusive right to propose a
reorganization plan. NewPage is 80 percent-owned by Cerberus
Capital Management LP.  NewPage listed assets of $3.4 billion and debt totaling
$4.2 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
September. Liabilities included $232 million on a revolving
credit plus $1.77 billion on 11.375 percent senior secured
first-lien notes. Second-lien obligations include $802 million
in 10 percent secured notes and $225 million in floating-rate
notes.  In addition to $200 million in 12 percent senior unsecured
notes, there is $498 million owing on two issues of floating-
rate pay-in-kind notes.  NewPage, based in Miamisburg, Ohio, has 16 paper-making
machines operating in seven plants in the U.S. and Nova Scotia.
The Canadian affiliate filed for reorganization in Nova Scotia.
The company reported a $229 million net loss in the first half
of 2011 on revenue of $1.79 billion, following a $674 million
net loss in 2010 on revenue of $3.6 billion.  The case is In re NewPage Corp., 11-12804, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Impact Services Looks to Auction Assets Aug. 17  The trustee for  Impact Services Inc. , a radioactive-waste
processor in Oak Ridge,  Tennessee , is proposing to hold an
auction on Aug. 17 to sell the assets. No buyer is yet under
contract.  Impact filed a petition in May in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Delaware for liquidation in Chapter 7 where a trustee was
appointed. The trustee is asking the bankruptcy judge to hold an
accelerated hearing on July 19 for approval of auction and sale
procedures.  If the judge agrees, bids would be due Aug. 15 in advance
of an auction two days later and a hearing on Aug. 20 for
approval of a sale.  Assets being sold include a device called a pyrolysis
machine that heats waste to 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit, reducing
the waste to ash and lowering the cost of disposal. Impact owns
the building, although it doesn’t own the underlying land.  There is a $13 million claim secured by the assets.  The trustee said he needs to sell the assets before he runs
out of cash.  In a bankruptcy court filing, the company described the
radioactive materials as “low level.” The company said it
doesn’t believe the wastes “pose a threat of imminent and
identifiable harm to public health or safety.”  The petition stated that assets are less than $10 million
while debt exceeds $10 million.  The cases are In re Impact Holdings Inc. and In re Impact
Services Inc., 12-11604 and 12-11605, both in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  BroadSign Files Plan with 10% for Unsecured Creditors  BroadSign International Inc. , a developer of software for
digital signs, completed the sale of the business at the end of
May to secured lender JEDFam Group LLC in exchange for
$5.5 million in secured debt plus cash needed to cure defaults
on contracts going along with the sale.  There will be a hearing on Aug. 23 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Delaware for approval of disclosure materials so creditors
can vote on a Chapter 11 reorganization plan.  The plan calls for JEDFam to take ownership of the company
in return for its remaining secured claim. Unsecured creditors,
with an estimated $3.35 million in claims, will be paid
10 percent in cash. JEDFam has a $5.5 million unsecured claim to
receive no distribution.  BroadSign filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in March with
the sale to a JEDFam already negotiated. When the bankruptcy
began, BroadSign owed a total of $5.7 million to JEDFam on two
first-lien obligations. JEDFam also owns
25 percent of the BroadSign stock.  Other secured lenders were owed a total of $6.8 million on
obligations junior to the JEDFam debt, according to a court
filing.  The case is In re BroadSign International Inc., 12-10789,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Lenny Dykstra Pleads Guilty to Bankruptcy Fraud  Lenny Dykstra , a former major league baseball player
already serving three years in state prison for grand theft
auto, pleaded guilty last week in federal court to three counts
of bankruptcy fraud and other crimes. He will be sentenced on
Dec. 3.  The former player for the  New York Mets  and  Philadelphia
Phillies  was indicted in May 2011 on federal charges of
bankruptcy fraud for selling or destroying $400,000 in property
from his home. The indictment was modified to include charges
that he withheld baseball memorabilia from his bankruptcy
trustee.  Separately, Dykstra was sentenced to a concurrent nine-
month state sentence for lewd conduct and assault. For Bloomberg
coverage of the new plea, click here.  Dykstra filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 in July
2009 in Woodland Hills, California. A Chapter 11 trustee was
appointed in September 2009, and the case was converted to a
liquidation in Chapter 7 in October 2009.  Dykstra’s bankruptcy listed assets of $24.6 million against
debt totaling $37.1 million. Debt included
$12.9 million owing to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Dykstra, 11-415, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles). The
bankruptcy case is In re Lenny Kyle Dykstra, 09-18409, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California
(Woodland Hills).  Prepack Coming  Broadview Networks Agrees with Lenders on Debt Swap  Broadview Networks Holdings Inc., a telecommunications
provider based in Rye Brook, New York, agreed with first-lien
bondholders and shareholders on a debt-for-equity exchange to
swap $300 million in 11.375 first-lien senior secured notes
maturing on Sept. 1. for $150 million of new five-year secured
notes and a “vast majority” of the equity.  The company’s statement on July 13 didn’t disclose details
of the transaction to be carried out in the “near future”
through a so-called prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization.  The agreement was reached with holders of more than two-
thirds of the secured notes and shares, Broadview said.  The company said that holders of existing preferred stock
will receive a “portion of the primary equity” along with
warrants to purchase more stock.  The notes traded on July 13 for 67.8 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Standard & Poor’s 
predicted last week that holders wouldn’t recover more than
30 percent following payment default.  Broadview reported a $5.3 million net loss on revenue of
$88.5 million for the quarter ended March 31. The balance sheet
was upside down, with assets of $258.3 million and total
liabilities of $373.4 million.  For 2011, there was an $11.9 million net loss on revenue of
$378.2 million.  New Filing  Indiana Steel & Tube Files with Inventory Discrepancy  Indiana Steel & Tube Inc. , a producer of steel tube from
Brownstown, Indiana, filed for Chapter 11 reorganization last
week after the discovery that actual inventory was substantially
less than the amount shown on the books and records. The company
is yet determine the cause of the discrepancy, according to a
court filing.  Revenue in 2011 was more than $40 million. Debt includes
$7.8 million on a revolving credit and $2.2 million on a secured
term loan, both owing to Indiana Bank & Trust Co. The bank
agreed to provide a $3.3 million credit for the Chapter 11
effort.  Assets and debt both exceed $10 million, according to the
petition.  The case is In re Indiana Steel & Tube Inc., 12-91512, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Indiana ( New Albany ).  Downgrade  FTS International Inc. Demoted to B2 Corporate by Moody’s  FTS International Inc. , one of the five largest providers
of fracturing services for the oil and natural-gas exploration
industry, was downgraded by one level on July 13 to a B2
corporate rating from Moody’s Investors Services.  Moody’s acted in view of “failed expectations of debt
reduction,” greater liquidity “concerns,” and “lower pricing
and higher operating costs.”  The $1.5 billion secured term loan was demoted to a B3
rating. The debt is secured by stock in  FTS International
Services LLC , the operating company.  Moody’s didn’t change the Ba3 rating on the $550 million in
operating company senior notes.  FTS is controlled by Temasek Holdings Pte. and natural gas
producer  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  It was acquired in part by
virtue of the $1.5 billion term loan.  In May, Standard & Poor’s downgraded FTS International
Services to a B corporate rating. S&P based its action on lower
natural  gas prices  that led to a 20 percent decline in the past
year for FTS’s products and services, S&P said. S&P predicted
that revenue would decline as much as 10 percent this year.  Formerly known as Frac Tech Services LLC, the company is
based in Fort Worth, Texas.  Bank Failure  Failed Missouri Bank Bring Year’s Total to 33  The single-branch Glasgow Savings Bank in Glasgow,
Missouri, was taken over by regulators on July 13. It was the
33rd bank to fail this year.  With only $24.2 million in deposits, the cost to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is an estimated $100,000.  In 2011, there were 92 bank failures, compared with 157 in
2010. The failures in 2010 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  Bankruptcy Podcast & Video  Peregrine Options, Kodak Bonuses, J.C. Penney: Audio & Video  Customers of Peregrine Financial Group Inc. may end up with
a larger recovery if the liquidation of the futures commission
merchant is carried out by a receiver rather than a bankruptcy
trustee, for reasons Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg
News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle explain on their
podcast.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  is proposing a program that could pay
Chief Executive Antonio M. Perez a 200 percent bonus if
unsecured creditors recover 30 percent. The last item on the
podcast discusses the travails of retailer  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  To
listen, click here.  On a Bloomberg bankruptcy video, Rochelle and Pacchia also
discuss the advantages of a receivership for Peregrine, compared
with a Chapter 7 bankruptcy. For the Bloomberg video, click
here.  Advance Sheets  Circuit Court Makes Rules for Chapter 13 Family Size  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, became the
first federal circuit court to rule on calculating family size
in deciding how much individuals in Chapter 13 must pay to
creditors. There was a dissent on the three-judge panel.  The case involved a bankrupt mother who had joint custody
with her former husband of two minor children. The bankrupt’s
current husband had joint custody of three children with a
former wife.  The bankrupt wife contended there were seven in her
household for the calculation of expenses in deciding how much
income was left to pay creditors.  The bankruptcy judge disagreed, using a modified “economic
unit” approach where the court calculated that the bankrupt’s
two children each represented 56 percent of a child based on the
number of days the children lived with the mother.  The bankruptcy judge decided that the new husband’s three
children each were 49 percent of a child, also based on the
number of days the children lived in the home.  The bankruptcy judge totaled the fractions to yield 2.59
children and rounded off to three. The bankruptcy court
therefore decided that the household had five members and thus
refused to approve the Chapter 13 plan until net disposable
income was recalculated.  On appeal, Circuit Judge G. Steven Agee upheld in the lower
court in a 32-page opinion, noting that no circuit court has
addressed the issue that divides lower courts.  Agee said that the critical word “household” in the
Bankruptcy Code is ambiguous. He said the word must be given a
definition that best suits Congress’ purpose in ensuring that
bankrupts “repay creditors the maximum they can afford.”  Agree rejected an approach of using the number claimed as
dependents on tax returns as being “underinclusive” in
calculating household size and expense. He rejected the “heads
on a bed” method used by the  U.S. Census  as overincluding the
number of individuals contributing to family expense.  Agee said that the bankruptcy court’s “economic unit”
approach was correct.  Circuit Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III dissented in nine-
page opinion. He said he couldn’t agree with the idea of
breaking “a debtor’s children into fractions for purposes of
Chapter 13’s means test.” An approach like the bankruptcy
court’s, in his view, “subjects debtors to needlessly intrusive
and litigious proceedings.”  Wilkinson said that the majority’s method “lacks a
foundation in statutory text.”  The case is Johnson v. Zimmer (In re Johnson), 11-2034,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond,
Virginia).  Dischargeability Can’t Be Arbitrated, Circuit Rules  A bankruptcy court properly refused to allow arbitration
when a creditor sought to have arbitrators decide whether there
was a breach of contract and whether the resulting damages would
be discharged in bankruptcy, the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco ruled on July 9.  The decision followed an opinion in January in a case
called Thorpe Insulation, where the Ninth Circuit concluded that
a bankruptcy judge has discretion to refuse to enforce
arbitration clauses in contracts in both core and non-core
disputes.  U.S. District Judge Algenon L. Marbley from Ohio, sitting
by designation on the Ninth Circuit, followed Thorpe and ruled
that allowing arbitration would “conflict with the underlying
purposes of the Bankruptcy Code.”  The case involved an individual who filed in Chapter 11.
Creditors contended he was liable for $3 million in damages for
breaching a construction contract.  Marbley said that the creditors “in actuality” were
trying to have the arbitrators decide dischargeability of the
debt. Because ruling on breach of contract was “so closely
intertwined with dischargeability,” the bankruptcy judge was
within his discretion to deny arbitration, even though it was
required under the construction contract.  For a discussion of Thorpe, click here for the Feb. 2
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The case is Ackerman v. Eber (In re Eber), 10-56772, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  No Copyright Jury Trial Following Stern v. Marshall  Katchan v. Landy, a 1996 decision from the U.S.  Supreme
Court , remains good law despite last year’s high court decision
in Stern v. Marshall, the U.S. Court of Appeals in  St. Louis 
ruled on July 13.  The case involved an individual who filed bankruptcy after
being sued for copyright infringement. The creditors filed
claims and a lawsuit in bankruptcy court to declare the debt
nondischargeable.  The bankruptcy court denied the creditors a  jury trial ,
awarded $14,250 in damages, and declared the debt not
discharged.  The creditors appealed, contending they were entitled to a
jury trial on the amount of damages. A district judge denied the
appeal, and so did the Eighth Circuit in an eight-page opinion
by Circuit Judge Raymond W. Gruender.  Gruender cited and relied on Katchan for the proposition
that filing a proof of claim in bankruptcy waives the right to a
jury trial. He read last year’s Stern v. Marshall decision and
concluded that it “expressly distinguished” Katchan and
remains good law.  In Stern v. Marshall, the Supreme Court held that a
bankruptcy court lacks the power to enter a final judgment on a
bankrupt’s state-law claim against a creditor.  The case is Pearson Education Inc. v. Almgren, 11-2723,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 