-- U.K. Pledges 9 Billion Pounds for Rail to Boost Growth
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-16T12:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/u-k-pledges-9-billion-pounds-for-rail-to-boost-economic-growth.html
Britain is to invest 9.4 billion
pounds ($14.6 billion) in the rail network over the next several
years as the government tries to boost the ailing economy.  The investment, including 4.2 billion pounds of newly
announced money, will be spent on upgrades to stations and
tracks between 2014 and 2019, Transport Secretary Justine Greening said today. The cash injection aims to create enough
capacity around cities for an additional 140,000 daily rail
journeys at peak times.  “Over time, by the end of this package, we think that
getting on by 75 percent of journeys by passengers will be on
electric trains, so it’s really good news,” Greening told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  held a Cabinet meeting today
in the Midlands, where he and his Liberal Democrat deputy  Nick Clegg  announced the investment plans. They used a joint press
conference in Birmingham to emphasize their efforts to spur the
economy after relations between the ruling parties reached a new
low last week following a Conservative rebellion over plans to
overhaul the House of Lords. One Tory lawmaker predicted the
coalition would break up.  The East Coast Main Line linking Yorkshire, Lincolnshire
and Cambridgeshire to  London  will get 240 million pounds of
extra investment. By spending 350 million pounds to lengthen
platforms at London Waterloo station, there will be extra
capacity for 120,000 more daily commutes in and out of the
British capital, the Department for Transport said in an e-mail.  ‘Money Tree’  Greening said there is no “money tree” to pay for the
improvements and that passengers faced fare increases, adding
that the taxpayer had to subsidize money-losing train operating
companies.  “Some of them make a surplus, some of them make a loss,
and that’s something the taxpayers have to subsidize,” she
said. “I think that’s one of the reasons to look at how we can
make the underlying industry work more efficiently as a whole.”  Greening, who represents a district in southwest London
that lies under Heathrow’s flight path, denied media reports
that she is under pressure from Cameron and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  to abandon her opposition to building a
third runway at the London airport, run by BAA Airports Ltd.  “I’d be a funny transport secretary if I took a
position that wasn’t government policy,” she said. “There is
no policy for a third runway.”  ‘Strongly Held Views’  The issue of airport capacity “is not susceptible to an
immediate solution,” Clegg told today’s news conference. He
said the government will examine where the U.K.’s new airport
hub should be built. “There are lots of very strongly held
views on all sides of the debate.”  Speaking alongside Clegg, Cameron said the government is
committed to pressing ahead with a high-speed rail line between
London and northern England.  “Don’t underestimate the extent to which high-speed rail
can assist with this over the long-term,” he said. “If all the
places that could be met with high-speed rail were, you’d take
about 20 percent of the flights out of Heathrow, so that is part
of the answer.”  Today’s investment announcement comes as the U.K. economy
struggles to climb out of its second recession since 2009 amid
government spending cuts at home and a deepening crisis in the
euro region, the biggest market for British exports.  ‘Jam Tomorrow’  The general secretary of the RMT union,  Bob Crow , who
frequently criticizes government policy, urged action. The RMT
represents 80,000 rail, maritime and transport workers.  “What we need is investment in rail today, not yet another
political promise of jam tomorrow,” Crow said in an e-mailed
statement. “All of the rail projects on this shopping list have
been talked about for years and with the surge in passenger
demand we cannot afford further delays.”  Britain has already allocated 5.2 billion pounds of funding
for rail projects. These include Crossrail, the capital’s east-
west link under construction; Thameslink, which also traverses
London; the electrification of the line between London and
Cardiff, alongside tracks linking Manchester to Liverpool and
Preston.  Other investment announced today include the creation of a
high-capacity “electric spine” running from Yorkshire and the
West Midlands to south-coast ports, allowing more reliable
electric trains to cut journey times and boost capacity for
passengers and freight, the transport department said.  Investment Targets  This comprises 800 million pounds of electrification and an
upgrade from Sheffield -- through Nottingham, Derby and
Leicester -- to Bedford, completing the full electrification of
the Midland Main Line out of London  St. Pancras . It also
includes electrification of the lines from Nuneaton and Bedford
to Oxford, Reading, Basingstoke and Southampton.  The U.K. will also complete the full electrification of the
Great Western Main Line between London Paddington and Swansea in
South Wales at a cost of more than 600 million pounds, as well
as the electrification of the Welsh Valley lines, including Ebbw
Vale, Maesteg and the Vale of Glamorgan. These will give two-
thirds of the Welsh population access to new fleets of electric
trains.  The government said it will complete in full the “Northern
Hub” cluster of rail enhancements with the approval of 322
million pounds of outstanding track and capacity upgrades across
Manchester city center, Manchester Airport and across to
Liverpool.  It will also introduce a new 500 million-pound rail link
between the Great Western Main Line and Heathrow allowing direct
services to the airport for passengers from southwest  England ,
the Thames Valley and Wales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  