-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed Amid Economic Concern
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-16T15:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/u-k-stocks-decline-as-libor-inquiry-widens.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed as
the  International Monetary Fund  cut its outlook for the global
economy and inquiries into charges of interest-rate manipulation
intensified on both sides of the Atlantic.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which paid a 290 million-pound ($452 million)
fine for rigging the  London  Interbank Offered Rate, fell for a
fourth day. G4S Plc slumped the most in nine months after saying
it may incur a 50 million-pound loss as it failed to provide
enough guards for the London Olympics.  The FTSE 100 Index fell 3.7 points, less than 0.1 percent,
to 5,662.43 at the close of trading in London. The benchmark
gauge has lost 5.1 percent from its 2012 high on March 16 amid
concern the euro-area debt crisis is worsening and global
economic growth is slowing down. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index added less than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index rose 0.9 percent.  “The possibility of stagnation around the world has
increased,” Richard Urwin, head of investments at BlackRock
Inc.’s Fiduciary Mandate Investment Team, said at a briefing in
London. Without policy intervention, “the emergence of a self-
sustaining recovery doesn’t seem probable, especially in the
developed world.”  The volume of shares changing hands on  FTSE 100 (UKX)  companies
was 35 percent lower than its 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Worsening Outlook  The IMF cut its 2013 global growth forecast as well as the
projection for the British economy.  Growth worldwide will be 3.9 percent next year, less than
the 4.1 percent estimate in April, the fund predicted in an
update of its World Economic Outlook.  The U.K. economy will advance 1.4 percent next year, less
than the 2 percent growth seen in April, the fund predicted.  Libor investigations on both sides of the Atlantic
intensified, with Barclays traders facing possible U.S. charges
by September and British lawmakers may use hearings this week to
expand their inquiry to other banks tied to the global financial
scandal.  Traders involved in allegedly manipulating Libor rates
between 2005 and 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors before
the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3, said a person familiar with
the Justice Department investigation in  Washington .  Barclays dropped 2.7 percent to 157.7 pence, the lowest
price since November.  U.S. Economy  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded in July at a
faster pace than anticipated, a report showed today. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index rose to 7.4
from 2.3 in June. The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for an increase to 4.0.  Meanwhile, U.S.  retail sales  unexpectedly declined for a
third straight month in June.  G4S Plc (GFS)  dropped 8.7 percent to 254.6 pence, the biggest
slump since Oct. 17. The U.K. security provider said it may
incur a 50 million-pound loss on the work for failing to provide
enough guards. The government had to assign 3,500 extra soldiers
after G4S couldn’t meet the terms of its 284-million pound
contract to provide 13,700 guards for the Games, which start on
July 27.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  slumped 14 percent to 238 pence, the
biggest decrease since August, after Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
 Europe ’s largest energy producer, declined to raise its offer
for the company, leaving  Thailand ’s PTT Exploration & Production
Pcl as the highest bidder for the East Africa-focused explorer.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  declined 3.2 percent to 276 pence after the
accounting and payroll-software company said it remained
“cautious” on its European outlook. Numis Securities Ltd. cut
the stock to hold from add.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  