-- U.K. to Spend 22 Billion Pounds Upgrading Gas, Power Networks
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-16T07:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/u-k-to-spend-22-billion-pounds-upgrading-gas-power-networks.html
About 22 billion pounds ($34.2
billion) will be needed to upgrade Britain’s aging gas and
electricity networks, the  Office of the Gas and Electricity
Markets  said today.  The majority, or 15 billion pounds, will go toward
improvements on National Grid Plc-operated English and Welsh
high-voltage electricy and British high-pressure gas networks,
the country’s market regulator said today in a statement. The
investment covers the eight years from 2013 through 2021.  The funding is needed to finance major projects like the
construction of new sub-sea electricity cables connecting
England and  Wales  to  Scotland , Ofgem said. The U.K. plans to get
15 percent of all energy for heat, power and transportation from
renewable energy in 2020, helped by wind farms in Scotland.  “Britain faces an unprecedented need to invest to replace
ageing infrastructure, meet environmental targets and deliver
secure supplies,” Ofgem Chairman John Mogg said in the
statment. The weighted average cost of capital for the
investment will be around 4.5 percent, he said.  Around 7 billion pounds will go toward maintaining
Britain’s low pressure gas networks and replacing gas mains,
Ofgem said. A total of 17 billion pounds has been approved for
investment, while the remaining 5 billion will only be used
“where there is a demonstrable need for the infrastructure,”
the regulator said.  Household Bills  The extra spending will add about 7 pounds to household
bills in 2013, rising to about 15 pounds in 2021. The annual
average increase across the eight-year period is 11 pounds,
Ofgem said.  Today’s proposals, which are part of a new regulatory
framework, will be published on July 27 and remain open for
consultation through Sept. 21. Ofgem will publish its final
proposals in December.  “We believe that these initial proposals will not
appropriately incentivise the essential investments necessary to
provide safe, reliable networks for the U.K. consumer and avoid
delays to the achievement of the U.K.’s environmental targets,”
National Grid said in response to the spending plans. The
financing packages don’t “adequately reflect the increased
scale of investment and implicit risk,” the company said.  National Grid dropped 2.2 percent to 678 pence as of 8:15
a.m. in London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  