-- U.S. Retail Sales Probably Advanced in June on Vehicle Demand
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/u-s-retail-sales-probably-advanced-in-june-on-vehicle-demand.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
rose in June for the first time in three months as a gain in
demand for automobiles outshined spending on other goods,
economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.2 percent advance in purchases would follow
a 0.2 percent May drop, according to the  median  forecast of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show a
manufacturing accelerated in the  New York  region in July.  Receipts at merchants other than auto dealers were probably
little changed as a weakening job market sapped households of
the confidence and the incomes needed to boost expenditures.
Without a pickup in spending at retailers like Target Corp. and
Macy’s Inc., the recovery will have difficulty gaining momentum.  “Because of the pop in auto sales, this report is going to
be a slightly better than it was the previous month,” said
Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
in New York. “The consumer is still bumping along, providing
enough strength to keep the economy moving forward but not
enough strength to move the economy back to trend.”  The Commerce Department will release the figures at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline
of 0.4 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  One bright spot, auto purchases have held up as Americans
replace aging vehicles. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 14.1
million annual rate in June, compared with a 13.7 million pace
in May that was the weakest of the year, Ward’s Automotive Group
data show.  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group
LLC reported sales that topped analysts’ estimates.  ‘Tremendous Opportunity’  “We’ve got just some tremendous opportunity in the back
half of the year,” Kurt McNeil, U.S. vice president of sales at
General Motors, said during a July 3 conference call. “We still
see headwinds, but at the end of the day we’re calling for
moderate, gradual economic growth.”  Even so, scant income gains have prevented consumers from
boosting spending on other goods. Same-store sales at the more
than 20 companies tracked by Retail Metrics Inc. increased 0.3
percent in June from the same time last year following a 4
percent gain in May.  Sales at Target rose 2.1 percent in June, falling short of
the average projection for a 2.8 percent gain from analysts
surveyed by Retail Metrics. Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S.
department-store chain, posted a 1.2 percent increase compared
with a 2.3 percent estimate.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Retailing Index (S15RETL)  rose
1.7 percent in June, compared with a 4 percent gain for the
broader  S&P 500 .  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending , about 70 percent of the economy, grew at
a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, according to
Commerce Department data. Economists surveyed this month
forecast it increased at a 1.9 percent rate from April to June
while the economy as a whole expanded at a 1.8 percent pace.  “The economy in  North America  continues to be fragile as
consumer confidence lags and job growth remains anemic,” Vernon Nagel, chairman and chief executive of  Acuity Brands Inc. (AYI) , a
lighting fixture maker, said during a July 2 earnings call. “We
expect the macroeconomic environment for the balance of 2012 to
continue to be influenced by external concerns, including fiscal
and monetary policy in U.S and  European debt crisis  which is
eroding business and  consumer confidence .”  The retail sales category used by the Commerce Department
to calculate gross domestic product, which excludes sales at
auto dealers, building-material stores and service stations,
will show a 0.2 percent  gain  in June after no change the prior
month, according to economists surveyed.  Gasoline Prices  Cheaper gasoline is providing some relief for household
budgets. The average price of a gallon of regular fuel at the
pump fell to $3.33 on July 1, the lowest in six months,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto club.  Also today, an 8:30 a.m. report from the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York  is projected to show factories in its region
expanded at a faster pace in July. A 10 a.m. report from the
Commerce Department may show inventories at U.S. businesses
 increased  0.2 percent in May after a 0.4 percent gain, according
to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  