-- U.S. Stock Futures Maintain Losses as Retail Sales Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-07-16T12:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/u-s-stock-futures-maintain-losses-as-retail-sales-drop.html
U.S. stock-index futures maintained
losses as an unexpected decrease in retail sales overshadowed a
report showing stronger-than-forecast growth in New York-area
manufacturing.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
September decreased 0.3 percent to 1,347.4 at 8:32 a.m. in  New
York .  The 0.5 percent drop in retail sales followed a 0.2 percent
decrease in May, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The decline was worse than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey in which the median
projection called for a 0.2 percent rise. The June decrease was
broad-based, including car dealers, department stores and
gasoline stations.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 7.4 from 2.3 in June. The median forecast of 51
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase to
4.0. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index that covers New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The last negative reading was
in October.  U.S. stocks rose last week, reversing losses on the final
day, as a rally in JPMorgan Chase & Co. and speculation  China 
will boost stimulus measures tempered concern about earnings and
the global economy. JPMorgan helped lead the advance on July 13
as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets will probably post record earnings for 2012 even
after reporting a $4.4 billion trading loss.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao warned the momentum for a
recovery in economic growth isn’t yet in place and that
“difficulties” may persist for a while, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported.  Four out of the six S&P 500 companies that reported results
last week beat analysts’ earnings estimates while one missed,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Overall, profits probably
decreased 2.1 percent in the second quarter, the first drop in
almost three years, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  