-- U.S. Navy Ship Fires on Fishing Boat Near Dubai; 1 Dead
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m ,   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-17T07:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/u-s-navy-vessel-fires-upon-small-motor-boat-off-coast-of-dubai.html
A U.S. Navy ship opened fire on a
fishing boat off the coast of Dubai yesterday, killing a person
aboard the vessel after it ignored warnings not to approach,
U.S. officials said.  “An embarked security team aboard a U.S. Navy vessel fired
upon a small motor vessel after it disregarded warnings and
rapidly approached the U.S. ship,” Lt. Greg Raelson, a media
officer for the U.S. Navy, said in an e-mail. The incident
occurred at 2:50 p.m. local time yesterday, 10 miles off the
port of Jebel Ali in the  United Arab Emirates , he said.  The shooting happened near the  Strait of Hormuz , where
tensions have risen this year as Iranian officials threatened to
shut down the waterway in response to increased U.S. and
European pressure. Western sanctions on oil and other products
aim to prevent  Iran  from acquiring nuclear weapons technology, a
technology that Iran maintains it isn’t seeking.  The vessel fired on was a fishing boat whose owner was from
the United Arab Emirates, according to Al Arabiya television.
The fisherman who was killed and the three people injured were
Indian, according to the U.A.E.’s WAM state news agency. The
casualty figures were verified by a U.S. official speaking on
condition of anonymity because the incident is still being
investigated.  The  USNS Rappahannock  issued warnings to the smaller vessel
by voice, radio and light signals before firing, a U.S. official said.
The vessel, a 41,000-ton fleet replenishment oiler operated by the
U.S. Navy’s Sealift Command and staffed mostly by civilians,
also carried a security team, the Navy said.  Fired Rounds  When the warnings failed, the security team “fired rounds
from a .50-caliber machine gun,” Raelson said. The boat that
was hit had approached to within 100 yards (91 meters) to 200
yards of the U.S. ship, according to another U.S. official, also
speaking on condition of anonymity.  A investigation of the incident showed the boat didn’t
receive a warning and was sailing on its rightful course, Abu
Dhabi-based newspaper The National reported today, citing Dahi
Khalfan, Dubai’s police chief. The shooting was a mistake, the
newspaper cited him as saying.  The Pentagon has been beefing up its military presence in
the region and yesterday said it is accelerating by four months
the deployment of the John C. Stennis aircraft carrier group to
the region. The ship’s arrival will mean the Navy will continue
to operate two aircraft carriers and associated warships in the
region. The Navy also has doubled the number of its counter-mine
ships to eight to thwart any attempts to close the strait.  Suicide Attack  F-22 stealth fighters were deployed to a U.A.E. airbase
close to the Strait of Hormuz in April, Aviation Weeks reported,
which Iran’s Defense Minister Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi
described at the time as “useless and harmful.”  U.S. Navy ships are sensitive to being approached by other
vessels, especially after the destroyer USS Cole was bombed by a
suicide attack boat in Yemen in October 2000, Michael Eisenstadt, a Middle East specialist at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy, said in a phone interview. The U.S. Navy
shot down an Iranian passenger flight over the  Persian Gulf  in
1988, killing 290 people.  “You’ve the possibility of an al-Qaeda attack, and the
effect is to put troops on very high alert,” Eisenstadt said.  There have been “very few incidents in memory in which we
have ended up with the use of lethal or non-lethal fire,”
Eisenstadt said. He cited an incident in January 2008 when
Iranian fast boats approached within 500 yards of U.S. naval
vessels without shots being fired.  Iranian naval activity and U.S. encounters with the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard Corps have been calm “in the last couple of
months,” U.S. Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan
Greenert said last month. Iranian naval conduct has been
“professional and courteous, committing to the rules of the
road,” he told reporters at the Pentagon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  