-- Under Armour, Victoria’s Secret: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/under-armour-victoria-s-secret-intellectual-property.html
A successful patent challenge the
coupon website  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  brought against Mobgob LLC and CY
Technology Troup LLC was confirmed by a federal appeals court.  In its July 13, the Washington-based  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit upheld a lower-court holding that patent
7,672,897 was invalid. The court affirmed the lower court
without issuing an opinion.  The disputed patent, issued in March 2012, was related to a
method of community purchasing.  Groupon’s case was argued by David W. Abel of Chicago-based
DLA Piper LLP.  Cy Technology Group and Mob Gob’s case was
argued by Alexander C.D. Giza of  Russ August & Kabat  of Los
Angeles.  The appeals court case is Cy Technology Group LLC v. Groupon
Inc., 2011-1568-1598, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is Cy Technology
Group LLC v. Groupon Inc., 10-7287, U.S. District Court for the
Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  Bose Loses Patent Challenge to Speaker-Docking Device Makers  Bose Corp., the maker of high-end audio equipment, lost a
patent challenge it brought against a number of manufacturers of
speaker docking devices.  In a July 10 ruling, U.S. District Judge William G. Young
said that 143 of the 144 products Bose accused didn’t infringe
the company’s patent 7,277,765. As far as the remaining product
is concerned, he said no reasonable jury could find that its
manufacturer “had the intent necessary to support a finding of
inducement or contributory infringement.”  He didn’t address the issue of the patents’ validity,
saying this would be matter for what are known as reexamination
proceedings within the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  Framingham, Massachusetts-based Bose filed the suit in
federal district court in  Boston  in August 2009.  The case is Bose Corp v. SDI Technologies Inc., 1:09-cv-
11439-WGY, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Under Armour’s Infringement Claim Overreaches, Body Armor Says  Body Armor Nutrition LLC  has responded to a trademark
infringement suit, saying Under Armour Inc.’s claim is “a prime
example of trademark bullying by a corporate giant seeking to
stifle an innovative startup company.”  Under Armour, the Baltimore-based maker of sports apparel
and goods, sued  Body Armor  in federal court in Baltimore in
April, saying the use of “Body Armor” by the nutrition company
infringes multiple trademarks.  Both companies target the same class of customers, Under
Armour claimed, causing the public to be confused and to assume
falsely that a connection exists between the two entities,
according to court papers.  In its July 12 response, Los Angeles-based Body Armor said
that the main business of the Baltimore company is “focused
exclusively on sports apparel” and it is “impossible” for
consumers and retailers to confuse the two entities.  The California company noted that multiple companies
possess trademarks containing the word “armour” or “armor”
and listed examples that included makers of golf equipment,
footwear, vitamin supplements, and meats.  The case is  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  v. Body Armor Nutrition LLC,
1:12-cv-01283-JKB, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Baltimore).  Limited’s Victoria’s Secret Sues Cosmetics Maker  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s Victoria’s Secret unit sued a
competing cosmetics company for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed July 11 in federal court in  New Jersey ,
accused Black Knight Holdings LLC of Sparta, New Jersey, and its
affiliated Rise Global Products LLC of Waco,  Texas , of
infringing trademarks associated with Victoria’s Secret’s “VS
Fantasies” lines of hand and body creams.  Packaging for the defendants’ Cielo line of body-care
products “consists of slavish copies” of the  VS Fantasies ’
packaging, according to court papers. The Cielo products “use
the same size and shape container, the same colors, gradations,
layout and overall design” as Victoria’s Secret uses for is VS
Fantasies, the company says in its pleadings.  The defendants operate www.risingglobalproducts.com, which
advertises and promotes the allegedly infringing products,
according to the complaint. The website has shoe photos of three
products and invites potential customers to “ compare these
products  to Victoria’s Secret.”  Victoria’s Secret says packaging choices for the Cielo
products “far exceed the legal limits of comparison branding or
legitimate private label trade dress and packaging.” The
company said it is harmed by this, and the packaging is likely
to cause “confusion, mistake or deception.”  It asked the court to bar the manufacturing, sale and
distribution of the allegedly infringing products and to order
the seizure and destruction of all objectionable products and
promotional material. Victoria’s Secret also seeks money
damages, and the defendants’ profits attributable to their
alleged infringement.  Additionally, Victoria’s Secret asked that damages be
tripled, to punish the defendants for their actions.  Drew Kevin Murray of Pompton Plains, New Jersey, is
trademark counsel for Black Knight. He said yesterday he hadn’t
yet seen the complaint, so could not comment on the dispute.  The case is Victoria’s Secret Stores Brand Management Inc.
v. Black Knight Holdings LLC, 2:12-cv-04269-KSH-PS, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Jessica McClintock Sued for Infringement by Fabric Manufacturer  Jessica McClintock Inc., the San Francisco-based clothing
manufacturer best known for prom, wedding and bridesmaids’
dresses, was sued for copyright infringement by a New York-based
fabric company.  According to the complaint filed July 11 in federal court
in Los Angeles, Jessica McClintock is accused of selling dresses
made from fabric that infringes the copyright of the
“Dandelion” fabric pattern belonging to New York-based Premier
Fabrics Inc.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , which sells McClintock dresses, is co-
defendant with the San Francisco company, as are 10 unnamed
defendants.  Premier claims that copies of its design were distributed
without authorization either through access to its showroom or
design library, third-party vendors such as overseas printing
mills, or garments made with fabric lawfully obtained from the
company.  It claims to have suffered “substantial damage” and asked
the court to bar further infringement of the design.
Additionally, it seeks awards of profits all defendants derived
from the alleged infringement, together with attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Jessica McClintock didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for damages.  Premier is represented by Stephen M. Doniger, Scott A.
Burroughs and Annie Aboulian of  Doniger/Burroughs APC  of  Culver
City , California.  The case is Premier Fabrics Inc. v. Jessiva McClintock
Inc., 2:12-cv-05982-PLA U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  FBI Expands Access for Copyright Holders to Anti-Piracy Seal  The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation has developed a
new anti-piracy warning seal that it will permit all copyright
holders to use, according to a notice published in the Federal
Register July 13.  Rules permitting this use go into effect August 13. The aim
of its use is to remind the public of the FBI’s authority and
mission with respect to  intellectual property  rights, the agency
said. The seal will be made available on the FBI’s website for
downloading for use without charge on all eligible works.  Previously anyone who wanted to use the seal had to enter
into a written agreement with the FBI regarding its use. One of
the reasons for the change in policy was that the volume of
requests it received and the costs involved in negotiating
agreements with individual copyright holders.  Use of the seal is barred on works that can’t be legally
distributed in the U.S. by mail or affecting interstate
commerce, such as child pornography.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 