-- Hungary Starts IMF Talks as Economists Predict Delay
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-07-17T10:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hungary-starts-imf-talks-as-economists-predict-delay-on-election.html
Hungary  will probably miss its goal
of obtaining an  International Monetary Fund  loan by the end of
October as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  gears up for a re-
election bid in 2014, according to a survey of economists.  Talks which started today in Budapest will yield an
agreement after October, according to eight of 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News yesterday. Four expect a deal in
October, six by the end of the year and two in 2013.  IMF and EU officials will focus on untangling policies that
contributed to an economic contraction in the first quarter and
the downgrade of Hungary’s credit to junk last year. While the
forint has gained this year on optimism the country would reach
a bailout agreement, that may weaken Orban’s resolve to reach a
loan agreement as he seeks to regain investor confidence, boost
growth and reduce financing costs without shedding more support
halfway through his four-year term.  “Orban is more concerned about domestic politics than
investors,” Juri Kren, a London-based economist with
IdeaGlobal, said in a phone interview. “Given that the
popularity of his Fidesz party has decreased and bearing in mind
elections are approaching, unless market conditions deteriorate
significantly and force him to sign a deal quickly, I don’t
think it will happen before December.”  Forint Effect  The forint gained 9.7 percent against the euro this year
and traded at 287.15 per euro at 12:21 p.m. in Budapest compared
with 287.86 yesterday. The currency fell 15 percent in the
second half of 2011, the most in the world, after the
nationalization of private pension funds, the levy of
extraordinary corporate taxes and the forcing of banks to take
exchange-rate losses on  mortgage loans .  The government has said it may obtain a 15 billion-euro
($18.3 billion) loan by the end of October to reduce financing
costs. Ten-year government bond yields exceeded 10 percent in
January before falling to 7.32 percent today, the lowest in 10
months. Hungary raised an offer of three-month Treasury bills
today after traders demanded the most debt in 11 months.  Orban, Hungary’s most powerful premier since the end of
communism after winning a two-thirds parliamentary majority in
2010, rejected IMF support after assuming power, saying his
economic policies would ensure debt financing. Orban asked for
IMF help in November as the government struggled to sell debt
and the forint fell to a record.  ‘Breathe Easier’  “The IMF is not our enemy,” Orban told reporters in
Budapest yesterday. “It would good if the country could breathe
easier and we need lower interest-rate loans for that and the
IMF can help with this.”  Orban used what the government described as “unorthodox”
economic policy over the past two years in part to finance a
flat personal-income tax. Measures including a special tax on
banks hurt lending and contributed to the economy sliding toward
the second recession in four years.  The government won’t withdraw a plan to implement a 300
billion-forint cut in payroll taxes even in the face of
potential “huge pressure” from international lenders, Orban
said in Budapest today.  The flat tax and allowing mortgage holders to repay loans
early at a discounted  exchange rate  favored the upper-middle
class and Orban wants to avoid losing their support in upcoming
IMF negotiations, according to Attila Antal, a lecturer at
Eotvos Lorand University’s Institute of Political Science in
Budapest.  Orban’s Support  Support for Orban’s Fidesz party dropped to 18 percent
among eligible voters in a June 14-20 poll, from almost 50
percent in November 2010, according to results posted on the
polling company Tarki’s  website . Fidesz still leads the biggest
opposition party, the Socialist Party, which had 14 percent
backing last month. No margin of error was given.  Orban, who has rejected imposing a property tax or a  wealth
tax , said yesterday that the country shouldn’t return to
austerity policies. The government has also defended the flat
tax and a new financial-transaction tax, to be introduced in
January, which the central bank has said is illegal because it
seeks to extend the levy on the independent Magyar Nemzeti Bank.  “Orban must calculate whether he thinks he can win more
votes on continuing with his populist agenda or by gaining
economic credibility,” Antal said in a phone interview.  December Breakdown  IMF and EU officials left the country in December after
initial contacts following the government’s insistence on a
central bank law the lenders said threatened monetary-policy
independence. The Cabinet this month amended the law to open the
way for bailout talks.  Talks between the government, Thanos Arvanitis and Iryna
Ivaschenko from the IMF and Barbara Kauffmann from the European
Commission started today at the Justice Ministry in Budapest,
state-run news service  MTI  reported.  Orban needs an IMF loan to help his re-election, Raffaella Tenconi and Mai Doan, London-based economists at  Bank of America 
Corp., said in a report yesterday, adding that the biggest
obstacle to an agreement relate to Orban’s stimulus plan.  The Cabinet wants to fund the a 300 billion-forint ($1.3
billion) payroll-tax cut, announced on June 28, partly by
introducing a financial transaction levy on commercial banks,
the central bank and the state treasury from 2013. Mihaly Varga,
Hungary’s chief aid negotiator, has said he expects the IMF to
bring up the transaction tax during loan talks.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
on June 29 said the tax relies partly on “fictive” revenue.  “We see this as the last window of opportunity for Prime
Minister Orban to strengthen the economy and improve his odds of
re-election in 2014, provided the loan negotiations are sealed
before the end of the summer,” Tenconi and Doan said.
“Protracted negotiations or a sudden stall will only eventually
lead to meaningful  default risk  in 2013-2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  