-- Hungary Boosts Bill Sale as Bids Hit 11-Month High on IMF Talks
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-07-17T14:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/hungarian-bond-yields-decline-to-nine-month-low-forint-weakens.html
Hungary  raised its Treasury bill
offering today after traders demanded the  most debt in 11 months 
as the government started international aid talks.  Hungary sold 60 billion forint ($257 million) in three-
month bills, 15 billion forint more than planned, after
receiving bids for 177 billion forint, the most for that
maturity since August 2011. The average yield was 6.89 percent,
compared with 7.11 percent at the last sale of that maturity on
July 10, according to results from the Debt Management Agency on
Bloomberg. The forint appreciated 0.6 percent to 286.22 per euro
by 4:23 p.m. in Budapest.  The government began talks on a bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union today, eight
months after requesting the aid, after resolving a dispute on
legislation which threatened the independence of the central
bank. Hungary wants to cooperate with the IMF as the country
needs a  credit line  to help cut borrowing costs, Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  told reporters yesterday.  “Taking an IMF loan would have a favorable effect on
interest costs,” Gergely Tardos and Levente Papa, Budapest-
based analysts at  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender,
wrote in a research report today.  The government’s benchmark notes maturing in 2022 weakened,
lifting yields six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
7.402 percent, after falling to the lowest since September
yesterday. The BUX stock  index  gained 0.2 percent.  ‘Tough’ Negotiations  Talks between the government, Thanos Arvanitis and Iryna
Ivaschenko from the IMF and Barbara Kauffmann from the European
Commission started today at the Justice Ministry in Budapest,
state-run news service MTI reported.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps dropped 12 basis points to 479 basis
points, the lowest since October.  The bailout negotiations will be“tough” as the two sides
disagree on the type of loan Hungary should get and the
conditions attached,  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of
emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA, and colleagues
wrote in a research report today.  “We hope that the negotiators arriving today like Budapest
as we think they’ll be here a lot,” Levente Blaho and Adam
Keszeg, Budapest-based analysts at  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI) , wrote in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  