-- UniCredit, Intesa Among 13 Italian Banks Cut by Moody’s
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-07-17T08:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/unicredit-intesa-among-13-italian-banks-downgraded-by-moody-s.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  were among 13 Italian banks that had credit ratings cut by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the nation’s weakening
economy and government finances.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, and Intesa, its second-
largest, had their debt and deposit ratings lowered two steps to
Baa2 and may face further downgrades, Moody’s said yesterday in
a statement. It was the second time in two months that Moody’s
downgraded the firms, which have “high direct exposure to
sovereign debt.”  “Despite UniCredit’s substantial international activities,
its important exposure to its domestic market means that its
stand-alone rating is constrained by the level of the sovereign
rating,” Moody’s said. “Intesa’s business is almost entirely
domestic in nature.”  The Italian state has an “increased risk” of being unable
to support banks in distress, the company said. Moody’s cut
 Italy  last week to Baa2 from A3, and said further downgrades are
possible as weak growth and elevated unemployment put the
government’s plan to cut the  budget deficit  and rein in bond
yields at risk. The new grade is two levels above junk.  The outlook on both banks is negative, in line with the
government’s, Moody’s said. Paola Di Raimondo, a UniCredit
spokeswoman, had no comment. An Intesa official said the bank
doesn’t comment on ratings.  Sovereign Stress  Yields on 10-year Italian bonds rose for a fourth
consecutive day, increasing one basis point to 6.17 percent.
They touched a six-month high of 6.34 percent a month ago.  “The downgrades reflect the stress the sovereign is
under,” said  Alberto Gallo , head of European macro credit
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .
“Italian banks hold significant amounts of sovereign debt and
have cross-holdings of bank debt and equity. Direct
recapitalization of banks would be of help.”  Gallo said he expects more downgrades for Italy and  Spain 
this year as policy makers struggle to contain the euro region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Shares of UniCredit gained 0.8 percent to 2.666 euros at
10:30 a.m. in Milan, valuing the bank at about 15.4 billion
euros ($19 billion). They have tumbled 37 percent this year.  Intesa shares  slipped 0.2 percent to 1.006 euros, valuing
the lender at about 16.4 billion euros. The stock is down 22
percent this year.  Default Swaps  Costs to insure UniCredit bonds against default fell 2
basis points to 564 basis points, while Intesa credit-default
swaps rose 4 basis points to 508 basis points.  Ten banks had long-term debt and deposit grades cut
yesterday and three had issuer ratings reduced, Moody’s said.
Ratings fell one step for seven of the affected companies, and
two levels for the remaining six.  Moody’s had cut 26 Italian banks, including UniCredit and
Intesa, by one to four levels on May 14. In that case, it cited
weakened earnings and the country’s economic outlook.  “Italy’s near-term economic outlook has deteriorated, as
manifest in both weaker growth and higher unemployment, which
creates risk of failure to meet fiscal consolidation targets,”
Moody’s said on July 13. “Failure to meet fiscal targets in
turn could weaken market confidence further, raising the risk of
a sudden stop in market funding.”  The banks’ ratings could be revised upward if the lenders
take steps to bolster capital and liquidity, see an improvement
in credit or increase earnings, Moody’s said in yesterday’s
statement.  Investors are paying less attention to the views of rating
companies and relying more on their own analysis. After Moody’s
downgraded the biggest Nordic banks in May, bond and share
prices rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  