-- Arab Spring Falters Yet Tunisian Democracy Thrives
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-07-16T22:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/tunisia-keeps-the-arab-spring-alive.html
Egypt is in a full-blown
constitutional crisis.  Syria  is in a borderline civil war. Yemen
elected its former vice president -- who ran unopposed. Is the
Arab Spring dead? If not, where is it living?  And the winner is ... Tunisia, where it all started in
December 2010 after a frustrated fruit-seller set himself on
fire. As you read these words, a freely elected assembly is
drafting a new constitution from scratch. The coalition
government has faced challenges, but it is functioning. A lively
press and an active political class, both inside the 217-seat
constituent assembly and outside it, are criticizing like crazy.
Unions are pressuring the government to create more jobs, and
the government is trying to do what it can without throwing
fiscal responsibility to the winds.  Meanwhile, the Islamist democrats who won the most seats in
the election have made an important announcement about  Islamic
law , or Shariah -- that it won’t be mentioned in the
constitution at all.  Tunisia is not all the way there, but having visited the
country this month, I found it hard to escape the conclusion
that this is what a democratic revolution is supposed to look
like. If democracy is going to work in the Arabic-speaking
world, Tunisia is becoming the model. If it fails in Tunisia,
the prospects for every place else are very grim indeed.  Revolutionary Fire  The most important player in Tunisia’s democratic
experiment is the Ennahda party, led by Rashid Ghannouchi, the
most important Islamic democratic thinker of the last 25 years.
Tunisia’s Islamists didn’t start the fire of the revolution. For
years their party had been banned and its leaders exiled and
jailed (Ghannouchi spent most of this time in  London , preaching
his distinct blend of moderate-yet-faithful Islam and liberal
democratic values.)  Yet when Tunisia held its first free elections months after
President Zine El Abdine Ben Ali’s departure last year, Ennahda
strongly outpolled the various secular parties of the center-
left and center-right that had sprung up in the Tunisian spring.
Superior organization and name recognition helped, and many
potentially secular votes were wasted on independent candidates.
A major factor in Ennahda’s success was the appeal of its
message of forward-looking Islam.  Without a majority, Ennahda had to form a coalition in the
assembly. The presidency of the republic and the job of speaker
of the assembly went to secular politicians. Ennahda took the
prime ministership and the majority of the cabinet. Ghannouchi
decided to take no governmental role at all, instead remaining
temporarily as head of the party -- a choice reflecting his
rejection of the politics of personal charisma.  The constitutional debate began poorly. Ennahda released a
draft constitution of its own that would have made Shariah a
“basic source” of general law. Secularists quickly protested,
and then a new Salafi movement, made up mostly of young radicals
new to the cause of religious fundamentalism, counterprotested.
By opening the gates to this public dispute, Ennahda had
unwittingly placed the most contentious issue first -- and the
fight threatened to upend the constitutional process.  Realizing they had miscalculated, the Islamic democrats
said they would drop Shariah from the draft. Ghannouchi himself
maintained, as he had for years, that a Shariah provision was
unnecessary for Ennahda’s program, which is not for an Iran-
style Islamic state but for a society infused by Islamic values.  Tunisia ’s secular parties, both in opposition and in the
governing coalition, have struggled with how to address the rise
of Ennahda. Their main problem is a lack of organization. Nearly
all the secularists are convinced that, if they were united,
they could elect a president and perhaps even defeat Ennahda in
next year’s elections.  Secular Breakup  Yet their several parties have tended to break up into even
smaller parties. Beji Caid Essebsi, the 85-year-old former prime
minister who has been active in Tunisian politics since the
1950s, is the latest person to try to unify the secularists.
Good luck: Most of the secular parties are led by national
figures who imagine themselves as future presidents.  The biggest hurdle for the constitutional drafters is
agreeing on the form of government: Will it be presidential,
parliamentary or a hybrid such as  France ? Because the
secularists expect to elect a president, and because Tunisia has
a long presidential tradition, they tend to favor strong
presidential powers. But this position could lead to disaster
for the secularists if Ennahda’s superior organization and
reasonable, if imperfect, performance allows it to elect the
president and form a majority in the assembly. Indeed, according
to conventional political logic, the secularists should prefer a
parliamentary system, where they can join Ennahda in coalition
and exert some balancing power even if they can’t win a
majority.  For its part, Ennahda, surprisingly, favors a parliament,
not a strong president. Its leaders know they can’t fix the
country’s economic problems overnight. They prefer to govern in
coalition, sharing responsibility and spreading blame. On top of
this, Ennahda understands that if a secularist does become
president, there could be a struggle for power between the
president and a parliament under their leadership. Such a
struggle would put democracy at risk.  All this must be resolved in the coming months so that a
constitution can be completed by the end of the year and new
elections held under it. So far, it seems the process is on
track, even if the politicians will have to work quietly through
Ramadan, which begins this week and ends in mid-August.  Tunisia is a small country. But its revolution inspired the
Arab world, and its democratic success could do the same. After
 Egypt ’s new president, Mohamed Mursi, addressed the crowd in
 Tahrir Square  on the eve of his inauguration, he introduced a
guest speaker: Rashid Ghannouchi. The Tunisian model might have
legs.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on breaking up  too-big-to-fail 
banks and how to control  fires in Colorado ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
 Romney and Middle East peace ; William Pesek on  Asia’s slowing
growth ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Republican fiscal hypocrisy ;  Luigi
Zingales  on  Barclays and business ethics .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 