-- Visa Among U.S. Firms Seen Helped by WTO Ruling on China
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-07-17T02:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/visa-among-u-s-firms-seen-helped-by-wto-ruling-on-china.html
Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)  were among companies to win partial support
from World Trade Organization judges in a U.S. claim that China
unfairly restrains the payment processors.  WTO judges in Geneva yesterday  agreed  with the U.S. that
China unfairly discriminates against foreign suppliers of
electronic-payment services by imposing requirements on them
that aren’t applied to domestic companies. They rejected the
U.S. argument that China UnionPay Data Co., the world’s fastest-
growing bank-card network, monopolizes the handling of domestic-
currency payment-card transactions.  “It is definitely a mixed bag for both parties,” Scott
Lincicome, an attorney at White & Case LLP, said in a phone
interview. “The one thing we can safely say for sure is that
both sides are going to appeal.”  China  has reservations about some parts of the ruling, Shen Danyang, a spokesman for the Commerce Ministry, said in a
statement on the ministry’s website yesterday, without giving
details.  The U.S. protested to the WTO about the limits on payment
processing, saying China favors Shanghai-based UnionPay and
forbids foreign companies from issuing their own bank cards
denominated in its currency, building networks to support such
cards or handling interbank point-of-sale transactions.  Pave Way  “We are hopeful that this ruling will pave the way for
international payment companies to participate in the domestic
payments marketplace in China,” said Will Valentine, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Visa, the world’s biggest
bank-card network. “In the meantime, our existing business in
China is healthy.”  MasterCard, the No. 2 network, forecast in September 2010
that China will overtake the U.S. as the largest market for
credit cards by 2020, with about 900 million cards in
circulation. Total cards probably will increase 11 percent a
year as transaction value climbs 14 percent annually until 2025,
the Purchase, New York-based company said at the time.  “MasterCard has long been of the view that open payment
systems promote growth by reducing the need for cash payments,
fostering innovation and reducing system risk,” Jim Issokson, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for Riverwoods, Illinois-based
 Discover Financial Services (DFS) , which has an agreement with
UnionPay to process the Chinese firm’s card transactions in the
U.S., declined to comment. Molly Faust, a spokeswoman for New
York-based American Express, declined to comment.  Shares Increase  Visa and MasterCard advanced in  New York  yesterday after
announcing on July 13 that they had agreed along with card-
issuing banks to pay $6.6 billion in settling a U.S. antitrust
lawsuit brought by merchants. Visa climbed 2.5 percent to
$127.15, while MasterCard rose 1.7 percent, AmEx added 1.2
percent and Discover gained 0.5 percent.  Tim Reif, general counsel at the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, called yesterday’s ruling a “decisive
victory” that may produce 6,000 new jobs.  “We have achieved a landmark finding by the WTO against
every aspect of China’s regulatory regime,” Reif told
journalists on a conference call in  Washington .  A UnionPay employee at the firm’s U.S. office in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey  said she couldn’t comment and directed
inquiries to the company’s headquarters in  Shanghai . Wang
Kongping, a spokesman based in the Chinese city, wasn’t
immediately available to comment by phone.  China’s Promise  While the WTO judges found that China imposes four
different requirements that violate the organization’s rules,
the U.S. failed to establish that China UnionPay is the sole
supplier of electronic-payments services, Lincicome said. “The
extent to which American service providers see this CUP issue as
a very big deal, they will stand to be disappointed,” he said.  Foreign banks must “co-brand” with Chinese operators to
execute payments through UnionPay. The U.S. says the rules clash
with the promise China made when it joined the WTO to open up
its credit- and debit-card markets to foreign processing
companies by the end of 2006. WTO judges agreed with the U.S.
that China had made pledges on  market access  when it became a
member of the trade arbiter in 2001.  UnionPay, which supplanted American Express as the world’s
third-biggest payments network in 2010, processed $2.36 trillion
in credit- and debit-card purchases last year, a 46 percent
increase from 2011, according to the Nilson Report, an industry
newsletter based in Carpinteria,  California . Visa handled
purchases totaling $5.38 trillion, a 12 percent gain, while
MasterCard spending climbed about 15 percent to $2.43 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  