-- Wallabies Pick Wingers Mitchell, Turner in Rugby Training Squad
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-16T01:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/wallabies-pick-wingers-mitchell-turner-in-rugby-training-squad.html
Australia  coach  Robbie Deans  picked
wingersDrew Mitchell and Lachie Turner in a training squad for
the inaugural southern hemisphere Rugby Championship.  Mitchell and Turner were sidelined for most of the Super
Rugby season because of injuries and missed the Wallabies’ June
Tests against Scotland and Wales.  Queensland Reds players weren’t included in the 27-man
group, which will assemble for a camp in Sydney from July 24-26,
because the team is involved in the Super Rugby playoffs.  “It’s a win-win,” Deans said in an e-mailed statement.
“If they advance to the semifinal and beyond, we have players
gaining exposure to the highest level and, more importantly, the
highest intensity of provincial rugby you can get. That’s great
background for what’s coming in the Rugby Championship.”  Australia,  New Zealand  and  South Africa  will this year be
joined by Argentina in an expanded southern hemisphere
championship. The Wallabies host the top-ranked All Blacks in
the opening match on Aug. 18, when Argentina makes its
tournament debut in South Africa.  WALLABIES SQUAD: Kurtley Beale (Melbourne Rebels), Adam
Ashley-Cooper (NSW Waratahs),  Drew Mitchell  (NSW Waratahs),
Lachie Turner (NSW Waratahs), Nick Cummins (Western Force),
Cooper Vuna (Melbourne Rebels), Rob Horne (NSW Waratahs), Mitch
Inman (Melbourne Rebels), Pat McCabe (Brumbies), Bernard Foley
(NSW Waratahs), Berrick Barnes (NSW Waratahs), Nick Phipps
(Melbourne Rebels), Nic White (Brumbies), Ben Mowen (Brumbies),
David Pocock (Western Force), Michael Hooper (Brumbies), Dave
Dennis (NSW Waratahs), Kane Douglas (NSW Waratahs), Cadeyrn
Neville (Melbourne Rebels), Hugh Pyle (Melbourne Rebels),
Sitaleki Timani (NSW Waratahs), Sekope Kepu (NSW Waratahs), Benn
Robinson (NSW Waratahs), Ben Alexander (Brumbies), Paddy Ryan
(NSW Waratahs), Stephen Moore (Brumbies), Tatafu Polota-Nau (NSW
Waratahs).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  