-- Western U.S. Will Keep Burning Unless Fire Policy Changes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-16T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/western-u-s-will-keep-burning-unless-fire-policy-changes.html
It is only mid-July, and  Colorado 
has already had its most destructive wildfire in history -- some
350 houses in and near  Colorado Springs  burned, causing more
than $110 million in damage.  This broke the previous state record, which was set earlier
this summer in a fire farther up the Front Range of the Rockies.
In May and June,  New Mexico  suffered its most devastating blaze
ever -- worse than the one last year that threatened Los Alamos.  This is a scary trend.  In the 1960s, Colorado had about 460 fires a year that
burned an average of 8,000 acres, according to a  report  compiled
from state forest service records. In the past 10 years, the
state averaged about 2,500 fires a year that consumed about
100,000 acres.  Climate change  plays a role. Higher average temperatures
mean the snowpack recedes earlier, and the fire season is
extended in some places by almost two months. A study in  Montana 
 found  that a rise of one degree in summer temperatures doubles
costs of protecting a home against fire.  Yet hand-wringing about global climate patterns shouldn’t
distract us from dealing with the primary causes of the danger:
human development and forest policy.  As more people moved to the so-called Wildland Urban
Interface, where houses and forests intersect, the national
policy of suppressing fires rather than letting them burn became
more entrenched. That has meant fewer natural fires, which burn
the underbrush but allow the mature trees to survive and
propagate. In recent decades, fuel on the ground has built up,
causing today’s fires to burn more intensely, leaving a
moonscape of ash.  Life and property have been lost in the fires, at
unfathomable cost. But this can’t be allowed to obscure the
burden borne by U.S. taxpayers -- more than $3 billion annually.
About half of the Forest Service’s entire budget  goes  into
fighting wildfires, up from 13 percent in 1995.  How can we stop this cycle?  Although we can’t prevent people from building in fire
zones, we can discourage it.  One of four Colorado homes is in a red zone, the places
most vulnerable to wildfires. One-fifth of forested private land
bordering public wild land in Colorado has been developed -- the
largest proportion in the Rocky Mountain West, according to an
independent research group, Headwaters Economics. Local
officials are loath to impose tighter zoning; this is the scenic
real estate that  attracts  companies and workers.  Another reason for foot-dragging is that communities can
count on federal firefighting aid and  disaster relief . National
taxpayers picked up most of the $40 million (and rising) tab to
fight the two Colorado fires, for example. Too few
municipalities are willing to  mandate  proven fire-prevention
measures such as clearing vegetation to create a safety
perimeter and installing fire-resistant roofs. Growing pressure
to enforce such changes is coming from the home insurance
industry, which is facing escalating claims. Environmentalists
complain that the “firewise” practices simply encourage more
people to live higher in the forests. But communities have to
strike a balance: If they won’t limit new subdivisions, they
should at least make public safety a priority.  The federal government is aware of the problem. As the
inspector general for the Agriculture Department  said  in a 2006
report, landowners lack incentives to take “responsibility for
their own protection” and “ensure homes are constructed and
landscaped in ways that reduce wildfire risks.”  Why can’t  Washington  just charge state and local
governments for part of the firefighting costs? The prospect of
losing free rescue money horrifies lawmakers from fire-prone
states, including many budget hawks who decry wasteful public
spending.  If only the government would let timber companies go in and
remove the trees, there would be no problem,  some  of these
politicians say. But commercial logging operations -- subsidized
by the U.S. taxpayer through  road construction  and below-market
timber sales -- are generally distant from populated areas.
Rather than reduce the danger, they tend to take the big trees
and leave the brushy stuff to bake in the sun.  So with any plans for “mechanical thinning” -- which often
means logging -- the devil is in the details. Tom Tidwell, chief
of the Forest Service, said the agency hopes  to treat  up to 4
million acres of land a year with forest thinning and
prescriptive burning. That is just a small patch of the 65
million acres that have been found to have unnaturally thick
growth. The decisions about what areas to clean up should be
based on science, not on whether they have commercial value for
timber companies. This is expensive work, but if it helps to
reduce the costs of firefighting down the road, the investment
will be worth it.  Some scientists say that setting prescribed fires would be
simpler, cheaper and better for the environment than any
thinning operations. And, yes, these blazes are safe in most
cases. They have sparked a disaster or two and those experiences
have made them politically unpopular and logistically difficult,
especially in the areas near housing developments.  One initiative that was supposed to help firefighting
agencies make the best use of their combined resources is the
long-delayed computer system known as  Fire Program Analysis .
This was intended to help with forest management decisions such
as where to cut, when to fight blazes and when to let them burn,
and was scheduled to be up and running by 2007. Five years
later, the  program  appears to be derailed, beset by turf battles
among states and other bureaucratic entanglements. President
 Barack Obama  could make this a campaign issue: Put the
firefighting resources where they are needed.  Conveniently, that would be in the crucial swing state of
Colorado. It is unrealistic to expect any politician this year
to ask why the federal government picks up most of the bill for
protecting subdivisions in the Rockies. But there is no denying
that conditions are getting worse. Small steps would be better
than nothing.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on breaking up  too-big-to-fail 
banks;  Noah Feldman  on  Tunisia ’s  continuing Arab Spring ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Romney and Middle East peace ; William Pesek on
 Asia’s slowing growth ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Republican fiscal
hypocrisy ;  Luigi Zingales  on  Barclays and business ethics .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 