-- Wilbur Ross Says U.S. Coal Is Facing Years of Headwinds
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-16T20:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/wilbur-ross-says-u-s-coal-is-facing-years-of-headwinds.html
Billionaire Wilbur Ross, who built a
company from distressed U.S. coal assets and sold it last year
for $3.4 billion, says the industry’s current slump differs from
earlier setbacks and may last for years because of the shale-gas
boom.  A combination of cheaper natural gas, environmental
regulations and a mild winter has spurred the closure of mines
and the loss of thousands of mining jobs in the U.S. Domestic
demand is at a 24-year low and the fuel has lost its status as
the leading source of electricity, with gas accounting for the
same share for the first time in at least four decades.  Ross, 74, started International Coal Group Inc. after
buying Horizon Natural Resources Co., a mining company that went
bankrupt 10 years ago amid a recession. While St. Louis-based
 Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  filed for  bankruptcy protection  last week, he
doesn’t see any immediate buying opportunities.  “Last time the cycle was this bad, the problems were
essentially just cyclical,” Ross said in a July 10 e-mailed
response to questions. “This time the major secular trends are
far more likely to be unfavorable for years to come.”  Ross says the biggest pressure on the U.S. coal is gas, the
supply of which has risen along with the increase in hydraulic
fracturing of shale rock. Output will climb 4.2 percent to a
daily average of 69 billion cubic feet this year on higher
production from deposits such as the Marcellus shale in the
Eastern U.S., according to the Energy Department’s July 10
Short-Term Energy  Outlook .  Price Slide  Gas traded in April in  New York  at a decade low, prompting
some power utilities to burn gas instead of coal. Futures
contracts for Appalachian thermal coal have dropped 13 percent
this year on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . They closed at
$56.28 a ton on June 11, the lowest in more than two years.  U.S. coal consumed by the electric power sector fell 19
percent in the first quarter, according U.S. Energy Information
Administration data. The proportion of electricity generated
from gas increased to 32 percent in April, the EIA  said  July 6.  Stockpiles of coal at utilities have probably peaked, which
typically means demand will improve, said Brian Yu, a San
Francisco-based analyst at Citigroup Inc.  “Coal producers have already cut back dramatically on
production to match weak demand,” Yu said in a July 5 note. Any
“meaningful” improvement in  gas prices  or power generation
“could be a positive sentiment driver and shrink inventories.”  Mine Closures  Export markets may also provide some help to producers.
Demand for coal grew 3.3 percent last year in  Europe  while sales
of natural gas fell 2.1 percent, the steepest drop since 2009,
according to a  BP Plc (BP/)  report. European imports from the U.S.
jumped 49 percent in the first quarter, EIA data show.  Still, the EIA is forecasting U.S. use of coal for
electricity will fall 9 percent this year and domestic producers
will cut 97 million tons of output.  Mines from Wyoming to West Virginia representing tens of
millions of tons of output have closed in 2012. In the last
month alone, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based  Consol Energy Inc (CNX) ,
Canada’s  Cline Mining Corp. (CMK)  and St. Louis-based  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) 
announced U.S. closures representing 5.8 million tons of annual
production.  Patriot sought protection in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan  on July 9. Its Chapter 11 petition listed $3.57
billion in assets and $3.07 billion in debts.  Arch Deal  “The coal industry is undergoing a major transformation
and Patriot’s existing capital structure prevents it from making
the necessary adjustments to achieve long-term success,” Chief
Executive Officer Irl F. Engelhardt said in a July 9 statement.  “Arguably, the Patriot bankruptcy is likely to raise
 capital costs  and sensitize investors to financial risks,”
Meredith Bandy, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Denver,
said in a note today. BMO cut its rating on  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  to sell from buy and on Arch to sell from hold.  Alpha dropped 10 percent to $6.85 in New York, its lowest
since it started trading in February 2005. Arch declined 3.9
percent to $5.90  Ross is founder and chairman of WL Ross & Co., a private-
equity firm that turns around distressed companies. He
established International Coal with the purchase of Horizon in
October 2004 and sold shares to the public at $11 each in
December 2005.  Arch, the fourth-largest U.S. coal producer, bought
International Coal for $14.60 a share in June 2011. Ross, who at
the time was International Coal’s chairman and held a 6 percent
stake, said when the deal was announced that it was “time to
harvest his investment.”  Cash Shortage  His timing couldn’t have been much better. The  Bloomberg
Americas Coal Index (BUSCOAL)  of five U.S. producers reached a 2 1/2-year
high in April of last year, and has since tumbled 69 percent,
losing investors more than $40 billion in value. Coal futures on
Nymex in New York are down 24 percent in the same period.  The volume of coal-mining deals has dropped accordingly.
 Cloud Peak Energy Inc. (CLD) ’s July 2 purchase of Youngs Creek Mining
Co. was the only U.S. coal acquisition announced so far this
year worth more than $100 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. There was $12.2 billion such deals in 2011 including
Alpha’s $7.1 billion purchase of Massey Energy Co., the largest
ever completed U.S. coal takeover, the data show.  “The main impetus for a takeover would be the acquisition
of reserves at a low price by an entity which believes that
price and volume will increase in the future,” Ross said.
“Such buyers are few and far between and there is a lack of
cash and trading value available for coal acquisitions.”  EPA Proposals  Prices for metallurgical coal, produced by companies
including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and Alpha, have also tumbled as
growth has slowed in  China , the world’s biggest producer of the
metal. Low-volatility metallurgical coal prices in the U.S. fell
35 percent in the year through June 29, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In March, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed
the first limits on greenhouse-gas emissions from  power plants ,
the largest source of carbon dioxide linked to  climate change .
The rules will permit emissions from new power plants at 1,000
pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour, about the level for
a modern gas plant, the EPA said, effectively precluding
construction of new coal-fired plants.  Ross, who was among executives attending Allen & Co.’s
media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, last week, said that
while M&A can lower administrative expenses and offer
operational synergies, such as equipping companies to produce
higher-priced coal blends, it won’t overcome the structural
changes in the U.S. energy market, he said.  “Consolidation does not solve any of these problems,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  