-- Woods Grouped With Garcia, Rose in Try for Fourth British Open
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-16T15:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/woods-grouped-with-garcia-rose-in-try-for-fourth-british-open.html
Tiger Woods will be  grouped  with
 Sergio Garcia  and  Justin Rose  for the opening two rounds at the
British Open as he seeks his first major golf championship since
2008.  Woods, a 36-year-old from the U.S.; Garcia, of Spain; and
Rose, from England, have a 9:42 a.m. local tee time on July 19
to open the four-day tournament at Royal Lytham & St. Annes Golf
Club in Lancashire, England. The time is five hours ahead of the
U.S. East Coast.  England’s Luke Donald, who leads the  Official World Golf
Ranking , will be grouped with American  Phil Mickelson  and
Australian Geoff Ogilvy at 2:43 p.m. Donald has never won a
major title, while Mickelson, a four-time major champion, had
his best finish at the British Open last year, when he tied for
second.  Northern Ireland’s  Darren Clarke , who won the tournament
last year at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich, England, will be
grouped with Ernie Els of South Africa and  Zach Johnson  of the
U.S. at 9:09 a.m. Johnson won the U.S. PGA Tour’s John Deere
Classic in a playoff yesterday.  American Bubba Watson, who won the Masters Tournament in
April, begins play with Lee Westwood of England and Yoshinori Fujimoto of Japan at 9:20 a.m.  Westwood, the No. 3 ranked golfer, also is seeking his
first major title, as is Garcia and Rose. Woods has won 14
majors, second to Jack Nicklaus’s 18.  Last Major  Woods leads the U.S. Tour’s FedEx Cup standings with three
wins this season. His last major title came in a 2008 U.S. Open
playoff win over Rocco Mediate at Torrey Pines near San Diego.  Woods, ranked fourth in the world, is the 7-1 favorite to
win his fourth British Open title at  William Hill Plc (WMH) , followed
by Westwood at 14-1. That means a successful $100 bet on
Westwood to earn his first major title would net $1,400.  American  Webb Simpson , who won the U.S. Open last month, is
skipping the British Open because his wife is expecting their
second child.  Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy, the world’s second-ranked
golfer, is grouped with South African Louis Oosthuizen and
American Keegan Bradley at 2:21 p.m.  American  David Duval  was the last golfer to win the British
Open at Royal Lytham, in 2001. Duval is grouped with Frenchman
Raphael Jacquelin and Spaniard Miguel Angel Jimenez at 7:47 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  