-- Worst-in-Generation Drought Dims U.S. Farm Economy Hopes
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-16T21:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/worst-in-generation-drought-dims-u-s-farm-economy-hopes.html
Cloudless skies seldom look so
ominous.  A worst-in-a- generation  drought from Indiana to Arkansas to
California is damaging crops and rural economies and threatening
to drive food prices to record levels. Agriculture, though a
small part of the $15.5 trillion U.S. economy, had been one of
the most resilient industries in the past three years as the
country struggled to recover from the recession.  “It might be a $50 billion event for the economy as it
blends into everything over the next four quarters,” said
 Michael Swanson , agricultural economist at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in
 Minneapolis , the largest commercial agriculture lender.
“Instead of retreating from record highs,  food prices  will
advance.”  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture   declared  July 11 that
more than 1,000 counties in 26 states are natural-disaster
areas, the biggest such declaration ever. The designation makes
farmers and ranchers in affected counties -- about a third of
those in the entire country -- eligible for low-interest loans
to help manage the drought, wildfires or other disasters.  Corn rose today to the highest in 10 months while soybeans
increased to the costliest since 2008.  “The drought will have regional, national and even
international impacts,” Ernie Goss, a professor of economics at
Creighton University in Omaha, Nebraska, said in an e-mail. Farm
income, which has underpinned the growth of many rural states,
will be under “significant downward pressure,” Goss said.  Since 1988  The USDA has said the drought is the worst since 1988 and
cut its forecast for the corn harvest for the year by 12
percent. Those estimates could worsen if rain does not come,
said Brandon Kliethermes, a senior economist with IHS Global
Insight’s agriculture group in Columbia, Missouri.  “We’re not to that point yet but we’re trending that
way,” he said.  Indiana has asked residents to conserve water and sent
notices to its largest users to request specific cuts as it
faces “possibly a historic drought,” according to Al Shipe, a
National Weather Service hydrologist in Indianapolis.  The drought is already crimping business for Randy Allen,
the store manager at Wright Implement in Crawfordsville,
Indiana, who has been selling  farm equipment  for 22 years and is
already seeing farmers pull back.  Not Selling  “Usually at this time we’re selling planters and tillage
and we’re not selling near what we have in the past because
people are waiting to see how bad this drought is,” said Allen.  “I had a call from one of my farmers who usually buys a
combine every three to four years,” said Allen. “If he doesn’t
get rain he’ll probably bypass it.”  The acreage affected by drought has expanded rapidly,
according to the government-funded U.S. Drought Monitor in
Lincoln, Nebraska. In the  high-plains  states of  North Dakota ,
 South Dakota , Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado, and Kansas, the areas
designated as being in moderate to exceptional drought rose to
84 percent as of July 10 from 74 percent a week earlier.  In the  Midwest , 63 percent of the region was in drought as
of July 10, up from 53 percent on July 3. Key corn-growing
states, including Indiana, Illinois, Iowa and Missouri, are
listed as abnormally dry or worse. Yet within those regions,
some states have fared better, such as Minnesota and North
Dakota, where about 25 percent of each state is experiencing
drought.  Still Assessing  Iowa Governor Terry Branstad said he’s still assessing the
scale of the drought’s economic impact, which he said varies
throughout the state. “We’re starting to become concerned and
we’ve seen some deterioration of the crops,” he said in an
interview July 14 during the National Governors Association
Conference in Williamsburg, Virginia. The drought looks “to
have hit at a very key time,” in the growth cycle of corn and
soybean crops, said Missouri Governor Jay Nixon in an interview
during the same conference, and “could be dramatically
affected.”  Corn for December delivery jumped 4.4 percent today to
close at $7.725 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
grain has soared 53 percent since mid-June. More than three-
quarters of the acres where corn is grown in the U.S. is in a
drought zone.  The biggest U.S. crop, worth $76.5 billion last year, corn
is the main ingredient in the feed of chicken, cattle and hogs.
Meat, poultry and fish prices surged 7.4 percent last year and
are expected to gain as much as 4.5 percent this year as rising
prices make animal feed more expensive. Soybeans have risen 21
percent since mid-June and wheat has climbed 41 percent.  Food Prices  “Commodity prices play their way through to food,” said
 Dennis Lockhart , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta , in response to a question after a speech July 13. “So
my immediate concern is that would put upward pressure on food
prices and could contribute to unwanted inflation in that subset
of the broader inflation numbers.”  The resulting prices could have an effect on food retailers
such as Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , which
face higher meat costs. Cereal and beverage makers such as
 General Mills Co. (GIS)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  face elevated corn and
sweetener prices.  The drought is eroding the profit outlook for  Archer
Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  by boosting costs for the world’s largest
corn  processor , according to Topeka Capital Markets Inc., a
broker-dealer with offices in Chicago and New York. The outlook
for ADM’s adjusted earnings, based on the average of 13
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, fell to $3.03 a share
for the 12 months through June 2013, down 3.8 cents in the past
four weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Two Dozen  ADM, based in Decatur, Illinois, uses the grain to make
more than two dozen products including ethanol, sweeteners and
animal feed, and the company has businesses that store and
transport the commodity for customers including farmers.  “Like others in the agriculture industry, we are
monitoring the drought and the weather forecasts very closely,”
Jackie Anderson, an ADM spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
Spokesman  David Weintraub  declined further comment on the
impact.  Rising prices can benefit farmers who have successful
harvests or took out sufficient insurance on their fields. Farm
cash receipts are now expected to be a record $140.5 billion for
the crop year of 2012-13, up 4 percent from 2011-2012, according
to a report from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on July 11.  Still, with such a wide swath of farmland facing damage,
that may not matter much.  ‘$7 Corn’  “Farmers have always said to me $7 corn is no good if I
have no corn,” said  Ann Duignan , the JPMorgan analyst who wrote
that report, in a Bloomberg Television interview July 10.  Stocks for agriculture-equipment sellers initially rose as
the drought drove up prices for soybeans, corn and wheat.
Agricultural-machinery stocks as a whole are up 6 percent over
the past month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since
July 5,  Deere & Co. (DE) ’s  stock  has fallen 6.3 percent.  As the impact of the drought on yields is unclear, “it
would be premature to make predictions,”  Ken Golden , a Deere
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Overall farm cash receipts are
the best indicator of future sales of John Deere farm equipment.
We have said in the past that our expectation for this year is
that farm receipts will remain strong,” he said.  Although farmers’ cash receipts “will be higher, they are
not going to spend on equipment because they don’t need it,”
Karen Ubelhart, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in an
interview. “You are going to see people lower expectations for
the full year.”  Boost Purchases  Next year farmers will boost equipment, seed and fertilizer
purchases as they try to recoup in production what they lose
this year, she said.  This year’s lost crops will force some farmers to take out
new loans to get through a poor season, Wells Fargo’s Swanson
said.  “In those areas hit the hardest by drought, we will have
to work with those farmers to do some additional financing
because they’ll be missing the revenue they were expecting,” he
said.  Businesses in rural areas are already feeling the effects
as farmers postpone purchases. Eric C. King, 56, co-owner of
King’s Furniture on Main Street in Olney, Illinois, said he’s
had three farmers’ wives say they were going to hold off on
buying. “I can’t blame them,” he said. “It’s just a ripple
effect. We’re not farmers but we’re farmer-based.”  Modest Share  Yet with agriculture’s modest share of the  U.S. economy , a
single season’s drought may have little lasting impact on the
national economy, said Bruce Babcock, an economics professor at
 Iowa State University  in Ames.  Even the impact on food prices will likely be fleeting, he
said.  “If it’s a one-year drought you’ll see some impact on
food-price indexes, but it will be a one-time shot,” said
Babcock. “It won’t be a sustained inflation.”  Agriculture comprises about 1.2 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, said Adolfo Laurenti, deputy chief economist
at Mesirow Financial in Chicago.  “It may not be big numbers in terms of GDP, but when you
look at these Midwestern states you have everything revolving
around agriculture from banking, machinery and equipment, the
warehousing, the transportation. It’s not as small as the
numbers suggest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  