-- Yahoo Names Google’s Marissa Mayer as Chief Executive
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-07-16T22:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/yahoo-says-google-s-marissa-mayer-to-be-chief-executive-officer.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  said  Marissa Mayer  will
become chief executive officer, appointing a vice president from
competitor  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to stem user defections and market-share
losses that have fueled three straight years of revenue declines
at the biggest U.S. Web portal.  Mayer will take over tomorrow from interim CEO  Ross Levinsohn , who has led the Sunnyvale, California-based company
since May, when  Scott Thompson  resigned over inaccuracies in his
academic record. Shares of Yahoo rose in extended trading after
the company made the announcement today in a statement.  As Yahoo’s fifth CEO in four years, Mayer, 37, will be
charged with helping the company regain the attention of Web
surfers who have backed away from the site, opting instead to
socialize on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. and search the Web
using Google’s tools. Her challenge will also be wooing
advertisers that have shifted marketing budgets away from Yahoo.  “She’s somebody that has a pretty good track record,”
said  Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna International
Group. “She’s a big name. But investors are saying, ‘We’ve seen
this story before -- we don’t know how long this lasts.’ Three
CEOs in less than a year certainly makes investors try to temper
upside expectations. It comes down to a matter of execution.”  Yahoo  shares  rose as high as $16.62 after the announcement.
They had fallen less than 1 percent to $15.65 at the close in
New York, and have declined 3 percent so far this year.  20th Employee  Mayer, who joined Google in 1999 as its 20th employee, is
credited with maintaining the company’s Spartan home page for a
decade and overseeing such products as Gmail, Google News, and
image, book and product search.  At Yahoo, she’ll need to win over users and advertisers who
consider the company a has-been that failed to keep pace with
Google in search and Facebook in social media.  “There’s lack of gravitas and vibrancy and saliency to the
Yahoo brand, and that’s a big problem,” Peter Stabler, an
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  San Francisco , said in an
interview.  Users on average spent less than two hours, 15 minutes on
Yahoo pages in March, compared with more than six hours for
Facebook, according to ComScore Inc. Yahoo’s  share  of the U.S.
online display-ad market will shrink to about 8 percent in 2014,
while the combined share for Google and Facebook will widen to
about 39 percent, according to EMarketer Inc.  Yahoo’s  sales  tumbled 21 percent to $4.98 billion last
year. They had peaked at $7.21 billion in 2008. The company is
scheduled to report second-quarter earnings tomorrow after 4
p.m. New York time.  Yahoo’s Management  Mayer also will need to bring stability to a management
team wracked by upheaval. Yahoo’s Levinsohn had stepped in on
May 13 when Thompson left after failing to fix errors in his
academic record. Yahoo had also considered Hulu LLC CEO  Jason Kilar , whose company said on July 6 that he opted out of the
running.  Thompson, former president of EBay Inc.’s PayPal, took the
helm in January from Tim Morse, who became interim CEO in
September. Morse followed  Carol Bartz , whose tenure was marred
by falling sales, market-share losses and a public spat with
Asian partners. Bartz was named CEO in January 2009, succeeding
co-Founder  Jerry Yang .  Local Services  Mayer began overseeing location and local services at
Google in October 2010 as the company chased areas of growth
outside traditional Internet searches. Before that, she designed
and developed Google’s search interface as vice president of
search products.  “I worked with Marissa for many years -- she’s a great
product person, very innovative and a real perfectionist who
always wants the best for users,” Google Executive Chairman
 Eric Schmidt  said in an e-mailed statement. “Yahoo has made a
good choice and I am personally very excited to see another
woman become CEO of a technology company.”  Mayer, Google’s first female engineer, was left out of a
new group of senior-most managers named by  Larry Page  after he
was promoted to CEO in 2011.  “Marissa has been a tireless champion of our users,” Page
said in an e-mailed statement. “We will miss her talents at
Google.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  