-- Yao Ming Joins With NBA in Developing Youth Basketball in China
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-16T16:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/yao-ming-joins-with-nba-to-develop-youth-basketball-in-china.html
Yao Ming  and the  National Basketball
Association ’s subsidiary in China have joined to develop youth
programs and more participation in the sport and promote
cultural exchange.  The 7-foot-6 Yao, who retired from the NBA a year ago after
eight seasons with the  Houston Rockets , will collaborate with
the league to start basketball and social-development programs
for Chinese youth. The announcement comes three months after
Yao’s foundation began a youth basketball program at 47 schools
across Sichuan province.  “The passion for basketball in China has never been
stronger and tapping into the NBA’s expertise and the support
from Chinese fans will help me carry out my mission of giving
back to communities in Shanghai and throughout China,” Yao said
in a statement yesterday. “I look forward to working with the
NBA to give more youth the opportunity to play basketball at an
elite level and help more people in need.”  Yao, a 31-year-old Shanghai native and son of two
professional basketball players, was the No. 1 pick in the 2002
NBA draft. After he came to the U.S., Yao became a
“transformational player and a testament to the globalization
of our game,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said when Yao
retired.  The NBA was the first U.S. professional sports league to
play in China, with two games between Yao’s Rockets and the
 Sacramento Kings  in 2004. The NBA said two days ago that  LeBron James  and the  Miami Heat  will play two exhibitions in China
against the  Los Angeles Clippers  in October.  It marks the first time that a reigning NBA champion will
participate in the six-year history of the NBA China Games.  Biggest Market  The NBA’s partnership with Yao is an extension of the
league’s commitment to basketball development in China, the most
populous country in the world.  “Yao is in a truly unique position to help grow the game
of basketball in  China  because he has a first-hand understanding
of China’s sports system and the NBA,” said David Shoemaker,
NBA China’s chief executive.  The NBA and the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) are in
the third year of a program that has trained more than 200
coaches. The NBA opened a training center in China in 2011 for
elite players ages 12-17 called the CBA Dongguan Basketball
School, the first such league-operated facility in the world.  Yao officially retired from the NBA last year after foot
and ankle fractures limited him to five games over the previous
two seasons. In addition to his foundation, Yao works with the
Shanghai Sharks, the team he led to a CBA title in 2002 and
bought in 2009.  “The game of basketball has been so good to me and while I
have left the court I will never leave the game,” Yao said. “I
look forward to working with the NBA to give more youth the
opportunity to play basketball at an elite level and help more
people in need. I would love to see the next generation of
Chinese players surpass the accomplishments of my generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  