-- Zuckerberg’s Loan Gives New Meaning to the 1%
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/zuckerberg-s-loan-gives-new-meaning-to-the-1-mortgages.html
Billionaire  Mark Zuckerberg  is
giving new meaning to the term “the one percent.”  The  Facebook Inc. (FB)  founder refinanced a $5.95 million
mortgage on his Palo Alto, California, home with a 30-year
adjustable-rate loan starting at 1.05 percent, according to
public records for the property.  While almost all lending rates have reached historical lows
this year, the borrowing costs available to high-net-worth
individuals are even lower if the person is willing to bear the
risk of monthly interest rate adjustments, said  Greg McBride ,
senior financial analyst with Bankrate Inc., a North Palm Beach,
Florida-based firm that tracks interest rates. Large increases
are unlikely anytime soon with the  Federal Reserve  signaling it
will keep interest rates near zero for at least two years.  “When you can borrow at a rate below inflation, you’re
borrowing for free,” McBride said in an e-mail. “This is the
concept of using other people’s money and it preserves financial
flexibility for the borrower.”  “The one percent” is a phrase popularized last year by
the  Occupy Wall Street  movement to protest growing U.S. income
inequality. The top one percent of Americans earns a fifth of
the country’s income and controls more than a third of its
wealth, according to  Joseph E. Stiglitz , a Nobel Prize-winning
economist, whose book “The Price of Inequality,” was published
last month.  The average rate on a  one-year adjustable  mortgage was 2.69
percent on July 12, up from a record low 2.68 percent a week
earlier, according to  Freddie Mac , the McLean, Virginia-based
mortgage-finance company. The average rate for a  30-year fixed 
loan fell to a record low 3.56 percent on July 12. Freddie Mac
doesn’t survey rates for loans that adjust monthly.  World’s Wealthiest  Zuckerberg, 28, is the world’s 40th wealthiest person, with
a net worth of $15.7 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . His company went public in a $16 billion
initial public offering in May. The  shares  were down 19 percent
since trading began as of July 13.  Facebook spokesman Larry Yu declined to comment on
Zuckerberg’s mortgage.  “We’re not going to get into the personal finances of
executives,” he said in an e-mail.  The Palo Alto house cost $7 million in March of last year,
purchased in the name of a limited liability company, according
to a deed filed with the Santa Clara County Clerk-Recorder.  Zuckerberg’s address was published by Palo Alto Online and
Burbed.com, a Silicon Valley real estate blog. Three neighbors
reached by phone at their homes said Zuckerberg lives at the
address. They asked that their names not be used because of
concerns for their privacy.  Page, Jobs  The five-bedroom, 5-1/2-bath house was built in 1903 on a
9,011 square-foot (837 square-meter) lot, according to Redfin
Corp. The two-floor white wood-sided home is ensconced behind a
gated drive and a wall of groomed shrubbery, about three miles
(4.8 kilometers) from  Stanford University  and three miles from
Facebook’s Menlo Park headquarters. Zuckerberg was married to
Priscilla Chan in the backyard on May 19.  Homes in Zuckerberg’s ZIP code, 94301, sold for a median
$1.875 million, or $968 a square foot, in June, up 1.7 percent
from a year earlier, according to Redfin. Google Inc. co-founder
 Larry Page  owns a home in 94301 and the late Apple Inc. founder
 Steve Jobs  also lived there.  ‘Huge Run up’  “There was a huge run up before the  Facebook IPO  and it
cooled off after the Facebook fizzle,” Ken DeLeon, a Palo Alto
real estate broker, said about local  home prices .  First Republic Bank (FRC) , which provided Zuckerberg’s mortgage,
doesn’t comment on specific loans or clients, said Greg Berardi,
a spokesman for the San Francisco-based company.  “First Republic, like most banks, prices its credit
products based on the strength and totality of the entire client
relationship,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “This is our
approach with all of our clients.”  The bank’s high-net-worth customers include Stephen Ross,
the chairman of developer Related Cos.;  Peter Thiel , the
chairman of hedge fund Clarium Capital LLC and an early Facebook
investor; and former  New York  Police Chief William Bratton, the
current chairman of Kroll Inc., according to First Republic’s
 website .  Wealthy individuals who have a lot of business with a bank
may be eligible for the best rates, said Rob Kricena, a regional
managing director at Wells Fargo Private Bank, which has
technology entrepreneurs as clients in the San Francisco Bay
area.  Favorable Terms  “In our experience the majority of high-net-worth
individuals do have a mortgage,” he said. In many cases, they
can get favorable terms because of their wealth.  Zuckerberg’s 30-year mortgage started with an initial rate
in May of 1.05 percent, which also is the minimum rate for the
loan, according to a document filed with the Santa Clara County
Clerk-Recorder’s Office. It adjusts each month starting in June
with interest payments calculated as the London Interbank
Offered Rate, or Libor, plus 0.8 percentage point. The maximum
rate cannot exceed 9.95 percent.  Monthly principal and interest mortgage payments on the
$5.95 million loan would start at $19,275.  The Fed has kept its main  interest rate  at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 and has said it will probably keep
rates “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014. The
central bank last month extended a program called Operation
Twist aimed at lowering long-term interest rates by swapping
shorter-term securities with the same amount of longer-term
debt.  Morgan Stanley  Zuckerberg’s latest mortgage replaces an adjustable-rate
loan from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  recorded in June 2011 that started with
a 1.75 percent rate, which would’ve had a monthly payment of
$21,256. Zuckerberg got the loan at the same time Morgan Stanley
was seeking to lead manage Facebook’s initial public offering,
which it won earlier this year.  Christine Pollak, a spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment.  The mortgages were signed by Tom Van Loben Sels, a partner
at  Apercen Partners LLC , a Palo Alto tax consulting firm for
high net worth clients. Van Loben Sels didn’t reply to a phone
message seeking comment.  Banks like to provide home loans to high-net-worth clients
because they can pay off the loan quickly, if needed, and are
better credit risks, said Sandi Bragar, director of planning at
 San Francisco  wealth manager Aspiriant. Her firm recommends
variable, interest-only loans in many cases because of the tax
deductibility of mortgage-debt payments and the adjustable rate,
which places the rate risk on the borrower and generally makes
the loan cheaper, she said.  Low-Cost Debt  Wealthy individuals often choose to finance a home purchase
rather than pay cash because of the overall low cost of mortgage
debt and the additional access to liquidity, Kricena said. In
many cases, they invest excess cash that they would have used to
purchase the home into higher-yielding assets, he said.  “Even if someone would be able to pay off that mortgage
with cash or other assets, they don’t want to tie up their
holdings in real estate because they may have access to other
types of more attractive investments,”  he said.  Still, in the current environment of tight underwriting, it
can be difficult to navigate the process for even the wealthiest
borrowers, Bragar said in a phone interview.  “Getting a mortgage these days is very tricky even for the
wealthiest,” she said. “They are by no means exempt.”  DeLeon, the Palo Alto real estate broker, said adjustable
rates below 2 percent have become common for high-net-worth
borrowers. He has handled about 65 sales worth $120 million this
year in the area.  “I have a 1.8 percent rate and I’m not too special,” he
said in a telephone interview. “A lot of my tech clients are
doing it. Those rates exist for clients who don’t need a
mortgage. I tell them to enjoy the free money and pay it off
when the rates spike up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  