-- A123 Receives Court Approval to Hold Dec. 6 Auction
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-08T22:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/a123-receives-court-approval-to-hold-dec-6-auction.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , the bankrupt maker
of electric-car batteries that received a $249.1 million federal
grant, won permission to sell its assets at a Dec. 6 auction
where bidders will include  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  and Wanxiang
Group Co.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey approved bidding
procedures at a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
overruling the U.S. Trustee’s objection to a $2.5 million
breakup fee Johnson Controls will get if it isn’t the winner.
Johnson Controls also would get $3 million for expenses.  The proposed protections for Johnson Controls will
“enhance the process,” not chill it, Carey said. He scheduled
a Dec. 11 hearing to approve the sale.  About 25 parties interested in A123 assets are under
confidentiality agreements, Timothy Pohl, a managing director of
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , told the court.  Siemens AG (SIE)  of Germany and Tokyo-
based  NEC Corp. (6701)  are among companies interested in bidding for
A123 assets, their lawyers said in court today.  A123, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts , filed for  bankruptcy 
last month with plans to sell its automotive-business assets to
Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls for about $125 million.  ‘Active Discussions’  The company “continues to engage in active discussions
regarding strategic alternatives for its grid, commercial,
government and other operations, and has received several
indications of interest for these businesses,” A123 said today
in a statement.  Bojan Guzina, an attorney representing Wanxiang American
Corp., a unit of the Chinese auto-parts maker, told Carey that
the company presented a “qualified” bid to A123 last night.
Wanxiang is pursuing approval from the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the  United States .  CFIUS, a multiagency group led by the Treasury Department,
reviews mergers and acquisitions for national-security concerns
when a takeover may give a foreign owner control of a U.S.
company. While filings are voluntary, the committee can begin
its own review.  Last week, Wanxiang America said it wanted to be the lead
bidder for all of A123’s assets in the court-supervised auction.  Because of the stalking-horse baseline bid, “we have more
parties conducting diligence now by a significant margin than we
did in the out-of-court process,” Pohl told the court. Some
companies are interested in pieces of the business that Johnson
Controls isn’t buying, he said.  Carey also approved incentive and retention plans for
certain employees. A123 lost three employees since a Nov. 5
hearing, bringing total departures since the case was filed to
25, the company’s lawyers said.  A123 listed assets of $459.8 million and debt of
$376 million as of Aug. 31 in its Chapter 11 petition.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  