-- Activision Beats Earnings Estimates, Raises Forecast
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-08T14:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/activision-beats-earnings-estimates-raises-forecast.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest
U.S. video-game maker, posted third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates on gains from its “Skylanders” and
“Diablo” titles. The fourth-quarter forecast exceeded views.  Net income rose 53 percent to $226 million, or 20 cents a
share, from $148 million, or 13 cents, a year earlier, the  Santa
Monica , California-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Excluding items, profit of 15 cents beat the 8-cent average
 estimate  of 24 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Activision has weathered an industry decline by nurturing
existing blockbusters and developing new ones. “World of
Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria” helped the company gain about 1
million online subscribers in the quarter, while “Diablo III”
remained a best-selling PC game, the company said. For the first
nine months of the year, “Skylanders Spyro’s Adventures”
generated the most revenue of any console game, when accessories
like action figures are included.  “In a very challenging environment, we executed very, very
well,” Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick said in an
interview.  Third-quarter sales, excluding changes in deferred revenue,
rose 20 percent to $751 million and beat the $710.2 million
average estimate.  Activision  rose  0.7 percent to $11.21 at 9:56 a.m. in  New
York  trading. Through yesterday the shares had lost 9.7 percent
this year.  The company projected fourth-quarter  sales , excluding
changes in deferred revenue, to reach $2.41 billion, exceeding
analysts’ estimates of $2.34 billion, and profit of 70 cents a
share, compared with estimates of 67 cents.  Holiday Release  Activision will release “Call of Duty: Black Ops II” on
Nov. 13, the latest in the top-selling series. “Skylanders
Giants,” released last month, has delivered strong early sales,
Kotick said.  The new game probably sold 324,000 software units during
its first two weeks, said  Michael Olson , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray Cos. who has an overweight rating on the shares.
“Skylanders Giants” may deliver more than 12 percent of
revenue in the current quarter, while “Call of Duty” will
deliver 70 percent of sales, Olson estimated yesterday in a
report.  The original “Skylanders,” which came out in October
2011, sold 86,000 units in the its first two weeks, he
estimated.  ‘Discretionary Spending’  Kotick tempered the optimism by saying sales next year may
be hurt by global economic turmoil, a rise in games that are
free to play and state and local sales-tax increases that reduce
consumer purchasing power.  “There continues to be more, low-cost or free ways to
entertain yourself,” he said. “And there are a lot of choices
that people have to make with their discretionary spending.”  Activision, led by Kotick since 1992, is 61 percent owned
by Paris-based Vivendi, also parent of  Universal Music . The
French company is under pressure from investors to boost its
share price, and Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou in July said “it’s
a possibility” his company may sell Activision.  Kotick declined to comment on the status of relations with
Vivendi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  