-- TAG Immobilien Third-Quarter Profit Jumps After DKB Purchase
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-11-08T08:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/tag-immobilien-third-quarter-profit-jumps-after-dkb-acquisition.html
TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , the German real
estate company that bought 25,000 homes from Bayerische
Landesbank in March, said third-quarter profit rose 26 percent
as rental income jumped.  Net income rose to 15.4 million euros ($19.7 million), or 9
cents a share, from 12.2 million euros, or 17 cents, a year
earlier, the Hamburg-based company said in a statement today.
Rental income more than doubled to 40.2 million euros.  TAG owns homes in cities such as Berlin and Hamburg and is
benefiting from rental growth in large urban areas as young
Germans move to places where jobs are easier to find.  “The residential real estate market is becoming
increasingly attractive,” Chief Executive Officer Rolf Elgeti
said in the statement. “This is reflected in higher prices
across the market, but at the same time opens up opportunities
for us to opportunistically sell properties.”  The acquisition of DKB Immobilien AG, owner of homes valued
at about 1.1 billion euros, increased TAG’s portfolio to about
57,000 homes.  The company plans to add more residential properties while
shrinking its commercial real estate business. TAG is one of the
bidders in the government’s sale of 11,700 eastern German
apartments valued at about 450 million euros, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  “Profitability is more important than size, but we are
confident that we will continue to be offered opportunities that
we are willing and ready to take advantage of,” Elgeti said.  TAG reiterated a forecast that full-year funds from
operations, a measure of a property company’s ability to
generate cash, will be 40 million euros. Third-quarter FFO was
11.2 million euros, the company said.  To help pay for DKB, TAG had a stock sale in March that
generated gross proceeds of about 127 million euros, diluting
its earnings per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 