-- Thai Government Bonds Snap Two-Day Drop on Inflows; Baht Falls
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-11-08T02:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/thai-government-bonds-snap-two-day-drop-on-inflows-baht-falls.html
Thai government bonds rose, snapping
a two-day decline, as President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
boosted speculation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain policies
that have spurred fund flows to emerging markets.  Global funds  bought  $241 million more local sovereign debt
than they sold in the first three days of this week, according
to data from the Thai Bond Market Association. The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia
Pacific Index dropped and the baht weakened as Obama faces
negotiations with Congress to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff
of more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
next year that threaten to slow U.S. growth.  “Funds are flowing to Asia due to monetary easing in
developed nations and Obama’s re-election means such policy will
continue,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of the investment trust
and fixed-income business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in
Tokyo. “Regional currencies are seeing some downward pressure
amid declines in stocks on the fiscal cliff.”  The yield on the 3.65 percent notes due December 2021 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.35 percent as of
9:27 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate reached 3.30 percent on Nov. 1, the lowest level since
August.  Obama’s Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  had said he
wouldn’t reappoint Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in 2014. The
central bank chief enacted a third round of assets purchases in
September and said interest rates may remain near zero at least
until mid-2015 to revive growth in the world’s biggest economy.  The baht lost 0.1 percent to 30.69 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
steady at 4.27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  