-- Air Products Can’t Say When Delayed 2015 Targets Will Be Met
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-08T00:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/air-products-can-t-say-when-delayed-2015-targets-will-be-met-1-.html
Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , the
world’s largest hydrogen producer, said it won’t be able to
provide a new target for delayed 2015 financial targets until it
can better forecast the economy.  Air Products needs “a clearer view of the economy” before
it can reset the timetable for reaching its goals, which are
unchanged, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John McGlade
told investors today at a meeting webcast from Houston. Air
Products said on Oct. 19 it won’t reach an operating margin of
20 percent and returns on capital of 15 percent by 2015, targets
established in June 2011.  “We are not going to sit here today and give you another
set of timing,” McGlade said today.  McGlade said the company is restructuring its photovoltaics
business and operations in  Europe  after last month posting
quarterly earnings and forecasting fiscal 2013 profit that
trailed analysts’  estimates . Operating profit in the three
months through September fell to  15.7 percent  of sales, from 17
percent in the preceding quarter and 16.3 percent a year earlier.  “Air Products’ inconsistent operating results over the
last 18 months and the disappointing fiscal 2013 guidance and
yet another round of restructuring actions have further reduced
management credibility,” Don Carson, a New York-based analyst
at Susquehanna Financial Group who rates the shares positive,
said in a Nov. 6 note.  Praxair’s Margin  Praxair Inc. (PX) , the biggest U.S. industrial-gases company,
has improved its profit margin, undercutting Air Products’
argument that a weak economy is to blame for abandoning its goal,
Carson said. Praxair, based in Danbury,  Connecticut , widened its
third-quarter operating margin to 22.5 percent from 21.7 percent
a year earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We didn’t meet your expectations,” McGlade told
investors. Cost reduction programs are taking effect and Air
Products is working to get a better handle on uncertain national
economies so the company won’t be “totally captive to the
global economy,” he said.  Air Products said last month that Chief Financial Officer
Paul Huck, 62, will retire Feb. 28 after 33 years with the
company. Huck will be succeeded by Controller Scott Crocco, 48.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  