-- Air Canada Beats on Profit After Cost Cuts, Traffic Gains
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-08T21:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/air-canada-profit-beats-estimates-as-benefits-costs-decline-1-.html
Air Canada (AC/B) , the country’s largest
airline, rose to its highest price in 15 months after increased
traffic and cost-cutting helped produce the company’s first
profit in seven quarters.  The widely traded  Class B shares  climbed 2.1 percent to
C$1.91 at 3:59 p.m. in Toronto, the highest close since Aug. 17,
2011. The stock had gained 89 percent this year through
yesterday.  Third-quarter  net income  was C$429 million ($430 million),
the Montreal-based company said in a statement today. The
company hadn’t reported a profit on that basis since the final
three months of 2010. Air Canada’s operating expenses fell 2.2
percent, while traffic increased 0.8 percent.  Air Canada has been struggling to shake its status as  North
America ’s least efficient airline, a distinction it retained
this quarter, as discounter  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  vies for some
of its bigger rival’s market share. A labor accord selected by
an arbitrator in July will let Air Canada start a low-cost unit
to help compete with the Calgary-based company.  “It’s a tool for us to deploy, call it 50 airplanes, where
we can ensure incremental growth,” Chief Executive Officer
Calin Rovinescu told analysts on the earnings conference call.
“Is it ultra-low-cost a la some of the other low-costs
elsewhere in the world? That is not necessarily achievable
within the context of our unionized environment.”  Air Canada will start its leisure unit with service to
holiday destinations in  Europe  and the Caribbean in July 2013
using four aircraft, which may eventually grow to 20  Boeing Co. (BA) 
767s and 30 Airbus SAS A319s, Rovinescu said.  Aircraft Shift  “Air Canada can now push less economical aircraft onto its
leisure carrier which will likely have a much better cost
structure in place,”  Walter Spracklin , a transportation analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said today in a note to
clients. He rates the Class B shares outperform.  The traffic growth  outpaced  capacity gains in the quarter,
enabling Air Canada to fly fuller planes and helping the company
post earnings of 82 cents a share, excluding foreign-exchange
gains. That beat the 73-cent average of 11 analysts’ estimates
 compiled  by Bloomberg. The airline said it filled a record 86.3
percent of seats during the period.  Operating expenses fell to C$2.9 billion, helped by a C$124
million reduction in benefits resulting from changes in the
labor agreement, the airline said today in a filing. Fourth-
quarter unit cost, or the expense to fly each seat a mile, will
probably fall by 2 percent to 3 percent,  Air Canada (AC/A)  said.  Regional Leader  Passenger revenue from each seat flown a mile, a measure of
airline performance, was 15.9 cents, the highest among North
American carriers that have reported third-quarter results,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield, or the average fare per mile, was 18.4 cents, the
second-highest among North American carriers after WestJet. Air
Canada historically outperforms most North American airlines on
yield because it operates more long-haul flights.  The company’s cost per available seat mile, a measure of
airline efficiency, was 15.4 cents, down from 15.8 cents a year
earlier, yet still the highest among North American airlines,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Maintenance costs climbed 4 percent to C$155 million, Air
Canada said in the  filing . The carrier blamed an increase in
scheduled engine work, which was eased by lower rates for
airframe maintenance.  Repair costs probably won’t decrease in 2013 because the
carrier plans “high maintenance activity,” Chief Financial
Officer Michael Rousseau said on the conference call. The
carrier is also facing rate increases from some suppliers under
previously negotiated agreements, he said.  Older Planes  Air Canada, which has a fleet twice the average age of
WestJet, has started evaluating options to renew its narrow-body
jets, a process that probably will be complete within 12 months,
Rovinescu said on the call.  “We’re looking at that 75-to-160-seat environment,” he
said. “We will study that carefully. Each of Bombardier, Airbus
and Boeing have products in that size.”  The third-quarter results include a C$71 million gain on
foreign exchange, mostly related to the company’s U.S. dollar-
denominated long-term debt. That compares with a C$281 million
loss a year earlier.  Net income per share was C$1.54, compared with a net loss
of 45 cents, or C$124 million, a year earlier, the company said.
Revenue rose 2.7 percent to C$3.3 billion.  Air Canada said today that it has begun discussions with
the federal government on extending a moratorium on reduced
funding payments for its pension plans, which expires in January
2014. Air Canada’s Canadian-based unions support the extension
request, the company said.  An extension of the moratorium “provides the company with
ample liquidity to fund its ongoing turnaround,”  Fadi Chamoun ,
an analyst at BMO Capital Markets with an outperform rating on
the carrier, said in a note to clients last month.  -- With assistance from Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta. Editors:
 John Lear , James Langford  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net 
AC/A CN <Equity>
BA US <Equity> 