-- Airwave Sale May Falter as Billionaires Balk: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-11-09T08:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/airwave-sale-may-falter-as-billionaires-balk-corporate-india.html
India ’s auction of wireless spectrum
reclaimed after a corruption probe into the award of licenses
may raise 53 percent of the government’s target as prices deter
billionaires from  Russia  to  Malaysia .  The auction of second-generation airwaves set to start on
Nov. 12 may raise 210 billion rupees ($3.9 billion), according
to an average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Oct. 29 the
government expects the sale to raise 400 billion rupees.  Companies controlled by billionaires Vladimir Evtushenkov,
T. Ananda Krishnan and  Anil Ambani  are staying away from the
sale following the government’s decision to start bids at $2.6
billion as it seeks to bridge a  budget deficit . Just five of the
nation’s 13 operators are in the fray, signaling investor
concern about intensifying competition and the fallout from
India’s biggest corruption probe.  “The government might now take a slightly more realistic
view of the reserve price,” said Mohammad Chowdhury, telecom
practice leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers. “There’s huge demand
for spectrum, but it just means that at this price, nobody can
buy it. It’s partly the extremely high reserve prices and also
the distress the industry is under because of a lack of ability
to finance further investments.”  India’s cabinet decided Aug. 4 that operators will have to
pay a minimum of 140 billion rupees to buy wireless spectrum in
the 1,800 megahertz band for the global system for mobile
communications, or GSM, networks. That price is only 16 percent
lower than the winning rate of high-speed third-generation
airwaves in a 2010 auction, Mumbai-based Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analyst Sachin Salgaonkar wrote in a note to clients.  ‘High Expectations’  “We have high expectations for aggressive bidding to bring
as much as possible to the kitty,”  Kapil Sibal , India’s
minister for communications told reporters in  New Delhi 
yesterday. India also aims to raise 310 billion rupees by
charging a one-time fee from GSM operators using a large amount
of spectrum, he said.  To promote aggressive bidding, India revised foreign
borrowing rules today that would allow winners of the Nov. 12
auction to refinance local debt with cheaper overseas loans,
according to a Finance Ministry statement. Units of carriers
including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Norway ’s Telenor ASA can also
borrow from their parents, the ministry said.  Cutting Deficit  The sale of 3G airwaves in May 2010 drew 9 bidders and
earned the government $13 billion of revenue after prices rose
to nearly double what the government expected.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile operator,  Idea
Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) , Vodafone South Ltd., Videocon Telecommunications
Ltd. and Telewings Communications Services Pvt., a unit of
Telenor, are qualified bidders for the GSM auction.  The government, which is trying to reduce a deficit that
has climbed to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product, also plans
to sell airwaves used for the code division multiple access
technology.  Tata Teleservices Ltd., 26 percent owned by  Japan ’s  NTT
DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , withdrew from an auction of CDMA airwaves,
Bloomberg TV India reported, while the Economic Times said Nov.
3 Videocon pulled out, leaving no buyers for the auction of the
800 Mhz airwaves.  “There’s no business case for us to spend this kind of
money,” said Vsevolod Rozanov, chief executive officer at
Evtushenkov’s Indian unit Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd., which
had its spectrum canceled. “Our long-term presence in the
market is in jeopardy because of a combination of two factors:
the price is too high and our licenses have been unduly
canceled.”  Pre-Auction Bid  Idea Cellular, controlled by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, made the largest pre-auction deposit of 13.07 billion
rupees, enabling the company to bid in all of India’s 22
telecommunications zones, although CLSA Ltd. expects it to only
bid in the seven zones where it had licenses canceled. Bharti is
likely to focus on five zones, according to CLSA.  Telenor, which had its airwaves taken away, will focus on
nine “priority circles” and not bid in all zones that are
offered, the company said in a July 24 statement. The nine are
Uttar Pradesh west and east, Bihar, including Jharkhand,
Kolkata, West Bengal,  Andhra Pradesh , Mumbai, Maharashtra and
Gujarat.  Billionaire Ambani’s  Reliance Communications (RCOM)  Ltd., which
has lost 16 percent of its market value this year and
disconnected 20 million inactive subscribers in July, is not
bidding in the auction.  Incumbent Operators  Reliance Communications fell 1.5 percent to 57.80 rupees at
1:37 p.m. in Mumbai, while Idea, which has advanced 14 percent
this year, rose 3.2 percent to 94 rupees. Bharti Airtel has
dropped 19 percent this year, making it the worst performer on
the benchmark  BSE India Sensitive index .  Aircel Cellular Ltd., which had a 7.35 percent share in
India’s mobile market at the end of September, is also staying
away from the sale. The company is 74 percent owned by Malaysian
billionaire Krishnan’s Maxis Communications Bhd.  “Demand for spectrum blocks may be lower than the number
offered,” Deepti Chaturvedi, a Mumbai-based analyst at CLSA,
wrote in an Oct. 31 note to clients. “The auction will not be a
complete success, which would disappoint the government,
although it would be positive for the sector and incumbent
operators in particular.”  The auction of licenses, which were canceled in February
after an investigation into their initial sale, must begin by
Nov. 12 and the telecommunications department must allocate the
spectrum by Jan. 11, India’s  Supreme Court  ruled Aug. 27. The
government may face contempt-of-court charges if the schedule
isn’t met, the judges said.  Graft Probe  The high court canceled 2G licenses after sales of the
permits in 2008 sparked a corruption probe that led to the
jailing of India’s former telecommunications minister. The state
auditor said in 2010 the sale lacked transparency and ineligible
bidders bought airwaves at “unbelievably low” prices, denying
the treasury of as much as $31 billion.  The Indian joint ventures of  Telenor, (TEL)   Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , Videocon, Idea Cellular and Russia’s
AFK Sistema were among companies that lost their licenses.  Existing operators will be allowed to buy as many as two
blocks of 1.25 megahertz each in the auction of 1,800 megahertz
spectrum for GSM networks, according to Department of
Telecommunications  guidelines  released July 3. Most of India’s
second-generation network is GSM.  New entrants will be required to bid for a minimum of four
blocks each of 1.25 megahertz. In the auction of spectrum in the
800 megahertz band, used by operators that run CDMA, networks,
three blocks of 1.25 megahertz each will be sold. That sale will
begin two days after the auction for GSM airwaves closes.  “The outcome of this auction could be determined within a
day or two,” compared with 34 days for the 3G sale, said Ganesh Ram, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “The
bidding won’t very aggressive. It certainly won’t be like the 3G
auction was, not even half of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  