-- Aldar, Sorouh Drop on Bets Merger to Disappoint: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-08T12:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/aldar-sorouh-drop-on-bets-merger-to-disappoint-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH)  dropped in  Abu Dhabi  on concern the terms of a
possible merger between Abu Dhabi’s biggest property companies
may dilute their shareholdings.  Aldar, the emirate’s largest developer, declined 2.3
percent, the most since Sept. 18, to close at 1.29 dirhams. The
stock tumbled 5.2 percent this week. Sorouh also fell 2.3
percent, the most since June 12, to 1.29 dirhams, bringing the
drop for the past five days to 3 percent. Discussions on a
merger are at an “advanced stage,” the companies said
yesterday, without elaborating.  The two real-estate companies, which have played an
integral part in Abu Dhabi’s drive to turn itself into a tourism
and business hub, said in March they are studying a merger with
the “blessing” of the emirate’s government. Investors are
concerned the transaction’s terms could dilute their
shareholding, said Nabil Al Rantisi, managing director of
brokerage at Abu Dhabi-based Menacorp.  “The terms of the merger deal are not clear yet, and
investors initially thought it was almost done,” he said.  The stocks were the third and fourth most-traded by volume
on the benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which slipped 0.1 percent
today. Aldar, whose shares have surged 40 percent this year in
anticipation of the merger, had expected a decision on the plan
by the end of October, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Al Mubarak said Oct. 1. Sorouh’s stock is up 52 percent,
outpacing the  Abu Dhabi gauge’s  11 percent gain.  Awaiting Outcome  NBK Capital maintained the suspension of its coverage of
Sorouh “pending the outcome of the merger,” analysts including
Loic Pelichet said in an e-mailed note dated yesterday.  Abu Dhabi, the capital of the  United Arab Emirates , bailed
out Aldar last year after  house prices  slumped about 50 percent
in the aftermath of the 2008 global credit crisis. An Aldar
spokesman wasn’t immediately available for comment yesterday,
while a spokesman at Sorouh declined to comment.  The developers posted gains in third-quarter profit
yesterday, with Aldar’s rising 43 percent and Sorouh’s surging
 85 percent . Sorouh has a  price-to-earnings ratio  of 7.33 times
and a market value of 3.39 billion dirhams, compared with a
price-to-earnings of  4.45 times for Aldar  and a market
capitalization of 5.27 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  