-- Allscripts Confirms Sale Talks as Alternatives Reviewed
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-11-09T21:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/allscripts-confirms-deal-talks-as-it-reviews-alternatives.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX) ,
a provider of electronic medical records, said it is considering
a sale of the company as third-quarter revenue declined on
customer uncertainty about the company’s future.  “In light of the ongoing interest expressed in the company
by third parties, the company is evaluating strategic
alternatives,” Chief Executive Officer Glen Tullman said in a
statement yesterday without naming bidders. Allscripts received
bids from private equity firms including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and Silver Lake Management LLC,  Bloomberg News 
reported Oct. 8.  Allscripts sought a sale after board upheaval and a
shareholder lawsuit earlier this year that questioned its
leadership. On Sept. 27, the company lost a bid for a $302
million contract from  New York City ’s public hospitals.  The Chicago-based company said it hired Citigroup Inc. to
advise it and “does not intent to comment further publicly”
unless the board approves a transaction. Allscripts also
withdrew its 2012 forecast as it pursues alternatives.  “There is a hesitation by some potential customers to sign
with Allscripts because of concerns over their viability,” Leo Carpio, an analyst with Caris & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The near-term solution is a sale. Without
a sale, they would simply have to survive through a few quarters
of execution. That takes a while to turn around perception.”  Quarterly Earnings  Net income  excluding some items was $9.4 million, or 5
cents a share, compared with $19.1 million, or 10 cents, a year
earlier. Earnings excluding certain items were 23 cents a share,
topping the  average estimate  of 22 cents from 19 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the quarter declined less than 1 percent to $360.7
million. Analysts had expected $376.6 million. Sales were hurt
by “speculation about Allscripts’ future autonomy,” Tullman
said on a conference call with analysts. Clients also delayed
purchases while waiting for new products, he said.  Allscripts declined less than 1 percent to $12.18 at the
close in  New York . The shares have dropped 36 percent this year.  The company has struggled since its acquisition of rival
Eclipsys Corp. in 2010, a purchase intended to bolster the sale
of records technology to hospitals. The combination promised to
be lucrative as a 2009 U.S. economic stimulus law allotted $27.4
billion to help health-care providers buy electronic systems to
collect and share records.  Customer Reaction  Instead, Allscripts said in April that customers had
“delayed commitments” during the merger, waiting for new
releases of the company’s software. On April 26, the company
revealed a board dispute that led to the firing of its then-
chairman, Phil Pead, and the departure of three allied
directors. Pead and two of them came from Eclipsys.  Allscripts’ second-largest shareholder, HealthCor
Management LP, a $2 billion asset manager, filed a lawsuit May
21 that criticized Pead’s firing and protested the company’s
process for filling the three vacant board seats. Less than two
weeks later HealthCor withdrew its lawsuit after Allscripts
agreed to nominate three independent directors to its board.  Allscripts’ board is exploring a sale because its stock
price attracted potential buyers, Tullman said on the conference
call. “The board has an obligation to evaluate that and
understand that,” he said.  Carpio said Allscripts probably wants to go private to fix
its business.  “They realize there’s a lot of work to be done here in
terms of turning around the company,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  