-- American Express Chairman, Board Sued for Card Practices
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-08T16:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/american-express-board-sued-by-shareholder-over-card-practices.html
American Express Co.’s (AXP)  directors were
sued by a shareholder over practices that led to a
$112.5 million settlement of claims that it violated consumer
safeguards.  The investor, Bob Lankford, who said he has held shares of
New York-based American Express since 1996, yesterday sued
Chairman  Kenneth Chenault  and other directors in state  Supreme
Court  in  Manhattan .  Lankford asked for unspecified damages and a court order
telling the company “to take all necessary actions to reform
and improve its corporate governance and internal procedures to
comply with applicable laws and to protect the company and its
shareholders from a repeat of the damaging events.”  The company’s “illicit card practices” since 2003
included charging illegal late fees, misleading customers on
debt collection and discriminating against new applicants based
on their age, according to the complaint.  The company, the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases,
agreed last month to refund about $85 million to customers and
pay civil penalties totaling $27.5 million to four federal
regulators to settle the claims.  American Express had no comment on the suit, a spokesman,
Mike O’Neill, said in a telephone interview.  Government Accusations  Units of American Express deceived customers who signed up
for a particular card, leading them to believe they would get
$300 and bonus points, according to a statement from the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau announcing the settlement.  The company also failed to report consumer disputes to
credit-reporting companies, regulators said.  The settlement involves state regulators from Utah, where
American Express owns banks, and four federal agencies,
according to statements from CFPB and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the  Federal Reserve  and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.  American Express neither admitted nor denied regulators’
accusations in the settlement.  The case is Lankford v. Chenault, 653852/2012,  New York 
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 