-- American Airlines Sued by Bond Trustee Over Finance Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-08T22:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/american-airlines-sued-by-bond-trustee-over-finance-plan.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines was
sued by a noteholder trustee that says American is required to
make a payment owed to investors under the airline’s plan to
borrow $1.5 billion and repay debt.  U.S. Bancorp, the trustee for $174.2 million of 13 percent
secured notes due in 2016, wants a court order that American is
required to pay a make-whole amount under the refinancing plan,
according to documents filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan.  AMR, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , said in October that it’s
seeking court permission to borrow $1.5 billion backed by
aircraft and redeem existing debt to take advantage of lower
interest rates.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane heard arguments today from
lawyers for the airline and U.S. Bancorp about the financing
request. He said he will rule “as quickly as possible.”  At the hearing in White Plains, New York, Lane granted
American’s request to extend to Jan. 28 the company’s exclusive
right to file a reorganization plan. The extension, supported by
the committee representing unsecured creditors, prevents
competing plans from being considered by the court.  American, which filed for bankruptcy last November, also
won approval for a settlement that restructures financing
agreements for regional aircraft. Lane approved the deal after
American resolved objections from hedge fund Marathon Asset
Management.  Transferred Debt  Marathon was seeking a court-ordered investigation into a
deal in which American assumed $2.26 billion of debt that
American Eagle owed in exchange for regional jets that were
transferred to American.  Under the $1.5 billion financing plan, AMR is seeking
permission to redeem $445.6 million of 10.375 percent pass-
through certificates, the $174.2 million of 13 percent secured
notes and $703.6 million of 8.625 pass-through certificates,
“without the payment of any make-whole amount” or “any other
premium or prepayment penalty,” it said in court papers.  Make-whole provisions, under which investors receive a
premium if the securities are redeemed early, are included in
credit agreements to create a disincentive for borrowers to call
bonds before their scheduled maturity. Lenders would rather keep
the current high-coupon debt than have to reinvest the cash into
lower-yielding notes.  American says the refinancing could save the company more
than $200 million in interest expense.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  