-- An Honest Guy on Wall Street
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-11-08T23:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/an-honest-guy-on-wall-street.html
Unless you travel in certain circles,
you probably have never heard of G. Allen Andreas III. The
business world would be far better off if more directors at
public companies had the guts to do what he did.  Andreas, a 43-year-old investment manager in  New York , on
Sept. 27 resigned from the board of tanker-fleet operator
 Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  The extraordinary part is how he
went out, along with the events that followed. With one simple
act, after eight years on the company’s board and audit
committee, Andreas blew the whistle on an accounting debacle
that might sink the company.  This is what directors should do when they spot big
problems with their companies’ finances and can’t get them
fixed: Resign and go loudly, so the investing public is warned.
In the real world, it almost never happens.  In his resignation  letter ,  disclosed  by the New York-based
company on Oct. 3, Andreas said his departure stemmed from a
disagreement over “the process the board is taking in reviewing
a tax issue.” He urged the board’s chairman, Michael Zimmerman,
to report the issue to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the company’s
outside auditor. He also noted that a public filing by the
company was required “when a director resigns in this
context.”  Sending Regrets  “I very much regret having to take this action,” Andreas
wrote. “I had hoped in prior discussions to convince the board
and  audit committee  to follow a different direction. I was
unsuccessful in those efforts. As a result, I have decided to
tender my resignation.”  In an Oct. 3  response letter  filed by the company,
Zimmerman said that “we do not understand your statement that
the resignation resulted from a disagreement with the board.”
He said the board was confident that its review process was
“prudent and consistent with appropriate governance
standards.”  Nineteen days later, on Oct. 22, Overseas Shipholding
 notified  investors that its financial statements since 2009
“should no longer be relied upon,” and that it might file for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy-court protection. The accounting issue was
related to the same tax matter Andreas had referred to in his
letter. The company offered few details and didn’t quantify the
impact any restatement might have on its financial reports.  Overseas Shipholding’s  stock  closed yesterday at $1.44,
down 80 percent since Andreas’s resignation was disclosed. Its
$300 million of 8.125 percent bonds due in March 2018 recently
traded for 30 cents on the dollar. Less than three years ago, in
March 2010, the company sold 3.5 million shares at $45.50 each
in a stock  offering  led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Back in June
2008 Overseas Shipholding had a $2.4 billion stock-market value,
compared with $45 million today.  This was the sort of watchdog role Congress envisioned for
audit-committee members when it passed the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  in
2002. Nowadays audit committees -- not management -- are the
ones responsible for hiring and firing outside audit firms.
Their job is to oversee the integrity of their companies’
financial reports. Each member must be “independent,” as the
rules define that term. Andreas certainly showed he was that.  You would think noisy resignations like Andreas’s should be
more common, with all the corporate scandals of recent years.
Instead they are rare.  Since the start of 2011, for example, there have been 9,586
departures by directors disclosed by U.S. public companies,
according to  Audit Analytics , a research firm based in Sutton,
 Massachusetts . In 101 of them, or about 1 percent, the departing
directors said they left because of disagreements with the
companies. Andreas was the only one I found who warned about an
audit matter that later forced a company to withdraw its
financial statements.  All Quiet  Andreas didn’t return phone messages left with family
members.  Chuck Burgess , a spokesman for Overseas Shipholding at
the public-relations firm Abernathy MacGregor Group Inc.,
declined to answer questions about the company’s accounting
issues. Zimmerman, the company’s chairman, didn’t return phone
calls.  It’s impossible to tell from the outside what went on
behind the scenes. We don’t know how long Andreas or other board
members were aware of the problem, or what the full range of
Andreas’s motivations might have been. That said, in the end he
was right and forced the company to alert the public. Overseas
Shipholding investors could have avoided significant losses by
heeding his caution.  A lawyer by training, Andreas is president of Galaco
Capital, a private investment firm that manages his family’s
money. He worked at three firms from 1999 to 2009, including the
New York-based investment bank Allen & Co., where he was a vice
president when he joined Overseas Shipholding’s board in 2004.
His father, G. Allen Andreas Jr., is the chairman and chief
executive officer of Galaco and the former chairman and CEO of
agribusiness giant Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.  Here’s an idea: Now that President  Barack Obama  has won re-
election, how about someone at the White House calling up the
younger Andreas to see if he might be interested in an
appointment to the Securities and Exchange Commission? Investors
could use someone at the SEC with a record of being on their
side. A  Wall Street  guy this honest can be hard to find.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  political imperative of
immigration reform  and on why  China’s rulers can’t go on
controlling information ;  Jonathan Alter  on how  Obama and
business can heal their breach ;  Margaret Carlson  on why  another
“Year of the Woman” is nothing to celebrate ; Stephen L. Carter
on why  we shouldn’t worry about low voter turnout ; William Pesek
on a  possible thaw between the two Koreas ; Adam Minter on the
 view from Beijing during the party congress ; Sean West on  why
the fiscal cliff game has changed .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Weil  in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 