-- Mancini Wants City to Sign De Rossi in January: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-08T06:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/mancini-wants-city-to-sign-de-rossi-in-january-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  City Attempt  Manchester City  manager  Roberto Mancini  will try to
convince the club’s new director of football Txiki Begiristain
to sign Roma’s  Daniele De Rossi  in January,  the Daily Mail said.   City tried to acquire the 29-year-old before this season,
and the midfielder has told his friends that he wants to leave
Roma, the newspaper said. The Italian club would demand about 20
million pounds ($32 million) and De Rossi would need a salary of
100,000 pounds a week, the Mail said.  Taarabt Targeted  Arsenal will consider signing Queens Park Rangers
midfielder Adel Taarabt should its attempt to bring in Crystal
Palace winger Wilfried Zaha fail,  the Daily Mirror reported.   Gunners manager  Arsene Wenger  is planning a 7 million pound
bid for Zaha, 19, and has looked at the 23-year-old Taarabt as
an alternative, the newspaper said.  Liverpool Bid  Liverpool is planning to sign Serbian midfielder Filip
Djuricic, who has been a target for  Manchester United ,  the Daily
Star reported.   The 20-year-old plays for Heerenveen and had a tryout at
United in 2009, though couldn’t get a work permit, the newspaper
added. Djuricic may help boost Liverpool’s attacking options as
he can play as a second striker, and the Reds are planning a 4
million pound bid, the Star said.  Pep’s Plan  Former Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola will consider joining
Manchester City and Chelsea when he ends his yearlong break,  the
Sun reported.   The Spaniard quit Barcelona at the end of last season, and
his agent said Guardiola isn’t looking to move to AC Milan at
this point, the newspaper added. City is an attractive option as
he used to work with Begiristain in  Spain , the Sun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  