-- AngloGold Cuts Dividend, Spending After South Africa Strikes
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-11-08T15:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/anglogold-profit-falls-as-output-declines-dividend-halved.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s
third-largest producer of the metal, cut its dividend by half in
the third quarter and reduced annual spending plans by $200
million after strikes idled all of its South African mines.  “It’s been a pretty tough quarter and we’re looking at an
even tougher quarter-four given that this is where most of the
issues were relating to the strike and labor unrest,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said today on a conference call.  The walkout cost the company 250,000 ounces of lost output
in the fourth quarter up to Nov. 2, it said in a statement.  The producer cut 2012  capital spending  to an estimated $2
billion to $2.1 billion and declared a dividend of 0.5 rand (6
cents) a share. Earnings excluding one-time items fell to $235
million, or 61 cents a share, in the quarter, from $253 million,
or 65 cents, in the previous three months, Johannesburg-based
AngloGold said today in a statement. That missed the 70-cent
median  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Unofficial strikes that began in South Africa’s platinum
industry on Aug. 10 spread to gold, coal and chrome mines last
quarter, weakening the economy, with Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  cutting the annual growth outlook to 2.5 percent from
2.7 percent. Prices for gold, up 2.5 percent from the previous
quarter, helped AngloGold weather the production stoppages.  The  company  fell 3.7 percent to close at 288.94 rand in
Johannesburg, bringing the loss for the year to 16 percent.  Production Decline  AngloGold will miss its 2012 output target of 4.3 million
to 4.4 million ounces, Cutifani said. Work on extending the life
of mines at Moab Khotsong and Mponeng is slowing, he said. All
the South African mines except Mponeng have resumed operations.  The halts prompted a 4 percent drop in quarterly output to
1.03 million ounces. Weaker production led  Standard & Poor’s  to
say on Oct. 18 that it may cut AngloGold’s debt rating to junk.  “We’re in the middle of a review of our South African
operations,” Cutifani told reporters. “There is no doubt that
we’re going to have to do some restructuring work.” There will
be “big” job losses in the South African  mining industry 
unless productivity gains can be won, he told investors.  AngloGold, whose largest overseas competitors are  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , mines about a third of its
metal in South Africa, where it employs about 35,000 people.  “We’re about 90 percent through some of the tough things
we’ve had to deal with,” Cutifani said. The violence at  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine was the worst he had seen in the industry.  Violent Deaths  A commission of inquiry has been appointed by South African
President  Jacob Zuma  to probe the deaths of about 46 people at
Marikana in August, including 34 shot by police. Police and
security personnel were also killed in protests. Miners ended
their six-week illegal strike at Marikana on Sept. 20 after the
company committed to pay increases of 11 percent to 22 percent.  Illegal strikes spread to Anglo American Plc’s Kumba Iron
Ore Ltd. and platinum operations, as well as Xstrata Plc’s
chrome mines and Gold Fields Ltd. and Harmony Gold Mining Co.  The stoppages cut South Africa’s September gold production
by 11 percent from a year earlier and platinum by 18 percent.  AngloGold won’t change strategy after the strikes, Cutifani
said. “It has hurt  South Africa ’s reputation as an investment
destination, but in terms of how we think about it in the
portfolio, we haven’t changed our view,” he said.  In  Ghana , a 28 percent drop in Obuasi production to 60,000
ounces contributed to the decline in the quarter. A new plan
will see the mine produce more than 500,000 ounces a year in
2015, Cutifani told investors today. The project may generate
cash flows of $200 million to $300 million, boosting its value
to as much as $5 billion in the next few years, he said.  The Sadiola project in  Mali  has been delayed by a year by a
coup in the country, Cutifani said. The development schedule of
the Mongbwalu project in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo is
being reviewed to assess additional discoveries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  