-- Mao Zedong Wouldn’t Like Chinese Society Today, Rittenberg Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-08T02:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/mao-zedong-wouldn-t-like-chinese-society-today-rittenberg-says.html
China  has become a place Mao Zedong
would not like “because it has lost its soul,” said Sidney
Rittenberg Sr., who worked as a translator for the former leader
of the world’s most-populous nation.  Mao “would like that China’s a great power, but he would
definitely not like the kind of society -- they’ve kind of lost
their soul,” Rittenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday in Beijing. “The old spirit of helping one
another, thinking of the general good” has diminished,
Rittenberg said.  China’s Communist Party gathered today in Beijing to choose
its fifth generation of leaders since taking power in 1949, a
decision that will shape the nation’s policies for the next
decade. The new leadership team will favor market-driven change
because without that the nation’s economic growth may falter,
Rittenberg said.  The economy’s “at the place where the growth model must be
changed or the machine is not going to work,” he said. “Their
biggest threat is not to reform, is to be so frightened by the
image of the Cultural Revolution, of great turbulence and chaos.
If they don’t reform and people decide to get out and reform for
them, that could be a critical threat.”  The most likely outcome is that China’s new leaders will
introduce changes to promote private enterprise and funnel more
credit to small- and medium-sized enterprises, helping unleash
new growth engines, Rittenberg said.  Rittenberg was the only American to join  Mao Zedong ’s
Communist Party of China. He is the author of the book “The Man
Who Stayed Behind.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  