-- Apple Set to Pass Libor as Second Most Popular Note Underlying
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-11-08T21:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/apple-set-to-pass-libor-as-second-most-popular-note-underlying.html
Sales of U.S. structured notes tied
to the share price of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  climbed to $1.47 billion this
year, on the verge of overtaking the London interbank offered
rate as the second most commonly linked underlying.  Investors bought $357.2 million of notes in 104 offerings
tied to the world’s most valuable company in October, the
biggest sales month since January 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $19 million in two
deals linked to Libor, or the rate that banks say they can
borrow in dollars from each other, which totals $1.473 billion
for the year, or about $2 million more.  Structured notes tied to Apple promise more appealing
returns with Libor close to a 15-month low as the  Federal
Reserve  holds benchmarks rates within a historically low range
of zero to 0.25 percent. While this year’s best-selling note
linked to the Cupertino, California-based company risks losses
if the share price plummets, the annual potential yield is 12
percentage points more than for the largest Libor-tied security.  For products known as range accruals, “there’s not a lot
of value in adding that Libor component,” said Deryk Rhodes,
vice president of structured product trading at Incapital LLC in
 Boca Raton ,  Florida . This kind of note pays a return based on
whether one or two measures, such as Libor, are within certain
limits.  Rising Shares  Most structured notes tied to Apple this year are reverse
convertibles or so-called auto-callables, securities that
typically include a buffer against losses before losing as much
as their entire value if the stock price plunges, Bloomberg data
show. Apple shares have risen 44 percent to $581.61 since the
beginning of the year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  issued on Aug. 30 the most popular
note tied to Apple, $65.5 million of one-year auto-callables.
The note pays 13.56 percent a year as long as the share price
doesn’t fall below 80 percent of its initial value, with all
capital at risk, according to a  prospectus  filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank will automatically
redeem the security on any quarterly date when the stock price
is above that starting level.  Royal Bank of Canada  had the year’s biggest offering linked
to Libor. The $200 million of three-year notes issued on Aug. 22
pay 0.935 percent for the first year, according to a  prospectus 
filed with the SEC. The securities then yield 0.43 percent more
than the three-month dollar Libor rate, which is 0.3118 percent
today. That return would be less than half of the U.S. inflation
rate of 2 percent.  The most popular underlying in the U.S. market is the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, accounting for $8.84 billion of
issuance.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  Bloomberg began collecting comprehensive data on U.S. SEC-
registered securities in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  