-- Tarantula on Nude, Orangutan Art Jazz Up Trockel Show
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/tarantula-on-nude-orangutan-art-jazz-up-trockel-show.html
“Rosemarie Trockel: A Cosmos,” an
intriguing, perplexing retrospective filling three floors at the
New Museum, purports to conjure an “imaginary universe.”  Trockel’s amorphous, rough-hewn ceramic sculptures,
minimalist “knit paintings,” books, drawings, collages and
installations are interspersed with an array of artworks and
artifacts.  These include birds handcrafted by the Outsider artist
James Castle, 18th-century botanical and zoological drawings,
delicate 19th-century glass models of sea creatures and three
washy abstract paintings by an orangutan named Tilda.  Especially charming is Wladyslaw Starewicz’s animated 1912
film “The Cameraman’s Revenge,” a comical domestic quarrel
played out by promiscuous and jealous insects.  Also of note is Trockel’s “Ceramic Room,” a white-tiled
installation with mechanical singing birds, a palm tree growing
upside-down out of the ceiling and a print of Courbet’s
erotically charged nude “The Origin of the World,” with a
Trockel-placed tarantula on the female’s pubis.  Big on variety, the show is also occasionally witty.
Trockel’s decorative white-neon relief sculpture “Spiral Betty”
(2010) is a pithy feminist sendup of both  Dan Flavin  and Robert Smithson. Her journal page “Emergency Exit” (1988), illustrated
with a crude depiction of a guillotine, made me laugh out loud.  Scavenger Hunt  A rambling thesis covering wildly varied terrain, Trockel’s
“universe” suggests an artist’s wish list, a naturalist’s
scavenger hunt and an archaeological expedition.  Organized by the artist and Lynne Cooke, it demands that
viewers make enormous leaps among objects and engage in free-
association. This is exactly what encyclopedic museums have
always done -- without forcing the issue.  Trockel’s “cosmos” represents a trend at the New Museum and
elsewhere -- exhibitions curated as cabinets of curiosities.
These shows attempt to set up and focus on far-reaching
relationships among objects and art.  When this kind of environment is done well, as it was last
year in “La Carte d’Apres Nature: An Exhibition Curated by
Thomas Demand” at  New York ’s  Matthew Marks Gallery , we
experience a meditative immersion in art, artifice and nature.  Yet this kind of hodgepodge amalgam is also a visual and
philosophical gamble that without enough “eureka” moments can
leave visitors more confused than elated.  Unfortunately, Trockel’s hybrid universe, though laudable,
and compelling in fits and starts, never quite fully aligns.  “Rosemarie Trockel: A Cosmos” runs through Jan. 20 at the
New Museum, 235 Bowery. Information: +1-212-219-1222;
 http://www.newmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 