-- ARC Resources Says Stadnyk to Succeed Dielwart as CEO
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-08T02:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/arc-resources-says-stadnyk-to-succeed-dielwart-as-ceo-1-.html
ARC Resources Ltd. (ARX) , the third-largest
oil and natural gas operator in  Canada ’s Montney formation, said
president and chief operating officer Myron Stadnyk will succeed
John Dielwart as chief executive officer on Jan. 1.  Dielwart, 59, a founder of ARC, will stay on as an adviser
until May and remain as a director, according to a statement
from the Calgary-based company released on Canada Newswire after
the markets closed today. He told the board two years ago that
he intended to retire early next year, the company said.  “Myron may want to put his own stamp on the company but I
wouldn’t expect any radical change of direction,” Gordon Currie,
an analyst at Salman Partners Inc. in Calgary who rates ARC a
hold, said in a phone interview. The management change, which
came as a surprise, probably doesn’t alter ARC’s course “in the
short term,” he said.  Stadnyk, 50, who joined the company in 1997 from  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , takes over as ARC plans to spend C$830 million
($833 million) next year, the largest capital spending budget in
its history, to boost overall output 3 percent. The company
today reported a swing to a third-quarter loss of C$24.3 million.  ARC, which gets 67 percent of its production from gas, is
down 5.5 percent this year, compared with a 4.3 percent decline
of the S&P/TSX Energy Index. It dropped 0.5 percent to close
today at C$23.71 in Toronto trading.  ARC is the third-largest operator in Western Canada’s
Montney formation, where companies extract gas and petroleum
liquids, according to its  website . Shell and  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) 
drilled the most wells last year on the British Columbia side of
the Montney, which stretches into  Alberta , according to the
British Columbia  government .  Companies including Shell and  Apache Corp. (APA)  are proposing to
liquefy gas from the Montney for export from Canada’s Pacific
Coast. Exxon Mobil Corp., also considering a coastal liquefied
natural gas terminal, agreed to spend $2.86 billion acquiring
Montney operator Celtic Exploration Ltd., spurring analyst
speculation companies with assets nearby will become targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  