-- Largest Oil-Tankers Curb Weeks of Losses as Fuel Price Falls
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-11-08T16:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/largest-crude-tankers-curb-weeks-of-losses-as-fuel-price-slumps.html
Crude tankers shipping almost 20
percent of the world’s oil curbed seven weeks of losses as
declining fuel costs helped owners contending with the biggest
fleet growth in three decades.  The ships delivering 2 million barrel cargoes of Saudi
Arabian oil to  Japan , a benchmark voyage, made positive returns
of $694 a day today, according to data from the  Baltic Exchange 
in  London . Charter costs slumped so low since Sept. 21 that
rates didn’t cover the cost of crew, insurance or other
operating costs, causing owners to contribute an average of
about $3,500 a day to fuel expenses, bourse calculations show.  “The fact this benchmark is so seldom positive just shows
how dreadful the market is right now,” Will Leslie, head of
tanker derivatives at ACM-GFI, a London-based broker of
contracts used to hedge shipping rates, said by e-mail today.
“There are too many ships and unfortunately I don’t think we’re
going to see a massive shift to higher earnings.”  The fleet’s capacity expanded more than three times faster
than cargo demand since 2008, after owners added the most new
vessels to the fleet since the start of the 1980s, according to
data from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. Fuel
fell 7.6 percent to $613.76 a metric ton since the end of
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline is
giving a bigger boost to earnings than any short-term
contraction in ship supply, according to Arctic Securities ASA,
an Oslo-based investment bank.  Global Benchmark  The Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route is a benchmark for freight
swaps that traders use to bet on, or hedge, crude oil shipping
costs. The contracts for December are trading at $1.70 a barrel
compared with $1.44 a barrel this month, according to data from
Marex Spectron Group, a London-based broker of the contracts.  The Baltic Exchange’s earnings formula doesn’t take into
account the fact ships cut speed to lower fuel consumption. The
largest  oil tankers , known in the industry as very large crude
carriers, or VLCCs, can earn about $11,000 a day by sailing on
the empty leg of journeys at 10 knots, compared with a typical
speed of about 13 knots, Arctic analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth
said in a report today.  The vessels need about $10,670 to cover crew, insurance and
other operating costs, according to Moore Stephens LLC, a U.K.-
based consultant. Rates for the vessels will average $21,000
this year, according to 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Supply Shrinks  Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator of the ships, led by
billionaire  John Fredriksen , said Aug. 29 it needs $23,900 a day
to break even. Shares of the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company
gained 0.8 percent to close at 18.39 kroner ($3.21) in Oslo
trading.  The supply of VLCCs available for charter over the next
four weeks contracted by two to 78, Marex Spectron said in an e-
mailed report today. That compares with 87 vessels at the start
of the month, Marex data showed.  Charter  costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage added 2.7
percent to 37.75 industry-standard Worldscale points today,
exchange data showed. Yesterday they gained the most in almost
three months.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 37.75 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  VLCCs carry about 17.3 million barrels a day of crude,
according to Clarkson data. Global demand will be 89.7 million
barrels a day this year, according to the  International Energy
Agency , a Paris-based adviser to oil-consuming nations.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, added
0.8 percent to 667, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  