-- Argentine Protectionism Sees Cars Swapped for Rice, Olives, Wine
-- B y   I a n   M o u n t
-- 2012-11-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/argentine-protectionism-sees-cars-swapped-for-rice-olives-wine.html
Alejandro Echeagaray got into the rice
business in a roundabout way. As president of BMW Group  Argentina ,
he’s not known for his farming abilities. But in March 2011,
Argentina’s government decided that car importers would have to
match their imports with exports of equal value. As Echeagaray
tried to figure out a way to comply, vehicles piled up in customs
like undocumented aliens. Echeagaray could not be reached for
comment, though  Buenos Aires  dealer Adrián Santos says “about
500” BMWs packed the huge lots at the car port 55 miles northwest
of the city. During the first 10 months of 2011, overall BMW sales
plunged by half, according to Argentina’s car dealers association.  After months of negotiations, Echeagaray figured out a fix,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 12 issue. The
government agreed to let in BMW’s vehicles as long as the
company’s Argentine subsidiary exported an equivalent amount of
upholstery leather, car parts, and..  processed rice. Echeagaray
worked a deal with the Ministry of Industry to get the necessary
import permits.  He wasn’t the only auto executive taking a crash course in
the agricultural export business. To bring in $8 million in cars,
the local Porsche importer agreed to export olives and Malbec
wine. Subaru agreed to export chicken feed. Hyundai began sending
soy flour to  Vietnam . At Mitsubishi, they started selling peanuts.  Welcome to Argentina  If that seems crazy, welcome to Argentina. In a desperate
gambit to save local jobs and central bank reserves, the
government has since 2010 implemented a series of economic
regulations that seem to mix purposeful self-delusion -- akin to
closing the window shade and claiming it’s nighttime -- with
discredited economic theories last taken seriously during the era
of black-and-white television.  The country’s economy should be doing very well. A sort of
Latin Spring has swept across  South America :  Brazil ,  Colombia ,
 Chile  and  Peru  have enjoyed more than a decade of growth on rising
commodity prices. Argentine gross domestic product grew
7.8 percent a year on average from 2003 through 2011. Then it
stopped growing at all.  It’s part of a cycle familiar to natives and longtime
observers: Argentina is always on the verge of joining the club of
serious economies, and always finds a way not to. Its governments
keep trying to relive the early 20th century, when the nation
became wealthy, and the 1940s, when Juan Domingo Perón distributed
that wealth to the people.  “Argentina has in its collective memory that it has the
richest, most egalitarian, most European culture in  Latin
America ,” says Gastón Rossi, an economist who served as the
country’s secretary of economic policy from 2007 to 2008. “To
regain our Golden Age, we ignore what’s going on in the rest of
the world. We look for magic recipes, and that ends up being
counterproductive.”  Magical Thinking  Overseeing the current spasm of magical thinking are
President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and Guillermo Moreno,
secretary of domestic commerce. Elected in 2007, Fernández is a
left-leaning populist with a penchant for combative rhetoric and
stylish black mourning outfits, which she’s worn since the 2010
death of her husband (and presidential predecessor) Néstor
Kirchner.  Popular mythology has it that the even more bellicose Moreno,
who’s been caught on camera multiple times shouting down
opponents, once put a handgun on a conference table during a
meeting to show he meant business. Moreno did not respond to
repeated interview requests.  Rising Costs  The problem the duo is trying to solve is simple: Years of
double-digit inflation have made Argentine products prohibitively
expensive. Consumers have turned to imports, which in turn
endanger local jobs as well as the U.S. dollar reserves the
country uses to pay debt. (Importers need to pay for imports in
U.S. dollars -- foreign companies won’t take pesos -- and they buy
those dollars from Argentina’s central bank.) A more conventional
country might try to tame rising prices by cutting public spending
or raising  interest rates  and letting the market work it out. The
Fernández regime went with Perón-style, closed-border nationalism.  Shortly after Fernández’s 2011 reelection, her government
issued a series of border-shutting decrees. Argentines discovered
they would need permission from the country’s tax authority, the
AFIP, to buy dollars for savings or travel. Dollar-sniffing golden
and Labrador retrievers were put to work at airports and ferry
terminals to catch locals trying to take more than $10,000 out of
the country without declaring it. And the seemingly arbitrary
import permission regimen was also introduced. Popularly known as
DJAI, for its Spanish initials, it made importing anything
extremely difficult.  Unintended Consequences  Imports indeed fell some 7 percent over the first eight
months of the year, allowing Fernández to announce in early
September that the country had already met its trade surplus goal
for the year. But the deeper result was a bizarre string of
unintended consequences: Barbie dolls and Jägermeister disappeared
from stores;  Ralph Lauren , Cartier, and  Louis Vuitton  closed their
boutiques in Buenos Aires; electronic toothbrushes were almost
nowhere to be found.  Other shortages were more serious. Medicines and medical
devices such as EpiPen epinephrine autoinjectors grew scarce.
Factories, such as a Fiat plant in Córdoba, suspended production
because of a foreign parts shortage. Workers were furloughed.  Second-quarter GDP was unchanged from the year before and
shrank 0.8 percent from the first quarter, according to the INDEC
national statistics agency. Industrial activity, which had grown
9.7 percent in 2010 and 6.5 percent in 2011, fell 1.3 percent
during the first nine months of 2012. Once again, Argentina has
managed to give itself an economic sucker punch.  Bike Factory  Enrique Españon is the third-generation owner of Bicicletas
Enrique, a family bicycle business in the central city of Córdoba.
He’s 51, compact, accessorizes with a scarf draped over a cream V-
neck sweater, and sounds like a disappointed drug rehab counselor
when he talks about Argentina’s economy.  “There are times when you don’t believe in it,” he says.
“Then in a year, two years, you begin to believe again, to think,
‘This isn’t so bad.’ And then something happens again, and you
fall again.”  In 1998, Españon sold 35,000 bicycles. In 2001, as Argentina
defaulted on $95 billion in bonds and went through four presidents
in four weeks, sales fell to 300 per month. Over the following
decade, business recovered. By 2011 bike sales were booming again,
back up to 36,000, and looking to go a lot higher.  Españon expected a breakout year in 2012, so he decided to
add a wing to his factory. Last year his business took out a
1.4 million peso government loan (then worth about $325,000, now
about $290,000) and kicked in 600,000 pesos of its own. To prepare
for the coming boom, last November he placed an $80,000 parts
order with Shimano, the Japanese bike components maker, to be
delivered in May. Timing was important because he needed the parts
to manufacture bikes for the Día del Niño (the Day of the Child)
in August, a huge bike-giving holiday.  Blindsided  In mid-September, Españon leads a visitor toward the new
24,000-square-foot wing. Bursts of high-decibel power tools erupt
as workers put the final touches on the factory. “It’s almost
done,” Españon says, stepping into the empty warehouse. When
asked when he plans to inaugurate the building, Españon laughs.
“Nooo. This gets closed up.”  He’s planning to finish it and lock the door. “We began
construction assuming we would sell 5,000 bikes a month,” he
says. “And the way I am now, I’m not going to reach 3,000.”
Españon says he was blindsided by Fernández’s import controls.
When he applied to bring in the Shimano-made parts earlier this
year, he was denied without explanation. “What do you say to the
Japanese?” he says, his voice rising. “They couldn’t understand!
‘You made an agreement!’ ‘Yes, but now they won’t let me bring it
in.’ ‘But we’ve already begun production!’”  No Criteria  It’s a scenario repeated across Argentina. As the hurriedly
planned system strains under the sheer number of DJAI requests
(some 800,000 so far), important capital goods and supplies have
been blocked while frivolous items pass. Import permits remain a
crapshoot. For every jar of Maille mustard that gets through, a
box of refrigerator parts is stuck in a foreign port awaiting
permits.  “There doesn’t seem to be criteria,” says Mauricio
Ropelato, general manager of Atlantic International Trade, a
customs brokerage in Buenos Aires. Ropelato says some of his
applications are approved in 12 hours, others in 15 days, and a
full 60 percent are rejected.  Quickly adapting to Buenos Aires’s nonsensical government
decrees is such a necessary survival skill that many Argentine
businesspeople use a proverb to describe it: “El cocodrilo que se
duerme es cartera.” Rough translation: “Crocodiles must stay
awake. If they fall asleep, they wake up as a purse.”  Learning to Adapt  For Españon, not becoming a purse meant learning from large
carmakers. In the year before the DJAI law, the domestic trade
secretariat, headed by Moreno, began asking large importers such
as BMW and Porsche to “compensate” for their imports with an
equal value of exports. (Neither Moreno nor the president could be
reached for comment.) Noting that those who offered to export
something -- anything -- seemed to have better luck getting in
their own supplies, Españon decided to give it a try.  He had to find something to export, fast. His father
mentioned that one of his childhood friends in his native town of
Morrison, some 120 miles away, founded an agricultural parts
company. With a few phone calls, Españon became a sort of sales
agent for the manufacturer, Industria Caillet Bois. When he spoke
to his foreign bike suppliers, he began asking whether they could
put him in touch with agricultural resellers in their areas who
might want a good deal on a zaranda.  ‘Square Thing’  Until he began exporting them, Españon had never heard of a
zaranda, which he defines as “a square thing with a bunch of
holes.” (It’s a perforated metal sheet used to sift grains.) He
says he has no idea how many have been sold in his name. “The
only thing I want to have in my head is making bikes, not doing
this other thing,” he says. “But whatever, the government asks
for it and you do it.”  The absurdity of this “compensation” system -- beyond
requiring businesses to export goods they’ve never heard of -- is
that it often doesn’t even add new exports. Instead, it creates a
kind of international trade three-card monte game. Many importers
pay exporters a commission to shift existing exports to their name
to make the government think they’ve compensated for their
imports.  Says Martín Redrado, president of Argentina’s central bank
from 2004 to 2010: “Exporters are getting about 7 percent or
8 percent for doing nothing, so they are quite pleased.”  ‘Com-pen-sa-tion’  Españon finally got his Shimano parts, as well as the
aluminum frames he ordered, but they arrived too late for Día del
Niño.  “I presented the DJAI three times before one went through.
That was after I gave them my com-pen-sa-tion plan,” he says,
banging each syllable. He expects sales this year to come in at
29,000, or 20 percent lower than 2011. He attributes about half
that drop to the import restrictions, and the rest to an economic
slowdown caused in part by the restrictions. “Earlier this year I
had a market, but no merchandise,” Españon says. “Now I have
merchandise, but no market.”  The rules are making other countries angry, too. The small
town of Aimogasta in the northwestern province of La Rioja is the
cradle of Argentina’s olive industry. The valley is packed with
20,000 acres of olive groves, some boasting 400-year-old trees,
and with its arid soil and cloudless skies it could be a
Mediterranean village. Here, the Nucete olive processing plant
isn’t quite idle, but it’s quiet. A worker points out several
processing lines and a bottling line that are shut. At full
capacity, the factory can turn out 1,200 casks of olives a day.
And today? “Nada,” he says.  Olive Industry  Normally, the Argentine olive industry’s biggest market is
Brazil, which imported some $30 million of Argentine olives in
2010, according to statistics from the Cámara Olivícola Riojana, a
La Rioja olive growers’ trade group. ‘  “A Brazilian truck driver eats olives like an Argentine
truck driver eats candy,” says Jorge Catalán, a local grower,
imitating someone popping olives into his mouth one after the
other.  Of Argentina’s trading partners, Brazil was the one hardest
hit by the new import restrictions; Argentina’s imports from
Brazil dropped 19.2 percent in the first nine months of 2012, to
$13.2 billion, from the same period in 2011. So Brazil retaliated,
suspending automatic import licenses for many products from
Argentina, especially foods. The Argentine government had
apparently believed that no one would notice its lockdown on
imports, says José Manuel Ortega Gil-Fournier, a former Goldman
Sachs investment banker.  Kicking Back  “These guys think trade is like football: You kick someone
when the referee isn’t looking, and he will not return the kick
because the ref may see him,” said Ortega Gil-Fournier, who
founded the O. Fournier Group, a Mendoza-based winery. “But in
the trade world, if you kick a country [like Brazil], he will kick
you twice, so you don’t do it again.”  In Aimogasta the olive industry had been suffering for
several years as inflation, in the form of increasing labor and
energy costs, ate away at profits. For the weakened industry,
Brazil’s trade reprisals were a stake to the heart. On May 2,
Brazil closed the border to Argentine olives and kept it closed
until the end of June, says Orlando  Colombo , the general manager
of Agro Aceitunera, Nucete’s parent company. According to Colombo,
his shipments to Brazil -- where Nucete sells more than 60 percent
of its production -- fell from 20 truckloads a week to zero.  “Imagine that your company is prepared to sell to a certain
market. And then overnight they say, ‘No, we’re not buying any
more,’” he says. “You can’t do anything.”  After the company threatened to lay off half of its 470
workers in Aimogasta, the national and provincial governments
began to subsidize its payroll. Today, Colombo says, the
government pays 46 percent of payroll costs -- about 1.1 million
pesos a month.  In July, Brazil began to normalize olive shipments, Colombo
says, but the damage had been done. Spanish and Peruvian olive
growers eager to find new markets have moved in, offering lower
prices and longer payment terms. While sales volume has returned
to near normal, Colombo says, Nucete now gets from $1,100 to
$1,200 per ton of olives, compared with $1,400 before the
blockade.  “The Brazilian business person is taking complete advantage
of the situation,” says Catalán, the La Rioja olive producer.
“Knowing our desperation, they are playing hard. They pay when
they want, they buy at whatever prices they want, or they simply
don’t pay. We made it clear that we were desperate when we didn’t
have to.”  ‘Consuming to Survive’  Is it profitable to sell at $1,200 per ton? “Eh, no,”
Colombo says. “We are spending our working capital to keep the
business alive. You normally have a pool of money to make repairs,
to buy raw materials. We’re consuming it to survive.”  Argentina’s current predicament would be more comic than
tragic if there were any sign of reason in the Casa Rosada
presidential offices in Buenos Aires.  “The current Argentine government does not have the capacity
to reach consensus on regulations with the people who know the
issue,” says Jorge Rodríguez Aparicio, president of Cambras, the
Argentine/Brazilian chamber of commerce. “There’s an ideological
bias that discards all those who are not in agreement.”  Business owners who complain publicly may suffer the wrath of
Fernández, who occasionally interrupts her nationally televised
announcements to call out whiners. It would be a little like the
American president using a  State of the Union  address to single
out a Tucson hair salon owner for griping to the local paper about
the White House’s China policy.  Keeping Silent  For many Argentine businesspeople, the iconic example of this
-- and the object lesson for keeping silent -- is Jorge Toselli,
who heads the JT Inmobiliaria real estate agency in Buenos Aires.
In a July interview with Clarín, Argentina’s largest daily
newspaper, Toselli said his sales had fallen from about a dozen
properties a month to two. He blamed government currency
restrictions; real estate transactions in Buenos Aires are
typically conducted using dollars. Several days later, the
president in a speech expressed her displeasure with Toselli.  “And the truth is I got interested and I said, ‘Let’s see if
this has really hurt them, how are they doing so badly if they
were doing so well,’” the president said, adding that she put in
a call to the head of Argentina’s tax authority. A day later, JT
Inmobiliaria’s tax number was suspended for failure to pay taxes,
temporarily putting the company out of business.  Surprisingly Polite  Some Argentine business owners seem to relish testing the
Fernández administration’s limits. Enrique Piñeyro, a 55-year-old
doctor, pilot, and film director, is sometimes compared with
 Michael Moore . Recently, after he complained to a local business
paper that a film industry development zone announced by the
president would work much better if directors could import
cameras, he got a call from Moreno. The secretary was surprisingly
polite and said his cameras would be allowed to enter, Piñeyro
says, though Moreno did note that Piñeyro hadn’t filed the correct
paperwork.  That night the president called out Piñeyro in one of her
televised speeches but didn’t mention the tax authority. It seemed
just a touch kinder and gentler. Piñeyro says that, so far, he
hasn’t had any visits from the tax man. But he’s not taking any
chances. He had a doormat made for the entrance to his production
company, Aquafilms. It reads, “La próxima vez, vení con una orden
de allanamiento.” Or: “Next time, come with a search warrant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Mount in Buenos Aires at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley in  New York  at   jaley@bloomberg.net  