-- Argentine Bond Case Set for U.S. Court Conference
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-11-08T16:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/argentine-bond-case-set-for-u-s-court-conference.html
The U.S. judge overseeing lawsuits
against Argentina by holders of the country’s defaulted debt
will hold a court conference tomorrow, a court clerk said.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa is scheduled to hear from
the parties in litigation by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Fund and other investors who are trying to collect on
$1.3 billion in the defaulted bonds.  A federal appeals court in  New York  ruled Oct. 26 that
Argentina can’t make payments on its restructured sovereign debt
while refusing to pay holders of the defaulted bonds. The
appeals court sent the case back to Griesa to clarify how a
payment formula is intended to work and to determine how the
court’s orders apply to intermediary banks and other third
parties.  On Nov. 6, lawyers for NML Capital asked Griesa for an
expedited decision on those questions, citing press statements
by Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and
members of her cabinet that, according to NML, show the country
is trying to evade the appeals court ruling.  In a letter to Griesa dated Nov. 5,  Argentina  said it’s
seeking a rehearing from the three-judge appeals panel that
ruled against it or in front of the full New York-based appeals
court. In their letters, the two sides disagreed over whether an
order staying his earlier decisions against Argentina is still
in effect after the appeals court decision.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
CV-6978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  