-- Harper Presses Obama to Work With Congress to Avert Cliff
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-11-08T18:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/harper-presses-obama-to-work-with-congress-to-avert-cliff.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  encouraged U.S. President  Barack Obama  to work with
Congress on preventing automatic tax increases and spending cuts
that would push the world’s largest economy into recession.  “We encourage President Obama to work to bring Congress
together on a resolution of this issue,” Harper told reporters
today in Bangalore during a six-day visit to India. The so-
called fiscal cliff is $607 billion of spending reductions and
expiring tax cuts scheduled to take effect beginning in January.  “The world would be immensely helped if the Americans
could deal with this immediate issue, and the Europeans could
accelerate progress on their debt issues,” said Harper.  Canada  is preparing for the chance the U.S. doesn’t change
course, Harper said. “The government, as best we can, does
always look at contingency plans for these things,” he said,
without giving details.  Yesterday, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the
government would be pragmatic and respond if faced with an
external economic shock, and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said he would act if the failure of U.S. lawmakers to avoid the
fiscal cliff damages the domestic economy.  During a telephone call to Obama today to congratulate him
on his election win, Harper “used the opportunity to convey to
the president the importance of the White House and Congress
working together to tackle the U.S. fiscal situation,”
according to an e-mailed statement from spokesman Andrew MacDougall.  Keystone Approval  Harper is trying to deepen trade and investment with
emerging economies such as India to reduce Canada’s reliance on
the U.S., which consumes about two-thirds of Canadian exports.
He has said the U.S. rejection of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
XL pipeline underscores the need to seek other markets for the
world’s third-largest oil reserves.  The prime minister said his Conservative Party government
will be watching “with great interest” whether Obama, who was
re-elected this week for another four-year term, approves the
pipeline. Obama invited TransCanada to re-apply for approval
after he initially blocked the project in January.  Obama has “said repeatedly to us he hasn’t made a
decision,” Harper said. “Our position is extremely well known
and supported by business and labor in the U.S.”  The 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline would carry crude
from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries along the  Gulf of Mexico ,
crossing six U.S. states. Environmentalists have said the
pipeline will increase greenhouse gas emissions tied to  climate
change  and endanger drinking water supplies in Nebraska.  Diversify Trade  While the U.S. will remain Canada’s biggest trading partner
for the “foreseeable future,” that economy will probably grow
slowly, the Harper said. “It is obviously critical, not just in
the energy sector but across the Canadian economy, that we
continue to build our trade relationships and diversify our
trade and investment,” he said.  Harper this week urged India and Canada to redouble efforts
to exploit the “massive” potential for trade and investment
between the two countries.  Canadian officials are seeking to ease concern the
government is resistant to foreign investment after it blocked
Malaysia’s state-owned oil company’s bid for  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ)  last month. It also extended for a second time
its review of Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover
bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  on Nov. 2, with a final decision now due by
Dec. 10.  Extremely Open  Decisions about major investments “have to be taken
looking at the evolving global economy in which we operate,”
Harper told reporters this week in  New Delhi  before meeting
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh . “Canada remains, in
relative terms, extremely open to foreign investment compared to
a country like India.”  Harper declined to comment today when asked what he meant
in citing the “evolving global economy.”  “The government of Canada has some very important
decisions before it on which it will take public positions in
the very near future, along with positions on some of the
broader policy questions,” he said.  Canada understands that India’s political system can make
it difficult to push through economic reforms needed to expand
trade, Harper said.  “Although democracy can slow things down from time to
time, in the long term, democracy produces more robust consensus
that means better things for the long term,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Bangalore,  India  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  