-- Marriott Wins Ruling Against Miami Beach Hotel Owners
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-08T19:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/marriott-wins-ruling-against-miami-beach-hotel-owners-1-.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, won a court ruling
barring what the company called an attempted hostile takeover of
the Eden Roc Renaissance Hotel in  Miami Beach ,  Florida .  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Melvin L. Schweitzer
in  Manhattan  on Oct. 26 granted Bethesda, Maryland-based
Marriott’s request for a preliminary injunction preventing the
owners of the Eden Roc from taking any actions to remove or
replace the company as manager of the  hotel , and urged the two
sides to resolve the case, according to court filings dated
today and yesterday.  “We can either appoint a mediator with great hotel
experience in this matter, you can pick one of your own, it can
all be done under my auspices, but that’s my offer, it stands
and for all concerned, especially, as I said, a fan of Eden Roc
from years back when I passed over Fontainbleau and went next
door, I would hope that you could arrive at some kind of a
solution,” Schweitzer said in an Oct. 26 hearing, according to
a transcript.  Eden Roc LLLP sued Marriott and its Renaissance Hotel
Management unit in April over accusations Marriott mismanaged
the property after it invested more than $300 million in the
hotel, including a $240 million renovation.  Marriott sued Eden Roc LLLP in the same court last month,
accusing the owners of attempting a hostile takeover of the 56-
year-old hotel, and Schweitzer granted them a temporary
restraining order preventing them from removing Marriott.  Preliminary Injunction  Schweitzer on Oct. 26 also denied Eden Roc LLLP’s motions
for a preliminary injunction against Marriott and to vacate the
temporary restraining order, according to the court filings made
public today.  The 21-floor, 631-room art deco hotel, located in Miami
Beach, opened in 1956 and has hosted celebrities including
 Elizabeth Taylor , Katherine Hepburn and  Humphrey Bogart ,
according to its website.  The hotel, which was featured in several episodes of the
1950s television show “I Love Lucy,” was designed by architect
Morris Lapidus, who also designed the neighboring Fontainebleau.  The case is Marriott International Inc. v. Eden Roc LLLP,
653590/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  