-- Athletics’ Beane Named MLB Executive of Year by Sporting News
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-09T05:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/athletics-billy-beane-named-executive-of-year-by-sporting-news.html
Oakland Athletics General Manager
Billy Beane was named  Major League Baseball ’s Executive of the
Year by the Sporting News after his team rallied from a 13-game
deficit to clinch a division title on the last day of the
season.  Beane, an Athletics’ vice president whose philosophy of
evaluating players was the topic of the book “Moneyball” by
 Michael Lewis , received 31 of 57 votes cast by major league
executives to earn the award that has been handed out since
1936, Sporting News  said on its website .  The A’s began the
season 29th of 30 teams in the major leagues with a $55 million
payroll, according to USA Today’s annual survey.  “Our division suggested with the Angels and Rangers that
they were two of the best teams in the game, but we also felt we
were better than people thought,” said Beane, who was presented
with the award two days ago during general managers’ meetings in
 Indian Wells , California. “We just didn’t know how good.”  During the last offseason, Oakland parted ways with
starting pitchers Gio Gonzalez, who went on to go 21-8 for the
 Washington Nationals , and Trevor Cahill, as well as closer
 Andrew Bailey . Those trades brought in outfielder Josh Reddick,
who hit 32 home runs and had 85 runs batted in, pitchers Ryan Cook, Jarrod Parker and Tommy Milone, as well as catcher Derek
Norris.  Beane also outbid others for Yoenis Cespedes, who defected
from Cuba and is a finalist for American League Rookie of the
Year honors, and brought in first baseman Brandon Moss,
outfielder Jonny Gomes, third baseman Brandon Inge, shortstop
Stephen Drew and pitchers Travis Blackley and Pat Neshek.  Five Rookies  By the end of the campaign, the A’s, who trailed the  Texas
Rangers  by 13 games on June 30, were using five rookie starters.
The club won its final six games to clinch the AL West with a
94-68 record, rallying from a 5-1 deficit against the Rangers in
a regular-season finale to win 12-5 and take the division by one
game.  At the All-Star break the A’s were given 100-1 odds of
winning the division title, according to R.J. Bell of
Pregame.com. It took a 51-25 record after the break, the best in
baseball, to accomplish the feat.  Voting on the award took place before the postseason. The
Athletics were beaten in five games by the  Detroit Tigers  in a
best-of-five division series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  