-- Australia’s Biggest Carbon Developer to Start Trading EU Permits
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-08T05:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/australia-s-biggest-carbon-developer-to-start-trading-eu-permits.html
Climate Bridge,  Australia ’s largest
developer of emission credits under the Clean Development
Mechanism, will start a trading business focused on permits from
 Europe  and other international markets.  The Melbourne-based company is one of the first 11 to get
the Australian Financial Services License that will be required
starting next year to offer clients trading or advice on
emission permits. Climate Bridge’s new business will help
Australian customers execute spot trades as well as futures and
options contracts for European Union allowances and so-called
Certified Emission Reduction from the CDM system, according to
Chief Executive Officer Alex Wyatt.  “From 2015, Australian companies will be able to use
international carbon units to cover up to 50 percent of their
emissions liability,” Wyatt said. “They need access to
European markets to do this.”  Australia introduced a fixed price of A$23 ($24) a ton for
 greenhouse gases  from about 300 of the nation’s largest
emitters, and is scheduled to start a cap-and-trade program that
allows imported allowances starting in 2015. Clients are already
asking how to trade permits from overseas, even though full
trading is three years away and despite the threat Australia’s
carbon-trading legislation will be scrapped after the next
national election, Wyatt said.  New Focus  The focus on trading marks a transition for Climate Bridge,
which expects to have almost 100 projects registered by the end
of the year. While 95 percent of Climate Bridge’s work until now
has involved selling those credits to European parties bound by
the continent’s cap and trade system, that business is more
difficult now, Wyatt said. It stopped signing up new projects in
2011 as the EU imposed restrictions on new projects from  China 
and the prices of CERs collapsed. CERs have traded this month
for less than 1 euro on the ICE Futures exchange in  London .  By selling European permits to clients in Australia,
Climate Bridge is effectively reversing the flow of trade as
Western nations become exporters of carbon allowances, said
Sarah Chapman, who will head the new trading unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  