-- Australia Employers Added More Jobs Than Forecast in October
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-08T02:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/australian-employers-added-more-workers-than-forecast-in-october.html
Australian employers boosted payrolls
more than economists  forecast  in October and the  unemployment
rate  unexpectedly held as the nation weathered a global
slowdown, sending the local currency higher.  The number of people employed rose by 10,700 after a 15,500
gain in September, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
That compares with the median estimate for an increase of 500
last month in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists. The
 jobless rate  was unchanged at 5.4 percent, compared with
expectations for a rise to 5.5 percent.  The data highlight the resilience of the world’s 12th-
largest economy, which expanded at an annual pace of about 4
percent in the first half of the year, driven by resource
investment.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut
 interest rates  last month, bringing to 1.5 points the reduction
since Nov. 1 last year, before holding this week as the global
economy stabilizes and inflation picks up.  The resource investment boom is “providing a sort of
buffer” for the nation’s job market, said Tom Kennedy, an
economist in Sydney at JPMorgan Chase & Co., which predicted a
12,000 gain. Today’s report “fits with the picture of the RBA
looking to hold their ammunition a bit,” he said.  The number of  full-time jobs  increased for a fourth
straight month, the longest streak of gains since 2010,
advancing by 18,700 in October. Part-time employment fell by
8,000, today’s report showed.  Participation Rate  The participation rate, a measure of the  labor force  in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65.1 percent in October
from 65.2 percent a month earlier, it showed.  The Australian dollar gained, buying $1.0421 at 1:18 p.m.
in Sydney compared with $1.0393 before the data were released.
Traders are pricing in a 58 percent chance the RBA will lower
the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent at
its December meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Australian dollar has risen 1.5 percent since the
central bank last cut rates in October, the only gainer during
that period among Group of 10 currencies, Bloomberg data show.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven are underpinning the local
currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for all
but 23 days this year.  ‘Multi-Speed’ Economy  Australia has “still got the multi-speed nature of economy
playing out,” Kennedy said. “While non-mining exposed sectors
such as retailing and manufacturing have been quite weak, you’ve
still got the resource boom and the investment and all the extra
capital that brings with it.”  Today’s report showed New South  Wales  and Victoria, the
nation’s most populous states, led the gains with a total of
16,000 jobs added. Western Australia, a center of the nation’s
mining boom, gained 1,900, while Queensland, another resource
state, lost 1,400 as a new government there cuts public-service
workers.  In contrast to Australia’s labor-market strength,  New
Zealand ’s unemployment rate unexpectedly rose last quarter to a
13-year high, a government report showed earlier today.  New Zealand’s jobless rate jumped to 7.3 percent from 6.8
percent in the second quarter, the report showed. That’s the
highest since the first quarter of 1999 and was more than the
6.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  A quarter of Australia’s exports, or about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, goes to  China , and 60 percent of those
shipments are iron ore. Data this month showed China’s non-
manufacturing industries rebounded from the slowest expansion in
at least 19 months, indicating the world’s second-biggest
economy is recovering from a seven-quarter slowdown.  Australia has added 45,000 jobs in the  mining industry  in
the year through August, while construction has lost 70,000 over
the period, government data show, highlighting the two-speed
nature of the nation’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  