-- Australia’s Pacific Hydro May Expand Retail Electricity Business
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-08T06:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/australia-s-pacific-hydro-may-expand-retail-electricity-business.html
Pacific Hydro Pty, the Australian
renewable energy producer, may expand its retail business to New
South Wales state and sell power to residential customers.  Pacific Hydro, a unit of Industry Funds Management Pty, in
September started a retail-energy arm targeting businesses in
the states of South  Australia  and Victoria. That reduces the
company’s reliance on retailers  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ,  AGL Energy
Ltd. (AGK)  and TRUenergy Holdings Pty Ltd., Lane Crockett, Pacific
Hydro Australia’s general manager, said today.  “That’s an alternative avenue to market,” he said in an
interview in  Melbourne . “We’ll be looking to expand that
business, and that might provide opportunities so we don’t have
to rely on the big three.”  Australia set a target of generating 41,000 gigawatt hours
of electricity from renewable sources by 2020, or 20 percent of
its projected needs. As demand slows, that target may end up
being 25 percent of the country’s energy mix prompting calls
from power companies such as TRUenergy Holdings to lower it.  Uncertainty over whether the target will remain in its
current form is hurting investment, Crockett said.  Pacific Hydro also sees an opportunity in selling clean
power to homes, Crockett said.  “We think there’s a story there to potentially market a
green product to the average household,” he said.  Pacific Hydro and partner Fotowatio Renewable Ventures are
seeking funds from the Australian Renewable Energy Agency for a
solar power project in New South Wales after losing a
competition for federal government funds earlier this year,
Crockett said. That project may have the capacity to produce as
much as 60 megawatts of electricity, he said.  “We’ve been in discussions with ARENA,” he said,
declining to speculate on when the organization will decide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  