-- Australia May Join Europe With Extended Kyoto Climate Pledge
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/australia-may-join-europe-with-extended-kyoto-climate-pledge.html
Australia  is giving “serious
consideration” to joining  Europe  in a renewed and binding
pledge to reduce emissions, even though a new treaty including
the U.S. and China is a higher priority.  Australia has yet to decide whether to join a so-called
second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol that may span the
rest of this decade, according to Mark Dreyfus, Australia’s
Parliamentary secretary for climate change and energy
efficiency.  “We are giving serious consideration to joining a second
commitment to Kyoto,” Dreyfus said yesterday at the Carbon Expo
event in  Melbourne . Even so, “the main game” at the Doha talks
is making good on promises made at last year’s climate summit in
Durban, South Africa. That meeting produced an agreement that
requires both developed nations such as the U.S. and emerging
nations including  China  to pledge emission reductions that are
legally enforceable starting in 2020 rather than voluntary
targets, he said.  Australia announced Aug. 28 it will link its emissions
market starting in 2015 with the world’s largest cap-and-trade
system in Europe. The country is under pressure because European
leaders have signaled their unwillingness to let nations without
new commitments under the Kyoto treaty use the Clean Development
Mechanism after 2012, according to Ilona Millar, a senior
associate for the law firm of Baker & McKenzie. A decision on
future access to the CDM will be made by the UN.  ‘Very Significant’  The CDM is the global carbon market created under the Kyoto
agreement. It enables richer countries to “offset” their
emissions via investments in climate projects in the developing
world that cut pollution at a lower cost than they could at
home.  Dreyfus, who is scheduled to join Australian Climate
Minister Greg Combet at this year’s global meeting in Doha,
acknowledged that Australia’s ties with Europe are an “issue”
when it comes to Kyoto, and said the links won’t predetermine
Australia decisions.  The re-election of President  Barack Obama  in the U.S. was a
“very significant” development that bodes well for the Doha
meeting, Dreyfus said.  Obama’s mention of climate change in his victory speech was
an encouraging sign, said James Cameron, chairman of Climate
Change Capital in  London , who helped negotiate the Kyoto
Protocol in 1997.  “The U.S. is finally moving out of its position of
intransigence,” Cameron said today in Melbourne. “It may
actually lend a hand to the international process,” he said,
advising all participants in this year’s Doha talks to have
“modest expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Anderson in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  