-- Australia Commercial Property Confidence Plunges to 30-Month Low
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-08T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/australia-commercial-property-confidence-plunges-to-30-month-low.html
Australian investors’ confidence in
commercial property slumped to the lowest in 30 months as
business confidence soured, a National  Australia  Bank Ltd.
survey showed.  The NAB Commercial Property Index dropped to minus 19, the
lowest since the bank started the measure in March 2010. Retail
properties fared the worst, with values falling 1.6 percent in
the quarter, followed by offices, where values dropped 0.6
percent, the bank said in an e-mailed report today.  “With few signs of an imminent turnaround on the horizon,
confidence surrounding the outlook for retail property remains
subdued,”  Alan Oster , chief economist at the bank, said in the
report. “The deterioration in business conditions seen in NAB’s
latest business surveys may also be weighing on sentiment in the
office property market.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s 150 basis points of
 interest rate  cuts are having limited impact on businesses and
consumers. Australia’s business conditions gauge, a measure of
hiring, sales and profit, slid to minus 3 in September from zero
the previous month, and consumers reduced spending on clothing,
footwear and personal accessories and cut department-store
purchases in September.  Retail property values are expected to drop 1 percent by
Sept. 30, 2013, while office values recover slightly, rising 0.4
percent, according to the survey of 250 property industry
participants including fund managers, real estate agents and
property developers.  Hotels in city centers will perform the best, with values
rising 1.8 percent in the next 12 months, and industrial
property values are forecast climb 1.3 percent, according to the
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  