-- Averting U.S. Spending Cuts Has Biggest Effect, CBO Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-11-08T22:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/averting-u-s-spending-cuts-has-biggest-effect-cbo-says.html
Avoiding automatic spending cuts that
are part of the U.S. government’s so-called fiscal cliff would
have the biggest economic effect per dollar, the  Congressional
Budget Office  said in a report today.  The report  reaffirmed the CBO’s previous projections that
allowing the scheduled tax increases and automatic spending cuts
to take effect would lead to a recession in the first half of
2013. It also analyzed the economic effects of each part of the
scheduled changes. The spending cuts would affect defense and
non-defense programs.  “Because the tax cuts have been in place for so long, CBO
expects that households would view an extension of current tax
rates as a continuation of established  tax policy  and would
therefore alter their spending very little,” the report said.  Congress returns to  Washington  next week for a post-
election session that will focus on the fiscal cliff.
Republicans and Democrats are deadlocked over how to address the
issue.  Tax cuts first enacted during  George W. Bush ’s presidency
are scheduled to expire Dec. 31. Republicans want to extend them
for all levels of income, while Democrats are pushing to extend
them only for annual income up to $200,000 a person or $250,000
for a married couple.  Increasing GDP  Eliminating the defense spending cuts would increase the
nation’s gross domestic product by about $1.20 for each dollar
that would be added to the  budget deficit  as a result, the CBO
said. Extending the tax breaks for everyone would increase GDP
by about 50 cents for every dollar of additional deficit in
2013, it said.  Extending  unemployment benefits , continuing the payroll  tax
cut , avoiding non-defense spending cuts and scheduled cuts in
payments to doctors under Medicare would all have larger
economic effects per dollar of U.S. deficit cost than the tax-
cut extensions.  The report, requested by Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said that extending of all the tax
cuts would protect 1.8 million jobs from being lost. Among that
number, 200,000 jobs would be protected by extending the tax cut
for top earners.  Eliminating the spending cuts would prevent 800,000 jobs
from being lost, CBO said. The report provided the figures as
the most probable effect inside of a range.  Long Run  In the long run, CBO said, avoiding the fiscal cliff
without eventually cutting the deficit would hurt the economy
because of a “continued surge in federal debt.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday that he and other
Republicans are ready to work with President  Barack Obama , who
won a second term in the Nov. 6 election.  Democrats are sounding similar notes. Like Republicans,
they haven’t offered plans that go beyond their campaign
proposals.  Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the House
Ways and Means Committee, said in a phone interview today that
the report underscores the party’s position on the top tax
rates.  A full extension of the tax cuts for all income levels
would increase GDP in the fourth quarter of 2013 by 1.4 percent,
compared with their expiration. A similar policy without
extending tax cuts for top earners would increase GDP by 1.3
percent.  Unfinished Business  “Let’s get the unfinished business done and then set the
stage for next year,” Levin said.  Michelle Dimarob, a spokeswoman for the House Ways and
Means Committee, said in a statement that Congress should
prevent the tax increases and overhaul the  tax code .  “Today’s report confirms that raising taxes on all
taxpayers will result in fewer ‘help wanted’ signs hanging in
the windows of businesses across the country,” she said. “Job
creators agree and have made it clear that raising taxes will
result in a weaker economy and fewer jobs for the millions of
Americans struggling to find work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  