-- Aviva to Sell U.S. Unit at “Substantial Discount,” CFO Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-11-08T17:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/aviva-in-talks-to-sell-u-s-business-at-less-than-book-value.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, said it’s in talks to sell its U.S.
life unit in what would be the biggest disposal since Chairman
John McFarlane took charge in May.  The sale would be at a “substantial discount” to the
unit’s book value of 2.4 billion pounds ($3.8 billion) at the
end of June, Chief Financial Officer Pat Regan told reporters on
a conference call today as the company posted a 5 percent
decline in nine-month sales. The division, the third-biggest
fixed annuity provider in the U.S., may fetch more than $1
billion, people with knowledge of the matter said in September.  McFarlane has pledged to exit 16 businesses that together
tie up 6 billion pounds of capital in July as the insurer seeks
to build up reserves depleted by the European sovereign debt
crisis. Aviva’s capital has been hurt by the crisis more than
any other U.K. insurer because it gets 40 percent of its life
insurance operating profit from the region and holds more euro
zone sovereign debt than competitors.  “Management continue to take sensible steps in
rationalizing Aviva,” Matthew Preston, a London-based analyst
at Berenberg Bank with a buy rating on the stock, wrote in a
note to clients today. “While there is no ‘big bang’ in this
release, it highlights the ongoing progress being made.”  The  shares rose  0.6 percent to 330.3 pence in London
trading for a market value of 9.6 billion pounds. The stock has
gained 10 percent this year,  lagging  the FTSE All-Share Life
Insurance Index’s 26 percent increase in the period.  U.S. Bidders  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , Harbinger Capital Partners
and Guggenheim Partners LLC have made offers for the U.S.
division, the people said in September.  Aviva acquired most of its U.S. operations through the $2.9
billion purchase of  Des Moines , Iowa-based AmerUs Group Co. in
2006, the company’s largest acquisition. It was part of a plan
to tap the U.S. baby-boomer retirement market and expand outside
 Europe . In August, Aviva wrote down the value of the business by
876 million pounds as it readied it for a sale.  “Such a sale would generate a significant economic capital
surplus and we believe would be in the interests of the group,”
Regan said.  Aviva is interviewing candidates for its vacant chief
executive officer position this week and expects to make an
announcement the “very near future,” McFarlane said on today’s
call.  Andrew Moss  stepped down in May after a shareholder
rebellion over pay. Regan is one of the leading candidates to
take the role, according to Eamonn Flanagan, a Liverpool,
England-based analyst at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)   Sales Tumble  Aviva’s revenue from life insurance and pensions declined
10 percent to 18.8 billion pounds in the first nine months as
sales in Spain, Italy and  Poland  fell by more than 30 percent,
the insurer said in today’s statement. That missed the 19
billion-pound estimate of Barrie Cornes at  Panmure Gordon & Co. (PMR) ,
Britain’s top-ranked insurance analyst over the past year
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “In this low interest-rate environment you deliberately
take pricing action and reduce guarantee levels,” Regan said,
referring to the drop in European sales. “People are saving
less in the short term in the continental markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  