-- Banco Popular Said to Seek 10 Banks to Underwrite Share Sale
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-11-08T14:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/banco-popular-said-to-seek-10-banks-to-underwrite-share-sale.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , the Spanish
lender that’s seeking as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.2
billion) in a share sale, plans to hire at least 10 banks to
guarantee the offering, said people with direct knowledge of the
talks.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Deutsche Bank AG and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  will probably run the sale, one person said. Over a dozen
other banks have been approached, including  Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , the people said,
asking not to be named as the discussions are confidential.
Popular, Spain’s sixth-largest lender, should announce the names
of underwriters tomorrow, they said. A spokesman for Banco
Popular said that no final decision has been made, and that one
is expected by tomorrow.  Popular is offering the  stock  to existing shareholders as
it attempts to avoid taking state aid to cover a 3.2 billion-
euro capital shortfall revealed in a stress test.  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest lender, is among European banks that have
sought cash from shareholders to improve capital levels.  Officials at JPMorgan, Bank of America and UBS declined to
comment. Officials at Santander and Citigroup were not
immediately available for comment.  Rights sales in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa have
raised $22 billion this year, compared with $36 billion in the
same period in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Popular posted a 23 percent drop in third-quarter profit
last month on provisions to cover bad loans.  The sale may go ahead at a discount of at least 40 percent
to the share price at the time, Chief Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto said in a news conference last month.  The bank will fix terms for the sale when shareholders meet
to approve it on Nov. 10, and the company plans to conclude the
offering by Dec. 6, Gonzalez-Robatto told analysts the day of
the results.  Popular fell 1.7 percent to 1.13 euros at 13:54 p.m. in
 Madrid . The stock is down 68 percent this year, valuing the
lender at 2.5 billion euros, which is also the amount it’s
trying to raise with its offering of stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  