-- Bank of Canada Governor Carney Speaks in Montreal (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-08T17:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/bank-of-canada-governor-carney-speaks-in-montreal-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
 Canada  Governor  Mark Carney ’s speech today in  Montreal . The
document was released today in Ottawa. Footnotes have been
removed.  Some Current Issues in Financial Reform  Introduction  I am pleased to be in Montréal today, having just returned
from meetings of G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors in  Mexico  City. While we covered many important
topics, a substantial part of the agenda focused on assessing
the progress of global financial sector reform.  This is my topic today--providing you with an update of
what has been achieved, and what remains to be done.  The importance of these efforts should be obvious. Five
years ago, the complete loss of confidence in private finance
could only be arrested by comprehensive backstops from the
world’s richest economies. In the ensuing recession, the global
economy lost more than $4 trillion in output and almost 28
million jobs.  Here in Canada, we learned that keeping our own house in
order is not enough. Even with our strong and well-functioning
financial system, the Canadian economy suffered a decline of
almost $70 billion in GDP and lost more than 430,000 jobs. While
we have more than recouped all those losses, our economy
continues to be held back by the weak global recovery. That is
why it is important for all Canadians that all countries follow
through on these reforms.  To address the question of how G-20 countries are doing, I
will concentrate on three issues:
- Are banks safer today?
- Have we ended the phenomenon of institutions that are “too
big to fail”?
- Is shadow banking a force for good or  ill ?  Let me turn to the first.  Are Banks Safer?  Banking system frailties were cruelly exposed by the
crisis. Many people remember the pivotal moment when  Lehman
Brothers  collapsed, but that was only one example of a
widespread failure of banking models across the advanced
economies.  In 2008, major banks in the  United States , the  United
Kingdom ,  Germany ,  France , Ireland,  Switzerland , the Netherlands
and  Belgium  either failed or were rescued by the state.
Gallingly, on the eve of their collapse, every bank boasted of
capital levels well in excess of the standards of the time.  How was this possible? In some cases, “off-balance-sheet”
exposures proved to be very much the responsibility of the banks
when push came to shove. In others, balance sheets were stuffed
with supposedly risk-free structured products that turned out to
be lethally toxic. In the end, the old risk-based capital
standards were both too weak and too porous. This proved fatal
when banks’ loss absorbency was called upon.  Building capital  So it should be a surprise to no one that when building a
more resilient system, the G-20 started with strengthening the
bank capital regime. With the new Basel III rules, the quantity
and quality of bank capital are being improved immensely:
- The minimum requirement for common equity will rise from 2 per
cent to 4.5 per cent under Basel III, and to 7 per cent when the
new capital conservation buffer is added. This more than triples
the required amount of high-quality capital.
- A new countercyclical capital buffer will compel banks to
further increase capital by up to 2.5 percentage points if
threats of system-wide disruptions are rising.
- For those banks whose failure would pose a risk to the global
financial system, even more capital will be required. By 2019,
these institutions will face a capital surcharge that rises from
1 per cent to 2.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets.  In addition, the new rules will bring more exposures on
balance sheets and require more capital against riskier
activities (e.g., trading activities and securitisations). For
example, capital required for the trading book will be tripled.  The effective increase in capital is even larger once the
tougher definition of capital is factored in. In total, the
largest banks will have to hold at least seven times as much
capital as before the crisis.  While these measures are scheduled to be implemented over
the next six years, banks are not waiting to rebuild confidence
in their creditworthiness. Since the end of 2007, major banks in
the United States and  Europe  have increased their common equity
capital by $575 billion and their common equity capital ratios
by 25 per cent. Based on the new rules, the average capital
ratio of internationally active banks at the beginning of this
year already stood at 7.7 per cent.  In general, the industry can meet the new targets through
earnings retention over the transition period. For example, for
all large banks to reach the Basel III Tier 1 common equity
target ratio by January 2019, they need to raise an amount about
equal to their aggregate post-tax profits last year.
Canadian banks are setting the pace. Since the end of 2007, the
major Canadian banks have increased their common equity capital
by 70 per cent, or $67 billion. All major Canadian banks are
expected to meet the stringent 2019 Basel III requirements by
next January, as specified by the Office of the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions (OSFI).  Reducing leverage  In an ideal world, regulators would accurately measure the
riskiness of banks’ assets when setting leverage. But who lives
in a world where risks are known with certainty and can be
measured with precision?  Therefore, as a backstop to the inherent imperfections of a
risk-based capital framework, a simple, but effective,  leverage
ratio  has been imported from Canada into the global standard.
The leverage ratio sets a cap on how many assets a bank can hold
for each dollar of equity. It protects the system from risks we
might think are low but in fact are not.  In the run-up to the crisis, when concerns about risks were
at their lowest (and risks themselves were, in fact, at their
highest), Canadian banks were constrained by the leverage ratio.
Elsewhere, leverage soared, in some cases doubling or tripling,
while risk-adjusted measures remained stable.  When the financial panic intensified, investors
increasingly simplified their judgments about capital adequacy.
In the end, only true loss-bearing capital and simple leverage
tests mattered. In this light, many financial emperors around
the world were seen to have no clothes. Canadian banks were
comparatively draped in full winter regalia.  Belt and suspenders  The belt and suspenders approach of the capital and
leverage ratios establishes two tests for the maximum amount of
assets that financial institutions may hold relative to equity.
An issue is which of these should bind first. If the leverage
ratio does, banks will load up on riskier assets and push assets
off their balance sheets in ways that satisfy accountants but
not, ultimately, creditors. That is why a complex risk-weighted
test is also necessary, and should be calibrated to bind before
the leverage ratio in normal circumstances.  Banks are safer as a result of this combined approach. But
much more is required. We need to ensure consistent
implementation. That is why the Financial Stability Board (FSB)
just released a review of implementation in major jurisdictions.
This review identified some deficiencies that will need to be
addressed. The FSB and the G-20 will continue to use such
transparency and peer pressure to ensure a level playing field.  Of course, bank resilience is a function of much more than
just capital. It also requires better risk management and
improved governance. I will conclude later with some comments on
how the totality of FSB reforms will encourage just that.  Have We Ended Too-Big-to-Fail?  The measures taken to date have lowered the probability of
failure, but since failures will still happen, their impact must
be reduced.  In particular, we must address, once and for all, the
unfairness of a system that privatises gains and socialises
losses. By restoring capitalism to the capitalists, discipline
in the system will increase and, with time, systemic risks will
be reduced. In addition, the knowledge that major firms in
markets far away can fail, without meaningful consequences at
home, will restore confidence in an open global system.  The cost of too-big-to-fail  In addition to the public cost of the bailouts, there is
the less-transparent and ongoing implicit subsidy. Large banks
enjoy lower borrowing costs owing to direct support and implicit
government guarantees. This subsidy effectively saved the 20
largest global banks $70 billion per year prior to the crisis,
equivalent to 20 per cent of their profits.  Moreover, the moral hazard problems associated with
implicit public support may amplify risk taking, reduce market
discipline, create competitive distortions, and further increase
the probability of distress.  What are we doing about it?  To eliminate those costs on taxpayers and to promote market
discipline, G-20 countries are taking several steps.  First, the FSB has identified those banks that are
systemically important at the global level, based on size,
complexity and interconnectedness with other aspects of the
financial system. There are no Canadian banks on the current
list.  Second, to address the systemic and moral hazard risks
associated with these systemically important financial
institutions (SIFIs), the FSB has developed a range of measures,
known as the Key Attributes. When implemented, these will help
to ensure that any financial institution can be resolved without
severe disruption to the financial system and without exposing
the taxpayer to the risk of loss. Under the Key Attributes,
bondholders, shareholders and management--rather than taxpayers-
-will have to bear the brunt of losses as a result of a new
bail-in power in all G-20 member countries. Authorities will
have the ability to convert some private debt to new equity in
order to recapitalise, and share the losses of, a failing
institution. The knowledge that this could happen should enhance
market discipline of private creditors who previously enjoyed a
free ride at the expense of taxpayers.  In addition, each global SIFI must have mandatory recovery
and resolution plans and resolvability assessments, as well as a
cross-border co-operation agreement between relevant
authorities. Further, member countries will complete specific
plans by mid-2013 to recover or, if necessary, resolve these
global SIFIs. Finally, each SIFI should be subject to more
intense and effective supervision.  Other systemic financial firms  While these measures are being implemented, the FSB is
working to extend this framework to other systemic financial
firms, including domestic systemically important banks, global
insurance companies, non-banks and core financial market
infrastructure.  In particular, the FSB and the G-20 have agreed to a
principles-based approach to regulating domestic systemically
important banks (D-SIBs) that complements the framework for
global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) and provides for
national discretion in the way that systemic importance is
assessed and policy tools are applied.  In Canada, OSFI will
make these determinations. As countries implement their D-SIB
frameworks, the frameworks will be subject to peer review to
preserve a level playing field and ensure compatibility with the
G-SIB framework.  More progress required  While we have made solid progress, it is not clear yet that
too-big-to-fail has been ended. For example, credit-rating
agencies continue to boost their ratings of major banks by a
factor that recognises implied government support. This boost
has increased since the crisis, meaning that the implicit
subsidy of taxpayers to large banks may have grown tenfold by
some estimates.  Despite the proclamations of G-20 leaders, investors seem
to think governments will once again blink when faced with a
failing large bank. In part, this reflects the need to
legislate, not merely propose. But it may also underscore the
need for further measures, and to articulate clearly plans to
resolve each systemic institution. These may include improving
the effectiveness of cross-border agreements for handling a
failure, and in my view, clearly identifying bail-inable
securities, requiring a minimum amount of them, and publishing a
presumptive path for resolution.  This week, in Mexico City, we agreed to redouble our
efforts on these fronts. The FSB will assess whether we have
ended too-big-to-fail at the St. Petersburg Summit next
September and I am confident the G-20 will agree on any further
steps to do so if required. The G-20 is resolute in its
intention to end too-big-to-fail.  Is Shadow Banking a Force for Good or Ill?  There are valid concerns that as authorities take measures
to make the traditional banking system safer, we will push risk
into the shadow banking sector. That is one reason why the FSB
has launched, and the G-20 endorsed, a comprehensive reform of
the oversight and regulation of shadow banking.  Shadow banking is best described as credit intermediation
involving entities and activities (fully or partially) outside
the regular banking system. When this intermediation is
conducted appropriately, it is a valuable alternative to bank
funding that supports real economic activity. But experience
from the crisis demonstrates that non-bank entities and
transactions can operate on a large scale in ways that create
bank-like risks to financial stability.  Like banks, the shadow banking system can be vulnerable to
“runs,” thereby amplifying systemic risk. It can feed booms
during surges in confidence and magnify busts when confidence
evaporates.  For example, in a dynamic that fed the U.S. housing bubble,
the value of structured investment vehicles (SIVs) tripled in
the three years to 2007, and credit default swaps grew sixfold.
Following the sudden reappraisal of the creditworthiness of
these instruments, asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) markets
froze, SIVs failed, and  money market funds  experienced runs.  The feedback to the regulated sector was immediate and
devastating. Money market mutual funds pulled short-term funding
from the banking sector. Other core financial markets, such as
repo and over-the-counter derivatives markets, seized up.
Virtually all American investment banks and many commercial
banks could not roll over their funding positions.  During this time, the Canadian non-bank ABCP sector - a
classic shadow banking activity - also collapsed. Only the
Herculean efforts of the public and private sector through the
Montréal Accord could resolve this debacle.  We should all hope that the lessons of these sorry episodes
remain fresh in the minds of investors, banks and regulators for
some time. However, experience suggests it would be foolish to
rely on memory alone. That is why the FSB and G-20 are acting.  Our core objective is to address bank-like risks to
financial stability that emerge outside the regular banking
system. At the same time, we want to preserve sustainable non-
bank financing models that do not pose such risks but provide
needed competition to banks and credit to the real economy.  As a result, the FSB’s approach, outlined this week in
Mexico, is proportionate to financial stability risks and starts
with those activities that were sources of problems during the
crisis. It also provides a process for monitoring the shadow
banking system so that any rapidly growing new activities that
pose bank-like risks can be identified early and, where needed,
addressed.  There are five work streams to address vulnerabilities.
They seek to:
- mitigate the spillovers between the regular and the shadow
banking systems;
- reduce the susceptibility of money market funds to runs;
- mitigate systemic risks posed by other shadow banking
entities;
- align the incentives in the securitisation process to prevent
excessive leverage in the financial system; and
- dampen risks and procyclical incentives associated with
secured financing contracts such as repos and securities
lending.  Initial recommendations will be released shortly for public
consultation. Detailed assessments of the impact of these
measures on financial system resilience and economic growth will
be conducted. Based on these findings, the FSB will deliver a
final integrated set of recommendations for approval by the G-20
leaders at the St. Petersburg Summit.  The ultimate goal of these reforms is to turn risky shadow
banking into resilient market-based financing. The latter is an
essential and valuable part of the modern financial system.  Getting the Market to Work  I have spent some time today outlining an ambitious and
necessary set of measures that will significantly improve the
safety and the stability of the financial system. The unique
nature of financial firms and the enormous costs of failure
require regulation and supervision to supplement internal
governance of banks and market discipline. The new Basel capital
and liquidity rules will encourage better risk management. New
FSB compensation standards will better align incentives of
bankers and shareholders with the needs of the broader economy.
More intensive and effective supervision will reinforce internal
governance and risk management.  But the point is not to pile up capital and other
regulatory  capital requirements  so high that banks are never
heard from again as either a source of risk or credit to the
real economy. No supervisory system can catch everything.  The main responsibility for identifying and  managing risk 
rests with each firm’s management, whose risk managers,
compliance staff and internal audit personnel will always
greatly outnumber the resources available to supervisors. And
since regulation alone cannot optimise risk and return, the FSB
is taking steps to enhance the role of the market in achieving
the right balance.  By ending too-big-to-fail and thereby subjecting firms to
the ultimate sanction of the market, discipline in the system
will increase.  In Mexico, the G-20 also endorsed the FSB’s new road map to
end the mechanistic reliance on credit ratings. Doing so will
promote diverse private sector judgment, reducing cliff effects
and building resilience.  Moreover, improving risk disclosure, risk governance and
risk management will further build a more resilient financial
system. That is why I welcome the recently published report of
the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force. This private sector effort,
encouraged by the FSB, offers recommendations to provide
investors with better disclosure about bank business models, key
risks and risk-measurement practices. This should contribute,
over time, to improved market confidence in financial
institutions and financial market functioning, complementing
regulatory developments by the public sector. I strongly
encourage banks to implement these recommendations.  As the Basel capital rules are implemented, as market
infrastructure changes, and as banks--and, crucially, their
investors--develop a better appreciation of their prospects for
risk and return, banks are beginning to change their business
models. Already, a couple of banks have fallen off the list of
G-SIBs because they have simplified, downsized and de-risked
their business models. Other institutions are de-emphasizing
high-profile but risky capital markets businesses that benefited
employees more than shareholders and society. As the reform
process progresses, we can expect further adjustments that
should ultimately lead to a more resilient, diversified sector
with a more sustainable risk-return profile.  Conclusion  Last month in  Tokyo , the  International Monetary Fund 
rightly asked whether the financial system is safer today than
on the eve of the crisis. The answer is yes.  Despite the challenging economic environment, banks have
substantially increased capital and liquidity. They are more
actively managing risks. Countries are diligently implementing
measures so that they can resolve failing institutions. The
infrastructure of derivatives markets is being transformed to
reduce systemic risks. The size of the shadow banking sector has
fallen by 20 percentage points of GDP, back to levels last seen
in 2004-05.  However, while progress has been made, the global financial
system is still not as safe as it needs to be. While much has
been accomplished, much more needs to be done.  The ambitious reform agenda I have described today will
make a huge difference when fully implemented. All G-20 nations
need to raise their game. That is why the FSB is increasingly
focused on timely and consistent implementation of agreed
reforms. We will identify those who drag their feet or bend the
rules and hold them to account.  The case for reform remains as clear today as it did when
the G-20 began the process in 2008. Measures to strengthen
financial stability support economic growth and create jobs
rather than hold them back, even in the short term. Credit
growth has resumed in those countries where financial
institutions have decisively strengthened their balance sheets,
refocused their core business activities, and improved their
funding sources - in other words, returned to a more sustainable
business model.  As I have outlined today, more steps are required. But I
can assure you, based on our recent conversations in Mexico,
that the G-20 and the FSB remain resolute in their intention to
create a more resilient, efficient global financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  