-- Bank of China Sees Bad Loans Improving as Economy Stabilizes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-08T08:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/bank-of-china-sees-bad-loans-improving-as-economy-stabilizes-1-.html
Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
fourth-largest lender by market value, forecasts that loan
quality will improve next year as the  economy  stabilizes,
President Li Lihui said.  While facing “some volatility,” measures of soured loans
will stay in an “excellent range” at the Beijing-based lender,
Li said in an interview during the 18th Chinese Communist Party
Congress in the capital today, without providing figures.  Bank of China  last month posted a 17 percent increase in
third-quarter profit, beating analyst estimates as it broadened
its lending margin and economic growth curbed defaults. Total
non-performing loans at  China ’s four biggest banks increased 2.1
billion  yuan  ($337 million) in the third quarter to 295.7
billion yuan, or about 1 percent of their total advances,
according to separate statements from the lenders.  The ratio for the entire industry is about 0.97 percent,
 Shang Fulin , chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, said in Beijing today, adding that pressure is
growing on risk management as the economic environment becomes
more complicated. That compares with a 0.9 percent bad-loan
ratio at the end of June, according to official data.  Soured Loans  Chinese commercial banks’ delinquent obligations may rise
10 percent this year and accelerate in 2013 if concern that
inflation is rebounding leads authorities to tighten monetary
policy, according to China Orient Asset Management Corp. The
company is one of four state-owned asset managers established in
1999 to take over trillions of yuan of bad loans from the
country’s largest lenders.  Shares (3988)  of Bank of China fell 2.5 percent to close at
HK$3.17 in Hong Kong trading today. They have gained 11 percent
this year, the best performance among the nine mainland banks
traded in the city. That trails a 17 percent advance in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this year.  Bank of China won’t rule out the possibility of buying into
financial institutions in the U.S. and  Europe  while valuations
remain low, Li said, without giving details. It will continue to
add branches abroad over the next few years, focusing on  Asia ,
 South America  and central and eastern Europe, he said.  Overseas operations accounted for about 24 percent of Bank
of China’s total assets at the end of June, the most among the
country’s four largest banks. The lender is the only Chinese
bank on the Financial Stability Board’s  list  of 28 systemically
important financial institutions.  Bank of China has a “good” business structure in Europe
and its London operations function “relatively smoothly,” Li
said today. The Financial Times reported on Oct. 29 that China’s
state-run banks are moving European business to Luxembourg from
London to avoid the U.K.’s “rigorously demanding” liquidity
rules.  Bank of China still has “a little” left of the 2012
lending quota assigned to it by the central bank, which should
be able to meet demand from key clients, Li said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  