-- Barclays Says Second Turkey Credit-Rating Upgrade on Horizon
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-11-08T15:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/barclays-says-second-turkey-credit-rating-upgrade-on-horizon.html
Barclays Plc said that Moody’s
Investors Service may follow  Fitch Ratings  in upgrading  Turkey ’s
credit to investment grade later this month, triggering as much
as $2.5 billion in extra demand for Turkish Eurobonds.  “With Fitch making the first move, we think Moody’s is
likely to follow in the next five to six months,” analysts
including Koon Chow and  Christian Keller  at Barclays’ investment
banking unit in  London  wrote in a report sent by e-mail today.  A second investment-grade rating would establish Turkey’s
credentials for most international funds and make it eligible
for inclusion in more indexes, helping attract between $2
billion and $2.5 billion into Turkey’s hard-currency debt, they
wrote.  Fitch this week raised Turkey to BBB-, its lowest
investment-grade level, citing easing near-term financial risks,
a moderate and declining government debt burden, a sound banking
system, favorable growth prospects and “a relatively wealthy
and diverse economy.” Moody’s rates Turkey one step below
investment grade with a positive outlook.  A second upgrade would also increase the likelihood of
lira-denominated bonds being included in benchmark indexes,
drawing another $2 billion to 2.5 billion in funds, Barclays
said. At present, lira bonds aren’t included in the Barclays
Global Aggregate Index, which covers debt in 23 currencies.  Best Performer  Fitch’s upgrade has helped Turkish bonds extend their run
as the best performers this year among major markets worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on  Turkish benchmark bonds  fell nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.76 percent at 4:40 p.m. in
Istanbul, declining for the fourth day to the lowest on record.  Foreign ownership of Turkish bonds hit a record high of
$56.8 billion as of Oct. 19, according to Turkey’s central bank,
helping the lira to appreciate 1.7 percent over the past month
against the dollar. It trailed only the South Korean won among
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The lira
gained 0.2 percent to 1.7821 per dollar today, close to a six-
month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  