-- Baritone Paterson Opts for Serial Seducer Over Kind Giant
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/baritone-paterson-opts-for-serial-seducer-over-kind-giant.html
Iain Paterson is at last free to
concentrate on being a promiscuous nobleman again.  He has spent the last month in a schizophrenic existence
and trying to be in two places at once: serial seducer  Don
Giovanni  at  English National Opera  one night and the infatuated
giant Fasolt at  Covent Garden  the next.  Paterson can now breathe a sigh of relief, with the Ring
winding down, and settle into his energetic and beautifully-sung
account of Giovanni. If Rufus Norris’s production as a whole is
a non-starter, it’s certainly not Paterson’s fault.  “I like to sing the Serenade with a ‘mezza di voce’
(lightened voice),” says the bearded 39-year-old Scot, who has
the build and demeanor of a friendly Viking. “I took bits of
that sound back to Fasolt, like when he sees Freia, the object
of his love, hidden by gold.”  Paterson’s punishing schedule keeps him fit, he says.  “A lot of the time as a singer you’re jetlagged, or tired,
or fighting a bug you’ve picked up on a plane,” he says. “If
you can learn to sing at 80 percent of what you’re capable of,
you can keep going an awful lot longer.  “There’s a culture of cancellations in opera, just because
the singer thinks they’re not going to be perfect.”  Paterson appeared as Gunther in the  Metropolitan Opera ’s
recent “Ring Cycle” directed by  Robert Lepage , and is
scheduled to sing his first Wotan in 2014.  Wagnerian Demands  “Wagner teaches you more about your voice than any other
composer,” he says. “He puts such demands on you in terms of
the length of phrases, that if you’re sick, you can’t sing him,
end of story. If you’ve just got a head cold though, you still
might be able to do it. Singing Wagner shows you what you are
really capable of.”  “I’d sung the Don in Rufus’s production of “Don
Giovanni” when it was new in 2010,” he says. “Then the
company asked me to do it again. Unfortunately it turned out to
be in same period I was scheduled to be in the Ring.”  His girlfriend Sophie, who works at ENO, noticed there were
no overlapping days.  What’s his secret? “Fasolt doesn’t require a great vocal
range, and neither does Don Giovanni,” he says. “They’re
surprisingly similar in that respect.”  “Don Giovanni” is in repertoire until Nov. 17. English
National Opera, London Coliseum, St. Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4ES.
Information:  http://www.eno.org , +44-20-7845-9300.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 