-- BBA Outlines Plans to Scale Back Libor Rates After Scandal
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-11-08T21:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/bba-plans-to-scale-back-libor-rates-by-end-of-march-after-review.html
The British Bankers’ Association, the
lobby group that oversees Libor, proposed cutting the number of
currencies and maturities included in the benchmark within the
next five months following the rate-rigging scandal.  The lobby group plans to end quoting rates in Australian
and New Zealand dollars at the end of February, and the Canadian
dollar, Danish kroner and Swedish kronor rates the following
month, the London-based BBA said in a statement today. The group
also proposed to stop publishing “interim maturities” such as
the two-week, two-month and nine-month tenors for all currencies
by the end of January.  The announcement follows a regulator’s review of the London
interbank offered rate after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290
million pounds ($463 million) for rigging the benchmark. Martin
Wheatley, a managing director at the Financial Services
Authority, recommended cutting the number of quoted rates to as
few as 20 from 150, because the lack of trades in some
currencies and maturities makes it almost impossible for the
banks that contribute to the rate to state their borrowing costs
accurately.  The BBA also proposed stopping quotes for the sterling
repurchase agreement, or repo, at the end of next month. The
reductions will leave 30 Libor rates spread across five
currencies and six maturities. The group plans to continue
quoting overnight, one-week, one-month, three-month, six-month
and 12-month Libor rates in dollars, euros, pounds, yen and
Swiss francs. The lobby group is inviting feedback on the
proposals within the next 30 days.  Wheatley also proposed stripping the BBA of responsibility
for the rate and adopting criminal penalties for interest-rate
manipulation.  Initial Feedback  “In the event that oversight of Libor is transferred away
from the BBA prior to these proposals being fully implemented,
any changes should be open to ongoing review by the new
administrative body,” the BBA said. “However, based on initial
feedback from stakeholders, the BBA feels that the time-frame
proposed in this paper should be achievable.”  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the BBA that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  