-- Bezeq Falls to Month Low on Competition Impact: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-08T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/bezeq-falls-to-month-low-on-competition-impact-tel-aviv-mover.html
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) 
fell to the lowest this month after third-quarter profit of
 Israel ’s largest land-line operator dropped as competition
increased.  Bezeq  shares  fell as much as 3.7 percent before closing
down 0.8 percent at 4.655 shekels in Tel Aviv, the lowest since
Oct. 25.  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM) , which owns a  31 percent stake  in
Bezeq, lost 5.2 percent to 20.70 shekels. Bezeq’s shares were
the fifth-biggest decliners on the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which
was little changed at 1,211.57.  Bezeq’s quarterly profit dropped 38 percent to 342 million
shekels ($88 million) as revenue fell to 2.49 billion shekels
from 2.92 billion shekels a year earlier. It missed the 403
million-shekel  median estimate  of three analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Israeli telecommunications shares have been the worst
performers on the index in the past year as the government
introduced regulations to boost wireless and fixed-line
competition.  “This was the first full quarter that reflected the higher
competition in the cellular market that started in May,” Sabina Podval, an analyst at  Leader Capital Markets (LDRC)  Ltd. in Tel Aviv,
wrote in an e-mailed note today. “We are concerned we will see
an additional deterioration also in coming quarters.”  Lost Subscribers  Tel Aviv-based Bezeq, which provides mobile phone services
via its Pelephone Communications Ltd. unit, attributed the
decline to regulatory changes and “intensifying competition,”
particularly in cellular segment. It posted lower sales of
mobile-phone handsets and average revenue per user fell 11
percent in the quarter, the company said. Pelephone lost 20,000
subscribers in the period.  Bezeq’s stock has dropped 40 percent in the past 12 months,
making it the third-worst performer on the benchmark gauge after
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , the
country’s largest mobile-phone providers.  Hot Telecommunication
System Ltd. (HOT)  and Golan Telecom entered the wireless market in May
leading to greater price competition.  The company reiterated its full-year guidance, projecting
revenue of between 10.2 billion shekels and 10.5 billion shekels
and net profit between 1.75 billion shekels and 1.85 billion
shekels.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , which has a stake in Bezeq
via B Communications, dropped 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  