-- Blackstone Leads Hedge Funds Attracting Bond-Rally Bears
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-11-08T11:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/blackstone-leads-hedge-funds-attracting-bond-rally-bears.html
Hedge  funds (BBHFCRED)  that seek to profit from
credit markets without wagering on the direction of prices are
attracting the most new money in five years as skepticism mounts
about whether a four-year rally in  bonds  can continue.  Funds that bet on both gains and losses in credit attracted
$12.6 billion of deposits in the three months ended Sept. 30,
the most since the period ended Dec. 31, 2007, according to HFR.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  raised $4.05 billion during the period for
its debt unit, which includes so-called long-short funds.
Panning Capital Management, which was founded by Kieran Goodwin
this year, started such a fund on Nov. 1 with $500 million.  Investors that funneled $79.9 billion into corporate bonds
this year are cooling their enthusiasm after pushing yields on
the debt to an unprecedented low of 3.6 percent on Oct. 19, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Mutual funds that buy
the debt reported their first week of withdrawals since June,
and junk-bond funds reported a fourth week of outflows in six
weeks, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc data show.  “Long-short credit funds seem to be the flavor of the
moment,” said J.J. McKoan, director of absolute-return
strategies in  New York  at  AllianceBernstein LP. (AB)  “We are seeing
increased interest in ‘flexible’ and unconstrained fixed-income
strategies.”  Losing Steam  Pension-fund managers who benefited from a 115 percent gain
in  junk bonds  in the four years since the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression increasingly are concerned that some
of the most attractive opportunities have run their course,
according to Monte Tarbox, chief investment officer of the
International Association of Machinists National Pension Fund.  The plan, which oversees $9 billion and covers benefits for
about 85,000 retirees, has an annual return target of 7.5
percent, he said. It’s getting harder to meet those obligations
by owning bonds, he said. The average yield on speculative-grade
debt dropped to a record-low 6.84 percent last month and has
since held within 0.23 percentage point of that, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch  index data  show.  “A lot of investors we talk to today are more curious
about what we’re going to do” with bearish bets than with
bullish ones, said Michael Pohly, who manages Kingdon Capital
Management LLC’s credit fund in New York. “While I don’t think
the credit cycle is getting ready to turn, given the low level
of yields, it’s going to be hard for long-only credit to
continue the run that it’s been on since ‘09.”  IStar Offering  Elsewhere in credit markets, IStar Financial Inc., a
commercial real-estate lender, sold $300 million of bonds and
plans to sell $100 million of convertible notes to help redeem
debt.  Consumer credit  in the U.S. increased in September for a
second month, led by a pickup in borrowing for education and
automobiles. The cost to protect against corporate defaults in
the U.S. jumped the most in six weeks.  The Markit CDX investment-grade index, a credit-default
swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 3.9 basis points to a mid-
price of 100.2 basis points, the biggest jump since Sept. 25,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 0.5 to 129.25 at 11:32 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  added three basis
points to 119.  Swaps Rise  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose 0.63 basis point to 10.63 basis points.
The gauge, which widens when investors seek the perceived safety
of  government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such
as corporate bonds, has climbed from 8 basis points on Oct. 17,
the lowest intra-day level in Bloomberg data back to 1988.  Bonds of New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, with 125 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Positive Step’  IStar sold the 7.125 percent, non-callable securities due
February 2018 to yield 645 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The sale was originally for $250 million, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement. It’s also planning to
sell convertible debt maturing in 2016, the company said.  “IStar’s return to the market is yet another positive step
in the company’s path towards returning to profitability
following the crisis,” Jesse Rosenthal, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in New York, wrote in a report yesterday.
“The convertible bond offering could provide an intriguing
opportunity to get involved in the company’s capital structure
while capturing the potential equity upside.”  The $11.4 billion gain in  consumer credit  followed a
revised $18.4 billion jump in August, Federal Reserve figures
showed. The median forecast of 34 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a $10.2 billion increase in September.  More Debt  Improving labor and housing markets may be giving
households enough confidence to take on more debt as they
finance purchases that account for about 70 percent of the
economy. Auto sales in September that were the  strongest  in more
than four years showed some Americans took advantage of cheaper
borrowing costs.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 7 basis points
to 291 basis points, or 2.91 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
averaged 352 basis points this year.  Relative-value hedge funds, most of which are credit funds
that take long and short positions, have reported $34.9 billion
of inflows this year, compared with $35.9 billion for all of
2011 and $21.5 billion the year before, according to Chicago-
based hedge-fund data provider HFR.  The volume of new cash flowing to the funds in the three
months ended Sept. 30 was the most since the period at the end
of 2007, when they attracted $13.8 billion of new capital, HFR
data show. Relative-value  hedge funds  saw outflows of $86.7
billion in 2008 and 2009, according to the data.  Making Money  “People are trying to figure out, ‘How do I make money in
this environment,’” said Beth Chartoff, head of marketing and
client relationships at GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit-
investment arm of Blackstone. “People are sitting there,
scratching their heads saying, ‘We want to maintain exposure to
credit, but how do we get comfortable with it at current
levels?’”  Average yields of 3.6 percent on Nov. 6 for U.S. bonds sold
by companies from the neediest to the most creditworthy compares
with the average of 6 percent over the past 10 years, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  After relative yields on the bonds narrowed 126 basis
points to 222 basis points on Oct. 18, they’ve since widened to
236, the index data show. The debt returned 11 percent during
the first 10 months of the year.  U.S. corporate bond funds reported $354 million of
withdrawals in the week ended Oct. 31, the first outflows since
the week ended June 6, according to RBS data. High-yield debt
funds have reported $1.9 billion of withdrawals since the week
ended Sept. 19, the data show.  Blackstone, Panning  Blackstone’s debt unit including the long-short funds has
seen its assets under management swell to $54.6 billion at Sept.
30 from $50.5 billion at June 30, according to company  filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Its assets are
up 62 percent from the third quarter in 2011.  Panning Capital, led by Goodwin, the former head trader at
hedge-fund firm King Street Capital Management LP, capped its
fund at $500 million and expects to open it to new investments
in the second quarter of 2013, according to a person familiar
with the matter who declined to be identified because the
information is private. Goodwin declined to comment.  “Traditionally institutional investors assumed every short
strategy was riskier than long-only strategies,” said Tarbox in
a telephone interview. “We increasingly recognize that
combinations of long and short strategies used intelligently can
reduce risk. That’s of profound interest to us in this moment in
time.”  ‘Low-Return’  Company bonds from investment-grade to junk have rallied 65
percent in the past four years after losing 11 percent in 2008
amid the debt crisis that pushed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
into bankruptcy. Investment-grade notes will be at best a “low-
return investment” for the next few years and may lose value if
the economy recovers and inflation rises at an unexpectedly
rapid pace, Tarbox said.  After shoring up cash, U.S. junk-rated companies are now
increasing ratios of debt-to-income by the most since 2009.  High-yield, high-risk companies had borrowings in the
second quarter that on average were 3.26 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, “creeping
higher” from 3.12 times in the same period of 2011, Morgan
Stanley strategists Adam Richmond and Jason Ng wrote in a Sept.
14 report.  “There are large parts of the market that are trading at
very high dollar prices, which caps their upside, particularly
those that are callable by issuer,” Kingdon Capital’s Pohly
said. “We are seeing pretty good opportunities from a long-
short perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  