-- BNP Cleared Porsche Loan Without Data on Options, Lawyer Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-11-08T13:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/bnp-cleared-porsche-loan-without-data-on-options-lawyer-says.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  cleared a loan for
Porsche SE without requiring details about options the carmaker
was using to prepare a hostile bid for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2009, a
defense lawyer argued in a German trial over the issue.  “Information about the derivative positions weren’t a
parameter the credit committee wanted to take into account,”
said Daniel Krause, defense lawyer for a former Porsche tax
manager. “While that information was requested by the local
Frankfurt BNP unit, the credit committee in Paris had decided
not to make the status of the derivatives a condition for the
loan.”  Charges that Porsche’s former Chief Financial Officer
Holger Haerter and two other defendants downplayed the company’s
liquidity needs when applying for the loan are contradicted by
e-mails exchanged at the time, Krause said. BNP’s credit
committee agreed to provide the loan six days before the men
sent an e-mail with what prosecutors claim was false
information, Krause said.  Haerter is on trial in Stuttgart with two other Porsche
managers on charges they downplayed Porsche’s liquidity needs
for a hostile Volkswagen bid using derivatives. Prosecutors
claim the men also concealed 45 million put options on
Volkswagen shares Porsche sold at the time. All three have
denied the allegations.  Prosecutors are relying on an e-mail sent March 19, 2009,
by Porsche managers to BNP with the option figures. Krause cited
a BNP e-mail dated March 13, 2009, that was also read in court
today. It listed the conditions the credit committee had used
for its decision. It didn’t mention the options data. The loan
was signed March 24, 2009.  Credit Decision  “An internal decision by the credit committee isn’t what’s
crucial under the law, but what information the bank had when it
finally signed the loan agreement,” prosecutor Reto Woodtli
told the court in response today. “The law requires the
abstract potential of the misleading statement to influence a
credit decision -- and that is met here.”  Joachim von Schorlemer, BNP’s former German head, who was
originally scheduled to testify today, will be questioned on
Nov. 27.  The case is part of a broader criminal investigation into
Porsche’s Volkswagen bid that later faltered. Stuttgart
prosecutors are still probing Haerter and former Chief Executive
Officer Wendelin Wiedeking on allegations of market manipulation
and breach of trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Stuttgart via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  