-- Boeing Joins Supplier Rockwell Collins in Cost Cuts
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-11-08T14:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/boeing-joins-supplier-rockwell-collins-in-cost-cuts.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  plans to almost double a
$2.2 billion cost-saving program as Pentagon spending declines,
while supplier  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  said it will revise its
health-care benefits next week, adding to job losses.  Boeing Co.’s  defense unit , the second-largest military
contractor in the U.S., is looking for another $1.6 billion in
savings through 2015, division chief Dennis Muilenburg told
employees in a memo yesterday. The company plans to sell
buildings, consolidate management and internal organizations,
and press suppliers for savings, among other measures.  Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney and Chicago-based
Boeing’s executive council approved the decision on Nov. 5, and
it’s not a response to this week’s U.S. presidential elections,
said Todd Blecher, a spokesman. Likewise,  Rockwell Collins  CEO
Clay Jones said reductions were planned before the vote and
could change, depending on presidential or congressional action.  The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer said this week that the
military is preparing for $1.2 trillion in automatic budget
cuts, known as sequestration, set for early next year. Half of
that is to come from national security, in addition to a $487
billion reduction in the Pentagon’s budget over the next decade.
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , who lost the race for president
to Democrat  Barack Obama , pledged to stop the cuts if elected.  Automatic Reduction  The plan Boeing announced yesterday “would have happened
even if sequestration didn’t exist as an issue,” Blecher said.
He declined to say if additional cuts will be needed should the
automatic deficit reduction occur.  “We have no way of knowing or projecting at this point
what the impact would be on us, because we don’t know how it
would be implemented,” he said of sequestration.  Shares of defense contractors fell yesterday.  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , the biggest in the industry, dropped 3.9 percent
to $91.15 at the  New York  close. Boeing declined 2.7 percent to
$70.11. Rockwell Collins, with about 55 percent of revenue from
military-equipment sales, slipped 2.7 percent to $53.86.  Under Boeing’s plan, some buildings in  California  will be
sold or demolished, adding to the 10 percent reduction in
facilities space since 2010 that included the closing of
operations in Wichita,  Kansas , Blecher said. Employees will be
relocated to other buildings in  Huntington Beach , California.  Boeing Defense, Space & Security already has cut its
executive ranks by 20 percent since 2010 and has another 10
percent to go by year-end, Muilenburg said in his memo. The
ratio of employees to managers will rise to 12.5 to 1, from 9.7
to 1, by the end of 2013. He’s also simplifying the company’s
infrastructure, reducing the number of divisions to 10 from 13.  Employee Transfers  More  layoffs  are to be expected, though Blecher declined to
give a figure and said many employees will transfer to other
units. Boeing has  hired  more than 20,000 people in the past two
years for its commercial operations, where it’s boosting
production more than 60 percent. The defense business, which
contributed about 46 percent of Boeing’s $68.7 billion in
revenue in 2011, has cut about 6,300 jobs in that same period.  Defense contractors have been firing employees and
restructuring their operations for the past couple of years in
response to the slowdown in military budget growth that began in
2009.  About 600 Lockheed Martin executives took early retirement
in 2011. Last year the company, which makes the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter, also offered voluntary retirement packages to
6,500 salaried employees. That followed 1,500 job cuts at its
aeronautics unit, which makes the F-35 jet.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the
world’s largest missile maker, has said it had a net reduction
of 3,000 employees this year because of changes to the company’s
programs.  Competitive Position  “All of our industry is looking at that same
uncertainty,” Muilenburg wrote to employees. “I like Boeing’s
competitive position and our approach -- facing into it
aggressively and with a sense of productive urgency -- and not
‘hunkering down.’”  The cuts have hit suppliers equally hard, including  Cedar
Rapids , Iowa-based Rockwell Collins, which makes equipment
including cockpits and radios. The company may have to fire as
many as 1,250 workers in the fiscal year through September, more
than 6 percent of a workforce of 19,500, Jones said. He’s also
restructuring European operations.  “We have no idea within the realm of 10 percent what the
defense budget of the U.S. is going to be,” he said yesterday
in an interview. “I am planning for the worst.”  Pentagon constraints aren’t the only issue having an effect
on the workforce. Jones said he’ll let employees know next week
about changes to their health-care plans over the next two years
as health-care reform legislation is enacted.  “It would be a misinterpretation to say we’re going to
slash benefits,” Jones said. “We’re going to move in the
direction this legislation requires us to do and manage the cost
to remain competitive. It’s a dramatic change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  