-- Bosch Sells Out of Japan’s Denso After Almost Six Decades
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-11-08T09:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/bosch-sells-denso-stake-for-1-1-billion-euros-for-investments.html
Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s
biggest maker of auto parts, sold its entire stake in  Japan ’s
 Denso Corp. (6902)  for 1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion), ending an
investment that started almost 60 years ago.  While the deal ends the equity ties, the two companies will
continue to collaborate, Kariya, Japan-based Denso said in a
statement today. Bosch sold the 46 million shares, equivalent to
a 5.4 percent stake, to fund investments with a “promising
future” and acquisitions, it said.  “It was a non-strategic shareholding for us,” Gerlingen,
Germany-based spokesman Rene Ziegler said by telephone. “We are
trying to diversify and are investing and making acquisitions in
all segments.”  Bosch, which gets most of its revenue from the automotive
business, is seeking to diversify in industries ranging from
packaging technology to health care. Since the two companies
signed their first license agreement in 1953, the Japanese
partner has turned into a competitor as the rise of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  helped Denso grow into the world’s
second-biggest auto-parts maker.  “If you’re the world’s largest car parts supplier, is any
partnership really strategic?” Erich Hauser, a London-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by telephone. “Given
the size of the operation, I’m sure Bosch is a strategic partner
to many people, but I’m not sure anyone can be a strategic
partner to Bosch.”  Looming Decision  Bosch will make a decision on a solution for its
unprofitable solar unit by the end of the year, spokesman
Christian Hoenicke said Nov. 1, without specifying the options.  Bosch has also been evaluating how to become more
autonomous in its electric car battery operations, seeking
greater independence from its joint venture with  Samsung SDI
Co. (006400) , SD Limotive.  Closely held Bosch appointed Volkmar Denner, who has been
at the company for 26 years, as chief executive officer in July.
The former head of the automotive electronics division replaced
 Franz Fehrenbach , who became chairman of the supervisory board.  Denso fell 1.4 percent to close at 2,425 yen in  Tokyo 
before the share-sale announcement, cutting the stock’s gain
this year to 14 percent.  The company last month cut its profit forecast 20 percent
as a territorial dispute prompted Chinese consumers to shun from
buying Japanes automobiles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  