-- Boston Scientific to Buy Vessix for Hypertension Device
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-08T21:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/boston-scientific-to-buy-vessix-for-hypertension-device.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the second-
largest seller of drug-coated stents, agreed to buy Vessix
Vascular Inc. for as much as $425 million to speed its entry
into the market for hard-to-treat hypertension devices.  Boston Scientific will pay $125 million for closely held
Vessix, based in Laguna Hills, California, and as much as $300
million more by 2017 based on clinical and sales targets, the
Natick, Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement.
While the acquisition won’t affect earnings excluding one-time
items through 2014, the costs and amortization related to the
purchase may reduce net income, the company said.  The acquisition is the latest in a buying spree for Boston
Scientific, which has  purchased  15 companies in the past five
years. The company is looking to expand into new areas as sales
of its core products, heart rhythm devices and stents to open
clogged arteries, have fallen 13 percent since their peak of
$5.4 billion in 2009.  “Vessix Vascular has developed a very simple and easy-to-
use renal denervation system” that is a real breakthrough for
treating uncontrolled hypertension, Jeff Mirviss, president of
peripheral intervention at Boston Scientific, said in an
interview. “This significantly accelerates our entry into what
we expect to be a multibillion market over the next five to 10
years.”  There are about 1.2 billion people worldwide with high
blood pressure, and about one-third don’t respond well to
existing drug therapy. Hypertension increases the risk of heart
attack, stroke and death from  heart disease .  Boston Scientific declined 1.6 percent to $5.08 at the
close in  New York . The company has dropped 4.9 percent this
year.  Market Competitors  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , based in Minneapolis, is leading the
industry in development of the nerve burning devices that Vessix
has projected may eventually generate $30 billion in sales.
 Covidien Plc. (COV) , based in Dublin, and  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , based
in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , also have devices approved in  Europe .  The Vessix acquisition gives Boston Scientific the V2 Renal
Denervation System, which is approved in Europe and  Australia  to
treat people with uncontrolled hypertension. The technology will
replace Boston Scientific’s in-house efforts to develop a
similar device. The purchase is an important part of the
company’s growth strategy, said Chief Executive Officer Mike Mahoney.  ‘Balloon’ System  The system is a “balloon on a wire,” essentially taking
the technology interventional cardiologists use every day to
open clogged heart arteries and adapting it to hit nerves in the
kidney arteries that can spur high  blood pressure . The balloon
is fitted with radiofrequency ablation technology that sears the
overactive nerves in eight locations in 30 seconds, Mirviss said
in a telephone interview.  “It is significantly faster than most of the competitive
devices on the market,” Mirviss said. “It will make the
procedure more efficient and easier for everyone involved.”  The device enables doctors to treat more patients, exposing
them to less pain and a lower amount of contrast dye and
radiation from imaging equipment, he said.  Last quarter, Boston Scientific agreed to buy BridgePoint
Medical Inc. for its product to treat totally blocked arteries
and Rhythmia Medical Inc., which makes equipment to guide
doctors during heart procedures. It purchased Cameron Health in
June, gaining the first defibrillator that is implanted under
the skin rather than directly into the heart.  Boston Scientific has been the second-most-acquisitive
medical instruments company this year after Medtronic, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company has made four deals with
an average disclosed deal size of $81.2 million, the data show.
The deal size doesn’t include milestone payments. Medtronic has
made six purchases during the same period.  Boston Scientific plans to close the acquisition by the end
of the month. It will introduce the V2 system starting next year
and begin the study needed for U.S. approval by the end of 2013
or early 2014, Mirviss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  