-- Brazil Soybean Forecast Raised to 83 Million Tons: Conab
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-08T15:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/brazil-soybean-forecast-raised-to-83-million-tons-conab.html
Soybean output in  Brazil , set to
surpass the U.S. as the largest grower, will rise more than
previously expected as rain in the next three months will
benefit planting and development, the government said.  Growers will harvest as much as 83 million metric tons in
the year that started Sept. 1, more than the 82.8 million tons
estimated last month, the  Agriculture Ministry ’s crop-
forecasting agency, known as Conab, said in its second report
for this season. Production will rise from 66.4 million tons
collected in the past season.  “We received reports that the weather should be more
normal for the next three months,” said Silvio Porto, director
of information and agriculture policy for Conab to reporters in
Brasilia.  Conab’s forecast compares with 79.1 million tons estimated
by researchers Celeres in a Nov. 5 report.  Dry weather in pasts months in the western state of Mato
Grosso, the biggest grower of the oilseed in the country, could
harm crops if it lasts for a longer period, Mauro Osaki, an
analyst at researcher Cepea, said.  “If there isn’t sufficient rain for the next couple of
weeks, soybean planting would be postponed until after Nov. 20
and this would mean losing the optimal planting window,” Osaki
said in a phone interview from Piracicaba,  Sao Paulo .  While delays in planting may pare output, a bigger volume
of rain in coming months could offset the tardy sowing, Porto
said.  Conab cut its corn forecast to as much as 72.9 million tons
from 73.2 million tons estimated in October. Production will
drop from 73 million tons in the previous season, Conab said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  