-- Brokers Mine Social-Media for Data, House Lawmakers Say
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-11-08T17:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/brokers-mine-social-media-for-data-house-lawmakers-say.html
People who use social-media websites
such as  Facebook (FB)  and LinkedIn may have their information
harvested by companies that collect, analyze or sell consumer
data, a group of U.S. lawmakers said today.  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM) ; Epsilon Data Management LLC, a unit of
 Alliance Data Systems Corp. (ADS) ; and Intelius Inc. are among those
saying they collect publicly available social-media information,
in response to questions sent by a group of House members led by
Representatives Ed Markey and  Joe Barton .  “Posting to Facebook should not also mean putting personal
information into the hands of data reapers seeking to profit
from details of consumers’ personal lives,” Markey said in an
e-mail. “Users of social media want to share with friends, not
enable the sale of their personal information to data miners.”  The lawmakers said the companies’ responses offer “only a
glimpse” of the practices of multibillion-dollar data brokerage
industry. Many questions remain unanswered, including “how they
analyze personal information to categorize and rate consumers,”
they said.  Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, and Barton, a Texas
Republican, on July 24 sent letters to companies including
 Equifax Inc. (EFX) ,  Experian Plc (EXPN)  and  Fair Isaac Corp. (FICO) , the company
that developed the FICO consumer credit rating score.  Markey and Barton lead the Congressional Bipartisan Privacy
Caucus. Other House members signing the letters were Democrats
Henry Waxman of California, G.K. Butterfield of  North Carolina ,
and Bobby Rush and Jan Schakowsky of Illinois, and Republicans
Steve Chabot of Ohio and Austin Scott of Georgia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  