-- Brooklyn Grand Jury to Probe for Post-Hurricane Scams
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-08T20:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/brooklyn-grand-jury-to-probe-for-post-hurricane-scams.html
Claims of price-gouging and fraud
after  Hurricane Sandy  prompted a grand jury probe in  Brooklyn ,
three days after state investigations were announced in New York
and  New Jersey .  District Attorney Charles Hynes empaneled a special grand
jury in Brooklyn to examine claims that hotels and gas stations
committed grand larceny by “dramatically” raising prices in
the wake of the storm, that fake charities sprang up to solicit
contributions, and that construction companies took money for
work they don’t intend to perform, he said today in a statement.  “The sad truth about a tragedy is that while it brings out
the very best in people, it can also bring out the worst,”
Hynes said in the statement. “To raise the price of a hotel, as
people seek emergency shelter, is just unconscionable.”  New York  and New Jersey attorneys general said earlier this
week that they were investigating complaints of price gouging
for gasoline, food and generators following Sandy.  New York is investigating more than 500 complaints from
across the state, mostly about gasoline prices. There were also
reports of merchants’ charging $7 for a loaf of bread and
$10 for a box of matches, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office said Nov. 5.  New Jersey  In New Jersey, Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa said he
issued about 100 subpoenas to businesses accused of price
gouging after the state’s Division of Consumer Affairs received
almost 1,200 complaints about filling stations, hardware stores,
 convenience stores  and hotels.  New York law prohibits selling goods or services for an
“unconscionably excessive price” during “abnormal disruption
of the market.” New Jersey prohibits raising prices beyond
10 percent during an emergency. Violators risk fines of at least
$10,000.  Hurricane Sandy last week killed more than 100 people,
triggered an almost 14-foot tidal surge, displaced thousands,
knocked out power to millions and crippled mass transit. New
York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said damage and economic losses in
the state may total $33 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 