-- Cameron Stands Ground Over EU Budget in Talks With Merkel
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/cameron-stands-ground-over-eu-budget-in-talks-with-merkel.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
signaled he’s unwilling to compromise over the European Union
budget, saying spending should be cut or frozen at a time of
national austerity.  Cameron spoke before a working dinner with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at his Downing Street residence
yesterday as differences threaten to derail a new seven-year EU
spending deal and stoke tensions between Britain and its biggest
trading partner.  There “should be at best a cut, at worst a freeze,” he
told reporters last night. “Whatever the discussions we have
today I will be trying to get a good deal for the British
taxpayer, a good deal for Britain, one that I can put before the
British Parliament, one that I can put before the British
people.”  The European Commission has proposed a  spending package  of
1.03 trillion euros ($1.32 trillion) for the years 2014 through
2020, an increase of almost 6 percent from the 2007-2013 budget.
Cameron has said the proposal is excessive and threatened to
veto any deal he finds unacceptable.  Merkel declined to say whether she’d support a budget
freeze. She said Britain and Germany must work together and
acknowledged that not all EU expenditure “has been used with
great efficiency.”  Cameron goes into the Nov. 22-23 Brussels summit under
pressure at home after rebels in his  Conservative Party  defeated
the government in an Oct. 31 parliamentary vote by joining
forces with the Labour opposition to demand a real-terms cut in
the EU budget.  Approval Needed  Any accord would require unanimous agreement, and Tory
rebels have threatened to reject anything short of a spending
cut, despite warnings from their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners that such a deal is almost impossible to achieve.  While countries including Germany,  Sweden  and the
Netherlands back Britain’s call for restraint, others in the 27-
nation bloc want more spending to boost competitiveness and
economic development in poorer states in eastern  Europe .  Merkel has called for the budget to equal 1 percent of the
EU economy, which would result in an above-inflation increase.
 Germany  sees extended wrangling as a distraction from the main
EU priorities of ending the euro-region debt crisis and spurring
economic growth.  “Right now at a time when economies are weak it’s very,
very important to have the predictability needed to know where
to invest in coming years, know which areas we need to
develop,” Merkel told the European Parliament yesterday.
“That’s why the German government wants the summit in November
to be a success.”  EU Ties  Failure to reach an agreement risks distancing Britain
further from the rest of the EU.  Opinion polls  show Britons are
mistrustful of the EU and many Tory euro-skeptics want a
referendum on leaving altogether, leading to growing concerns
about Britain’s future in the bloc.  That puts Cameron at odds with Merkel, who as the leader of
Europe’s biggest economy is driving efforts to spur closer
economic and fiscal integration to combat the region’s debt
crisis.  “I can’t even imagine  Great Britain  not belonging to
Europe,” Merkel told the EU Parliament. “And I think it’s good
also for Great Britain to belong to Europe. I don’t think it
would be good for Great Britain if you’re alone today in a world
of 7 billion. And that’s why I’ll make every effort to have
Great Britain as a good partner in the European Union.”  Cameron became the first prime minister to use the British
veto when he blocked an EU-wide treaty change to enforce
stricter fiscal discipline last year, delighting his party but
angering European governments. He has also vowed to claw back
powers from Brussels, fueling tensions with the Liberal
Democrats who say it is step toward sliding out of the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  