-- Cameron Counts on Voters’ Memory in Drawing From Obama
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/cameron-counts-on-voters-memory-in-drawing-from-obama.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said  Barack Obama ’s victory provided encouragement for his own
re-election chances in a sluggish economy.  While the prime minister won’t face voters until 2015, two
years of  flat growth and recession  have knocked his plan to
eliminate the deficit off course, meaning he’ll go into the
campaign pledging more spending cuts and tax increases.  “I was very struck by the fact that Barack had been saying
it’s a hard road but we’re on the right track,” Cameron told
reporters in Amman, Jordan, at the end of a three-day tour of
the region. “A government that’s worked hard to deliver
economic recovery can be re-elected.”  Obama won re-election Nov. 6 in the face of an unemployment
rate of 7.9 percent, around the same level as Britain has had
since Cameron won power in 2010. Exit polls in the U.S. showed
voters were more likely to blame Obama’s predecessor, something
Cameron and his coalition allies are hoping will be true in the
U.K. too.  “I think the lesson of the presidential election in the
States is that voters’ memories are longer than members opposite
seem to think,” Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  told opposition  Labour Party  lawmakers in Parliament in
 London  yesterday. “Voters, when it comes to actually casting
votes, remember who created the mess in the first place and who
has to do the painstaking, difficult and yes, longer-than-we-
hoped job of sorting out that mess.”  ‘Hard Road’  While Cameron may adopt what he described as Obama’s
“right track, hard road” strategy, the two men have picked
different economic policies. Obama was able to point to
government interventions to rescue the  auto industry . Cameron
has gone the opposite way, with a focus on austerity and
securing the approval of the  bond market .  He also lacks some of Obama’s advantages. Where the
president was picked by 53 percent of voters as “more in
touch” with people like them, a Populus Ltd. poll in September
found “out of touch” was the phrase picked most often to
describe the prime minister, by 32 percent of voters. For his
Labour opponent,  Ed Miliband , the most popular description,
picked by 35 percent, was “out of his depth.”  Cameron also took a lesson from the Republican defeat for
his own  Conservative Party , some of whose members argue that he
didn’t win an outright majority in 2010 because he was too
focused on reaching out to non-traditional supporters, at the
cost of alienating his core vote.  “Elections are won in the common ground, the center
ground,” he said. “That is where you need to be, arguing about
the things that matter to most people: making sure they can find
a good job, they can build a good life for themselves, that if
people work hard and try to get on you are behind them and
helping them. You win elections in the mainstream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Amman, Jordan, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  