-- Canada September New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-08T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/canada-september-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house  price index  report for September released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in September,
following a similar increase in August.  The top contributor to the advance was the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, where prices
increased 0.6% from August. Market conditions and higher labour
costs were the primary reasons cited for the higher prices.  Prices rose 0.5% in both Winnipeg and the combined region
of Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton. The increase in each was
primarily the result of higher land prices.  Prices were unchanged in 8 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed in September. Monthly prices declined 0.4% in Victoria
and 0.2% in  St. John’s  as a result of lower negotiated selling
prices.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.4% in the 12
months to September, following a similar increase the previous
month. The main contributor to the advance was the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-
year increase in contractors’ selling prices was 5.1%. Québec,
Winnipeg and Regina followed, each with a 3.5% increase.  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in
Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo (+3.0%) and Windsor (+2.6%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in September. The largest decrease was in
Victoria (-3.3%).  Note to readers  The New Housing Price Index measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized  Sales Tax .  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial sales tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial sales
tax on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  