-- Canada’s Carney Says Recent Data Is ‘in Line’ With Forecasts
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-08T21:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/canada-s-carney-says-recent-data-is-in-line-with-forecasts.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said recent data are “broadly in line” with the central bank’s
forecasts.  The following are selected comments from Carney at a news
conference in  Montreal .  On housing starts, and other recent data:  “They are slower than they were but they are still running
above demographic demand or household formation to be more
precise. We view household formation around 190,000 annualized.  ‘‘They’ve slowed from a very rapid pace to a pace that is
still above household formation.  ‘‘Housing starts, particularly multiples, are well above
historic average even adjusting for population.  ‘‘In our forecast, we’re expecting this decreased
contribution from housing relative to GDP, very clearly spelled
out in our report, and in fact a drag from the housing sector on
growth from now, so we are starting to see things that are
consistent with that.  ‘‘With respect to broader data in the third quarter, we
have a relatively weak forecast for the third quarter, 1
percent, and the data is broadly in line with that. There are
some timing issues that drive some of the output in the energy
sector which shifts some growth between the third and the fourth
quarter that still seems to be in line. But I wouldn’t over-
interpret recent data and I certainly wouldn’t draw any
connection to our monetary stance.’’  On central bank’s projections for stabilizing  household debt :  ‘‘We have a fairly modest outlook for the growth of
disposable income. We don’t disclose it, but we don’t have a
sharp increase in the growth of disposable income.  ‘‘So I wouldn’t think there is a lot of downside risk to
the income side since it’s relatively modest.  ‘‘In our forecasts, the reason it would be less likely to
happen is because borrowing continues, including home equity
extraction and financing of renovation or other things through
that.  ‘‘The risks around household debt and finances are two-
sided. While steps have been taken, and you know those steps by
the federal government, OSFI and others to slow the rate of
growth and achieve this stabilization, and there’s sort of
conflicting signs of it working, there is a possibility that it
decelerates much more rapidly than we expect.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  