-- CapOne Loans Were Concentrated in Sandy’s Path
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-08T23:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/capital-one-says-loans-were-concentrated-in-hurricane-sandy-path.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  said 18
percent of its loans to consumers and businesses are in New
York, New Jersey and  Connecticut  and may face higher losses
because of Hurricane Sandy.  Almost $20 billion in consumer loans the bank holds for
investment went to borrowers in those states, while $16.6
billion, or 45 percent, of its commercial loans are in those
states, according to a securities filing today by the McLean,
Virginia-based company. Capital One said it’s too early to
estimate the actual impact.  While insurance and government support have limited losses
in past natural disasters, “we cannot give assurance that those
historical patterns will apply in this case, particularly given
our concentration of commercial real estate exposure in the
hardest-hit areas,” the bank said.  Hurricane Sandy  struck the U.S. and Caribbean last month,
killing at least 177 people and wiping out some beach-front
communities in New York and New Jersey while flooding parts of
 Manhattan . Sandy left about 8.5 million homes and businesses
without power and caused as much as $20 billion in insured
damage, according to London-based underwriter  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)   Other lenders also said the storm may hurt their results.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said any
losses will depend on the amount of credit extended to borrowers
in the affected areas, the extent of damage and reimbursements
from insurance and government that borrowers receive.  Early Stages  “The firm is in the early stages of quantifying the
potential impact from Hurricane Sandy to its financial results
of operations,” the New York-based bank said today in a filing.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , ranked third, said it was looking into how
much the storm may cost and that if there are losses, they will
show up in the New York-based bank’s fourth quarter.  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , based in San Francisco and the biggest U.S. home lender,
said in a Nov. 6 filing it may not release certain loan-loss
reserves if the storm has a “significant impact” on consumer
and business real estate loans.  Capital One fell 1.9 percent to $58.29 in New York trading.
It was the third-worst performer in the 24-company KBW Bank
Index, which dropped 0.6 percent. Citigroup fell 0.1 percent,
JPMorgan dropped 0.2 percent while Wells Fargo declined 1.7
percent.  In a separate matter, Capital One said it faces  allegations 
from Ambac Financial Group, Inc., the New York-based bond
insurer, which claims Chevy Chase Bank, a lender purchased in
2009, breached guarantees on six mortgage bonds with an original
balance of $5.2 billion.  Almost half of the bonds were insured by Ambac, which filed
its suit Oct. 24 in the Southern District of New York. The
losses may exceed reserves, Capital One said in its filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 