-- Carlyle Has $203.6 Million Profit as Holdings Increase
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-11-08T21:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/carlyle-has-203-6-million-profit-as-holdings-increase.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private-equity
firm that went public in May, posted a third-quarter profit as
the value of its holdings rose.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, was $203.6 million, or 66 cents a share,
Washington-based Carlyle said today in a statement, without
providing a year-earlier figure. Analysts had  expected  earnings
of 67 cents a share, according to the average of nine estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Carlyle, like competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , has diversified its business beyond
traditional leveraged buyouts to bolster real estate and credit
investments. The firm has been the most active U.S. private-
equity buyer this year, agreeing to acquire at least $17 billion
of assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
includes deals for Getty Images Inc. and DuPont Co.’s auto-paint
business during the quarter.  “We remain cautiously optimistic that the combination of
very low interest rates, the strengthening housing market, and
the benefits of significant domestic energy discoveries will
provide a catalyst for stronger U.S. economic growth over the
medium term,” co-founder William Conway said on a conference
call. “To put it bluntly, we believe that the best place in the
world to invest today is the United States.”  Carry Funds  The value of Carlyle’s corporate private-equity funds
increased 5 percent during the quarter, compared with 7.1
percent at Blackstone and 6.1 percent at KKR. Together, all of
Carlyle’s so-called carry funds, including those focused on
buyouts, growth capital, real estate, energy, distressed debt
and mezzanine lending, gained 3 percent.  Carlyle  fell  0.7 percent to close at $25.42 in New York.
The stock is up 16 percent from its May 2 IPO, when the company
raised $671 million.  Buyout holdings at private-equity firms affect economic net
income, or ENI, because the metric depends on quarterly mark-to-
market valuations of those investments. Accounting rules require
the firms to value their portfolio holdings every quarter.  Carlyle’s distributable earnings, a measure of
profitability, fell 15 percent to $206.3 million from $243.8
million a year earlier. The company said it will pay a
distribution of 16 cents a share to public investors on Nov. 30.  Assets Rise  Assets under management increased to $157.4 billion from
$156.2 billion at the end of the second quarter as holdings
appreciated and Carlyle raised additional capital. The firm said
it garnered $3.4 billion during the quarter and has raised $9.4
billion so far this year. It has $39.4 billion of committed
capital yet to be invested, or so-called dry powder, including
$15.6 billion in its corporate private-equity group.  Blackstone, the largest so-called alternative-asset
manager, said last month its assets under management surpassed
$200 billion for the first time.  Carlyle’s latest buyout fund, which it began raising in the
first quarter with a target of $10 billion, has $3.7 billion of
commitments so far, chief financial officer Adena Friedman said
today on a call with investors and analysts. Carlyle’s own
executives had pledged at least $700 million to the pool as of
the second quarter, according to regulatory filings and a person
familiar with the fundraising.  Carlyle, like other alternative-asset firms, reports profit
that doesn’t comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. The quarterly profit under those rules, known as
GAAP, was $18.6 million, or 40 cents a share.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 to 20 percent of profit from investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  