-- CEZ Lowers Full-Year Earnings Targets on Dispute in Albania
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-11-08T11:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/cez-lowers-full-year-earnings-targets-on-dispute-in-albania.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest
power producer, cut full-year earnings targets because of losses
in Albania where it’s locked in a dispute with the government.  Net income attributable to shareholders of the parent
company rose to 6.6 billion koruna ($312 million) in the third
quarter from 2.4 billion koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based
company said today in a statement. That missed the 8.5 billion-
koruna median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The utility reduced its full-year targets for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 85
billion koruna from 87.9 billion koruna. The forecast for net
income was reduced to 40 billion koruna from 41 billion koruna
because of continued losses of the Albanian unit. CEZ incurred a
nine-month operating loss of 3.8 billion koruna in Albania,
where it has so far been unable to resolve a dispute with the
government over tariffs and taxes.  “The results are disappointing, as is the lowered
outlook,” Bohumil Trampota, an analyst at J&T Banka, said in a
note.  CEZ fell 1.5 percent to 712 koruna as of 11:04 a.m. in
Prague. The stock is down 9.4 percent in the year to date.  Quarterly profit was higher than a year ago when earnings
were reduced by the revaluation of CEZ’s share option in
Hungarian refiner Mol Nyrt. CEZ also ramped up production at the
Dukovany and Temelin nuclear plants and installed new capacity
at the Romanian wind parks of Fantanele and Cogealac, offsetting
the Albanian losses.  Management Replaced  CEZ’s relationship with the Albanian government
deteriorated to the point that the Czech utility was forced to
replace its management in the country with negotiation experts
from the U.K. company Schindlers. A complete exit from the
market is “the most likely solution,” Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Benes said during a press conference in Prague.  The company pre-sold 94 percent of the 2013 power output
for an average price of 51 euros per megawatt-hour and 48
percent of the 2014 power output for “slightly above” 50 euros
per megawatt-hour as of Nov. 1, Trading Director Alan Svoboda
said during the press conference. CEZ doesn’t see a “positive
impulse” for power prices in  Europe  in the short term, he said.  The utility is offering some of its aging coal-fired power
plants for sale to end a European Union investigation into an
alleged anti-competition behavior. It expects to get improved
bids for its Chvaletice and Pocerady plants tomorrow from rival
utilities Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS and Czech Coal AS,
and will make a decision by the end of the year, Benes said.  Reactors  The company also received four bids for its Detmarovice
plant. Ceska Energie offered the highest bid of 7 billion
koruna, while Polish utility Gascontrol offered 1 billion koruna
and Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding offered 600 million koruna,
Hospodarske Noviny reported on Nov. 6.  CEZ is also in the process of choosing a supplier to build
two new reactors at the Temelin plant. It excluded  Areva SA (AREVA)  from
the tender last month, saying the Paris-based company hadn’t
fulfilled legal and commercial requirements.  Areva said it will file a complaint with the Czech anti-
monopoly office, which may slow down or even halt the bidding
process. CEZ said it expects to keep the schedule, choose a
winner by September next year and sign the final contract by the
end of 2013. Westinghouse Electric Corp and a Russian-Czech
group led by Rosatom Corp.’s Atomstroyexport unit are still
competing for the $10 billion Temelin project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  