-- China Big Bang Seen Like London in New Regime: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-08T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/china-big-bang-seen-like-london-in-new-regime-cutting-research.html
China ’s new leaders are about to set
off a “Big Bang” in financial oversight.  That’s the call of economists at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , whose
Nov. 6 report predicts “a swathe of coordinated reforms which
we believe will revolutionize the country’s financial system.”  As the Communist Party Congress in Beijing prepares to
unveil its next generation of leaders, the economists predict
that a financial overhaul will top the policy agenda in coming
years. Interest rates will be liberalized, the bond market will
be doubled in size and the yuan will become convertible within
five years, said  Qu Hongbin , Sun Junwei and Ma Xiaoping.  Such changes would boost the private sector by making
capital allocation more efficient and providing the middle class
with more choice about where to put their money. That would
enable households to earn a higher return and therefore spend
more, they said.  “This should help rebalance growth from investment to
consumption and lift the potential growth rate in coming
years,” the HSBC report said.  A bigger, deeper bond market will give banks more incentive
to finance small and medium-size enterprises and consumers, it
said. Such companies account for eight out of 10 Chinese jobs.  The People’s Bank of China will create a single benchmark
interest rate across bond markets in the next three years, while
the internationalization of the  yuan  will take off. The
proportion of trade settled in the currency has quadrupled to
more than 11 percent from 2009, the report said.  To avoid distortions, China must get the sequence of policy
changes right, HSBC said. It must strengthen banks, free
interest rates and develop a functioning bond market before
allowing full yuan convertibility.  “The term ‘Big Bang’ refers to major reforms introduced in
the U.K. in 1986 that transformed the country’s financial
services industry from a protected species into a global
powerhouse,” the report said. “Now it’s China’s turn.”  * * *  The repeated failure of policy makers to save the euro area
cost 282,983 jobs.  That’s the estimate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch
economists who studied the fiscal cutbacks of 2010 and 2011.
They found that economic growth was 0.1 percentage point lower
than it would have been without the policy muddling, based on a
comparison of fiscal multipliers before and after the crisis.
Multipliers measure ripple effects of budget cuts on an economy.  They then used European Central Bank assumptions for the
links between growth and employment to suggest how many of the
555,000 jobs shed during the crisis were due to policy makers’
failing to turn their economies around.  While European national leaders saved their economies from
tanking markets, created a rescue fund and began work on a
banking union, the process took time, weakened the confidence of
households and businesses and front-loaded the fiscal
adjustment, London-based economists Laurence Boone and Ruben Segura-Cayuela wrote in the Nov. 2 report.  The 282,983 number is “largely explained by the fact that
these countries that expected larger consolidation efforts also
had, in general, greater elasticities of employment,” or
stronger ties between growth and employment, they said.  Spain, with 187,000 jobs lost, and  Greece , with 69,000,
have been particularly affected, they said.  * * *  The severity of U.S.  unemployment  during the Great
Depression and the labor market recovery in the years that
followed may both have been overstated, according to members of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond’s research department.  Data compiled by the late government economist and Wesleyan
University professor Stanley Lebergott in his 1964 book
“Manpower in Economic Growth: The American Record since 1800,”
was much more volatile than official statistics show, Jonathon
Lecznar, Jessie Romero, and Pierre-Daniel G. Sarte wrote in an
 economic brief  published this month. The volatility was higher
even when data from the Depression era was excluded.  Lecznar and Sarte constructed their own unemployment series
using data from other studies, including one by Christina Romer,
former head of President  Barack Obama ’s Council of Economic
Advisers. Their data suggests Lebergott’s figures overstated the
decline in employment between 1929 and 1933 by about 4.3 million
workers, and the increase in employment between 1934 and 1943 by
about 4.6 million workers.  Their data showed the unemployment rate rose to 19.2
percent from 5.9 percent between 1929 and 1933, compared with
Lebergott’s estimates of a jobless rate of 25.2 percent from 3.2
percent in the same period. Between 1939 and 1943, the rate
dropped to 6.4 percent from 15.2 percent, Lecznar and Sarte’s
data series showed, compared with Lebergott’s unemployment rate
decline to 1.9 percent from 17.2 percent.  “These results by no means imply that the Great Depression
was not a severe economic contraction and a time of tremendous
hardship for millions of Americans,” the authors said. “But
the severity of the Great Depression also makes it a vital
period for economic study, especially as the United States
continues to feel the effects of the Great Recession. This
exercise thus helps recalibrate an understanding of the extent
of the changes in, and the flexibility of, the unemployment rate
during a critical period of U.S. history.”  * * *  Asian officials can mostly cope with so-called hot money
flowing into their markets without hurting their economies
because monetary policy transmission in the region tends to rely
on short-term domestic interest rates, according to an
International Monetary Fund  working paper .  While global causes can account for about 40 percent of
changes in long-term borrowing costs, they have a smaller impact
on output, Sonali Jain-Chandra and D. Filiz Unsal of the IMF
wrote in the paper, published Nov. 2.  “Even in the face of large capital inflows, monetary
policy in Asia remains effective at macroeconomic stabilization
even though the pass-through is lower during such episodes”
when hot money enters the economy, they said.  It is important to understand the impact global
developments will have on yields and the effectiveness of policy
transmission because growing capital and bond markets in Asia
will make long-term rates more sensitive to changes outside
their economies, the authors said.  “In the face of a surge in capital inflows, policy makers
should remain ready to use other policy instruments such as
macro-prudential policies as a complement to appropriate
macroeconomic policy settings,” they said.  * * *  Jean Pisani-Ferry, director of Brussels-based research
group Bruegel, has found an answer to the question often
 attributed  to Henry Kissinger: “Who do I call if I want to call
 Europe ?”  In the case of U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner,
the hotline has been to the European Central Bank, according to
Pisani-Ferry’s analysis of Geithner’s telephone log and diary
from January 2010 to June 2012.  Geithner spoke with ECB presidents Jean-Claude Trichet and
then Mario Draghi 58 times over that period. There were 36
contacts with German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble and 32
with his French counterparts.  In total, Geithner had 168 meetings or telephone calls with
euro-area officials plus 114 with the IMF, Pisani-Ferry found.  “There is little doubt that for the U.S. Treasury, ‘Mr.
Euro’ is first and foremost the ECB president,” Pisani-Ferry
wrote in a Nov. 4 blog. “The data suggests constant and very
active involvement on the part of the Obama administration in
the search for solutions to the euro crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  