-- China’s Leaders Fear a Ping-Pong Counterrevolution
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-11-08T23:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/china-s-leaders-fear-a-ping-pong-counterrevolution.html
If you’re looking for insight into
the Chinese Communist Party as it undergoes a once-per-decade
leadership transition over the next week, slip into the back
seat of a Beijing taxi and try to roll down the windows.  Odds are, unless you’ve just hired an unlicensed cab, the
handles will be as I found them on my Wednesday ride from
Beijing’s airport: disabled, the handles removed from the cranks
so that the windows can’t be opened.  The goal of this mechanical amputation, as outlined in a
 recent directive  sent out by Beijing’s Transportation
Administration to the city’s 70,000 taxi drivers, is to prevent
passengers from spreading anti-revolutionary messages by tossing
them from the taxi windows during the  18th National Congress of
the Communist Party of China , which began Thursday morning.
Leaflets are the obvious -- and  apparently legitimate  -- concern
when it comes to rear-window counterrevolution. But the actual
target of the taxi directive may be even more elusive; drivers
are also warned to “Look for passengers who intend to spread
messages by carrying balloons that bear slogans or pingpong
balls bearing reactionary messages.”  Such fear of counterrevolution may seem strange in a
country that has experienced a decade of almost incomprehensible
growth. From 2002 to 2011, per capita Chinese gross domestic
product quintupled. But as has been well-documented, the
decade’s economic progress has been accompanied by growing
inequality and serious environmental degradation that have led
to tens of thousands of protests and other so-called  mass
incidents .  Credibility Undermined  So, too, a perpetual parade of news stories about
government corruption and influence-peddling from the lowest
rungs of local  government  to the Communist Party’s very  highest
reaches  has further undermined the credibility, if not outright
legitimacy, of the party. In the days following the  New York 
Times’s Oct. 25 investigation into the  considerable fortunes 
accumulated by members of Premier Wen Jiabao’s family, a common
response I heard from Chinese with access to the story was that
“only foreigners can be surprised by this.” (The Times site
was blocked in China within hours of the story being published,
just as Bloomberg’s site has been banned since June, when it
published an expose on the family fortune of Xi Jinping, China’s
president-in-waiting.) On China’s thriving microblogs,
discussion of Wen was strictly censored, but discussion of other
corruption cases continued unencumbered and as bitter as ever.  Official talk of such corruption made an early appearance
at the Party Congress. The first major order of business at
Thursday morning’s opening ceremony was outgoing President  Hu Jintao ’s 100-minute work report to the assembled 2,300
delegates. It was, by and large, a colorless speech befitting a
leader who has spent a decade successfully cloaking his
emotions, beliefs and biases from his people. Outside of Hu’s
immediate circle of power, the vast majority of Chinese know
little more about the man today than they did in 2002, the year
he became general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, the
nation’s highest office (he added the presidency to his
portfolio in 2003).  So it was notable when the otherwise dour president raised
his voice to declare that the failure to defeat  corruption 
“could prove fatal to the party and even cause the collapse of
the party and the fall of the state.” In light of recent
scandals and revelations (such as those about Wen’s family), Hu
encouraged officials to exercise discipline over their “family
and staff.”  Deeply Entrenched  Those Chinese who bothered to pay attention to Hu’s address
would be justified in wondering why their president saved his
public indignation for a valedictory speech delivered only days
before he will relinquish power. A probable answer, unsettling
to those with hopes for the future of the Chinese Communist
Party, is that corruption is so deeply entrenched in  China  that
Hu had little choice but to tolerate it in order to govern
effectively.  Even today, more than three decades into China’s economic
resurgence, the state-owned sector continues to account for more
than half of GDP -- and, almost certainly, more than half of all
corruption cases. With notable exceptions, however, most of
those corruption cases involve lower-level officials, not senior
figures who control the patronage and cash necessary to make
things happen in China.  In every country, politics is the art of balancing
competing interests -- whether those interests belong to
individuals, parties, corporations or other types of
organizations. Even in the cleanest, most democratic countries,
politics must occasionally be done out of sight of the public.
What makes China different is that its citizenry isn’t just
ignorant about what happens out of the public eye; more often
than not, they don’t even know which people are in the back
room, and what they might represent.  Consider Xi Jinping, who will take the position of party
general secretary as well as president in coming days. He was
named vice president, and thus the all-but-certain successor to
Hu, in 2008. Rumor has it that he was a compromise candidate
between the faction represented by Hu and that of his
presidential predecessor,  Jiang Zemin . But what those factions
represent -- politically and economically -- is a matter of
speculation. Media-connected Chinese citizens have a better idea
of who financed  Barack Obama ’s  campaign  -- and what Obama
intends to do with the next four years -- than they do about Xi,
his patrons and his plans for the next decade.  Ten years ago when  income inequality  and other social
problems weren’t as divisive as they are today, public
irritation at the secrecy surrounding the selection of leaders
was more muted. But the increasing coverage of corruption in the
Chinese press over the last decade, combined with the rise of
freewheeling though still-censored microblogs, has acclimated an
educated and technologically connected middle class to the idea
that it can publicly rail against corruption with little
consequence beyond having its tweets deleted.  Slow Acclimation  For China’s ruling elites, however, acclimation to the
public’s demand for transparency has come much more slowly, if
at all. Censors have been  quickly deleting  microblogged
speculation about membership on the new Politburo Standing
Committee, to be unveiled next week. The potential harm of such
tweets is difficult to imagine, but perhaps the party elders
involved simply aren’t prepared for the Chinese public to
develop even a partial understanding of the bargains being cut
and of who will benefit from them.  No doubt, the security overkill that has cast a paranoid
pall over everything from taxi doors to the Internet will
succeed in cutting off any disruptions in the peaceful (for the
party elders) transfer of power. But in the long-term, it’s
unlikely that Xi Jinping and China’s new leadership will find
much success in continuing to restrict China’s media-savvy
citizens from understanding how their government works and
demanding more of a voice in determining what it does.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the  World View
blog , is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  