-- China’s Lead Market Seen in Marginal Deficit in 2013
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-08T08:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/china-s-lead-market-seen-in-marginal-deficit-in-2013.html
China ’s lead market, the world’s
biggest, may swing to a shortage next year as growth in sales of
lead-acid batteries boosts demand, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  Consumption will probably climb 8.9 percent to 4.91 million
metric tons, while output may gain 5.2 percent to 4.9 million
tons, analyst Hu Yongda said in an interview in Nanjing
yesterday. That signals a 10,000-ton deficit from a 150,000-ton
surplus, Antaike data showed.  Lead traded in  London  has climbed 7.3 percent in the past
year, becoming the only one among the six industrial metals to
increase. The marginal deficit will likely keep inventories low
in the largest user, supporting prices and potentially boosting
imports, which climbed 5 percent in the first three quarters.
China’s Communist Party today starts a Congress to choose new
leaders amid signs that the second-biggest economy is recovering
from a seven-quarter slowdown.  “Lead-acid batteries will continue to play a dominant role
in cars, telecommunications, e-bikes and energy storage among
various types of batteries,” said Liu Yanlong, secretary
general of the China Industrial Association of Power Sources.  China shut down as much as 90 percent of battery makers and
recycled-lead producers that didn’t meet environmental standards
last year after reports of lead poisoning in Zhejiang and
Guangdong. Lead usage in batteries accounts for 80 percent of
China’s consumption, according to Antaike. The country’s lead
consumption accounted for 44.5 percent of the world total in
2011, according to the International Lead and Zinc Study Group,
which expects a global surplus of 170,000 tons next year.  “Big lead-acid battery makers have taken advantage of the
environmental crackdown to expand their production to grab
bigger market shares,” Liu said.  Battery Output  Production of lead-acid batteries is forecast to rise to
266 million Kilovolt-Ampere Hours in 2015 from 137 million KVAh
last year, said Liu. Electric bikes, which accounted for 38.8
percent of global battery usage last year, will continue to be
the biggest consumer, while electric and hybrid cars could also
see strong growth if governments release supportive policies,
Liu said at Antaike’s annual lead and zinc conference.  Lead-acid battery output in the first three quarters this
year jumped 28 percent to 112.19 million KVAh, Antaike cited
data from the National Bureau of Statistics.  China’s refined lead output rose 10.4 percent from a year
ago to 3.52 million tons in the first three quarters, and 29
percent of that was recycled lead, according to Antaike.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  