-- Cielo Credit-Card Profit Draws Rousseff, Banks: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-11-08T18:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/cielo-credit-card-profit-draws-rousseff-banks-corporate-brazil.html
Cielo SA (CIEL3) ,  Latin America ’s biggest
credit-card processor, is making so much money that foreign
competitors and regulators want a piece.  Cielo’s return on common equity, a measure of its ability
to generate earnings from shareholder money, was 135 percent in
the third quarter. The gain is the most on the benchmark Bovespa
index and the highest among companies worldwide that process
credit-card transactions, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The profits are luring  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  as record low  interest rates  and falling unemployment
fueled a 23 percent surge in Brazilian credit-card purchases to
386 billion reais ($190 billion) in 2011, according to the
nation’s credit-cards association. For the government, Cielo and
Redecard SA, a rival taken private by  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) 
in September,  earnings  are above fair levels and may require
regulatory change.  “The stock was hit hard after news that the government
would likely tighten its grip in the industry,” said Carlos Alberto da Silva Junior, equity fund manager at Modal Asset
Management, which oversees 6 billion reais in  Rio de Janeiro .
“For us it was a buying opportunity because we don’t think the
government will do anything to reduce the industry’s
profitability.”  Government Intervention  Cielo, the Bovespa index’s second-best performing stock in
the first half of the year,  plunged  in the month after Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff  said interest rates on credit cards
were too high. Rousseff this year has pushed banks to cut rates
on loans, utilities to reduce power bills and phone companies to
charge less as she seeks to curtail inflation and spur the
economy.  Cielo, which is  backed  by  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3) , rose 35 percent in  Sao Paulo  this year as the Bovespa
index gained 3.1 percent. Of 25 analysts who cover the stock, 15
say hold, 9 recommend buying and 1 says sell, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock was little changed at 54.14 reais at 4 p.m. today
in Sao Paulo trading.  “We’re more cautious because there is regulatory
uncertainty and we see more aggressive competitors,”  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG who rates the stock a
hold, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “The government is
eyeing this industry. This sector is more profitable in Brazil
than abroad.”  Purchases made with general-purpose credit cards in the
U.S. in 2011 climbed 9.6 percent from a year earlier to $2.05
trillion, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter
based in Carpinteria,  California .  Cielo’s press office in Barueri, Brazil, declined to
comment. The central bank also declined to comment in an e-mail.  Return on Equity  Cigarette maker Souza Cruz SA and cosmetics maker Natura
Cosmeticos SA are tied for the second-best return on common
equity among Bovespa companies with 89 percent. Itau and  Banco
Bradesco , Latin America’s biggest banks by market value, each
posted a 19 percent return.  Policy makers want to end exclusivity agreements that
credit-card brands have with Cielo and Redecard to foster
competition, central bank policy director Aldo Mendes said in an
Oct. 17 speech. There’s room to cut card costs at a faster pace,
with increased competition, Mendes said. Exclusivity deals still
occur for cards and meal voucher plans, he said.  Banco Santander Brasil SA set up a company in January 2010
to provide credit- and debit-card processing services in a joint
venture with Getnet Tecnologia em Captura & Processamento de
Transacoes H.U.A. Ltda. Santander said the unit may control 10
percent of the market next year, up from 3.9 percent in
September, according to an e-mailed statement.  Citigroup  Elavon Inc., which formed a partnership with Citigroup that
started commercial operations in July, aims to capture 15
percent of the market for card transaction in its first five
years of operations in  Brazil , the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Cielo posted a 17 percent gain in the past two weeks, and
is rebounding from its cheapest level relative to the benchmark
Bovespa index in two years as concern over regulations eased.  Cielo traded at 13.3 times its 12-month estimated earnings
on Oct. 23, the cheapest relative to the Bovespa index since
November 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
marked a reversal from earlier this year, when Cielo was more
expensive than the gauge. Cielo’s price-to-earnings ratio rose
to 16 yesterday, compared with 28 for the Bovespa.  “Regulation in the sector is confirmed but in a milder
form,” Gustavo Schroden, an analyst at Bes Securities Brazil,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Over the next
four or five years, both Cielo and Redecard are likely to lose
market share, but the structure of the sector with major banks
behind the companies should limit losses.”  ‘Biggest Risk’  Itau paid 11.8 billion reais in September to acquire the
remaining 50 percent stake in Redecard that it didn’t already
own as part of a plan to take the company private.  Even with increased competition, expanding demand for
credit cards as incomes and employment rise in the world’s
second-largest emerging economy will fuel profit growth at
Cielo, said  Pedro Galdi , an analyst at SLW CVC Ltda. Brazilian
consumers use cards for only about 27 percent of their
purchases, according to the national credit-card association.  “The biggest risk is that the government will hurt the
sector; the government complains that the fees the companies
charge are too high,” he said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The high margins are attracting competitors, but Brazil
still has plenty of room to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  