-- Coastal Energy Offers Seen for Thailand Oil: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-11-08T17:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/coastal-energy-offers-seen-for-thailand-oil-real-m-a.html
Coastal Energy Co. (CEN) , a Houston-based
explorer for oil off Thailand’s shores, is enticing traders with
the prospect of the energy industry’s next bidding war.  A director at  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil producer PT
Pertamina said yesterday that the company sent a takeover
proposal to major Coastal Energy shareholders. Because Coastal
Energy operates mostly in the Gulf of Thailand, that nation’s
state-controlled PTT Exploration & Production Pcl is among those
that may mull an offer, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said.  That’s an opportunity for traders to make money after only
18 of more than 9,300 deals worldwide this year got competing
offers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CIBC said a
buyer could pay as much as C$26.50 a share for Coastal Energy,
38 percent more than its Nov. 5 price, before the stock rose
amid takeover speculation. The C$2.4 billion ($2.4 billion)
company is alluring because it can boost production even after
doubling output last quarter, and its cash flow more than pays
for drilling projects, Jennings Capital Inc. said.  “It seems very likely that there could be a bidding war
here,” Sachin Shah, a Jersey City, New Jersey-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon
Plc, said in a telephone interview. “The PTT’s of the world are
going to be looking at these assets. This is in their
backyard,” he added. “A state-owned enterprise could be
competing against multinationals and other state-owned
enterprises. That is good for Coastal Energy shareholders.”  Coastal’s Response  Pertamina expects a response to its proposal next week,
Mohamad Afdal Bahaudin, the oil producer’s investment planning
and risk management director, said yesterday in a text message.  The Indonesian company may offer about $23 a share, valuing
the target at $2.6 billion, the  Financial Post  reported Nov. 6.
Coastal Energy released a statement later that day saying it’s
always considering strategic alternatives, including a potential
sale of the company. “There can be no assurance that any
transaction will occur,” the company said. Coastal Energy’s
Canada-listed shares climbed 6.3 percent on Nov. 6 and added 3.5
percent yesterday, closing at C$21.08.  Today, Coastal Energy advanced 3.8 percent to C$21.87 at
12:36 p.m. Toronto time, heading for a record high close. The
shares climbed even as the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index
declined 0.7 percent.  Matthew Laterza, a spokesman for Coastal Energy, didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Natural Buyer’  CIBC’s Ian Macqueen and Gregory Chornoboy, a Calgary-based
analyst with Jennings Capital, both said the most logical
alternative suitor is Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production (PTTEP) ,
which is majority owned by Bangkok-based PTT Plc, the state-
owned producer.  PTTEP is “the natural buyer,” Macqueen, a Calgary-based
analyst at CIBC, said in a phone interview.  “The company hasn’t done anything on this,” Penchun Jarikasem, PTTEP’s executive vice president for finance, said by
phone. “We didn’t study anything about Coastal Energy and are
not interested to buy a stake.”  Coastal Energy, founded in 2004,  owns  two blocks in the
Gulf of Thailand that span 4,926 square kilometers (1.22 million
acres). The company also has stakes in onshore assets and a
natural-gas field in the country, and a contract to develop
petroleum from a cluster of fields offshore  Malaysia  owned by
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the state-run producer known as
Petronas.  Bua Ban  Coastal Energy’s  Thailand  assets include the  Bua Ban  field.
Its discovery was “game changing” for the company and will
lead to more oil finds in the area, making Coastal Energy
appealing to larger companies, said CIBC’s Macqueen. He
estimates that Coastal Energy’s output will climb to about
34,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day next year. The company
produced 21,713 barrels a day in the quarter ended June 30, more
than double the level a year earlier.  “They’ve only really explored a small portion” of the
company’s territory off Thailand’s coast, Macqueen said.
“They’ve got a long reserve life. That’s why I see a
substantial increase in production between 2012 and 2013.”  Coastal Energy’s cash generation makes it an appealing
target, said Jennings Capital’s Chornoboy. While the average oil
producer larger than $1 billion has negative free cash flow,
Coastal Energy throws off free cash equal to 6.8 percent of its
market capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Self-Funding  “It’s self-financing,” Chornoboy said in a phone
interview. “The production and cash flow will more than cover
the capital requirements for all of the drilling and facilities
construction they want to do.”  FirstEnergy Capital Corp.’s Stephane Foucaud said the $23-
a-share (C$23.07) price that the Financial Post reported
Pertamina offered is too low.  “If this offer was confirmed, we recommend shareholders
not to take it, as we believe this may just be a starting
point,” the London-based analyst wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  Bids could top C$26 a share, Chornoboy said. Macqueen
estimated Coastal Energy’s net assets could fetch as much as
C$26.50, and said a buyer could pay that amount and “still
realize significant upside.”  Macqueen’s forecast is 47 percent higher than Coastal
Energy’s 20-day average  price  as of Nov. 5, before takeover
speculation drove a two-day rally of 10 percent. That compares
with an average premium of 51 percent for industry deals larger
than $1 billion announced in the last two years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Deal Multiples  Buyers in those transactions paid a median of 14.3 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
the data show. Coastal Energy was  valued  at 6.5 times Ebitda as
of yesterday.  Pertamina’s interest follows three other attempts by state-
owned energy companies to expand through acquisitions.  PTTEP, Thailand’s biggest publicly traded oil and gas
explorer, won a bidding war in July for London-based Cove Energy
Plc after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  dropped out of the race for the
explorer focused on East Africa, ending a five-month battle.  Petronas offered in June to acquire Calgary-based  Progress
Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  While the agreement was rejected by
 Canada , Petronas signaled that it’s open to negotiating with the
government.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s largest offshore oil and gas
explorer, agreed in July to buy Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  That
transaction is also pending Canadian approval.  Bidding Wars  While merger arbitrage traders often seek out deals where
there is a high likelihood of a competing bid, there haven’t
been many this year. Among the 9,348 takeovers announced in
2012, only 18 drew rival offers, or 0.19 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Last year, there were 30 bidding wars, or
0.25 percent of the 11,892 announced deals.  Tullett Prebon’s Shah said traders will be watching to see
if multinational producers such as Shell or companies based in
Asian  emerging markets , including PTTEP or Petronas, might try
to top Pertamina.  Kayla Macke, a spokeswoman for The Hague-based Shell, and
Azman Ibrahim of Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas declined to comment
on whether their companies would consider a bid for Coastal
Energy.  In emerging economies, “consumption of energy is growing
exponentially,” Shah said. “When the asset is close to home,
why wouldn’t you at least bid? Arbs definitely will be watching
this closely. It’s hard for me to believe that $23 is the
ceiling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  