-- CoCo-Like Instruments on Nykredit List of Capital Boosting Aids
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-11-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/coco-like-instruments-on-nykredit-list-of-capital-boosting-aids.html
Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer
of covered bonds backed by mortgages, is looking into a range of
hybrid securities that mimic the behavior of contingent
convertible bonds to help boost its capital buffers.  Nykredit will need to set aside 70 billion kroner ($12
billion) in capital to meet Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision requirements that are due to become binding by 2019,
Chief Executive Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said. That’s an
increase of 32 percent compared with reported capital at the end
of the third quarter.  “If we’re going to grow our balance sheet, we’ll need to
increase earnings, or there’s the option to use capital
instruments suited to us,” Jensen, whose office is based in
Copenhagen, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Though the
closely-held lender can’t issue contingent convertible bonds,
which convert into traded shares at a given trigger, “we’re
looking at capital that would be as good as equity, but isn’t,
and that can be used for an unlisted company like ours,” he
said.  Bonds that convert into equity, allowing banks to boost
capital when they need it most, have emerged as a way for
some of Europe’s biggest lenders to meet stricter regulatory
standards. In neighboring  Sweden , Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
has encouraged the nation’s largest lenders to use so-called
CoCos to comply with stricter Swedish standards.  Denmark 's
central bank said last year it's open to letting the Nordic
country's biggest banks resort to CoCos or their equivalents.  Covered Bonds  Nykredit’s main shareholder is the Nykredit Trust, which is
mutually owned by borrowers. The bank’s minority owners include
a number of smaller trusts and funds.  “We’re targeting the relationship between equity and
hybrid capital, as we have to refinance some notes in a few
years, but we’re generally looking at a number of different
capital instruments,” Jensen said. “Our main capital
generation will come from earnings, by far.”  Nykredit yesterday posted profit before tax of 3.2 billion
kroner for the first nine months, more than double the 1.3
billion kroner reported a year earlier. Though impairments rose
71 percent to 1.5 billion kroner in the period, profit was
helped by a surge in investment income to 2.3 billion kroner,
from only 53 million kroner a year earlier, the bank said.  The lender’s investments were boosted by a tightening of
spreads on covered bonds, it said.  Jensen said bond markets recovered after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  in September unveiled his Outright
Monetary Transactions program, offering a backstop to the euro-
zone’s bond markets.  Nykredit had bought covered bonds issued out of  France ,
Sweden, Denmark and the U.K., Jensen said.  “The market has become normal after we bet that spreads
had widened too much,” he said. “Investor confidence has risen
as Draghi intervened, also in corporate bonds, and we’ve made
money on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  