-- Ex-Goldman Trader Accused of Hiding $8.3 Billion Position
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-09T19:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/commodity-regulator-says-trader-caused-118-million-loss.html
A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
commodities trader was accused by U.S. regulators of concealing
an $8.3 billion position and causing the firm to lose $118
million.  Matthew Marshall Taylor in 2007 fabricated trades and
obstructed the firm’s discovery of his position, risk and
profits and losses, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in New York.  Taylor concealed the position by bypassing the firm’s
internal system for routing trades to the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange and manually entering fabricated futures trades in a
different internal system, according to the complaint. Goldman
Sachs, which wasn’t identified in the CFTC lawsuit, said Taylor
allegedly made the trades while employed at the firm.  “ Matt Taylor  provided false explanations when confronted
about irregularities we detected in his account during the Dec.
14, 2007, trading day,”  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “He admitted his
misconduct following the market close, and was promptly removed
from his job and terminated soon thereafter.”  “Since these events, which had no impact on customer
funds, we have further enhanced our controls.”  Taylor, a resident of Royal Palm Beach,  Florida , was a vice
president and trader on the firm’s Capital Structure Franchise
Trading desk, according to the CFTC complaint.  Denies Allegations  Taylor’s lawyer, Ross Intelisano of New York, said his
client denies all the allegations and is disappointed that CFTC
filed a complaint.  “Matt never intentionally entered ‘fabricated trades’ to
conceal any trading activity and Goldman never alleged he did so
at the time of his termination or thereafter,” Intelisano, of
Rich, Intelisano & Katz LLP, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Matt, himself, brought the trading losses to the attention of
senior managers at Goldman on the day they occurred.”  Taylor was hired by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  less than three months
after Goldman Sachs disclosed in a public filing that he had
been fired for building an “inappropriately large” proprietary
trading position. Goldman Sachs cited the alleged misconduct in
a so-called U-5 form, according to a Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority document. Morgan Stanley, which had
employed Taylor before he joined Goldman in 2005, re-hired him
in March 2008, according to the Finra records.  Subprime Mortgage  Morgan Stanley hired Taylor less than three months after a
subprime mortgage-related trading position resulted in a $9.4
billion writedown in December 2007, which caused the New York-
based company to oust co-president Zoe Cruz and sell a $5
billion stake to state-controlled China Investment Corp.  Taylor left Morgan Stanley in July, according to Mark Lake,
a company spokesman in  New York . His departure wasn’t related to
the CFTC complaint filed against him yesterday.  CFTC said in its complaint that by Dec. 13, 2007,
“Taylor’s scheme culminated in his concealment of a notional
value of an approximately $8.3 billion long e-mini futures
position.” E-minis are futures contracts tied to the  S&P 500
Index .  The suit seeks a penalty of $130,000 or triple Taylor’s
monetary gain for each violation, whichever is higher.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Taylor, 12-cv-8170, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  