-- Corn Top Commodity Pick at Morgan Stanley as Supply Plunges
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-11-09T11:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/corn-top-commodity-pick-at-morgan-stanley-on-dwindling-supplies.html
Corn may beat all other commodities
in the first half of next year, surging as much as 34 percent to
a record as shrinking supply from the U.S. stokes competition
among meat and ethanol producers, according to Morgan Stanley.  “There’s a growing probability that you see corn trade up
to the $9 to $10 level,”  Hussein Allidina , the New York-based
head of commodities research, said in an interview. “Demand
needs to decrease in order to preserve what we have.”  Corn rose to an all-time high in August as drought killed
crops in the U.S., driving output in the biggest supplier to a
six-year low and cutting world reserves as a share of demand to
the smallest since 1974, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Higher prices may fuel  global food inflation  as
policy makers from  Washington  to Beijing seek to bolster growth.
A rally in corn may help lift soybeans and wheat, Allidina said.  “The market has gotten a little bit relaxed about the
supply-demand balance because U.S. exports have been weak,”
Allidina said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday, selecting
natural gas as his second pick for the period. “I worry about
being complacent, given how tight things are.”  Corn for March delivery traded at $7.4425 a bushel on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade at 6:55 p.m. in Singapore after rising
0.3 percent. Futures are 12 percent below the $8.49 peak on Aug.
10. Soybeans, which surged to a record $17.89 a bushel in
Chicago in September, fell 0.7 percent to $14.8575. Allidina
didn’t give first-half forecasts for soybeans and wheat.  Natural Gas  Natural gas may advance to near $5 per million British
thermal units by February, from $3.554 today, as demand for
heating fuel peaks in the U.S., Allidina said. While cotton and
sugar may be the worst performers on global gluts, base metals
will depend on economic growth in  China , he said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is also bullish on corn. The grain
used for feed and ethanol may hit $9 a bushel in three months as
stockpiles decline, analyst Damien Courvalin said in a report on
Oct. 11. Prices of corn and soybeans are too low to ration
demand, Courvalin said, using a phrase the can describe a
lowering of consumption in response to higher prices.  “You have a fixed amount of corn that has to last until
the next corn crop in the U.S. next year,” said Allidina, who’s
tracked commodities for at least 11 years. While futures in
Chicago have dropped from the all-time high as importers from
 Japan ,  Mexico  and  Taiwan  turned to  Brazil , that can’t last, and
import demand will switch back to the U.S. in March as shipments
from South America begin to decline, Allidina said.  U.S. corn  export sales  for delivery in the current
marketing year dwindled to 11.07 million metric tons as of Nov.
1, from 21.3 million tons a year earlier, the USDA said in a
report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  