-- Cuomo Fires Emergency Chief After Incident, Person Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-11-08T01:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/cuomo-fires-emergency-chief-after-incident-person-says.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  fired
his emergency management chief after the official sent public
employees to clear a fallen tree from his Long Island home
during  Hurricane Sandy , according to a Cuomo aide familiar with
the dismissal.  As head of the New York Emergency Management Office, Steven
Kuhr coordinated the response to disasters. Kuhr was appointed
by Cuomo in October 2011. Before that, he was the chief
operating officer at Strategic Emergency Group LLC, an East
Northport, New York-based company.  Tree-clearing crews have been in high demand since the
storm, which knocked out power to as many as 8.5 million homes
across 21 states. About 2.1 million of those were in New York,
including about 1 million on  Long Island . Almost 200,000 homes
and businesses there were still without power today, according
to the Long Island Power Authority.  Kuhr, who was in  Albany  when he learned that the storm had
knocked down a tree in his driveway, called the Suffolk County
Emergency Management Office and asked that its employees remove
it, the Cuomo aide said. The aide spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the aide wasn’t cleared to discuss personnel
matters publicly.  Vanessa Baird-Streeter, a spokeswoman for Suffolk County
Executive Steven Bellone, didn’t respond to a telephone call for
comment after regular business hours.  Cuomo fired Kuhr after learning of the incident, the aide
said. The dismissal was first reported by The  New York  Times
today.  Attempts to reach Kuhr, including calls after hours to his
former company, were unsuccessful. He was paid an annual salary
of $153,000, according to state payroll records compiled by the
Empire Center for New York State Policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  