-- Deutsche Telekom Sales Top Estimates Amid U.S. Writedown
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-08T17:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/deutsche-telekom-posts-eu6-9-billion-loss-as-sales-top-estimates.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  reported
operating profit and sales that topped analysts’ estimates,
while a 7.4 billion-euro ($9.4 billion) writedown on its T-
Mobile USA unit sank the German former phone monopoly into its
biggest quarterly net loss in a decade.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization slipped 2.6 percent to 4.78 billion euros, beating
the 4.69 billion-euro average estimate compiled by Bloomberg, as
the Bonn-based company slowed a decline in  revenue  in European
markets such as  Germany  and Hungary. While  T-Mobile USA 
continued to lose contract customers, prepaid cards helped the
business exceed profit estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  is trying to halt a
decline in voice-call revenue and speed up services like mobile
payments and music streaming. His efforts to damp the impact of
the debt crisis in Europe through cost reductions may be
starting to pay off, while U.S. profit may help his move to
narrow T-Mobile USA’s gap with larger carriers after last
month’s agreement to merge with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   “They are actively tackling the U.S., and while Europe is
very macro-driven, the company is managing the situation well,”
said Ulrich Rathe, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd.
who recommends holding Deutsche Telekom shares. “Taking the
U.S. writedown is the right thing to do even if it hurts.”  The shares slipped 0.7 percent to close at 8.43 euros on
the Frankfurt exchange, after rising as much as 1.9 percent
today. They have fallen 4.9 percent this year, compared with a
9.8 percent decline by the 23-company  Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index. (BETELES)   U.S. Writedown  The net loss was 6.9 billion euros, or 1.61 euros a share,
compared with a profit of 1.07 billion euros, or 25 cents, a
year earlier, Deutsche Telekom said today. Third-quarter revenue
slipped 0.1 percent to 14.7 billion euros, beating the 14.6
billion-euro average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  “This performance is no given in a European environment
where all around us we see slumping sales and sometimes drastic
dividend cuts,” Obermann said on a conference call.  U.S. Defections  The 7.4 billion-euro after-tax impairment charge to reflect
T-Mobile USA’s value was triggered by the MetroPCS transaction,
which would create a listed company in which Deutsche Telekom
would own a 74 percent stake and give T-Mobile USA greater scale
to compete with  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)   A decade ago, under former CEO Kai-Uwe Ricke, Deutsche
Telekom wrote down the value of the U.S. business and its
mobile-phone licenses by 18 billion euros in the third quarter,
leading to the biggest full-year loss in Europe’s corporate
history at the time.  T-Mobile USA lost 492,000 contract customers, which
generally pay higher monthly fees. That compares with losses of
450,000 clients estimated by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup
Inc. analysts. The U.S. division’s adjusted Ebitda slipped 3
percent to 994 million euros, compared with analyst projections
of 961 million euros.  The European unit’s adjusted Ebitda of 1.33 billion euros
beat an estimate of 1.26 billion euros as profit in  Romania  and
the Netherlands surged.  Forecasts Confirmed  Everything Everywhere, the U.K. venture shared with  France
Telecom  SA, increased its market share, Chief Financial Officer
Timotheus Hoettges said on the call. There is “no debate”
about cutting Deutsche Telekom’s 50 percent stake in the
wireless carrier ahead of a spectrum auction next year, he said.  In Germany, Deutsche Telekom is battling  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
for the top spot among wireless companies while trying to keep
cable companies such as  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s Unitymedia KabelBW
from snatching away its fixed-line customers. German revenue
from mobile services fell more slowly than in previous quarters.  Deutsche Telekom confirmed its forecasts and its plan to
pay a  dividend  of 70 cents a share for 2012. The company had
pledged shareholders remuneration of 3.4 billion euros a year
from 2010 to 2012, including share buybacks totaling as much as
1.2 billion euros over the three years.  France Telecom last month became the latest among Europe’s
former phone monopolies to slash its dividend, following similar
moves by  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Royal KPN NV. Analysts estimate that
Deutsche Telekom will trim its payout to 60 cents for each of
2013 and 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Telekom has scheduled a two-day event for
investors in Bonn starting Dec. 6 to explain its strategic
plans, including its finance planning, the deployment of faster
networks and the U.S. business.  “We’re the only big telecommunications provider in Europe
that has stuck to its dividend promises,” Hoettges said. “Now
we’ll weigh how we can make reliable plans for the coming years
as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  