-- Deutsche Post Earnings Fall 6.5% on Increased Labor Costs
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-11-08T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/deutsche-post-earnings-fall-6-5-on-increased-labor-costs.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ,  Europe ’s largest
postal service, said third-quarter profit fell 6.5 percent as a
pay increase caused spending to rise.  Earnings before interest and taxes declined to 604 million
euros ($770 million) from 646 million euros a year earlier, the
Bonn-based company said in a statement. The average  estimate  of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 641.3 million euros.
Revenue climbed 5.7 percent to 13.8 billion euros.  “We will reach our target for the year,” Chief Executive
Officer Frank Appel said in the statement. “Our mail division’s
profitability was impacted by the new wage agreement, the loss
of one workday compared with the previous year” and the effects
of the bankruptcy of mail-order customer Neckermann.de GmbH.  The company, the world’s biggest carrier of air and sea
freight by volume, has focused expansion of its DHL express-
package and cargo businesses in  emerging markets  to compensate
for declines at its traditional mail business.  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s biggest package-delivery service,
bidding 5.16 billion euros to buy European competitor  TNT
Express NV (TNTE)  to match DHL’s market share in the region.  The TNT takeover is the subject of an extended European
Union antitrust probe, and the deal may require “substantial
remedies” to gain approval, Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said Nov. 2. Atlanta-based UPS is scheduled to meet EU
regulators on Nov. 12 for a hearing on the proposed purchase.  Deutsche Post reiterated its full-year Ebit target today,
saying earnings will total 2.6 billion euros to 2.7 billion
euros. It boosted the range in August from an earlier forecast
of 2.5 billion euros to 2.6 billion euros.  Ebit at the mail division slipped 18 percent to 247 million
euros, while earnings at DHL rose 5 percent to 462 million
euros, Deutsche Post said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  