-- Dial C for Chaos as State Spurs Telkom Exit: South Africa Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-11-08T08:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/dial-c-for-chaos-as-state-spurs-telkom-exit-south-africa-credit.html
Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG)  is suffering a
management exodus as the South African government increasingly
intervenes in the phone company’s business, risking a downgrade
that may bring its  credit rating  to within one level of junk.  Nombulelo Moholi, 51, the fifth chief executive officer in
nine years at  Africa ’s largest fixed-line operator, quit this
week. Chairman Lazarus Zim resigned after its annual general
meeting on Oct. 24, during which the communications minister
blocked the re-election of four directors. Telkom has six board
members left following the resignation of three directors since
Oct. 1, less than the eight required in the company’s bylaws.  The premium investors demand to hold Telkom debt due
February 2020 over similarly dated  government bonds  rose to the
most in four months after Moholi gave notice Nov. 5. Yields on
the notes have jumped 18 basis points from a record low Sept.
26, compared with a 16 basis point drop in JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI TMT Blended Yield Index.  Standard & Poor’s  said two
days ago it may downgrade Telkom because of an unclear strategy.  “It almost beggars belief that you have a large corporate
that virtually has no management,” Simon Howie, head of South
African and frontier-market credit at Investec Asset Management,
said by phone from Cape Town Nov. 6. “We’ve got to a point in
Telkom where news flow is worse than a worst-case scenario.
There is certainly the potential for credit spreads going out.”  ‘Foggiest Clue’  Sibusiso Sibisi, one of the non-executive directors not re-
elected last month, doesn’t “have the foggiest clue” on why
the government blocked his appointment, he said yesterday in e-
mailed statements. Sibisi is the chief executive officer of the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and a member of
the boards of  Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd. (MUR) , a construction
company.  S&P, which rates Pretoria-based Telkom BBB, two notches
above non-investment grade, lowered its outlook on Telkom to
negative from stable in December, citing a potential drain on
cash to maintain the fixed-line business as it simultaneously
expands its mobile-phone operations. The company will use
Telkom’s fiscal first-half earnings, scheduled for release on
Nov. 19, to assess its rating, Guillaume Trentin, a Paris-based
analyst at S&P, said by phone.  “All of the  management changes  that we have seen in the
past years clearly has certainly delayed and affected the
implementation and execution of Telkom’s strategic priorities,”
he said on Nov. 6. “We need to take a view on whether we
downgrade this company to BBB- or if we still think they can
preserve a BBB.”  Board Responsibility  Increased competition in  South Africa  and a failed five-
year expansion into  Nigeria  that cost the company 9.6 billion
rand ($1.1 billion) has cut profit before one-time items every
year since 2006 at Telkom, 39.8 percent owned by the government.  “It is the responsibility of the  board  and the management
team to balance the interests of all shareholders,”
Communications Minister Dina Pule said in an e-mailed response
to questions yesterday. “This means, amongst others, ensuring
that the company has a stable leadership team and a reliable
experienced  workforce .”  It is Telkom’s duty to call a special board meeting to
appoint more directors, Pule said. The government is working
with other shareholders and the company to fill vacancies,
decisions on which will be announced within weeks, she said.  Funding Need  “Telkom will continue to access funding from  capital
markets  when the timing is appropriate and the funding need
arises,” the company said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Telkom’s board will look for a new CEO once it has filled the
empty board seats, it said Nov. 5.  Telkom said in June the Cabinet won’t back the sale of 20
percent of Telkom to  South Korea ’s  KT Corp. (030200)  because the company
is a strategic asset and must play a developmental role. Telkom
appealed to the government to reconsider the deal, which could
have brought broadband expertise and a 3 billion rand
investment, former chairman Zim said at the AGM last month.  The company needs a partner to help it reorganize and
compete, Elias Masilela, the CEO of the Public Investment Corp.,
a state-owned  money manager  which owns 10.6 percent of Telkom,
said on Johannesburg’s SAfm radio station Nov. 6.  “The vacuum of leadership at the top and what looks to be
a lack of independence to get on with the job without the
influence of their big shareholder seems to be stifling their
ability to make real strategic changes,” Craig Pheiffer,
general manager of investment at Absa Asset Management Private
Clients in Johannesburg, said by phone Nov. 6. “There’s no
clear strategy in place about how they’re going to rebuild.”  Antitrust Fine  Profit before one-time items in the six months through
September fell more than 65 percent after boosting provisions
for an antitrust fine, Telkom said in a Sept. 20 statement. The
company was fined 449 million rand on Aug. 30 for abusing its
market dominance. The  Competition Commission  has asked for a
larger fine to be imposed on the company.  Telkom’s shares fell for a fourth day, retreating 1 percent
to 17.03 rand at 10:35 a.m. in Johannesburg, extending losses
this year to 41 percent. That compares with a 17 percent gain in
the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index. (JALSH)  The rand weakened 0.2
percent to 8.6536 per dollar.  Yields on Telkom’s 2.5 billion rand of eight year, 6
percent bonds rose two basis points to 6.64 percent when Moholi,
appointed in March last year, announced her resignation. That
widened the gap over the government’s 7.25 percent notes due
January 2020 to the highest since July 19. Yields on the state’s
securities rose one basis point, or 0.1 percentage point, to
6.48 percent today.  “What you don’t like as a credit investor is deteriorating
credit,” Investec’s Howie said. “It’s just not what you want
in your portfolios.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  