-- Didn’t Vote? Don’t Worry About It.
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-11-08T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/didn-t-vote-don-t-worry-about-it-.html
We don’t yet have final numbers on
how many Americans voted this year, but preliminary figures
suggest that turnout  is probably down  from 2008 -- down in
percentage terms, and possibly down in absolute terms as well.
The population is growing, but the number of voters seems to be
shrinking.  I don’t see low voter turnout as quite the crisis others
do. I’m not against high turnout or in favor of low turnout. I’m
just unpersuaded that the optimal level is 100 percent.  For example, one common argument is that a higher turnout
makes the results of an election more legitimate. By this
standard, President  Barack Obama ’s victory in 2008 was less
legitimate than  Richard Nixon ’s in 1968. According to  the
compilation  by the American Presidency Project at the  University
of California  at  Santa Barbara , 57.5 percent of the voting-age
population cast ballots in 2008, whereas four decades earlier,
when Nixon was defeating Hubert Humphrey, nearly 61 percent of
the voting-age population went to the polls. Following the same
logic, Nixon’s win was less legitimate than Dwight Eisenhower’s
in 1952, which saw a turnout of 63.3 percent -- the highest in
the past 100 years.  Falling Turnout  Want higher turnout? The highest in U.S. history came in
1876, at 81.8 percent. The truth is, turnout has been falling
for decades. That’s why it’s a mistake to try placing the blame
for this year’s drop-off on, for example,  Hurricane Sandy . In
the first place, a storm that hit the Northeast is a very
unlikely contributor to estimated declines of 25 percent in
 Alaska  or 19 percent in  Arizona .  More to the point, the 2008 turnout to elect the nation’s
first black president was an unlikely spike in a trend running
very much the other way. This year’s turnout represents not an
outlier in need of explanation but a regression to the mean.  We haven’t broken the 60 percent barrier since the 1960s,
although we have been above 50 percent in every recent
presidential election except 1996. On only two other occasions
has turnout fallen below half of the voting-age population: in
1920, when Warren Harding beat  James Cox  by the largest popular
vote margin (26 percentage points) in modern history; and in
1924, when  Calvin Coolidge  (who succeeded to the presidency when
Harding died in office) defeated Democrat John W. Davis (who
would later argue the pro-segregation side in Brown v. Board of
Education).  Why are we voting in lower numbers than we did five decades
ago? Maybe because the late 1960s were a time of Vietnam,
Watergate and political assassinations, a trilogy that ushered
in an era of disillusionment that remains with us. Cynicism and
doubt were considered almost un-American as recently as the
1950s, when the nation still spoke excitedly of the future as
“ The Endless Frontier .” But from the 1970s onward, a reflexive
cynicism about political life has been all but fed to children
at birth. Small wonder that turnout is down.  The political scientist Francis Fukuyama  has argued  that we
don’t vote because the welfare state has made us comfortable.
Others blame technology -- in particular, the many gadgets that
entertain us at home. Political scientists have long believed
that unemployment decreases turnout (although  some recent
research  suggests that losing a job within a month of the
election makes one more likely to vote).  Some researchers  even
suggest that turnout isn’t as bad as we may think, once we
exclude from the voting-age population those who are ineligible
because they are felons.  Moreover, we tend to forget how narrow is the political
range in U.S. politics. In our partisan moments, we tend to
elevate to Manichean proportions debates over whether to raise
or lower tax rates by a few points, or whether universal health
insurance should be achieved by government provision or
subsidies in the private market.  Obviously the answers matter. But the arguments encompass a
broad center, not the fringe.  Rational Decision  I mention this only because we can easily forget that a
citizen can make a perfectly rational decision not to vote. One
might actually not care about the outcome of the issues that
fire committed partisans: Supreme Court appointments, for
instance. Another might feel insufficiently informed on matters
of great complexity: the effect of marginal tax rates on
economic growth, say. Others might decide that politics is a
mean and ugly distraction from more attractive pursuits. I’m not
sure that the brilliant artist who refuses to put down her brush
on Election Day is doing a national disservice.  The point is that voting, though an important measure of
civic responsibility, is far from the only one. There is no
obvious reason that raising the rate of voter turnout is a more
laudable goal than raising the rate of  charitable giving .  I quite understand why each party places such an emphasis
on turnout by voters expected to support its candidate. That is
a separate matter. Encouraging people to vote because you think
it will help your side gain or hold power doesn’t strike me as a
particularly admirable way to think about civic responsibility.  I raise this last point for a reason. We have known for
some time that turnout is correlated with  positive answers  to
questions such as whether potential voters trust the government
to do the right thing most of the time, or whether they feel
that people like themselves have much influence over what the
government does. Americans in recent decades have ranked low on
those scales -- that is, by and large we neither trust the
government nor believe that we can influence it.  Those who want higher voter turnout might usefully begin by
proving rather than asserting that these beliefs are wrong.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  political imperative of
immigration reform  and on why  China’s rulers can’t go on
controlling information ;  Jonathan Alter  on how  Obama and
business can heal their breach ;  Margaret Carlson  on why  another
“Year of the Woman” is nothing to celebrate ; William Pesek on a
 possible thaw between the two Koreas ;  Jonathan Weil  on  one
honest man on Wall Street ; Adam Minter on the  view from Beijing
during the party congress ; Sean West on  why the fiscal cliff
game has changed .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 