-- Djokovic Closes in on ATP Semifinals Berth by Defeating Murray
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-08T00:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/djokovic-closes-in-on-atp-semifinals-berth-by-defeating-murray.html
Novak Djokovic  closed in on a spot in
the last four at the ATP World Tour Finals as he got the better
of Andy Murray in their seventh encounter this season.  Talked up as the “hottest ticket in tennis” by three-time
Wimbledon champion Boris Becker, the latest installment in the
rivalry had spectators in London’s O2 arena on their feet. They
were tied at three wins apiece in 2012 before yesterday’s match.  “Another great match, another great performance from both
of us,” top-ranked Djokovic told reporters after he won 4-6,
6-3, 7-5. “We have a great rivalry that hopefully will develop
even more in the future.”  The pair, who have been friends since they were juniors,
started the season with a four hour, 50 minute five-set
semifinal clash at the Australian Open, which Djokovic won.  Third-ranked Murray overcame the Serbian right-hander in
the U.S. Open final in September in another five-setter that
lasted six minutes short of five hours. Last month in  Shanghai ,
Djokovic saved five match points to beat Murray in a three-set
match that took almost 3 1/2 hours to complete.  The  ATP World Tour Finals , won last year for a record sixth
time by Switzerland’s Roger Federer, begins with a round robin.
The world’s best eight singles players and doubles pairs are
divided into two groups of four, with the top two in each
section moving into the single elimination semifinal stage.  Djokovic, who has won 10 of 17 matches against Murray,
leads Group A after two victories.  Also yesterday in Group A, 2010 Wimbledon finalist Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic defeated  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 7-5, 3-6, 6-1.  Federer Plays  Federer plays Spain’s David Ferrer in the afternoon session
in Group B today, while 2009 U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina  faces  Serbia ’s Janko Tipsarevic.  Murray and Djokovic “have the edge right now” over the
rest of the field and may develop a rivalry to match that of
Federer and Rafael Nadal, Becker said in an interview in London
last week.  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 17 Grand Slam singles
titles, and 11-time major champion Nadal, who has been sidelined
since June with a knee injury, have played each other 28 times
in eight years, with the Spaniard leading 18-10.  Murray, 25, had three love service games in the opening set
yesterday.  “He lost only a couple of points on his first serve
throughout the whole first set,” Djokovic said. “And then he
made some unforced errors. He allowed me to get back to the
match.”  Early Break  Watched by his coach and eight-time Grand Slam singles
champion Ivan Lendl, Murray handed Djokovic an early break in
the second set when a serve-and-volley combination on break
point floated long.  “There are decisions you make in matches,” Murray said in
a news conference. “If they come off, you get told you’re a
genius. If you miss them, then you’re an idiot.”  A backhand error gave Djokovic an early break in the third.
After saving break points while trailing 3-1 and 4-2, Murray
broke back for 4-4 before dropping his serve again in the next
game. Serving for the match at 6-5, Djokovic saved two break
points before winning on a backhand error by his opponent.  “When I get to play Andy, it’s going to be a physically
very demanding match,” Djokovic said. “I had to hang in
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  London ’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  