-- Draghi Says Euro Area Growth Risks Remain ‘On the Downside’
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-11-08T14:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/draghi-says-euro-area-growth-risks-remain-on-the-downside-.html
European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi comments on inflation, the economic outlook for the euro-
area, the ECB’s bond-purchase program and the region’s sovereign
debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after policy makers kept interest rates unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  On growth projections:  “Certainly we’ll clearly monitor the developments in the
economy and we’ll take the developments into account in our
December projections. Certainly the outlook is being revised and
there’s a picture of weaker economy. So all this is bound to
influence our projections in December.”  On monetary policy:  “The governing council decided to keep interest rates
unchanged. We have not discussed what we’re going to do next
year in terms of monetary policy.”  “We see that the price behavior is in line with our
medium-term objectives. We see price stability over the medium
term. Consider our monetary policy is already very
accommodative. Consider not only the already very low level of
interest rates, real interest rates are negative in a large part
of the euro area, consider we’ve taken several measures” over
the past year.  “We stand ready with the OMT, we also stand ready with our
normal monetary policy instruments.”  On rate-cut expectations:  “I can’t comment.”  On ECB bond-buying:  “We’re ready to undertake outright monetary transactions,
which will help to avoid extreme scenarios.”  “It’s entirely in the hands of governments. The conditions
of OMT are clear. We stand ready to act. The OMT is a fully
effective backstop.”  “The way the OMT has been designed foresees that as a
necessary condition a country should sign with an ESM program.
But it’s the necessary condition, it’s not also the sufficient
condition. The governing council will take the decision in total
independence. We have to make our monetary policy assessment, we
have to make an assessment of the actual state of
fragmentation.”  On OMT use:  “Are you asking me could there be an OMT without
conditionality? The answer is no.”  On effect of OMT announcement on capital markets:  “Since the OMT announcement there have been a series of
improvements. There has been a return of flows from the rest of
the world, in particular U.S. money-market funds.”  “Even though overall it continues to be a small exposure
with respect to euro-area banks as to what it was at the
beginning of last year, it has gone up. This form of lending has
shifted considerably from secured to unsecured lending. This is
a positive sign.”  “Another positive sign is that there has been some limited
bond placement by euro-area institutions. There have been a few
issuances by Ireland and  Portugal . The share of foreign holdings
of these bonds, by Spain and  Italy , has gone up, which is
something we haven’t seen for a while.”  “All of this is a good sign.”  On bank lending:  “To a large extent, this subdued loan dynamic reflects the
weak outlook for GDP, heightened risk aversion and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises.”  On financial conditions:  “One should look at the fragmentation of the euro area.
Are we satisfied with the financial conditions? No we’re not at
all satisfied. Our priority now is to repair the monetary
transmission channels so” it “will be able to deliver price
stability.”  On LTRO funding:  “Whether banks return LTRO because they don’t lend,
because of risk aversion or because credit demand is weak, I’m
not in a position to say.”  “The important thing with the LTROs was we removed again
tailrisks coming from the lack of funding that would have taken
place in the first quarter of this year. The objective has been
achieved.”  On the risk of deflation:  “I never mentioned deflation. Deflation is a generalized
fall in price level across sectors. And it’s self-sustaining. So
far, we have not seen signs of deflation, not only on a euro-
area level but also on a country level.”  On inflation risks:  “I think I always said that risks are broadly balanced. On
one hand you have the downside risks that come from high
unemployment and weak economic activity, on the other hand you
have upside risks that come from oil prices and the widespread
use of indirect taxation by countries that need to consolidate
their budgets.”  On a possible Spanish request for aid:  “It’s entirely up to the Spanish government. The ECB has
produced the OMT, it’s a fully effective backstop mechanism. It
has removed tailrisk. The conditions are also very, very
clear.”  On Greece:  “The ECB and the governing council certainly welcome the
outcome of the vote yesterday. It’s an important step” and
“represents progress.”  “Another vote is expected on Saturday on the budget. The
ECB assures price stability and pursues the restoration of
monetary-policy transmission channels but can’t do monetary
financing.”  On Cyprus:  “We consider this financing to be temporary. We don’t
consider ELA monetary financing. We look with certainly great
attention to developments in Cyprus. Again, however, the
ultimate response to these situations is in the government’s
actions, it’s not with the ECB.”  On government reforms:  “Both the euro area as a whole and the individual forming
the euro area, both of them have a fundamental position which is
way more balanced than the U.S. but also other countries,  Japan 
or the U.K. The euro area has a current account balance which is
basically in balance, zero.”  “Unit labor costs are on their way down. The fiscal
consolidation that has taken place is amazing. And looking at
other parts of the world, it’s not so amazing at all. All of
this poised the euro area for a recovery, which is probably
going to be slow and gradual but also solid.”  “What we have to overcome is the sort of fragmentation.
Collectively we made significant progress on that route.”  On the euro-area economy:  “Economic activity in the euro area is expected to remain
weak. The necessary process of balance sheet adjustment and high
uncertainty continue to weigh on the economic outlook.”  “Euro-area real GDP contracted 0.5 percent quarter on
quarter in the second quarter of 2012, following flat growth in
previous quarter. As regards second half, available indicators
continue to signal weak activity.”  “Looking ahead to the next year, the growth momentum is
expected to remain weak. It continues to be supported by our
standard and non-standard policy measures.”  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook remain on the
downside.”  On inflation:  “Owing to high energy prices, and increases in indirect
taxes, inflation rates are likely to remain above 2 percent for
the remainder of 2012. They’re expected to fall below that level
over the course of next year. The underlying pace of monetary
expansion continues to remain subdued.”  “On the basis for current future prices of oil, inflation
rates could remain at elevated levels before declining below 2
percent in the course of next year. Underlying price pressures
should remain moderate. The current level of inflation should
thus remain transitory.”  “We’ll continue to monitor closely increases in wages and
costs.”  On unit-labor costs:  “There has been an improvement in several countries. This
may be partly the consequence of an increase in productivity,
which is cyclical, due to the fall in economic activity in these
countries. We also observe an improvement in current-account
balances in these countries.”  On rising gold prices:  “We are constantly looking at inflationary expectations
over several horizons and no matter what time span we look at,
wee see that they’re solidly anchored.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  