-- Draghi Says Mistake in Collateral Use Didn’t Have Any Impact
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-11-08T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/draghi-says-mistake-in-collateral-use-didn-t-have-any-impact.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said a mistake in applying collateral rules on Spanish
treasury bills didn’t have any impact on the amount of money
banks borrowed.  “Nobody received more than they should have received
because of this mistake,” Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt
today. “The impact of this is zero but we take this mistake
very seriously.” The Eurosystem Audit Committee will assess the
implementation of the ECB’s collateral framework across the
region, he said.  The Bank of  Spain  had based its credit-quality assessment
of Spanish treasury bills on the ‘A Low’ sovereign rating issued
by DBRS Inc. That’s two steps higher than  Fitch Ratings  and
three steps higher than Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s. It’s also higher than the ratings the three firms apply
to individual bills issued by Spain.  According to ECB rules, issue ratings of securities pledged
as collateral take priority over issuer ratings. The ECB takes
smaller haircuts on securities with an A-rating, according to
the central bank’s website.  German newspaper Die Welt reported on Nov. 5 that Spanish
treasury bills used as collateral in refinancing operations only
partially fulfilled ECB requirements and banks received as much
as 16.6 billion euros ($21 billion) of loans they shouldn’t have
if quality rules had been strictly followed.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said on Nov. 6 that
DBRS had extended its long-term sovereign rating to the treasury
bills in question.  “Now it has clarified, which means that the issue has been
completely settled, corrected, overcome,” Constancio said,
adding that the asset valuations under questions were “much,
much lower,” and didn’t cause “costs or losses to anyone.”  Draghi said the Governing Council has nevertheless asked
the Audit Committee, which is chaired by Finnish central bank
governor Erkki Liikanen, to investigate the issue.  “We will have an initial assessment of this at our next
Governing Council and then we discuss whether further analysis
or further action is needed,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  