-- Draghi Renews Call for Operational ECB Bank Oversight in 2013
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-08T17:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/draghi-renews-call-for-operational-ecb-bank-oversight-in-2013.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi renewed his endorsement of setting up euro-area bank
oversight by 2013, a day after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
cautioned against rushing to install the new supervisor.  The ECB’s Governing Council welcomes an Oct. 19 pledge by
European Union leaders to integrate euro-area financial systems
and “in particular, the objective of agreeing on the
legislative framework for a Single Supervisory Mechanism by 1
January 2013 with a view to the SSM becoming operational in the
course of 2013,” Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt today.  Negotiations to create an ECB-based bank supervisor have
bogged down over disagreements on the regulator’s scope and
setup. A German-led alliance this week sought to limit the
supervisor to big banks and also called for wholesale changes to
plans for managing oversight within the central bank.  The proposal from Germany,  Finland , Luxembourg and the
Netherlands contrasts with  EU Financial Services (SXFPEX)  Commissioner
Michel Barnier’s plans to put the ECB in charge of all euro-area
banks. All 27 EU leaders last month affirmed their pledge to
establish ECB oversight of euro-area banks and set a Dec. 31
goal for political agreement on the new supervisor’s design.  Deutsche Bank co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen 
said today that a banking union in  Europe  is in everyone’s
interest. Germany should be willing to make “concessions” to
ensure that everybody can be part of it, he said in a speech in
Hamburg.  Design Process  Merkel said yesterday that timetables shouldn’t drive the
oversight design process. “Quality has to go before speed” in
setting up the single supervisor, she told European Parliament
members in Brussels.  Draghi has backed giving the ECB control over all banks,
saying it would offset a tendency for banking problems to be
“hushed up” by national regulators. Yesterday he again
endorsed the timeline and scope of Barnier’s proposal.  “The commission’s proposal confers on the ECB tasks
concerning prudential supervision in relation to all euro-area
credit institutions,” Draghi said in a Nov. 6  letter  to
European Parliament member Nuno Melo. “This is essential to
ensure a stable financial system and a level playing field.”  Draghi also said in a speech in  Frankfurt  yesterday that
countries shouldn’t let concerns over cost-sharing interfere
with the oversight plan. EU leaders have said setting up
effective supervision would help break the bank-sovereign link
that has prolonged the crisis, by opening the door for direct
bank bailouts from the euro area’s rescue fund.  Capital Flows  “Financial union is essential in a single-currency area
where cross-border capital flows can lead to credit booms and
other imbalances -- and where the  negative effects  of a bust can
spread rapidly to other members,” Draghi said.  “Financial union does not have to imply the pooling of
deposit-guarantee schemes, an issue that I know is of concern in
this country,” he said. “Organizing and funding deposit-
guarantee schemes can remain a national responsibility, with
comparable effectiveness.”  The EU has put long-term visions of shared deposit
guarantees on the back burner. Near-term efforts to ensure
adequate programs in every country also have foundered because
of opposition to any links among the individual national
backstops.  Barnier in June proposed a network of national funds to
stabilize failing banks, which he described as an interim step
to pave the way for more ambitious measures. The plan would
allow the national backstops to borrow from each other as a last
resort and would require them to join forces to stabilize a
struggling cross-border bank.  Even this move proved controversial, and separate, even
less-ambitious efforts to network national deposit-insurance
funds have stalled.  Germany  and  Sweden , two EU nations that
already have pre-financed funds, both called for the linking
plan to be scrapped, while Barnier’s various proposals have been
supported by Italy and  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 