-- Duke Third-Quarter Profit Rises After Progress Takeover
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-08T14:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/duke-third-quarter-profit-rises-after-progress-takeover.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  said added
customers and higher rates boosted profit 26 percent in the
third quarter, the first full period since its takeover of
Progress Energy Inc. made it the largest U.S. utility owner.  Net income increased to $594 million, or 85 cents a share,
from $472 million, or $1.06, a year earlier,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Duke said in a statement today. Excluding costs
from the merger and construction of Indiana power plant, per-
share profit was 3 cents more than the average of 15 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 70 percent to $6.72
billion.  “At first blush, it looks roughly in line with
expectations,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based utility analyst
at Glenrock Associates LLC, said today in an interview.
Patterson doesn’t rate the shares or own the stock.  Higher power rates helped make up for cooler weather that
reduced energy demand and lower earnings from its international
business and commercial unit, Chief Financial Officer Lynn Good
said today in a telephone interview. The company reaffirmed its
outlook for adjusted 2012 earnings of $4.20 to $4.35 a share.  Utility income more than doubled with the addition of
Progress customers in  North Carolina , South Carolina and
 Florida . The number of homes and businesses paying state-
regulated rates to Duke’s rose 78 percent to 7.1 million.  Cooler Weather  In North Carolina, where Duke sells power to  3.2 million
homes and businesses , the third quarter was the coolest in three
years, according to the National Climatic Data Center. Weather-
driven demand for cooling fell about 9 percent from a year
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Weather also was cooler than a year earlier in Florida,
Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky, where Duke sells power to 3.9
million homes and businesses, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Duke’s all-stock acquisition of Raleigh, North Carolina-
based Progress closed on July 2. The company announced the next
morning that it replaced Progress Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  with Duke CEO  Jim Rogers , who was to have become
executive chairman. The change triggered investigations by North
Carolina regulators and the state’s attorney general.  Duke rose 0.3 percent to $63.12 at 9:32 a.m. in  New York .
The shares have six buy, one sell and 16 hold  ratings  from
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  