-- Duke to Rely on Cost-Cutting to Achieve Target, CFO Says
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-08T21:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/duke-to-rely-on-cost-cutting-to-achieve-profit-target-cfo-says.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest U.S.
utility owner, expects to rely on cost-cutting to achieve its
profit targets because slow growth in electricity use may be
“the new normal,” Chief Financial Officer Lynne Good said.  Third-quarter power use by Duke’s 7.1 million customers in
five states was 0.3 percent lower than a year earlier after
adjusting for weather, Good said today on a quarterly earnings
conference call. Weather-adjusted power use over the past 12
months rose 0.4 percent, she said.  “One percent or less is a good planning assumption,” Good
said today in response to an analyst’s question. “That, at
least for the near term, is the new normal we’re working with.”  Total U.S power consumption for the 12 months ended in
August fell 1.9 percent, according to the Energy Department in
 Washington . It fell 0.1 percent from 2007 to 2010, the
 department  said.  Duke has forecast power deliveries will rise less than 1
percent this year, while forecasting increased per-share profit
of 4 percent to 6 percent a year. Household power use by Duke
customers is falling because of a weak economy and improved
energy conservation, Good said on today’s call. Industrial use
was lower in the past quarter by metal manufacturing, chemicals
and textiles, she said.  Duke’s third-quarter profit increased to $594 million, or
85 cents a share, from $472 million, or $1.06, a year earlier,
the company said in a statement today. Excluding costs from the
merger and construction of an Indiana power plant, per-share
profit was 3 cents more than the average of 15 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 70 percent to $6.72
billion.  Duke fell 0.6 percent to $62.56 at the close in New York.
The shares have six buy, one sell and 16 hold ratings from
analysts.  Duke, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, last month asked
North Carolina utility regulators to raise rates by $359 million
a year to cover the cost of new power plants and other
improvements. It intends to ask for a rate increase for its Duke
Energy Carolinas customers next year, also to cover
improvements, Chief Executive Officer Jim Rogers said on today’s
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  