-- The Fiscal Cliff: Even Scarier Than We Thought
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-08T22:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/the-fiscal-cliff-even-scarier-than-we-thought.html
Halloween may have come and gone, but those still looking for a good scare
should read two new Congressional Budget Office reports on the U.S.'s dire
fiscal straits. In  one , the CBO  warns  that going over the fiscal cliff will plunge the nation
back into recession next year and send unemployment skyrocketing to 9.1 percent.
Allowing the pending $607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases to take
effect, the CBO warns, will shave real gross domestic product by 0.5 percent in
2013, with output declining in the first half of the year and growing modestly
in the second half. Yet the CBO makes clear that avoiding the fiscal cliff by keeping current
policies in place is no long-term salve: It will send federal debt surging and
"raise the risk of a fiscal crisis." So what's a cash-strapped nation to do? Spend now and cut later. Yet a  second  CBO report highlights the incredibly uncomfortable policy
choices awaiting the U.S. To shrink the deficit in 2020, the U.S. has two
options: Cut benefits like  Social Security  and Medicare or require "large
numbers of people to pay more in taxes." If the nation wants to keep tax revenues as a percentage of GDP at their
historical average of about 17.9 percent, it must make "substantial cuts,
relative to current policies, in the large benefit programs that aid a broad
group of people at some point in their lives." Keeping benefits largely unchanged would, likewise, necessitate large tax
increases. And for all the talk about cutting federal programs and closing loopholes,
the CBO says that won't be nearly enough to dig the U.S. out of its fiscal
hole. "Changes in other federal programs can affect the size of the changes needed
in taxes or large benefit programs, but they cannot eliminate the basic trade-
off between those two parts of the budget. Ultimately, significant  deficit
reduction  is likely to require a combination of policies, many of which may
stand in stark contrast to policies now in place." This won't come as news to the  Barack Obama  administration and Republicans on
 Capitol Hill , who must now engage in the unpleasant task of determining how to
fix our budget mess. Any  solution  will require both approaches: higher taxes and
benefit cuts. Utilizing both will somewhat blunt the impact taxpayers and
beneficiaries would feel otherwise. But make no mistake about it: Getting the nation's fiscal house in order will
require tough choices, shared pain, including higher taxes, and a revamp of
programs Americans rely on at the most vulnerable point in their lives. ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
the  Ticker .