-- EADS Predicts Airbus Price Pressure in Dent to Industry Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-08T15:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/eads-predicts-airbus-price-pressure-in-dent-to-industry-outlook.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. predicted “significant pricing pressure” at its Airbus SAS
unit and cut a target for free  cash flow , denting prospects for
higher earnings at the world’s largest maker of civil aircraft.  Airbus has unfilled slots for its A320 single-aisle
aircraft and the A380 superjumbo for the middle of the decade,
Chief Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm said on a call. Cash fell
to 8.1 billion euros ($10.3 billion) from 11.4 billion euros
after nine months as Airbus built up inventory, began assembling
the A350 and awaited payments on a dozen A380s pending delivery.  EADS struck a more muted note for its airliner business
just a month after it had to abandon a proposed merger with  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  that sought to balance civil and defense assets.
Airbus contributes two thirds of sales and half of profit to
EADS, a dominance Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  was unable
to smooth out when  Germany  denied him backing for the merger.  “The surprise that came out of the conference call is the
degree to which Airbus still has open slots for A320s and A380s
in 2014, 2015,” Sash Tusa, an analyst at Echelon Research and
Advisory LLP said in a television interview. Airbus Sales Chief
John Leahy “has got his work cut out to fill up those holes.”  EADS fell as much as 1.23 euros, or 4.5 percent, to 26
euros, and traded at 26.14 euros as of 4:54 p.m. in Paris. The
stock has gained 8.2 percent in value this year.  Lower Guidance  EADS lowered its guidance for free cash flow this year,
saying it will break even rather than be positive. Wilhelm
cautioned that even the revised target may be at risk.  The production-slot openings contrast with a seven-year
backlog at Airbus. Targets for production of A330 wide-body
planes have stalled at 10 a month, from a previous goal of 11
and a current rate of 9.5 units. The Chinese government has
resisted signing promised orders for 35 A330s because it opposes
levies planned by the European Union on  carbon emissions .  Pricing of A320s, Airbus’s biggest seller, is under threat
for deliveries in 2015 and 2016 because the plane is living out
its final production years ahead of the transition to the
A320neo with more-fuel-efficient engines from late 2015.  Airbus “wont go mad” on discount just to move planes out
the door, Wilhelm said. He wouldn’t rule out selling planes to
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , a  Boeing Co. (BA)  customer.  Production of A380s next year is full in part because
Airbus works to catch up on deliveries pushed back by a wing-
component glitch that forced a redesign and caused airlines to
delay taking planes. Airbus expects regulatory approval for the
new wing design by year end, Wilhelm said.  Ramp-Up Costs  Wilhelm outlined a half dozen reasons for cash declining.
They include the German government withholding promised
development loans of 600 million euros for the new A350 wide-
body because it is unhappy with work share compared with the
French. Airbus also spent more to stockpile inventories as it
moved up to a rate of 42 single-aisle planes a month in October.
Another reason is cash is being used to get the A400M military
transport plane into production, Wilhelm said.  In the third quarter, earnings before interest and tax rose
to 537 million euros from 322 million euros a year earlier, not
including one-time charges and currency movements. Revenue
increased 15 percent to 12.32 billion euros. Airbus contributed
68 percent to revenue and 53 percent to operating profit,
cementing its status as the central asset driving EADS.  EADS left unchanged a sales and profit target for 2012.
Earnings before interest and tax excluding one-off items will be
about 2.7 billion euros and earnings per share before one-offs
at about 1.95 euros, compared with 1.39 euros a year earlier.  “For the rest of the year, we’ll put strong emphasis on
cash generation. Aircraft deliveries are key,” Enders said in a
statement today. He didn’t speak on the call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  