-- Medical Identity Thefts Give Victims a Decade of Headaches
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/medical-identity-thefts-give-victims-a-decade-of-headaches.html
Arnold Salinas knows a lot about the
man who stole his identity.  He’s 5-foot-9, 190 pounds (86 kilograms). He pays for
pizzas with forged checks, defaulted on a $17,000 car loan and
has traveled the country, racking up speeding tickets and
thousands of dollars in unpaid taxes, according to Salinas and a
firm he’s hired to clean up the mess, Bloomberg.com reported on
its  Tech Blog .  The worst part: The impostor is sick.  Salinas, a 53-year-old maintenance worker, is fighting the
nastiest form of identity theft — someone has taken out medical
care in his name. Among the strange bills that have arrived at
his Fresno, California, home over the past decade are debt-
collection notices for extensive radiology and other treatments
at four hospitals in Kansas and  Texas .  “I have to be super, super careful from now on,” Salinas
said. “God forbid I go to the hospital and they get his
records.”  Medical identity theft affected an estimated 1.49 million
people in the U.S. at a cost of $41.3 billion last year,
 according  to the Ponemon Institute. The crime has grown as
health care costs have swelled and job cuts have left people
without employer-subsidized insurance. Making matters worse: The
complexity of the medical system has made it difficult for
victims to clear their name.  Salinas’s story illustrates how cases like these can take
years to resolve, longer than other forms of identity theft.
Salinas has been fighting his case since 2002.  Clean Up  “What makes it so difficult is you have to go provider by
provider, hospital by hospital, office by office and correct
each record,” said Sam Imandoust, a legal analyst with the
 Identity Theft Resource Center . “The frustrating part is while
you’re going through and trying to clean up the records, the
identity thief can continue to go around and get medical
services in the victim’s name. Really there’s no way to
effectively shut it down.”  The fractured nature of the U.S. health care system makes
medical identity theft hard to detect. Victims typically don’t
find out until two years after the crime, and cases can commonly
stretch out a decade or longer, said Pam Dixon, founder of World
Privacy Forum.  Some forms of identity theft can take as little as a few
days to resolve, since banks and other financial institutions
are generally equipped to handle the complaints. But medical
identity thieves typically get treatment at five facilities or
more, and the system isn’t set up to fix these kinds of errors,
Dixon said.  Chronic Condition  “Most people never have a full cure -- it’s very rare,”
Dixon said. “It’s going to be a lifetime situation. It’s going
to be like getting a scar on your leg. You heal your scar but
you always have a little bit there.”  Complicating the process of fixing one’s medical records is
that some victims face resistance in obtaining files from
doctors. The physicians’ reason? The files contain sensitive
health information about the impostor.  That’s what Vicki Lee Blair, a 63-year-old former computer
analyst from Westminster,  California , said happened to her.
During a period of unemployment, Blair went to a clinic run by
the Orange County Health Care Agency in 1995 seeking
antidepressant medication. She said she was shocked when
clinicians peppered her with questions about a blood test in her
file indicating thyroid problems and illegal drug use.  A laboratory report reviewed by Bloomberg shows signs of
two people’s records being mixed, such as an incorrect birthdate
and different patient identification numbers.  Sorrow, Anger  She insisted the records were inaccurate, potentially the
result of extensive identity theft that occurred a year earlier,
possibly by a local woman with a similar name. Almost 20 years
later, Blair is still fighting to clean up her record. The blood
test has not been removed, she said.  Blair said she is broke and is convinced the record has
hurt her ability to get affordable insurance, leaving her with
constant anxiety.  “I have only two emotional responses left -- sorrow, which
produces nothing but tears, and anger,” she said in an
interview. “At this point I’m not a well-rounded person, I’ll
admit that.”  James Harman, supervising deputy county counsel for Orange
County, declined to comment, citing patient privacy concerns.  Setting fraud alerts with the credit-reporting agencies is
one way to learn whether a perpetrator’s medical bills have gone
into delinquency and were sent to debt collectors. By then,
though, it’s too late.  Dental Records  The crime is “insidious,” said Deanna Jones, a fraud
investigator who works with ID Experts Corp., a Portland,
Oregon-based firm that worked with Salinas on his case. Most
medical facilities don’t have policies in place for responding
to medical identity theft, especially for correcting records,
she said.  As for the person who stole Salinas’s identity, he may
never be caught, Jones said.  Salinas said he’s worried that as he gets older, at some
point the records might get mixed. The thief also took out
dental care in Salinas’s name, prompting him to issue his family
an unusual warning.  “I told my son, if I ever die and there’s only dental
records, make sure it’s me,” he said. “I might be on vacation
somewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  