-- Legal Pot in Colorado, Washington Won With $7.7 Million
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-11-08T16:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/legal-pot-in-colorado-washington-won-with-7-7-million.html
Campaigns to legalize marijuana for
recreational use in  Colorado  and  Washington  were well-financed
and gave states regulatory and taxing power over it, both
changes from a failed attempt in  California  two years earlier.  The first successful U.S. measures grew out of California’s
Proposition 19 in 2010, which attracted donations of $4 million,
according to campaign finance records. By contrast, the two
states, which combined have one-third California’s population,
raised at least $7.7 million.  “I’m sure they learned from the California experience,”
said Beau Kilmer, co-director of the Rand Drug Policy Research
Center in  Santa Monica , California. “There was serious money
behind the Washington and Colorado initiatives.”  Regulating the drug through such means as licensing and
taxes may also benefit state governments strained by soaring
costs for labor, including pensions and retiree health benefits,
while sales- and property-tax revenue plunged after the longest
recession since the 1930s.  The two measures also drew on support from younger voters,
who are more likely to go to the polls in a presidential
election, and growing tolerance for marijuana in a nation where
one-third of states already permit its use for medical purposes.  Voters of all ages are moving toward supporting marijuana
legalization, said Mark Kleiman, a public policy professor at
the  University of California ,  Los Angeles .  Out of Closet  “People know more people who smoke marijuana,” Kleiman
said. “It’s a little bit like gay rights issues where, as
people come out of the closet, the fear tended to go away.”  Washington will allow those at least 21 years old to buy as
much as one ounce (28.3 grams) of marijuana from a licensed
retailer. The  measure  directs the state liquor control board to
regulate marijuana and tax its sales at a rate of 25 percent.  The board has until Dec. 1, 2013, to set rules on marijuana
advertising, licensing producers, processors and retailers, and
limiting the number of retail outlets allowed in each county.  Colorado, where the  National Marijuana Business Conference 
begins today,  allowed  possession and purchase of as much as one
ounce by those 21 and older, along with permission to grow as
many as six plants in private, secure areas.  The new law directs Colorado’s revenue department to adopt
regulations by July 1, 2013, on procedures for issuing a
marijuana business license, labeling requirements for marijuana
products, restrictions on advertising and civil penalties for
not complying with the rules.  A similar measure failed in  Oregon . Arkansas voters refused
to legalize the medical use of marijuana, while Massachusetts
voters approved such a measure, adding to the 17 states and
 District of Columbia  that already allow it.  Laws Enforced  The Justice Department yesterday affirmed its intent to
enforce federal drug laws, in spite of state legalization.  “The department’s enforcement of the Controlled Substances
Act remains unchanged,” according to a statement provided by
Nanda Chitre, a department spokeswoman. “Congress determined
that marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance. We are
reviewing the ballot initiatives and have no additional comment
at this time.”  Federal officials have previously cracked down on medical-
marijuana dispensaries near schools in Colorado and sent letters
to clinic landlords in California threatening them with jail if
they didn’t evict the shops.  “What the states have done is perfectly constitutional,”
said Robert Mikos, a law professor at  Vanderbilt University  in
Nashville. “All they’ve done in essence is legalize the
possession, cultivation and distribution of marijuana under
state law.”  Resources Lacking  If the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration wants to
prosecute cases in Washington and Colorado, “nothing is going
to stop them,” Mikos said. “But as a practical matter, the
federal government doesn’t have the resources to enforce the
federal ban that rigorously.”  Private support bolstered the wins in Colorado and
Washington, said Jonathan Caulkins, an operations research
professor at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh,
 Pennsylvania .  “Colorado and Washington got a lot of money,” Caulkins
said. “They got a small number of very rich people to write
very, very big checks. There was no big funding of any
opposition.”  New Approach Washington, the group supporting the ballot
measure, raised $6.2 million, compared with $16,195 raised by
opponents, according to data from the state’s Public Disclosure
Commission.  Big Donors  Top donors include  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  Chairman Peter B. Lewis, who gave $2 million. Another $1.7 million came from Drug
Policy Action, the political arm of the New York-based Drug
Policy Alliance whose donors include billionaire investor  George
Soros .  “I have funded much of the movement to enact laws that
give patients access to marijuana as relief for pain and nausea
-- and have made no secret of being one of those patients
myself, using marijuana to help with pain following the
amputation of my lower leg,” Lewis wrote in an August letter to
 Bill Gates , chairman of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , and  Warren Buffett ,
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , in joining their Giving
Pledge campaign to get billionaires to pledge at least half
their wealth to charity.  In Oregon, where a measure to legalize recreational
marijuana use failed, supporters raised $67,149, according to
data from the secretary of state.  Organized Supporters  In Colorado, the Campaign to Regulate Marijuana Like
Alcohol received $1.5 million, according to data from the
secretary of state. The Marijuana Policy Project was the largest
contributor with $871,372, according to the data. Lewis gave
$33,700 and the Drug Policy Alliance gave $100,000.  The Coalition to End Marijuana Prohibition secured another
$511,414 in contributions, according to Colorado data.  “When states start adopting policies that work, other
states take notice,” said Mason Tvert, co-director of the
Denver-based Campaign to Regulate Marijuana Like Alcohol, which
supported Amendment 64. “It would not come as a surprise if
other states opted to follow its example for years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  