-- Legg Mason’s Miller Says Bank Stocks to Rise on Housing
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   J u l i e   H y m a n
-- 2012-11-08T13:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/legg-mason-s-miller-says-bank-stocks-to-rise-on-housing.html
Bill Miller , who beat the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index for a record 15 years before an ill-timed bet
on financial stocks backfired, said banks will benefit from an
improving housing market.  “Right now we think because housing has done so well, the
next move there is in financials,”  Legg Mason Inc.’s (LM)  Miller
said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Julie Hyman that
aired today. “There’s a lot of attractiveness, especially with
housing getting better.”  Miller is wagering on banks in his $974 million  Legg Mason
Capital Management Opportunity Trust (LMOPX) , which had 40 percent of
assets in financial stocks as of Sept. 30. Banks such as
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. , among the top 15
holdings in the fund, are priced attractively, Miller said in
the interview. An improved housing market means banks’ mortgage
origination businesses will also get better, Miller said.  U.S. home prices rose 5 percent in September from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month increase since July 2006,
CoreLogic Inc., an  Irvine , California-based real estate data
provider, said Nov. 6.  Citigroup is “a great global franchise” and Bank of
America is trading below tangible book value, Miller said. If
banks grow at the same rate as gross domestic product, they’ll
generate cash, which may be deployed in dividends or share
buybacks, he said. The Opportunity fund also holds insurers such
as Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and mortgage real
estate investment trusts.  Miller’s Streak  Miller set a record for beating the S&P 500 index in his
flagship  Legg Mason Capital Management Value Trust (LMVTX)  for 15 years
through 2005 by picking inexpensive financial shares and out-of-
favor technology companies. During the 2008 credit crisis, the
fund lost 55 percent, prompting withdrawals after peaking at $21
billion. Miller stepped down from the Value Trust in April,
while staying as manager of the Opportunity fund.  The Opportunity fund returned 28 percent this year through
Nov. 7, surpassing 99 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund lost 35 percent in 2011, last in
its category, as Miller prematurely bet on a recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hyman in New York at 
 jhyman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  