-- Einhorn, Teixeira, Wilbur Ross, Steve Cohen, Arsht: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-08T22:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/einhorn-teixeira-wilbur-ross-steve-cohen-arsht-scene.html
“It’s ok to applaud for the
Yankees,” Greenlight Capital Inc.’s  David Einhorn  said this
morning at Cipriani 42nd Street.  The one-time bidder for the Mets was at the lectern at the
 Robin Hood Foundation ’s annual Heroes Award Breakfast to present
an award to Harlem RBI, which counts Yankee  Mark Teixeira  as one
of its supporters.  Teixeira agreed it was a good time to throw baseball
rivalries aside, in light of Robin Hood’s work year round and
especially in the wake of Sandy’s devastation.  “The fact of the matter is, what we do is entertainment,
until something like Sandy happens, and then you realize what’s
important,” Teixeira said. “Baseball is secondary to human
beings and the struggle they go through.”  The breakfast for 400 brought home what many  New Yorkers 
are going through right now. “Most people don’t know about Red
Hook,” Sister Paulette LoMonaco, executive director of  Good
Shepherd Services , said during a discussion of Sandy’s impact,
moderated by Harlem Children’s Zone founder  Geoffrey Canada .  “It is 10 minutes from  Wall Street , it’s three minutes
from Cobble Hill. It’s one of the largest housing projects in
the city, and the people who live there have not had water, heat
or light for 11 days now and sadly there’s no sense of when
that’s going to be remedied, because we’re so close to the
water, the water is seeping up from the ground.”  Sandy Relief  The Robin Hood Foundation is doing its part, said chairman
 Lee Ainslie  of Maverick Capital LLC., to an audience that
included SAC Capital Advisors LP’s  Steve Cohen , Elliott
Management Corp.’s Paul E. Singer, Third Point LLC’s  Daniel Loeb , and Blue Ridge Capital LLC’s John Griffin.  More than $12 million has been raised for Robin Hood’s
Sandy relief fund, which, Ainslie said, is looking at short-term
and long-term needs. Cash has been disbursed for gas, food,
refrigerators, blankets. How to help those who overnight went
from being working class to working poor is another challenge.  There is hope in the stories of those recognized this
morning. One of Harlem RBI’s first students, Jason Medina, is
now a police officer in Washington who has started a youth
baseball program.  Sara Rivera, a single mother raising two children, spoke of
the job interview she landed with the help of another Heroes
Award recipient, the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation
Employment Center.  “It didn’t feel real, it felt like a dream,” she said.
“Now I have a great job with some wonderful people.”  Another Hero  The Fund for  Public Health  in New York Inc. also received a
Heroes Award, and donated its time at the lectern to the panel
on Sandy recovery, which meant the program ended at 9 a.m. on
the dot. The awards come with $50,000 cash for the nonprofits
that receive them.  Meanwhile, Robin Hood board members John Sykes, president
of Clear Channel Entertainment Enterprises, and  Harvey Weinstein , the film executive, are producing a concert to
benefit the Sandy relief fund, along with  James Dolan , executive
chairman of the  Madison Square Co. (MSG)   “12-12-12” will take place at the Garden on Dec. 12.
Details about performers will be announced in the coming days,
according to a Clear Channel spokesman.  The Robin Hood Concert for  New York City  on Oct. 20, 2001,
was also at the Garden. It benefited the foundation’s relief
fund for victims and families of victims of the Sept. 11
attacks. Performers that night included Jay-Z, Destiny’s Child,
The Who and  David Bowie .  Armory Salon  Wilbur Ross , who rode out Sandy in Palm Beach, Florida, was
back in New York last night in time for the snow and sleet of a
nor’easter. “I’m being punished,” he joked.  Attending the first  Salon  at the Park Avenue Armory wasn’t
part of the sentence. Ross was happy to see a Magritte, a
painter he collects, and pronounced the displays “wonderful.”  “It’s not just a lot of old stuff,” Ross said.  The Salon’s opening night, a benefit for  Kips Bay Boys &
Girls Club , kicked off a fair featuring 53 exhibitors of art and
furniture vetted by Christian Deydier, head of France’s Syndicat
Nationale des Antiquaires. The fair opens today and runs through
Nov. 12.  Ronald Lauder  passed a Monet on his way through the fair.
Hedge-fund manager Israel Englander took a tour with the
designer Jacques Grange.  Adrienne Arsht  The booth with the most mystery and grandeur belonged to
the Kraemer family of Rue de Monceau in Paris. Inside the
space’s white-felt walls and white carpet was a music-making
cabinet and writing desk that came from the Imperial palaces of
Russia. A chilled bottle of Ruinart champagne ready to be opened
rested nearby.  At Alice Tully Hall, Brian Stokes Mitchell inaugurated the
Adrienne Arsht stage with a concert drawn from his new album
“Simply Broadway.”  Arsht’s $10 million gift was acknowledged by Reynold Levy,
the outgoing president of Lincoln Center for the  Performing
Arts , as he compared the high-energy philanthropist’s initials
to the AA batteries so many New Yorkers wished they’d had as
darkness descended last week on parts of the city.  The event also raised money for  the Actors Fund  of which
Stokes Mitchell is chairman.  ‘Impossible Dream’  At Arsht’s request, the baritone star sang “The Impossible
Dream” before dining on mahi mahi.  A new store near Lincoln Center called  It’s Sugar  provided
an entertaining variety of dessert treats in the Halloween mode
(The concert was rescheduled from Oct. 31).  Arsht said she was so excited at the prospect of naming
something in a building already named for a woman, she forgot
the sum of money she was being asked for.  The dinner drew composer Charles Wuorinen, mentalist Gerard
Senehi, Cathleen P. Black, former chairman of Hearst Magazines,
Warburg Pincus LLC vice chairman David A. Coulter, and two of
the city’s pre-eminent event designers, Bronson Van Wyck and
David Monn.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 