-- Melco Net Income Falls as Chinese Gamblers Curb Spending
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-08T09:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/melco-net-income-falls-as-chinese-gamblers-curb-spending.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., (MPEL)  a
venture between billionaire James Packer and a son of gambling
tycoon Stanley Ho, said third-quarter profit fell as high-stakes
Chinese gamblers curbed spending amid a slowing economy.  Net income fell 7.4 percent to $104.9 million from $113.3
million, based on U.S. accounting standards, according to a
statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday. That was
higher than a $93.4 million average estimate from nine analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 5.8 percent to $226.4 million, and net revenue
fell 4.3 percent to $1.01 billion. Earnings per American
depositary share fell to 19 cents from 21 cents.  The decline reflects a pullback by high-rollers, or VIP
bettors, from  China ’s mainland, even as mass-market betting
gained. Melco and rivals such as  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) 
are expanding on  Macau ’s increasingly popular Cotai strip to
reach more middle-class Chinese tourists.  Melco Crown fell 1.3 percent to HK$38.30 in Hong Kong
trading, while the benchmark Hang Seng Index dropped 2.4
percent.  Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Ho said on a conference
call yesterday that he’s “optimistic” about growth in 2013,
and that the first few days of November were “phenomenal.”
Melco maintained its market-leading mass-market yields, he said.  So-called rolling chip volume, a measure of VIP gambling,
fell 4 percent to $19.5 billion in the third quarter, Melco
said. Mass-market table-games drop gained 22 percent to $889.8
million and slot-machine handle surged 54 percent to $816.3
million, it said.  International casino operators are ramping up expansion in
Macau.  Cotai Expansion  Ho and partner James Packer’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN) ,  Australia ’s
biggest casino owner, opened their second Macau casino, City of
Dreams, on the Cotai Strip in June 2009 and renamed and
rebranded their smaller Crown Macau as the Altira.  Macau’s Public Works & Transport department in July gave
Melco Crown approval to build a five-star hotel and film
production facilities on a 130,789 square-meter (1.4 million
square-foot) site earmarked for the company’s Studio City
project, according to a government gazette.  Sands plans to invest at least $2.5 billion to build its
fifth resort, to be called “The Parisian,” in the Asian hub.  Wynn Macau won a land grant from Macau’s government in May
to build its second casino in the former Portuguese colony.  MGM
China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  and  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  have also been given
approval to develop casinos in Cotai.  Melco expects the first and second phases of its joint
venture casino in  Manila  to open by the first half of 2014, Ho
said on yesterday’s conference call.  While Melco’s board decided not to pay a dividend now to
focus on its development pipeline, it will revisit the issue in
a year’s time, Ho said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  