-- Obama and Boehner Get a Chance for a Do-Over
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/election-gave-obama-and-boehner-chance-for-a-do-over.html
Here’s an anecdote to guide
everyone’s thinking about the economy over the next few months.
In January 2009, a newly inaugurated President  Barack Obama 
invited Republican leaders in for a chat. When he resisted their
call for tax cuts, the president clumsily -- to his audience,
arrogantly -- reminded them that he had won and their guy had
lost.  The Oval Office session turned icy cold, setting the tone
for four years.  Obama must do the opposite this time by figuring out how to
turn the losers’ survival instincts to his advantage. House
Speaker John Boehner, the day after the 2012 election, pointed
the way. He said Republicans could accept new tax revenue in the
form of a tax-code overhaul to lower the deficit so long as it
is accompanied by changes to entitlement programs. In other
words, give us the political cover we need to raise taxes.  That’s the kind of bargain we’ve been urging all along --
tax reform in exchange for controlling spending on entitlements.
And there isn’t a whole lot of time to waste: A recession will
almost certainly result if the two sides can’t agree to replace
$600 billion of automatic spending cuts and expiring tax breaks
with a more reasonable, longer-term, deficit-cutting plan.  Mixed Results  The mixed election results should guide the negotiators.
Obama won big in the Electoral College, but Republicans retained
control of the House of Representatives. Voters in  Arkansas , in
 California  and in the city of  San Antonio  approved narrowly
focused ballot measures to raise taxes for education, highways
and other public works, yet similar  initiatives  in  Arizona ,
 Missouri  and South Dakota failed.  While it would be hard to say that Americans fell in love
with the idea of government, they did seem to acknowledge that
there were some things only government could do. The success of
the auto bailout, for example, probably put Obama over the top
in  Ohio .  Add it all up, and the picture we get is this: Americans
would accept an increase in taxes if some of the money is
invested in areas essential to jobs and economic growth.  It would be a mistake, however, for Obama to assume he can
simply let all the Bush tax cuts expire in January -- then ride
to the rescue of the middle class by proposing lower taxes on
incomes below $250,000. That would be the equivalent of saying
“I won” all over again. Democrats urging such a strategy
mistakenly believe House Republicans would take the blame for
the economic blow and would drop their insistence on lower
taxes. Based on last year’s debt-ceiling fiasco, we suspect
voters would hold both parties responsible, and that the market
reaction would be fierce.  The smarter move is to give House Republicans cover for tax
increases by adopting broad-based tax reforms, including a
gradual reduction in the value of tax expenditures like the
mortgage-interest deduction. Boehner was right when he said the
parties aren’t that far apart: Romney and Obama have offered
similar proposals that would limit the value of deductions as
income increases. Any deal must also slow the growth of
entitlements.  There are many ways to do this. The plan by the president’s
Simpson-Bowles  deficit commission  is a good starting point.
Another is the $2.3 trillion mix of spending cuts and tax
increases that Obama and Boehner drew up before their talks
collapsed last summer. The savings should add up to $3 trillion
over 10 years ($4 trillion when already-enacted savings are
included), with roughly a 3-to-1 ratio of spending cuts to tax
increases.  Congress needn’t come up with the entire package in a post-
election session. It will take months to finalize. But before
leaving for the holidays, lawmakers owe voters the broad
outlines of an agreement, a $100 billion down payment, and a
timeline for completion of the hard work. Then they can safely
walk us back from the vertiginous tax increases and spending
cuts known as the fiscal cliff.  The plummeting stock market the day after the election is a
sneak peek at what awaits the country if Obama and Republicans
can’t make amends soon.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Mary Duenwald on  the prospects of a carbon tax , James
Greiff on  restoring Wall Street-White House ties  and Zara
Kessler on  Mitt Romney ’s 49 percent problem.  Plus, the editors on how President Barack Obama can  start on his
global to-do list ; Clive Crook on how  Obama can make this
election matter ; Ezra Klein on  the opening for filibuster
reform ; W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm on  the California
business that might come to Texas ; Odd Arne Westad on  China’s
more nationalistic leadership .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 