-- Emeli Sande, Art Seduction, Oyster Feast: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/emeli-sande-art-seduction-oyster-feast-london-weekend.html
Doghouse magazine is a racy rag that
men pretend to read for the journalism. One of the models, it
turns out, is the wrong side of 18.  That’s the opening drama in Lucy Kirkwood’s “NSFW” (“Not
Safe for Work”), a punchy new play about sexism in the media.
Doghouse’s smarmy editor is threatened by the girl’s dad, an
angry job-seeker from Liverpool. Yet the dad can’t quite occupy
the moral high ground: He’s a Doghouse reader himself.  After a slick set change, we meet Miranda, the Devil-Wears-
Prada-like editor of Electra magazine. A blonde in spiky
stilettoes, she’s interviewing a former Doghouse reporter, and
wants him to find flaws in the image of a beautiful actress.
Wrinkles, acne, crow’s feet, sagging breasts, thigh bulge, bingo
wings -- there’s bound to be something wrong with her.  By the end, you don’t know which publication is more
misogynistic. The play ends Nov. 24 at the Royal Court Theatre,
Sloane Square, SW1W 8AS.  Information:  http://www.royaltheatre.com  or +44-20-7565-
5000.  Saturday  A dark cloud of smoke hangs heavily over a vast Afghan
field. The year is 2001, and U.S. bombers have just dropped a
heavy load on Taliban positions.  The photograph by Luc Delahaye features in the National
Gallery’s “Seduced by Art” -- a look at how photographers
today are inspired by early photography and by Old Master
painting. Hanging above the Afghan image is a 19th-century
battle scene by the war painter Emile-Jean-Horace Vernet, with
tufts of artillery smoke in the center.  The paintings and photos in the show don’t always look good
together, especially where human beings are involved. Fashions,
hairstyles and physiognomies vary so wildly across the centuries
that the juxtaposition is awkward. One exception are the still
lifes in the exhibition: Fruits and flowers look similar
regardless of the period or medium.  At the National Gallery through Jan. 20, 2013. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.co.uk  or +44-20-7747-2885.  Bentley’s Oyster Bar is a good place for lunch when
visiting the National Gallery. Chef  Richard Corrigan  serves the
freshest of seafood, while the service is friendly and unstuffy.
Information:  http://www.bentleys.org  or +44-20-7734-4756.  Saturday Night  Lucinda Williams brings her blend of country and folk music
to the South Bank for contrasting sets over two nights.  “A Weekend With Lucinda Williams” will cover classic
songs and then original material from her albums such as
“Blessed,” “West” and “Car Wheels on a Gravel Road.”  Williams is bizarrely billed as part of the  London  Jazz
Festival, a 10-day event. It also includes real jazz stars such
as guitar legend  John McLaughlin  -- who played on  Miles Davis ’s
“Bitches Brew” album in 1969 -- performing at the Barbican
Sunday with his band, The 4th Dimension. Herbie Hancock’s first-
ever U.K. solo piano concert is at the Southbank Centre on
Monday. Information:  http://www.londonjazzfestival.org.uk .  Sunday  Emeli Sande’s tour arrives in London as she re-releases her
 debut album , “Our Version of Events,” with extra tracks and
looks ahead to shows in the U.S. starting in January.  Sande’s concerts showcase her soulful voice which ranges
from a  Amy Winehouse  purr to an Aretha Franklin croon. She used
it at the London Olympic-Games shows this year and hit songs
such as “Heaven” and “Next to Me.”  Royal Albert Hall ,  Kensington Gore , SW7 2AP. Information:
+44-845-401-5045;  http://www.royalalberthall.com  or
 http://www.emelisande.com/live-dates .  The Royal Albert Hall isn’t far from Racine, a French
brasserie that draws diners from across London. The chef-owner
 Henry Harris  is usually there, either cooking or greeting
customers. The window tables are best, if you can get them.
Information:  http://www.racine-restaurant.com  or +44-20-7584-
4477.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 