-- Emerging Stocks Decline Most in Three Months as GS Slumps
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-08T22:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-two-weeks-tech-shares-fall.html
Emerging-market stocks slid the most
in three months, led by industrial companies, after  GS
Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  said profit tumbled and U.S.
elections paved the way for a showdown over the nation’s budget
deficit.  GS Engineering slumped to the lowest level in more than
three years in Seoul and set a  gauge  of industrial stocks for
its biggest drop since July. Brazilian homebuilder MRV
Engenharia & Participacoes SA fell the most since Aug. 2 while
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  sank to a three-month low,  led by  OAO
Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 818 developing-nation
stocks declined 1.2 percent to 995.31 at the close of trading in
New York, its biggest drop since July 23. Re-elected for a
second term on Nov. 6, President  Barack Obama  now faces
negotiations to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, more than $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that are set to kick
in automatically in January.  “Most negativity in emerging markets is coming from
developed markets,”  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets
analyst at Danske Bank A/S said by phone from Copenhagen.
“There are concerns about the fiscal cliff situation in the
U.S.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, slid 1.3
percent to the lowest level since Sept. 12. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, rose 5.9 percent.  Slowdown Forecasts  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the  U.S. economy 
would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next year should Congress
fail to keep the increases from taking effect. Countries in the
MSCI index send about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on
average, according to the  World Trade Organization .  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
body, said yesterday that it expects the euro region to
experience near-stagnation next year as its sovereign debt
crisis continues.  The 30-stock  Micex gauge  in Russia, which counts Europe as
its biggest trading partner, slid 1.1 percent to the lowest
close since Aug. 2, as Sberbank sank 4.1 percent on its third
day of declines. The Kospi index fell 1.2 percent, the most
since Oct. 26. India’s Sensex snapped a six-day rally and the
rupee slipped for the first time in three days against the
dollar. Brazil’s Bovespa index lost 1.7 percent as power company
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA posted its longest losing
streak in three months.  Chinese Indexes  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid a fourth day, the
longest stretch of losses since June, as the Communist Party
started a meeting to decide its new leaders. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies tumbled 2.6 percent, the
steepest loss since July 23. Taiwan’s Taiex index slipped 0.6
percent.  The South African rand was the biggest decliner against the
dollar among emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Mining output and manufacturing production slumped in September,
raising concern about slowing growth in Africa’s biggest
economy. China’s  yuan  touched the top end of its permitted
trading range for a fourth straight day as the party congress
began.  Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  will probably replace  Hu Jintao  as general secretary of the party that’s ruled China
since 1949. Hu told delegates that China must double per-capita
income by 2020, setting a target for the incoming generation of
leaders to be unveiled at the close of the congress. He also
called for a deeper financial overhaul and more local-level
democracy.  Trading Volumes  Chinese data including consumer prices and industrial
output will be released tomorrow.  Equity trading volumes were higher than average in Brazil,
Mexico, Seoul and Taipei. About 29 percent more shares of Kospi
gauge companies changed hands versus the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes were 22 percent
higher for the Taiex, and 5.6 percent higher than average in
Moscow. Volumes in Brazil’s Bovespa were 6.6 percent higher than
the 30-day average. Mexico’s IPC index fell 0.4 percent on
volumes 28 percent higher than average.  “The market focus is coming back to the fiscal cliff now
and the issue is still there,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co. in Shanghai, which oversees $285 million.
“If the U.S. slips back into a recession, it’ll deal a heavy
blow to exports from emerging nations.”  Industrial Stocks  A sub-index of industrial companies dropped 1.6 percent,
leading declines in all 10 industry groups in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  measure. The developing-nation gauge has climbed 8.6
percent this year, compared with an 8 percent increase in the
MSCI World Index. Shares in the emerging-markets index trade at
11.4 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.1 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 57 percent of MSCI Emerging Markets Index companies
have  reported  quarterly profit that missed analyst estimates
since the end of September, according to data on 391 corporate
results compiled by Bloomberg.  GS Engineering sank 11 percent to its lowest close since
March 2009. The company said third-quarter operating profit
tumbled 74 percent from a year earlier.  State-controlled  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  fell 4.5 percent in  Sao
Paulo . The bank reported third-quarter adjusted net income of
2.74 billion reais, below the 2.89 billion recorded a year
earlier.  MRV dropped 4.3 percent, before the release of its third
quarter results. The company’s adjusted net income was 151
million reais, below the average estimate of 159.5 million among
six analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NCsoft, Netia  NCsoft Corp. (036570) , an online-game maker, tumbled 13 percent in
Seoul, the most since November 2008, after brokerages cut price
targets. Hyundai Securities Co. and Woori Investment &
Securities Co. lowered their share-price estimates after the
company’s third-quarter profit missed analysts’ forecasts.  Netia SA (NET) , a Polish fixed-line telecommunications provider,
plunged 5.4 percent in Warsaw, the biggest slide in 14 months,
after earnings missed estimates. The telecommunications provider
reported third-quarter profit of 10 million zloty ($3.1
million), lower than 11.1 million zloty estimated by analysts.  Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is known, fell 4.3
percent on its fourth day of decline. MMX Mineracao & Metalicos
SA lost 3.2 percent after rising as much as 3.9 percent. The
miner’s third-quarter loss narrowed to 100.6 million reais
($49.3 million) from a 243.2 million reais loss a year earlier.  Greentown, Tata  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , a Hong Kong-based developer,
dropped 2.8 percent, sliding for a second day. Warburg Pincus
LLC sold 45 million shares in the company for HK$9.36 apiece,
the top end of a marketed price range, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  advanced 5.4 percent in Mumbai to the
highest since May 15 after its Jaguar Land Rover Plc unit
boosted sales in emerging markets and demand for the Evoque
compact sport utility vehicle strengthened.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 295, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  