-- Energy-Drinking Service Members Experience Sleepiness
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-11-09T16:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/energy-drinking-service-members-experience-sleepiness.html
(Corrects Toblin’s title in fourth paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  U.S. service members in  Afghanistan 
battle zones who consumed three or more caffeine-charged energy
drinks a day were prone to sleepiness and dozing off while on
guard duty, according to a report.  Forty five percent of the U.S. service members in
Afghanistan combat areas in 2010 consumed energy drinks daily,
some of which contain the caffeine equivalent of one to three
cups of coffee, the study said. The finding is published today
in the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly report.  About six percent of adolescent and young males in the U.S.
civilian and military populations drink energy drinks each day,
the report said. The products, such as those made by  Monster
Beverage Corp. (MNST)  and Red Bull, can have negative side effects,
including caffeine intoxication, and have been the focus of
investigation by the  Food and Drug Administration .  “Service members should be educated regarding the
potential adverse effects of excessive energy drink consumption
on sleep and mission performance and should be encouraged to
moderate their energy drink consumption in combat
environments,” Robin Toblin, a clinical research psychologist
at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research and lead author,
said in the study.  Fourteen percent of service members surveyed consumed at
least three energy drinks a day, according to the report. They
reported sleeping less, having more sleep disruptions from
stress and illness, and falling asleep on guard duty and in
briefings more frequently than those who had two or fewer of the
drinks a day. They were also more likely to report sleeping less
than four hours a night on average than those consuming fewer
energy drinks.  Data Analysis  For the study, the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research
analyzed data collected in 2010 on service members. A total of
988 male service members in the U.S. Army and Marine combat
platoons deployed to Afghanistan agreed to answer questions
about how many energy drinks they consumed.  Drinks consumed included those from Monster Beverage, based
in Corona, California and  Red Bull , the most-popular energy
drink in the U.S. by retail dollar share. Red Bull Energy Drink
is a product of closely held Red Bull GmbH based in Fuschl am
See,  Austria .  Service members were also asked questions about their use
of sleep medication, average number of hours spent sleeping, and
work impairment.  Previous Research  Previous research has found that 200 milligrams of
caffeine, the equivalent of one to two energy drinks, improved
cognitive performance in the military population.  “Those who drank three or more drinks a day also were more
likely to report sleep disruption related to stress and illness
and were more likely to fall asleep during briefings or on guard
duty,” Toblin said in the report.  Service members in the National Guard and Reserves were
significantly more likely to use energy drinks than their active
duty counterparts.  No differences in energy drink consumptions were found
related to having had an accident or making a mistake that
affected the mission because of sleepiness, the study says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  