-- Lenovo Profit Rises 13% as Share Overtakes Hewlett-Packard
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-08T10:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/lenovo-s-net-gains-13-as-market-share-overtakes-hewlett-packard.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  boosted second-
quarter profit 13 percent as it expanded market share to
overtake  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in personal-computer shipments.  Net income  climbed to $162 million in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from $143.9 million a year earlier, Lenovo said
in a statement today. That beat the $158.4 million average of
eight  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  built the Chinese
company into the world’s largest PC maker last quarter as it
accounted for 15.7 percent of global PC shipments, overtaking
Hewlett-Packard’s 15.5 percent, market-research firm Gartner
Inc. said last month. Yang now wants to extend that dominance to
smartphones, and the unit making mobile devices almost tripled
sales through the first six months of this year.  “We’re positive on their development in smartphones,”
Christine Wang, a Taipei-based analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets,
said by phone today. “Lenovo will outperform the PC industry,
but it’s still slowing down. So if the company can deliver
performance on the smartphone side, that is pretty good.”  Revenue at Lenovo, whose headquarters are in Beijing and
Morrisville, North Carolina, rose 11 percent to $8.67 billion
from $7.79 billion. That compared with the $8.65 billion average
of 13 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Computer Acquisitions  Lenovo’s  shares  pared declines in Hong Kong  trading  and
closed down 2.7 percent at HK$6.58, after falling as much as 3.9
percent before the announcement. The stock has climbed 27
percent this year, surpassing the 17 percent gain for the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Lenovo, which bought the PC division of  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2005, used  acquisitions  to help boost
sales in the past year. The company bought control of  Medion AG (MDN) ,
an Essen, Germany-based computer maker, and the PC unit of
Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)  in 2011.  With the release of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new Windows 8
software, Lenovo sees an increase in global PC demand, even with
“softness” in the world economy, Yang said on a conference
call today.  The PC maker is also stepping up development of
smartphones, tablets and Internet-ready TVs to widen its  product
line  for consumers to challenge Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co.  India, Indonesia  The company’s mobile Internet and digital home unit, which
makes smartphones, boosted sales to $1.31 billion during the
first six months of 2012 from $496.7 million a year earlier.  The unit, which previously sold phones only in  China , added
four new markets last quarter: India,  Indonesia , the Philippines
and Vietnam, Yang said.  “To expand smartphones to other markets,  emerging markets ,
is definitely our strategy,” he said. “We are confident that
will work.”  Revenue from China, Lenovo’s biggest market, rose 22
percent to $7.34 billion in the first six months, making up 44
percent of the total. While the China PC market has been
“soft,” it is a short-term situation, Yang said.  Sales in  North America  climbed 7.1 percent to $2.41
billion, comprising about 15 percent of global revenue for the
period. In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, sales gained 31
percent to $3.38 billion, or 20 percent of the total.  In the Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions, sales
increased 24 percent to $3.55 billion.  “Lenovo is poised to extend its global lead and grow
further,” Don See, a Singapore-based analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc, wrote in a Nov. 2 report. “Lenovo achieved its
14th sequential quarter of market share gains when its growth
rate outpaced that of competitors in the PC industry.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  