-- Ethiopia Seeks Bids for Coffee Farm, Other State-Owned Companies
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-11-08T12:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/ethiopia-seeks-bids-for-coffee-farm-other-state-owned-companies.html
Ethiopia ’s government invited bids
for six state-owned enterprises as part of a plan to raise 1
billion Ethiopian birr ($55.1 million) this fiscal year by
selling assets to private investors.  Among the companies being sold are the 600-hectare (1,483-
acre) Arbagugu Coffee Plantation in the central Oromia region,
said Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising Agency
spokesman Wondafrash Assefa. The company grows the Harar variety
of coffee in Ethiopia,  Africa ’s biggest producer.  “We have a program to transfer almost all enterprises
aside from the strategic ones,” Wondafrash said in an interview
yesterday in Addis Ababa, the capital. A mission of the agency
is “to transfer public enterprises to the private sector
because of the free-market policy” of the government.  Ethiopia is selling assets to private investors to help
finance a five-year growth plan under which it will spend 144
billion birr this fiscal year on industries including housing,
transport and energy. Last year, the government sold Meta Abo
brewery to  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest liquor maker, and
Harar and Bedele breweries to  Heineken NV (HEIA)  for a total of $485
million.  Investors have until Dec. 20 to bid for Arbagugu,
Construction Works and Coffee Technology Development Enterprise,
Awash Wine Share Co., Commercial Printing Enterprise, Hamaressa
Edible Oil Share Co., and Bilito Siraro Far, Wondafrash said.  Billionaire Bids  The agency also plans to hold new tenders for five
businesses including Upper Awash Agro-Industry, the country’s
largest orange grower, that billionaire Saudi businessman
Mohamed al-Amoudi’s companies won bids for last year and haven’t
paid for yet, Wondafrash said.  “Up to this day the winner has not paid,” he said. “We
are waiting for the decision from the board to cancel last
year’s bid.” Haile Assegide, CEO of al-Amoudi’s Debra Midroc,
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Ethiopia’s government operates a mixed economy in which
state companies monopolize or dominate key industries including
telecommunications, banking and power, while it encourages
private investment in manufacturing and agriculture. The amount
raised during the fiscal year that runs through July 7 will
depend on the bids received, Wondafrash said.  The agency has invested in companies including Turkish-
owned factory Saygin Dima Textile Share Co., of which it owns 60
percent; the National Nucleus Project of Rubber Plantation and
Processing, which will supply raw materials to tire
manufacturers; and the Coal-Phosphate Fertilizer Complex Project
that will cost about 50 billion birr, he said.  “The investments are only to encourage the private
sector,” Wondafrash said. “If the private sector fully engages
we will pull out by transferring.”  Strategic enterprises that the agency will retain include
Berhanena Selam Printing Enterprise, Mugher Cement Enterprise
and Comet Transport Enterprise, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  