-- Metso Plans Biomass Plants in China, India as Europe Scales Back
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-11-08T07:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/metso-plans-biomass-plants-in-china-india-as-europe-scales-back.html
Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , a Finnish engineering
company, plans to expand its biomass business in China and  India 
as growing urban populations drive up energy demand, while
European governments cut back support for clean power.  The growth of Asian cities adds to waste as well as energy
consumption, offering opportunities to use that waste as
biomass, Martin Ridderheim, vice president of Helsinki-based
Metso’s power business, said by e-mail.  Power plants fueled by municipal waste, wood chips and
straw can help utilities reduce consumption of coal to generate
electricity. China, the world’s biggest coal user, has offered
incentives to build clean-energy projects as it seeks to meet
burgeoning power demand without adding to carbon emissions.  “If the current urbanization trend continues in  China ,
nearly 1 billion people will live in Chinese urban centers by
2025,” Ridderheim said. In India, more than 590 million people
may live in cities by 2030, or twice the population of the U.S.
today, he said.  India, which also relies on coal for most of its
electricity output, plans to add 29,800 megawatts of renewable
generation capacity by 2017, of which 2,700 megawatts could come
from bio-energy, according to the country’s Ministry of New and
Renewable Energy.  India is one of the most “significant” markets for
biomass power plants after China, Ridderheim said. Metso, which
invests about 70 million euros ($89 million) a year in biomass
research and development, is also interested in  Indonesia ,
 Thailand ,  Malaysia  and Australia, he said.  M&A Potential  The company may seek to buy assets abroad to expand,
according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer Pasi Laine. “We
would look for global acquisitions, so if there are good
opportunities in Asia of course they are of interest to us,” he
said by phone.  As Metso adds operations overseas, its expansion in  Europe 
is curtailed by increased policy uncertainty, according to the
deputy CEO. The frequent revision of regulations by politicians
is a “big hurdle” in many European countries, making it
difficult to make investment decisions, he said.  “What we would like to see is that whatever the decisions
are, they would stay long enough so the industry can start to
invest,” Laine said.  Germany  said last month it plans to introduce a cap on
renewable-energy subsidies, meaning it would end payments to
wind and biomass plants as installed capacity reaches national
targets. Britain in July cut subsidies for new biomass plants
and said it’s considering a cap on the amount of renewable
generation provided by new biomass facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  