-- European Debt Assets Offer Value, Marathon’s Richards Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H y m a n
-- 2012-11-08T21:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/european-debt-assets-offer-value-marathon-s-richards-says.html
Global funds managers see value in
debt securities of European nations as measures by the region’s
leaders and central bank have cut risk amid signs of continued
economic weakness in the region.  Yields on the 17-nation euro-area’s most indebted nations,
including  Spain  and  Italy , have fallen since the  European
Central Bank  unveiled its Outright Monetary Transactions bond-
buying plan, known as the OMT, in September, pledging to spend
as much as needed to restore confidence in government bond
markets. While the central bank’s offering of loans beginning in
December to banks through its long-term refinancing operations,
or LTROs, has helped provide liquidity to the banking system.  “Compared to earlier this year, when the risk factors were
pretty substantial,” things have improved,  Bruce Richards ,
chief executive officer of Marathon Asset Management LP, said at
the Bloomberg Portfolio Manager Conference in  New York . “Now
with how the leadership in  Europe  has come together and the
central bank has progressed with the OMT and LTROs and various
programs that are supportive, you can get your arms around the
risk. Europe presents to us at Marathon the best distressed
opportunity that we see anywhere globally.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today the
economic outlook is worsening and the bank stands ready to
activate its bond-purchase program if governments fulfill the
necessary conditions.  ‘Extreme Scenarios’  “We are ready to undertake” Outright Monetary
Transactions, “which will help to avoid extreme scenarios,”
Draghi said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after policy
makers left the  benchmark interest rate  at a historic low of
0.75 percent. “The risks surrounding the economic outlook
remain on the downside” and underlying inflation pressures
“should remain moderate,” he said.  While bond yields have fallen in Spain and Italy since the
ECB unveiled its OMT program, investors are still waiting for
Spain to request aid from Europe’s bailout fund, a prerequisite
for the ECB to actually intervene in debt markets.  Spain’s 10-year yield has fallen from 7.6 percent in July
to 5.85 percent.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on Nov. 6 he
needs to know how much the ECB would push down Spain’s borrowing
costs before his government applies for aid and signs up to the
conditions attached.  Safety Premium  The spread of yields of peripheral European debt above that
of German bunds, viewed as a safe-haven of the region, are
likely to narrow if Spain makes a request for OMT debt
purchases, Richards said.  German bund yields are so low now “as a result of the
flight-to-quality demand,” Matthew Eagan, a  money manager  at
Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co., said at the conference. If
more progress is made, Spanish debt yields “could continue to
contract. There is no reason why German bund yields should trade
inside the U.S. Treasury curve but they do because of the
flight-to-quality bid.”  The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield traded at 1.62 percent,
while that on the similar maturity German government bond was
1.36 percent.  “We see opportunities in good investment grade corporate
debt in Europe,” said Eagan. Some dividend-paying stocks in
Europe also are also attractive, as well as long-term debt or
 Portugal , if the  currency risk  is hedged, Eagan said.  German Growth  Economic confidence in the 17-member euro area dropped to a
three-year low in October, adding to signs that the region is in
recession after gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent in the
second quarter. Third-quarter GDP is due on Nov. 15.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, reports this week
suggested growth is grinding to a halt. Exports, factory orders
and industrial production all fell more than forecast in
September. Last month, business confidence dropped to a 2 1/2
year low.  The weak outlook for growth makes shares of the majority of
companies unattractive at this time, according to Abhay Deshpande, portfolio manager at First Eagle Investment
Management, who also spoke at the conference.  “Europe is a difficult place to find a lot of value,”
said Deshpande. “There are some opportunities there where you
don’t have to take specific European risk,” mentioning Nestle
SA, which gets about half of its earnings from  emerging markets .
“But everyone knows that,” which has made the valuation less
attractive, said Deshpande.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  