-- Euro Drops to Two-Month Low After Ministers Delay Aid to Greece
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-08T22:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/euro-weakens-as-market-news-says-ecb-is-in-no-hurry-to-buy-bonds.html
The euro fell to a two-month low
versus the dollar after European Union finance ministers said
they will delay for “weeks” the decision to give  Greece  its
next round of aid.  The single currency declined as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said economic growth was expected to
remain weak. The yen gained against all of its main peers as
investors sought safer assets amid concern re-elected U.S.
President  Barack Obama  will struggle to avert the fiscal cliff.
South Africa’s rand tumbled as mining output fell the most in
five months.  “You have a Greek political situation that looks more
tenuous than it did 48 hours ago, and you have European
ministers who will potentially hold off giving aid to them until
later this month,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist
at Barclays Plc in New York. “It makes for increased market
uncertainty, and the euro sold off as a result. We’ve not talked
about  Europe  for a good two weeks -- it’s time to put it back on
the radar.”  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.2747 at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after sliding to $1.2717, the lowest level since Sept. 7.
The common currency fell 0.8 percent to 101.30 yen after sliding
the same amount yesterday. The yen strengthened 0.7 percent to
79.47 per dollar.  Europe’s central bank left its  benchmark interest rate  at
0.75 percent at its policy meeting in  Frankfurt  today, as
forecast by all except one of 63 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Rand, Pound  The rand declined for a second day, retreating 1 percent to
8.7206 per dollar.  Mining production slumped 8.3 percent as strikes since
August have disrupted operations. The data support calls for a
central  bank rate  cut to stimulate growth,  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) 
said.  The pound rose for a second day against the euro after the
 Bank of England  said it would maintain its asset-purchase target
at 375 billion pounds ($599 billion). The decision was predicted
by 35 out of 45 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank completed its latest 50 billion pounds of
bond purchases last week, and Deputy Governors  Paul Tucker  and
 Charles Bean  have indicated asset purchases may no longer have
the same impact on the economy as when first introduced in 2009.  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to 79.76 pence per euro
after strengthening 0.3 percent yesterday. Sterling was little
changed at $1.5984.  Chinese Leadership  China’s  yuan  touched the top end of its permitted trading
range for a fourth straight day on optimism a new generation of
leaders will take more measures to stimulate growth in the
world’s second-largest economy.  The yuan rose 0.01 percent to 6.2429 per dollar as of 10:24
a.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System, exceeding the PBOC’s  reference rate  by the maximum 1
percent allowed. The daily fixing was set 0.01 percent higher at
6.3060 against the greenback.  “The main policy goals moving forward for the currency is
for further stable Chinese yuan along with some mild
appreciation,”  Nick Chamie , the head of global foreign-exchange
credit strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Dominic Chu. “This
mild appreciation fits with the strategy of seeing the  renminbi 
increase its international use.”  Greek Funds  Draghi said the central bank is essentially finished with
its focus on Greece. Euro-area finance ministers may not make a
decision on unlocking funds for Greece until late November as
they await a full report on the country’s compliance with the
terms of its bailout, a European Union official said.  The common currency rallied in August and September amid
speculation ECB bond purchases would cap borrowing costs for
nations such as Spain and Italy and help contain the debt
crisis.  “Draghi sort of hinted at rate cuts,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a
strategist at UBS AG in London. “He pointed to the lack of
inflationary pressures, the bond-purchase program not activated
and all of the economic stuff was to the downside, so I think it
was pretty clear. We still have a longer-term forecast of
$1.15” per euro by 2014, he said.  The franc rose 0.1 percent against the euro as the Swiss
National Bank’s Fritz Zurbruegg said the currency’s ceiling
against the euro is “effective.”  The central bank is controlling volumes place on markets
and is looking at new asset classes and different currencies
outside the euro in both advanced and developed nations, he said
at an event in Geneva today.  Fiscal Cliff  The yen extended gains against the dollar as demand for the
safety of Japan’s currency was boosted by speculation U.S.
lawmakers will struggle to avert the looming fiscal cliff, the
more-than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to
be implemented in 2013 unless Congress acts to lower the  budget
deficit .  Two-year Treasury yields declined for a second day, falling
to 0.258 percent,  shrinking  the excess yield investors receive
for purchasing two-year U.S. securities versus Japanese bonds to
the least since Oct. 17. That damps the appeal of dollar-
denominated debt versus yen-based securities as investors seek
safe haven assets.  The euro has fallen 0.8 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen dropped 1.3 percent,
while the dollar gained 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  