-- Yen Falls Against Major Peers Before Japanese GDP Report
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-11-09T06:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/euro-trades-near-two-month-low-on-greece-bailout-concern.html
The yen weakened against its major
peers before data next week forecast to show  Japan ’s economy
shrank in the third quarter, adding to signs that world’s third-
largest economy is lagging behind the U.S. and China.  The Japanese currency snapped a two-day gain versus the
euro after reports showed faster-than-expected growth in China’s
industrial production and retail sales.  Australia ’s dollar rose
as Asian stocks pared losses. Demand for the 17-nation euro was
limited after a European Union official said a decision on
unlocking funds for Greece may not be made until late November.  “My bias is for yen to go weaker,” said Hans Kunnen,
chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The
Japanese economy isn’t doing well. It’s troubled and the
domestic market is flat, so it’s hard to find reasons to buy the
yen.”  The Japanese currency fell 0.3 percent to 101.62 yen per
euro as of 6:56 a.m. in  London  from 101.30 yesterday, paring its
weekly advance to 1.6 percent. It slid 0.1 percent to 79.53 per
dollar. The euro rallied 0.2 percent to $1.2777 after yesterday
touching $1.2717, the weakest since Sept. 7.  The Australian dollar advanced 0.2 percent to $1.0426, set
for a 0.9 percent gain since Nov. 2. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
of stocks was down 0.3 percent, having earlier fallen as much as
0.8 percent.  Japan’s gross domestic product probably contracted at an
annualized rate of 3.4 percent in the three months through Sept.
30, according to the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before a report due Nov. 12. That would be
the biggest decline since last year’s record earthquake.  ‘Three-Way Standoff’  “It’s a three-way standoff for the dollar, yen and euro,”
said Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “The yen is unlikely to be a clear
gainer against the dollar or the euro given the Japanese economy
is on a downward trajectory.”  China ’s National Bureau of Statistics said  industrial
production  rose 9.6 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with the 9.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts.  Retail sales  climbed 14.5 percent in October
from a year earlier. Economists projected a 14.4 percent gain.
Another report today showed inflation unexpectedly cooled to the
slowest pace in 33 months.  In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
consumer sentiment index probably climbed to 83 in November,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
preliminary reading of the gauge due today. That would be an
increase from the 82.6 reading for October that was the highest
since September 2007.  Forecast Cut  The so-called Aussie dollar headed for a weekly gain as the
Chinese data buoyed investor sentiment after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia cuts its forecast for domestic growth.  The central bank predicted year-average gross domestic
product growth of 2.25 percent to 3.25 percent in 2013 for
Australia, lower than its August estimate of 2.75 percent to
3.25 percent, according to its quarterly monetary policy
statement released today. China is the South Pacific nation’s
largest trading partner.  “Chinese data has visibly improved,” said Greg Gibbs, a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  Singapore . “It continues to promote a sense that  China’s
economy  is stabilized and may be improving. It’s consistent with
a firming Australian dollar.”  Aid Negotiations  Gains in  Europe ’s single currency were limited today after
an EU official said euro-area finance ministers may not make a
decision on unlocking funds for  Greece  until late this month as
they await a full report on the country’s compliance with the
terms of its bailout.  Finance chiefs won’t make the call to release 31.5 billion
euros ($40.2 billion) of aid for Greece that has been frozen
since June when they meet in Brussels on Nov. 12, the official
said yesterday on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras yesterday mustered the
support of enough lawmakers to secure approval of a bill on
pension, wage and benefit cuts needed for bailout funds to flow.
The parliament will convene again on Nov. 11 to vote on the 2013
budget.  Reports on Greece “cast new doubts on an already troubled
area,” said St. George’s Kunnen. “The  Greek economy  is in a
dire state, with or without aid, and that is making everybody
continually nervous. The euro will stay under pressure.”  The shared currency has declined 6 percent over the past
year, the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar added 0.3 percent and the yen fell 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  