-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-11-08T16:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s comments from his monthly
news conference in  Frankfurt  today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Ladies and
gentlemen, the vice president and I are very pleased to welcome
you to our press conference. We’ll now report on the outcome of
today’s meeting on the Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we’ve
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to
high energy prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro
area countries, inflation rates are likely to remain above 2
percent for the remainder of 2012. They’re expected to fall
below that level in the course of next year and to remain in
line with price stability over the policy-relevant horizon.  Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area remain firmly anchored in line
with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to
2 percent over the medium term.  Economic activity in the euro area is expected to remain
weak. Although it continues to be supported by our monetary
policy stance and financial market confidence has visibly
improved on the back of our decisions, as regards outright
monetary transactions, OMTs.  At the same time, the necessary process about balance sheet
adjustment in large parts of the financial and non-financial
sectors, as well as high uncertainty, continue to weigh on the
economic outlook. It is essential for governments to support
confidence by forcefully implementing the necessary steps to
reduce both fiscal and structural - and structural imbalances
and to proceed with financial sector restructuring.  The Governing Council remains firmly committed to
preserving the singleness of its monetary policy and to ensuring
the proper transmission of the policy stance to the real economy
throughout the euro area. As we said before, we are ready to
undertake OMTs, which will help to avoid extreme scenarios,
thereby clearly reducing concerns about the materialization of
destructive forces.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. Euro area real GDP
contracted by 0.2 percent quarter on quarter in the second
quarter of 2012, following flat growth in the previous quarter.
As regards the second half of 2012, the available indicators
continue to signal weak activity. While industrial production
data showed some resilience in July and August, most recent
survey evidence for the economy as a whole extending into the
fourth quarter does not signal improvements towards the end of
the year.  Looking ahead to the next year, the growth momentum is
expected to remain weak. It continues to be supported by our
standard and non-standard monetary policy measures, but the
necessary process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial
and non-financial sectors and an even - an uneven global
recovery will continue to dampen the pace of recovery.  The risk surrounding around the economic outlook for the
euro area remain on the downside. Euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.5 percent in October 2012, according to
Eurostat’s flash estimate, compared with 2.6 percent in
September and August. On the basis of our current future prices
of oil, inflation rates could remain at elevated levels before
declining to below 2 percent again in the course of next year.  Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of
modest growth in euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation
expectations, underlying price pressures should remain moderate.
Current level of inflation should thus remain transitory. We
will continue to monitor closely further developments in costs,
wages, and prices.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes, owing to the need for
fiscal consolidation. The main downside risks relate to the
impact of weaker-than-expected growth in the euro area, in the
event of a renewed intensification of financial market tensions
and its effects on the domestic components of inflation.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. In September, the
annual growth rate of M3 decreased to 2.7 percent from 2.8
percent in August. Monthly outflows from M3 reflected to some
extent the reversal of portfolio shifts into the most liquid
components of M3. Accordingly, the annual rate of growth of M1
declined to 5 percent in September, from 5.2 percent in August.
At the same time, we have observed a strengthening in the
deposit base of banks in some stressed countries, amid
improvements in investors’ confidence in the euro area.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
declined further to minus 0.4 percent in September from minus
0.2 percent in August. This development was mainly due to
further net redemptions in loans to non-financial corporations,
which led to an annual rate of decline in these loans of minus
1.2 percent, compared with minus 0.5 percent in August.  The annual growth in MFI lending to households remained
unchanged at 0.9 percent in September. To a large extent, these
subdued loan dynamics reflect the weak outlook for GDP,
heightened risk aversion, and the ongoing adjustments in the
balance sheets of households and enterprises, all of which weigh
on credit demand.  At the same time, in a number of euro area countries, the
segmentation of financial markets and capital constraints for
banks restrict credit supply. The recent results of the bank
lending survey for the third quarter of 2012 underpin this
assessment.  The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor
in facilitating both an appropriate provision of credit to the
economy and the normalization of all funding channels, thereby
contributing to an adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions of the non-financial sector in the
individual countries of the euro area. It is thus essential that
the resilience of banks continues to be strengthened where
needed.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. And a cross-check with the signals from the
monetary analysis confirms this picture.  Other economic policy areas need to make substantial
contributions to ensure a further stabilization of financial
markets and an improvement in the outlook for growth. Structural
reforms are crucial to boost the growth potential of euro area
countries and to enhance employment. Policy action is also
necessary to increase the adjustment capacity of euro area
economies in order to complete the ongoing process of unwinding
existing imbalances.  Visible progress is being made in the correction of unit
labor costs and current account imbalances. However, further
measures to enhance labor market flexibility and labor mobility
across the euro area are warranted. Such structural measures
would also complement and support fiscal consolidation and debt
sustainability.  As regards fiscal policies, there is clear evidence that
consolidation efforts in euro area countries are bearing fruit.
It is crucial that efforts are maintained to restore sound
fiscal positions, in line with the commitments under the
Stability and Growth Pact and the 2012 European Semester
recommendations. Full compliance with the reinforced E.U. fiscal
and governance framework, including the rapid implementation of
the fiscal compact, will send a strong signal to markets and
strengthen confidence in the soundness of public finances.  The Governing Council takes note of the European Council
conclusions on completing Economic and Monetary Union, adopted
on October 18, 2012. In the context of measures to achieve an
integrated financial framework, it welcomes in particular the
objective of agreeing on the legislative framework for a Single
Supervisory Mechanism by January 1, 2013, with a view to the SSM
becoming operational in the course of 2013.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: OK, as usual, present yourself and the media you
work with and one or two questions per media, no more. Let’s
start with the block in the middle, the third row. Yeah, the
third row, yeah.  QUESTION: Alessandro Merla (ph) with (inaudible) from
 Italy . Given what you just said about the conditions of the
economy and what you said in your speech yesterday, do you
expect your projections for the economy to be revised downward
next month? And did you discuss a cut in interest rates?  Also, considering the SME lending survey of last week,
would you consider further LTRO or possibly the purchase of
corporate bonds or corporate ABS?  DRAGHI: Now, certainly the - we’ll certainly monitor the
developments in the euro area economy. And we’ll take - we’ll
take these developments into account in our projections in
December. Certainly, the outlook is being revised. You know the
commission came out with their forecasts, and there is a picture
of weaker economy, as I had the chance - the opportunity to say
yesterday. So all this is bound to influence our projections in
December, is bound to be taken into account.  On interest rates, we always discuss our instruments - all
instruments of monetary policy, but the Governing Council
decided, as I just said, to keep interest rates unchanged. We
have not discussed what we are going to do next year, in terms
of monetary policy.  STAFF: Yes, please, your neighbor? Same row.  QUESTION: (inaudible) with (inaudible) is the ECB satisfied
with the degree of relief that the mere announcement of the OMT
has already brought to the markets in the current environment
would then theoretically be happy to never buy a single bond? Or
do you think that the rest of the euro zone would benefit from a
Spanish bailout request by giving you the opportunity to show
your resolve and, thereby, clear the apparent transmission
mechanism?  My second question is, on interest rates, I know you said
you didn’t make a decision on the future of - on the main refi
rate. Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said that, for him,
it’s - it’s negative deposit rate, should you decide to cut
interest rate, doesn’t appear to be a realistic prospect to him.
Is that something that is an assessment that’s shared on the
Governing Council? Thank you very much.  DRAGHI: You’re welcome. The - we haven’t discussed about
the second question. On the first question, we’re certainly take
note the - that since the OMT announcement, there have been a
series of market improvements that I will just quickly list.  First of all, we have a return of flows from the rest of
the world, in particular from U.S. money market funds, which was
plus 16 percent in September month-over-month, for the third
consecutive month since the announcement. So even though overall
continues to be a small exposure with respect - with respect to
euro area banks, with respect to what it was in last - at the
beginning of last year, it’s gone up.  Also, the - this form of lending has shifted considerably
from secure to unsecured lending. Only 30 percent was secured,
and it’s the lowest data since March. And this is a positive
sign.  Another positive sign is that there has been some limited
bond - renewed bond - dollar bond placements by euro area
institutions. There has been moderate pickup in corporates
issuance. There has been - there have been, as I had opportunity
to comment on other occasions, there have been a few issues of
sovereign bonds by Ireland and  Portugal .  The funding plans of two large sovereigns like Italy and
Spain are quasi-completed, if not completed. And the share of
foreign holdings of these bonds, bonds by Spain and Italy, has
gone up, which is also something that we had not seen for a
while.  Finally, the TARGET2 balances figure, which is another sign
of, I would say, the - how the imbalances in the euro area are
developing, that figure has been stabilized now for two or three
months, which is already another good sign. So all this is
encouraging.  And by itself, this has certainly been equivalent to a
further expansion, in a sense, of monetary policy, because the
financial market’s conditions are considerably easy now than
they were - considerably easier now than they were two or three
months ago.  On the Spanish request, I will decline any comment. It’s
entirely in the hands of governments to decide about this. The
conditions of OMT are clear. And we stand ready to act. OMT is,
as you know, a fully effective backstop that is devised to
remove the tail risk from the euro area, and we stand ready to
act. Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor, Gabi, yes.  QUESTION: Thank you. Gabi Thesing from Bloomberg News. I do
need to press you again on Spain, unfortunately, because the
markets are - Spanish bond yields have gone up again, so the
longer - and you’re nodding - the longer Mr. Rajoy hesitates -
would you like Spain to ask for aid?  And my second question is, do you consider financing
conditions appropriate across the euro area right now? Or do you
- do the current Italian and Spanish spreads still contain a
redenomination risk? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Again, I answer - you keep on pressing,
but I keep on answering the same way. It’s entirely up to Spain
and to the Spanish government to take this decision. It’s not -
it’s not up to the ECB.  As I said, the ECB did say this many, many times. The ECB
has produced the OMT. The OMT is a fully effective backstop
mechanism that is devised to remove the tail risks while at the
same time not removing the incentives for fiscal discipline and
delivering price stability. And that’s there.  And the conditions for accessing that are also very, very
clear. Now, that’s then the rest. Now the ball is completely in
the courts of the governments, not - not with the ECB.  Now, on the financing conditions, more than focusing on the
levels of the - of the spreads or the interest rates, I think
one should look at the fragmentation of the euro area. So when
we talk about financing conditions, for example, financing to
the SMEs, like the question before was asking, are we satisfied
with the financing conditions? No, we are not at all satisfied.
We are observing a fragmentation of the euro area, re-
nationalization of the banking systems, a difference in costs of
funding that go beyond the fundamentals, and, therefore, we have
- our priority now is to repair the monetary policy transmission
channels so that our monetary policy will actually deliver -
will be able to deliver price stability. Thank you.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) but you can only - you’ve always said
you can only fix the transmission mechanism if the OMT is
activated. Without a Spanish request, then -  DRAGHI: No, no, no. OMT helps to fix the transmission
mechanism. There are many other reasons why a transmission
mechanism is not working. First and foremost, the lack of
appropriate economic policies that are now in the process of
being fixed, but let’s not forget how we found ourselves in this
situation. We know that this is a bad equilibrium where, until
three months ago, we had self-fulfilling expectations, self-
feeding expectations.  At the same time, these countries have found themselves in
this bad equilibrium because of the policy mistakes of the past
or the lack of policy altogether. So that - the origin of this
fragmentation in the - in the financial markets in the euro
area, we have basically policy mistakes, and they have to be
corrected. Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor, Eva Kuehnen, and then behind, yeah.  QUESTION: Eva Kuehnen from Reuters. Mr. Draghi, the Spanish
prime minister, Mr. Rajoy, has said that one of the reasons why
he’s taking his time with a request for a European bailout is
because he wants assurance that the ECB intervention will
actually bring down his country’s borrowing costs. Could you -
can you give Mr. Rajoy this assurance today?  DRAGHI: I think I’ve answered this question before. I think
I’ve - the first - there is a general statement. The way the OMT
has been designed foresees, as we’ve discussed many times, that
as a necessary condition the country should sign with an ESM
program, and a role of the IMF will be actively sold and would
be welcome.  But this is the necessary condition. It’s not also the
sufficient condition, so the Governing Council will take the
final decision in total independence.  And in so doing, it cannot give any assurance ex ante,
because we have to make our monetary policy assessment, we have
to make an assessment of the actual state of fragmentation of
the financial markets. So I think the - there isn’t any
automatic quid pro quo.  We know that the mechanism is a fully effective backstop,
and it’s in place, but it’s up to the countries to do all the
right steps so that this mechanism can be activated. Thank you.  QUESTION: And for my second question - sorry - the second
question is on  Greece . Greece yesterday, last night, managed to
approve another - a new austerity package. Is this enough? And
will the ECB - would it be willing to help make Greece’s debt
burden more sustainable now? And if so, how - what could you do?  DRAGHI: The ECB and the Governing Council certainly welcome
the outcome of the vote yesterday. It’s a very important step
that the Greek government and the Greek citizens have
undertaken. It really represents progress, especially if one
compares the situation with what it was a few months ago.  Another vote is expected - is waited on Saturday on the
budget. The governments will discuss the Greek situation next
week. It’s euro group (ph) is foreseen. The center - the ECB
assures price stability and pursues the restoration of monetary
policy transmission channels, but cannot do monetary financing.
Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. Yes, please, behind you.  QUESTION: (inaudible) Dow Jones Wall Street Journal. Next
week, Greece will have to refinance 5 billion in T-bills, and
that’s likely to be done again through emergency lending
assistance. How much longer is the ECB going to tolerate that
sort of behavior? And also, could you please explain to me why
that’s not a form of monetary financing?  And, second, do you see evidence that this sort of funding
(inaudible) funding is catching up elsewhere, maybe in Cyprus?
And are you worried about this, especially in light of very
tight fiscal policies?  DRAGHI: Well, we - we consider this financing to be
temporary. We don’t consider emergency lending assistance to be
monetary financing. It’s considered amongst our instruments. We
look with - we look with - certainly with great attention to
developments in Cyprus. And, again, however, the ultimate
response to these situations is in the government’s actions.
It’s not with the ECB. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. The next question on the sixth row. The
one who - yeah, please.  QUESTION: (inaudible) Mr. Draghi, two questions. One about
inflation expectations. After the OMT was announced in
September, we saw gold prices rising very strong. Just in
September, we had 3 billion euro going into gold ETFs and ETCs
(ph). Is that a sign of speculation or of increasing - increased
inflation expectations?  And the second question, if I may, you said that there’s
visible progress in the collection (ph) of unit labor costs.
Most economists, I know, they say unit labor costs are not a
good way to measure competitiveness, because we have this
unemployment productivity. They say one should look at the GDP
deflators, because - and there we do not really see a big
progress. Are they right or wrong? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, on gold prices, the thing you see is - the
thing you see is exactly what you see, namely an increase in
gold prices. Now, what - why should this depend on the OMT is
kind of a mystery to me.  We are constantly looking at the inflationary expectations
over several horizons, over several time spans. And no matter
what time span we look at, we continue to see that they are
solidly anchored.  So to ask whether a price of a specific asset forecasts
inflation - an increase in inflation rate is always a very, very
risky question. You see, I mean, you see asset prices going up
and going down. And to infer that from - from an increasing
price of one asset you’ll have inflation, and you’ll have
inflation because of the OMT, which hasn’t created yet any
liquidity, is really - I mean, it means really walking very
fast.  On the - on the improvement in unit labor costs, yes, there
has been an improvement in unit labor costs in several
countries. This may certainly be partly the consequence of an
increasing productivity, which is, as the economies that you
mentioned say correctly, which is - which could be cyclical due
to the fall in economic activity in these countries. However, we
also observe an improvement in current account balances by these
countries.  So - and you are also right when you say that, in spite of
the unit labor cost changes, in some countries, we don’t observe
comparable changes in the GDP deflator. And that may be due to
other reasons. For example, in one country, we observe a fall in
unit labor cost. We don’t observe GDP deflator changes. For
example - or HICP inflation changes, because of energy prices
remain very high. The other reasons have more to do with the
inertia that components of value-added show in adjusting to the
new situation. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. Your neighbor and then the row in front,
yeah. Your neighbor.  QUESTION: (inaudible) I’ve completely different question
concerning collateral framework rules. I just want to know, how
exactly do you want to make sure that national central banks
might not again bend the framework rules of the collaterals
according to their needs? How do you want to make sure that the
credibility of the ECB as a risk manager won’t be hurt? Thank
you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Let me first make a clarification,
because there has been a lot of - a lot of press on this point
in the last - in the last week. First clarification is that it’s
not - it’s just purely factual. It’s not 80 billion, the amount
of - nominal amount of collateral being posted, but 10.  The second clarification is that all this had no impact at
all on our lending. And so nobody received more than they should
have received because of this mistake, because it was a mistake.
The impact of this is zero, but we take this mistake very
seriously. And so the Governing Council has mandated the
Eurosystem audit committee, which is chaired by Governor
Liikanen, to assess the implementation of the collateral
framework in the Eurosystem. And we will have an initial
assessment of our - of this at our next Governing Council, and
then we will discuss whether further analysis or further action
is needed. And I’ll keep you posted on that. Thank you.  STAFF: The row just - yes, Brian Blackstone.  QUESTION: I want to go back to the economic outlook. You’ve
mentioned recently that there are some deflation risks in some
European countries. You’ve talked about unemployment being
deplorably high. Why aren’t you cutting rates? Why aren’t you
considering some kind of quantitative easing? Isn’t that an
appropriate role for monetary policy?  And I want to - second question is back to the Greece
issue. You’ve said you won’t do anything that’s monetary
financing, but are there things that you could do that would not
cross that line? Specifically, could you sell your bonds at cost
to Greece, to the ESM? Could you somehow redirect your profits
back to Greece? Do you have options that - or are you just
telling the governments that you have no role in this
whatsoever? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, let me first address the correct - about
deflation. I never mentioned deflation. Deflation in - is a
generalized fall in price level across sectors. And it’s self-
sustaining. And so we - so far, we have not seen signs of
deflation, not only at a euro area level, but also at country
level.  We should also be very careful about not mixing what is
normal prices readjustments due to the restoration of
competitiveness in some of these countries. They necessarily
have to go through a readjustment of prices. With - we shouldn’t
confuse this readjustment of prices, which actually are welcome,
with - with deflation.  We see that the - basically, we see the price behavior in
line with our medium-term objectives. So we see price stability
over the medium term.  Also, consider that - when we come at the monetary policy,
consider our monetary policy is already very accommodative.
Consider that not only, I mean, the very low level of interest
rates, consider that interest rates are really - real interest
rates are negative in - in a large part of the euro area.
Consider that we’ve taken several measures in the course of this
year, starting if we go back just one year, just think about how
many things we’ve done.  Several cuts in interest rates, halving the reserve ratio, two
LTROs for a gross amount of a trillion, and so on and so forth.
We’ve gone - we’ve gone through this together many times, so I
will not repeat. And then we had the OMT announcement, which by
itself produced an easing of financial market conditions.  But we certainly continue to monitor economic activity, and
we stand - we stand ready to act. As I said before, we stand
ready to act with the OMT once the prerequisites are in place,
but we also stand ready to act with the rest of standard normal
monetary policy instruments. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. Your -  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. You had another question?  QUESTION: On Greece.  DRAGHI: Oh, on Greece. On Greece, we certainly - we cannot
do monetary financing. I repeat this. On the profits, the
profits on the SMP holdings, we have already decided this during
the first - at the time of the first PSI, because what happens
is that these profits naturally accrue to the central banks that
are members of the euro system.  And then the central banks in their independence or
according to their legislation will transfer these profits to
the governments. And then it’s up to the governments to decide
whether they want to reuse these profits for Greece, and the
governments actually committed themselves to do so at that time.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: The ECB is by and large, as you say - is by and
large done.  QUESTION: By and large done?  DRAGHI: Yeah.  STAFF: OK. Your neighbor and then to block one.  QUESTION: (inaudible) still relating on the SMP profits,
just trying to make a fair estimate of the scale of this profit,
assuming that you’re having 6 billion on your balance sheet,
bought at 75 percent of face value. And getting interest income
of 5 percent over five years, that will mean 30 billion profit.
Is that a fair estimate of the profit of your SMP holding?  DRAGHI: I’m very sorry, but I’m in a position - I’m not
able to answer this question. I can provide you with an answer
later. But, I mean -  QUESTION: (inaudible) provided that it’s being paid back in
full, is it a fair (inaudible)  DRAGHI: Yeah. Yeah. But I don’t have an answer now.  STAFF: OK, let’s go to block one, third row, please.  QUESTION: Michael (inaudible) the Financial Times. Mr.
Draghi, two questions. First of all, just, again, on inflation,
you said today that the risks were balanced on the upside and
the downside. I think when you were talking behind closed doors
to general members of parliament, you said the other day, in the
text of the speech that was released, anyway, that there was, if
anything, a downside risk. So could you just clarify which is
it? Is it balanced or is it a downside risk?  And then second question on LTROs. Your neighbors in the
tower block (ph) just over there in Commerzbank said this
morning that they’re going to - they plan to hand back their
LTRO funding at the end of the year, as soon as they can,
basically, essentially because they don’t seem to be able to
find anything useful to do with it. It costs them 0.75 percent.
They’re just parking it with the Eurosystem at 0 percent. Is
that a worrying sign? I mean, should these banks be finding
companies to lend that money to or are you relaxed about a
sudden end to all these LTRO borrowings? Thanks.  DRAGHI: Thank you. No, on the - on inflation, on inflation,
I - I think I always said that the - at least in the recent past
that risks are broadly balanced, because on one hand, you have
the downside risks that come from the weak level of economic
activity and high unemployment. On the other - on the other
side, you have the upside risks that come from oil - energy
prices and the widespread use of indirect taxation, especially
VAT, by countries that need to consolidate their budgets. So the
two things by and large balance themselves, and this is the
assessment that I would still maintain today.  On the LTRO, no, it’s not - it’s not necessarily a matter
of concern. Actually, in a sense, it’s the best response to all
those who were saying, oh, you are flooding the world with
liquidity. Now, you see that this is not happening. You see
that, in fact, money’s coming back, and the balance sheet of the
ECB will shrink down correspondingly. And no consequence on
inflation had taken place since when we decided the LTRO way
back in January, in December of last year.  So now, whether - whether banks return LTRO because they
don’t lend it because of risk aversion or because of demand for
- or credit demand is weak, I am not in a position to say today,
but certainly this must be the two reasons. Either they’re
fearful to lend, because they are - here we’re talking about
banks that don’t have capital constraints, of course, assuming
that they don’t have any capital constraints, banks don’t -
don’t lend, because - either because their risk aversion is too
high or because there is no demand.  So this could be a sign of either - of either of the two
factors. The important thing was that - with the LTROs is that
we removed - we removed, again, tail risks coming from the lack
of funding that was taken - would have taken place, would have
happened in the first quarter of this year. That’s what - and
the purpose has been achieved. The objective has been achieved.  STAFF: OK, let’s go back to this block (inaudible)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) settle the OMT horse (ph) from the
other side. You said the OMT was there for - to avoid extreme
scenarios, extreme risks.  DRAGHI: Yeah.  QUESTION: Could you foresee a scenario, an extreme scenario
where the OMT would be triggered without the conditionality in
place or without part of the conditionality in place because, as
I said, it might be too extreme a scenario? And the other thing
is, after yesterday’s speech and also after the statements
today, the markets are taking the view that we’re going to see a
rate cut next time around. Would you say the markets are grossly
misguided?  DRAGHI: Well, on the second question, I mean, as you know,
I can’t - I can’t comment on the second question. On the first
question, you’re asking - you’re asking me whether - could there
be an OMT without conditionality? The answer is no. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, let’s go to the block in the middle, the second
row, please, and we will take the two last questions before.  QUESTION: Thank you (inaudible) Mr. Draghi, under the
pressure - I have a concerning euro zone and the U.S.
(inaudible) just had the elections. Under pressure of markets in
 Europe , the reform process started two years ago in Italy and in
Spain. In U.S., it is told that there the reforms couldn’t
start, they are all intentioned - whether they will start now.
What do you think? Is the - in your eyes, the potential of
Europe catching up the states? Do you think that Europe can have
a comeback, sort of comeback in the near future?  DRAGHI: What - what I think - what I can say is that the -
both the euro area as a whole and the individual countries
forming the euro area - and I wouldn’t have made this statement
a year ago, by the way - both - both of them have - have the - a
fundamental position which is way more balanced than the U.S.,
but also other countries, Japan or the U.K.  We have - the euro area has a current account balance which
is basically in balance, zero. Debt - both as corporate debt and
household debt - is relatively low, all over the euro area.
Saving ratios are high. As I was saying before, unit labor costs
are on their way down. The fiscal consolidation that has taken
place all over the euro area is amazing. And when we look at the
other parts of the world, it’s not so amazing at all.  So debt-to-GDP levels are on their way down everywhere,
even in the countries which have the highest ones. So all this
is basically - poises the euro area for a recovery, which should
be - probably is going to be slow, probably is going to be
gradual, but it’s also going to be solid. And looking at the -
exactly, at these fundamentals.  So what we have to overcome is now the - sort of the
fragmentation. That is our major challenge ahead. And I think
we’ve - we’ve collectively made significant progress on that -
on that route. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. Let’s take the last question in the block
number one, the fourth row. The two last questions, yeah, this
one.  QUESTION: (inaudible) two questions, if I may. Mr. Draghi,
you said before that monetary policy stance is very - very
accommodative at this time. And you mentioned a bunch of
measures take into - since one year. So my question is, is it a
time or absolutely not the time to think about the moment of an
exit of the strategy? Do you prepare to this maybe in your mind?
Or is it something that is absolutely not present at the time?  And second question, to the - the supervisory mechanism
that (inaudible) the ECB will give a formal legal opinion, so
that is subdued in the next time, I guess, but at the time,
could you maybe give us an opinion regarding information that
Paris and Berlin is - are in favor of a woman chairing this
authority? And maybe you have your opinion on this. Thank you.  DRAGHI: OK. On the first question, it’s - we look at price
stability, and we will decide our strategy and the timing of our
exit depending on how we see price stability over the medium
term. So far, we see no reason to change our monetary policy,
looking at the price stability over the medium term.  The - on the second point, I would say the following.
Gender considerations are close to our minds and our hearts,
both for the executive board and for myself personally. We
understand the European Parliament with - where we always had an
excellent relations, has valid concerns about this. And we
certainly have - I mean, we’re (inaudible) open minds and open
hearts with respect to this.  Now, this has to do with - with your - my answer to your
point about the supervisory mechanism, who might share the
supervisory mechanism. So the only thing is just I want to
restate that gender concerns are very important, and actually
the ECB has been quite active on that. Think, let me just go
through, if I can, some of the things we’ve done, because I - to
show you how we all care about this and - we - we’ve been active
as far as both recruitment success rate, and we are doing fairly
well at staff level. We are not doing well at management level,
and so we have to improve there.  And we’ve launched a series of actions there, which I think
they’re going to bear some fruit, and we know we have to improve
at management level. Thank you.  STAFF: The last question, the same row, please. Yeah.  QUESTION: (inaudible) with (inaudible) you said the
original fragmentation of - financial fragmentation is policy
mistakes. And you said structural reforms are needed. Are you
satisfied with the reform path and the reform speed you see in
Spain and Italy? Or would you expect more and faster reforms?  DRAGHI: Well, I think this is an important question. In
answering to this question, I would - I would ask you to take a
- say, not a - not a medium-term, but even a short-term
perspective. Compare the situation today with what it was not
even a year ago. And the conclusion is unavoidable. There has
been substantial progress.  Is the task finished? Not at all. Not at all. There is a
lot more to do on the - obviously, on the fiscal consolidation
path, but more and more important - significantly, as time
passes by, on the structural reforms ground.  QUESTION: But is it fast enough?  DRAGHI: Again, now, to - to give a sense of speed, it
depends from which perspective, because if you compare with the
speed that these countries had in reforming themselves in the
previous five years, then you are bound to say it’s very fast.
If you ask me, will ever be fast enough for - let me put it this
way. The faster it is, the sooner the financial market
conditions in Europe will return normal.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: That’s a point.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. Please.  QUESTION: I take your perspective, because you said one of
the main - the original - the main problem is the lack of
structural reforms.  DRAGHI: Yeah.  QUESTION: And you can’t solve the problem. It’s the problem
of the countries.  DRAGHI: Absolutely.  QUESTION: So it’s from your perspective you have to ask, is
it fast enough, fast enough to rebuild the financial conditions?  DRAGHI: Also, you know, the speed of structural reforms,
when you ask about the speed, we can desire any speed, but it’s
actually - ultimately it will be the citizens of these countries
that will have to decide what is the speed.  They should know that these things, these structural
reforms have to be done. They are unavoidable. They are
necessary. And ultimately, eventually, prosperity and growth and
job creation will come out of these reforms.  The actual pace of these reforms is a combination of many
factors, but, first and foremost, the political realities of
these countries. But as I said, the sooner this process is
brought forward, the quicker will be the normalization of the
euro area, because let’s not forget that the financial
conditions in euro area started worsening after the financial
crisis, but because they found very unsatisfactory policies in
place in many countries. So, thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. As mentioned earlier, the president will
now make an announcement regarding the euro banknotes. And we
will then show a very short video and distributor detail press
kit. You will have all the details for that.  President, the floor is yours.  DRAGHI: Yeah, but before I do so, I just want to go through
this, the partial answer I gave about gender diversity, because
I think - I think it’s actually quite important that I do give
some time to this. And as I said, I said - I said that we’re
doing very well at staff level, but we should improve at
management level. And for this, I said that we’ve launched a
number of initiatives to support and encourage female staff to
pursue management functions.  And I say mentoring, diversity task force, use of external
counselors, diversity and recruitment panels, and also child
minding (ph) facilities. And so, as I said before, my sense is
that these initiatives are bearing fruit.  Now, coming to the banknotes, let me read this statement. I
am pleased now to - I am now pleased to be able to announce that
the European Central Bank and the national central banks of the
Eurosystem are to introduce a second series of euro banknotes.
This will be called the Aeuropa (ph) or Oeuropa (ph) or Europe
Series (ph), as it will - be it’s written A-Europa (ph), as it
will include a portrait (ph) of A-Europa (ph), a figure from
Greek mythology and the origin of the name of our continent
within the watermark and the hologram of the new banknotes.  The Aeuropa (ph) series bank notes will be introduced
gradually over several years, starting with the new five euros
banknote in May 2013. This series has benefited from advances in
banknote technology. To make the banknotes even more secure,
their security features have been enhanced. Three of these new
security features that appear on the five euro banknote, the
portrait watermark, portrait hologram, and the emerald number
will be revealed today.  The first series will initially circulate alongside the new
bank notes, but will gradually be withdrawn and eventually cease
to be legal tender. The date when this occurs will be announced
way in advance. However, the banknotes of the first series will
retain their value indefinitely, and it will be possible to
exchange them at the Eurosystem national central banks at any
time.  The ECB will be revealing the details of the new euro -
five euro banknote in two phases, starting today with three of
the new security features that it contains. This will allow the
public to start familiarizing themselves with these three new
security features.  Also, in order to raise public awareness of this series,
the Eurosystem will be conducting an information campaign across
the euro area in 2013.  I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the
Eurosystem staff who has been involved in the preparations for
the new banknotes. Now pleased to present a short film showing
three of the new security features embedded in the new five euro
banknote. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. And I will take one or two maximum
question -  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  (MUSIC PLAYING)  (END VIDEO CLIP)  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE) distributed to you right now. And if you
have one or two question maximum, the vice president will be
happy to answer. Do you have any question at this stage? No
question? Yes, one?  DRAGHI: (OFF-MIKE) had a question.  STAFF: OK.  DRAGHI: (OFF-MIKE) question.  STAFF: Yeah, sure.  DRAGHI: What’s the sense of this movie? I mean, it’s just -  (LAUGHTER)  (UNKNOWN): (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Listen, Vice President (OFF-MIKE) question.  (LAUGHTER)  (UNKNOWN): I am just reflecting, the same as you, because I
just saw the film. But, in fact, the purpose is to show the
three new security features that we decided to disclose today. I
take the opportunity to say that, on the 10th of January, there
will be the disclosure of the full note, the full new five euro
note, in the - in the archaeological museum here in Frankfurt.  And we will show the Greek vase dated for more than 2,000 years
ago that belongs to the Musee du Louvre. We will show the vase
from where the portrait of Europa (ph) was taken. So there will
be an exhibition, and the full disclosure of all the other
features of the note. Today it’s just three features, and that’s
what was shown in the film, the hologram, the watermark, and
five number changing color that you saw. That’s it.  STAFF: Thank you. Thank you very much.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  