-- Evercore Acquires Mt. Eden to Boost California Investment Advice
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-11-08T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/evercore-acquires-mt-eden-to-boost-california-investment-advice.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the advisory
firm founded by  Roger Altman , agreed to purchase Mt. Eden
Investment Advisors LLC, a San Francisco-based wealth manager
with $645 million in client assets.  Mt. Eden’s chief executive officer, Keith McWilliams, and
two other executives will join Evercore as partners, the
companies said yesterday in a statement that didn’t disclose the
deal’s terms. The others new partners are Mt. Eden founding
principal Tim Barrett and senior portfolio manager Michael
O’Brien. The firm has offices in  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles .  “The expansion of our West Coast presence is an exciting
step in our continued growth as a national firm,” Jeff Maurer,
CEO of Evercore Wealth Management, said in the statement. The
additions will bring Evercore Wealth Management’s partner count
to 25 in the U.S., according to the statement.  Evercore, building its advisory team through hiring, is
limiting acquisitions to its investment management business,
Chief Executive Officer Ralph Schlosstein said on a conference
call last month. Mt. Eden, named after a family vineyard, was
 established  in 2004, according to the firm’s website.  Evercore’s investment-management business oversaw $11.6
billion of assets at the end of the third quarter, according to
a statement last month. For the nine months ended Sept. 30, pro-
forma investment-management net revenue was $62.5 million, or 15
percent of total net revenue, compared with $77.6 million, or 19
percent, in the same period last year.  Global Expansion  The  division  oversees investments from pensions, endowments
and corporations. A wealth-management arm serves family offices
and high-net-worth individuals. A private-equity business
manages funds and collaborates with Trilantic Capital Partners
on investments and transactions.  Evercore has expanded around the globe, partly through
acquisitions and partnerships. Last year, it bought Lexicon
Partners Ltd., a London-based advisory firm, and in 2010 the
company paid $20 million for 50 percent of G5 Advisors, a Sao
Paulo-based investment-banking boutique. Evercore said last
month it agreed with VTB Capital Plc to develop deals between
Russia and North America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 