-- Hewlett-Packard Unveils Faster Servers With Itanium Chips
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-11-08T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/hewlett-packard-unveils-faster-servers-with-itanium-chips.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  showed new
computer servers based on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium chip that
deliver faster processing while consuming less power, even as
the computer maker moves customers to a different technology
platform over time.  Hewlett-Packard introduced new servers that plug into its
 Superdome 2  and BladeSystem chassis, and an entry-level machine
for smaller companies. The hardware -- along with advances in
Hewlett-Packard’s HP-UX operating system software -- can process
computing transactions as much as three times faster than
previous Itanium-based servers while using less energy, the Palo
Alto, California-based company said in a statement.  The unveiling comes as Hewlett-Packard, which supplies
servers, data storage devices and networking equipment to
businesses, has seen  revenue  from its Business Critical Systems
line dry up since business software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  said last
year it planned to stop developing database software that runs
on the Itanium chip.  Sales  of Business Critical Systems dropped
16 percent to $385 million in the fiscal third quarter that
ended in July.  Meg Whitman , Hewlett-Packard’s chief executive officer, is
trying to restore growth at the company, whose sales are
expected to drop 5 percent this year and next, according to the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. At an Oct. 3
meeting with financial analysts, Whitman said earnings next year
would be far lower than analysts had expected.  Hewlett-Packard a year ago revealed a plan that would give
customers running Itanium servers -- which include banks and
telephone companies -- a path to move their programs to Intel’s
more widely used Xeon chips in coming years.  Customers will also be able to move those applications to
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows and  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) ’s Linux operating
systems. The advancements in the new servers and software will
“cascade” to more Xeon-based servers running Windows and Linux
over time, Hewlett-Packard said.  A California court in September ordered Oracle to keep
developing software for Itanium after Hewlett-Packard sued
Oracle in 2011 for contract violation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  