-- Ex-BP Engineer Seeks Dismissal of Spill Criminal Charge
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-11-08T17:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/ex-bp-engineer-seeks-dismissal-of-spill-criminal-charge.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged with
destroying evidence about the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill
asked a judge to dismiss one of the two charges against him.  Kurt Mix, charged with obstructing justice by deleting
text-message strings from his mobile phone, said one of the
counts, covering 182 messages to a contractor, should be thrown
out because the content of the texts was “patently innocuous.”
The government says a jury should decide.  “He’s the last person who deserves to be sitting in this
courtroom on obstruction of justice charges,” Mix’s lawyer Joan McPhee told U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval today at a
hearing in New Orleans. “Count two can and should be dismissed
now.”  Mix knew he wasn’t supposed to delete anything as the U.S.
investigated the 2010 incident, prosecutor Richard Pickens told
the court today.  “The only issue before the court is whether he had a
wrongful purpose,” Pickens said. “Simply denying a grand jury
the opportunity to examine whether or not material was relevant
-- that’s obstruction. It’s just that simple.”  Duval said he would focus on Mix’s intent in determining
whether to dismiss the charge.  Question of Intent  “This is not an overwhelmingly strong indictment,” the
judge said during the defense arguments. “My struggle is the
intent, to determine his intent,” he said. Duval said he would
consider the government’s argument that the simple act of
deletion is sufficient for the obstruction charge.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. It also set off hundreds of lawsuits
against BP, its partners and contractors on the project.  Mix’s prosecution is the first criminal case to arise from
the 2010 spill.  Mix, who has pleaded not guilty, faces a Feb. 25 trial. The
former engineer worked on internal BP efforts to estimate the
amount of oil leaking from the Macondo well. The two counts of
the indictment concern text messages between the contractor and
another string with his supervisor.  The  U.S. Justice Department , which began investigating the
incident in June 2010, said in April it was weighing whether to
file more charges. More cases are likely, U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder said earlier this year.  Grand Jury  A grand jury had been investigating the spill estimates,
Special Agent Barbara O’Donnell of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  said in a sworn statement in April.  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” O’Donnell said in the statement.  Mix deleted the e-mails in October 2010 despite receiving
notices from London-based BP in the weeks after the spill,
“which stated on the cover, in bold and underlined type, that
instant messages and  text messages  needed to be preserved,” the
government said in a May 2 indictment.  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, McPhee said at his arraignment.  Saved Messages  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of text
messages,” the defense lawyer said. The information saved
includes flow-rate data, work on the efforts to contain the
spill and his personal log notes, she said.  BP shareholders claim in a lawsuit in federal court in
Houston that the company understated the extent of the spill.
The investors, who are seeking to be allowed to sue BP in a
class, or group, action, say the company downplayed the size of
the spill to bolster share prices.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 