-- Ex-Madoff Controller Lipkin Pleads Guilty to Two Counts
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-09T00:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/ex-madoff-controller-lipkin-pleads-guilty-to-two-counts.html
Irwin Lipkin, the first employee
hired by  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct investment firm, pleaded
guilty to falsifying books and records, claiming he unwittingly
helped Madoff’s fraud.  “While working for Bernie Madoff, I made accounting
entries in financial records that I knew were inaccurate,”
Lipkin, 74, told U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in a
hearing today in  Manhattan . “These filings helped Mr. Madoff
run the  Ponzi scheme  that harmed thousands of people.”  Lipkin, Madoff’s former controller, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and to making false statements in employment records.
Lipkin, who used a wheelchair at the sentencing, was to have
pleaded guilty in September. He told Swain today that he has
been hospitalized twice in the past several months and suffered
from pneumonia. Lipkin faces as long as 10 years in prison when
he’s sentenced on March 22.  In pleading guilty, Lipkin told Swain he didn’t know that
Madoff was running a vast fraud. He retired from Madoff’s firm
in 1998, he said.  “I would like the court to know that at no time before I
retired was I ever aware that Mr. Madoff or anyone else at the
company was engaged in the Ponzi scheme reported in the media,”
Lipkin said. “My belief in  Bernie Madoff ’s trading skills was
such that I encouraged my own family to invest their money in
accounts managed by Mr. Madoff.”  Son’s Plea  David Richman, Lipkin’s lawyer, didn’t elaborate on his
client’s statement when asked after the hearing how Lipkin could
have not known of Madoff’s fraud.  Swain said Lipkin may remain free until sentencing on a
$1.5 million bond, to be secured with $250,000 in cash or
property.  Lipkin’s son, Eric Lipkin, pleaded guilty to six criminal
counts in June 2011, admitting he falsified documents to show
non-existent holdings in accounts and to pay people for no-show
jobs. Eric Lipkin, who is cooperating with the government’s
investigation into the Madoff fraud, faces as long as 70 years
in prison when he’s sentenced.  Irving Picard , the  New York  lawyer appointed to liquidate
Madoff’s former firm, sued Eric and Irwin Lipkin and their
families in 2010 to recover $9.2 million in money he claims they
received from Madoff’s fraud.  ‘Like Family’  Madoff hired Irwin Lipkin in 1964 as his firm’s first
employee, Lipkin said at today’s hearing. Madoff continued
paying him for several years after he had retired to  Florida ,
Picard said.  “Irwin considered himself to be like family to Madoff, and
over the years, Irwin served as the controller in Madoff’s inner
circle of core employees,” Picard said in his complaint, adding
that Irwin referred to Madoff in a 1998 letter as “the brother
I never had.”  In June,  Peter Madoff  pleaded guilty to helping his brother
commit the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history. Bernard Madoff,
who was arrested in December 2008, pleaded guilty and is serving
a 150-year sentence in federal prison in  North Carolina .  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  