-- First Reserve, SK Increase TPC Group Bid to $705 Million
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-08T21:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/first-reserve-sk-increase-tpc-group-bid-to-705-million.html
First Reserve Corp. and SK Capital
Partners raised their takeover offer for  TPC Group Inc. (TPCG)  13
percent to $705.9 million to fend off a competing bid for the
world’s largest producer of butadiene.  Investment funds backed by First Reserve and SK will pay
TPC investors $45 a share in cash, up from $40 agreed to in
August, Houston-based TPC said today in a statement. TPC also
said it ended talks with fuel-additives maker  Innospec Inc. (IOSP)  and
private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and stopped providing
them with due diligence information. TPC said Oct. 8 that
Innospec and Blackstone made a non-binding offer of $44 to $46 a
share.  TPC rose 3.6 percent to $46.49 at in  New York . Innospec
fell 2.7 percent to $31.46.  Sandell Asset Management Corp., the third-largest TPC
shareholder according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said in
August that the $40 bid from First Reserve and SK was an
“outrage” and an attempt to steal the company at the bottom of
the industry’s cycle.  TPC competes in the market for butadiene, a chemical used
to make synthetic rubber, with LyondellBasell Industries NV,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Exxon Mobil Corp. It plans to boost
output by refurbishing a Houston plant to make the chemical from
butane, a component of natural gas that has increased in supply
with production from shale-rock formations.  Blackstone Control?  The higher bid is 34 percent more than TPC’s closing share
price on July 24, the day before the possibility of a buyout was
first reported. It values TPC at 8.5 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the 7.3 median
multiple of 16 other chemical-industry takeovers worth at least
$100 million announced this year, the data also show.  First Reserve and SK’s offer is superior to Innospec’s
because it’s definitive, fully financed and can close months
sooner, said  Louis Meyer , a  New York-based special situations
analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. TPC’s decision to end due
diligence should hasten Innospec’s decision whether to increase
its bid, he said.  “If Innospec is serious, they are going to have to come
back with an offer that’s effectively in the high $40s and fully
financed,” Meyer said by phone.  ‘Strategic Fit’  The takeover should receive regulatory approval by Nov. 15
and may close shortly after a Dec. 5 vote by TPC shareholders,
First Reserve and SK said in a separate statement today. A
buyout by Blackstone and Innospec wouldn’t be able to close
until next year and may require the approval of Innospec
shareholders, First Reserve and SK said.  There is little “strategic fit” between Innospec and TPC
and an acquisition probably would dilute Innospec profit
margins, First Reserve and SK said. They said such a deal could
transfer control of Innospec to Blackstone, which has agreed to
provide equity financing.  “We object strongly to the statements they have made, some
of which are either false or misleading and which reflect a
significant lack of understanding of Innospec’s business, its
strategy and its proposal,” Innospec Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Williams said in a statement today. “We have no
additional comment at this time.”  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  ‘Termination Fee’  TPC said the termination fee for the First Reserve and SK
deal increased to $24 million. That equates to about $1.50 per
TPC share, so any revised Innospec offer would have to be at
least $46.50 to compensate for the fee while matching the $45
bid, Meyer said.  QVT Fund LP and and One East Partners have signed voting
agreements in support of the transaction, First Reserve and SK
said. QVT is the largest TPC investor with 17 percent and One
East holds 4 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP and Baker Botts LLP are
advising TPC, and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is
counsel to the special committee of TPC’s board. First Reserve
and SK’s financial adviser is Jefferies Group Inc. and its legal
counsel is Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  