-- Global Lenders Pledge $38 Billion to Eastern Europe
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-11-08T16:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/global-lenders-pledge-38-billion-to-eastern-europe.html
International lenders will support
eastern  Europe  with more than 30 billion euros ($38 billion) in
the next two years to shield it from the impact of the euro
area’s debt crisis, mimicking a plan they implemented in 2009.  The  European Investment Bank , based in  Luxembourg , the
Washington-based World Bank and the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  in London today agreed on an
action plan for the region, they said in a joint statement.
Under the plan, they will loan to and invest in private and
public-sector projects including infrastructure, corporations
and the financial industry, they said.  While the situation in the region isn’t as bad as three
years ago, “we still see capital outflows, particularly from
banking sectors,”  William Jackson , a London-based economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said in a phone interview. “It’s not
the same urgency to put a lot of money on the table as in 2009
and we are quite surprised at the size of these numbers.”  Eastern Europe has been hit by the slowdown in the euro
region, its biggest export market and main source of investment
and bank financing. Exports have fallen “significantly” in
most countries in the region in recent months, the EBRD said
last month. Western European lenders have continued to cut
capital and funding in the east, where they own about three-
quarters of the banking industry.  ‘Collateral Damage’  Economies in eastern Europe risk becoming “collateral
damage” in the euro-region debt crisis as western banks
withdraw funds and the currency union’s recession undermines
growth, EBRD President Suma Chakrabarti said in Warsaw Oct. 18.
While the “most disruptive scenarios” have been avoided, “a
steady outflow” of funds from the region persists, he said.  European lenders may need to sell as much as $4.5 trillion
in assets through 2013 should policy makers fail to stem the
crisis, which would leave countries in central and eastern
Europe the most vulnerable in the world, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a report on Oct. 10.  Eastern European economies will expand at half last year’s
pace in 2012 because of worsening economic prospects in the 17-
nation euro area, the EBRD said last month. The 29 eastern
European and central Asian countries where it invests will grow
2.7 percent this year and 3.1 percent next year.  Jobs, Growth  “The on-going economic and financial instability in Europe
continues to threaten growth and jobs, particularly in central
and southeastern Europe,” World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
said in today’s joint statement. The lenders’ plan seeks “to
help these countries cope with the impact of the continued euro-
zone crisis,” he said.  The EIB will provide at least 20 billion euros under the
plan, mainly in long-term loans addressing areas such as
promoting small businesses, energy projects and innovation,
according to the statement. The  World Bank  pledged 6.5 billion
euros to sectors including banking, infrastructure,
manufacturing, agriculture, services and trade. The EBRD may
invest 4 billion euros in loans, equity and trade financing “to
facilitate regional integration and export-led growth,”
according to the statement.  The three international lenders pledged 24.5 billion euros
of loans and investments to prevent a banking-sector collapse in
eastern Europe in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy. They eventually disbursed 33 billion euros.  “These countries have made important adjustments in fiscal
and current accounts, increased domestic savings and improved
bank balance sheets,” according to the statement. “Restarting
and consolidating growth is imperative as the economies strive
to narrow the gap in  living standards ” with western Europe.  The financial support will be provided to Albania, Bosnia
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, the  Czech Republic , Croatia,  Estonia , the
former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, Hungary,  Kosovo ,  Latvia ,
 Lithuania , Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and
Slovenia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net  and
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  and
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  