-- Greek Unemployment Rate Increases as Recession Deepens
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-11-08T13:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/greek-unemployment-rate-increases-as-recession-deepens.html
Greece ’s jobless rate climbed to more
than a quarter of the workforce in August, extending its record
high as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras pushed through more
austerity measures linked to the country’s bailouts.  The rate rose to 25.4 percent from a revised 24.8 percent
in July, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical Authority said in
an e-mailed statement today. That’s the highest since the agency
began publishing monthly data in 2004.  The recession and deepening labor slump have been
exacerbated by spending cuts and tax increases imposed to trim a
 budget deficit  that was more than five times the euro-area limit
in 2009. Violence flared outside the parliament yesterday after
more than 50,000 protesters ringed the building as lawmakers
debated an austerity bill, approved in the early hours of this
morning, with more measures needed to keep rescue loans from the
euro area and the  International Monetary Fund  flowing.  “The troika has to realize that asking Greece for more
austerity in the future would be absolutely counter-
productive,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank AG in  London . “A lot of austerity is actually
too much, as the unemployment data show.”  Budget Vote  The parliament will convene again on Nov. 11 to vote on the
2013 budget, a day before euro-area finance ministers meet to
discuss whether to unlock funds for Greece. A 31.5 billion-euro
($40 billion) tranche has been frozen since June as Samaras’s
coalition government haggled over the measures and a two-year
extension to meet the fiscal targets in its March bailout
accord.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the Greek
debt crisis isn’t solved yet and finance ministers may fail to
decide on unlocking funds for Greece.  “We’re not out of the woods yet,” Schaeuble said at a
panel discussion in Hamburg today. “At the moment, I don’t see
how we can take the decision already next week.”  A breakdown of today’s release showed the female jobless
rate was 29 percent, while the rate for Greeks aged 15 to 24 was
58 percent. That’s more than double the youth unemployment rate
of 24.3 percent in August 2009, before the extent of Greece’s
deficit became known, sparking the debt crisis.  Broad-Based  “This is a broad-based deterioration,” said  Nicholas Magginas , an economist at  National Bank of Greece SA  in Athens.
“The drag from new fiscal measures will continue to have a
strong impact for at least the next three quarters, so it’s hard
for the situation in the labor market to stabilize right now.”  Greece’s gross domestic product is forecast to shrink 6
percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2013, before growing 0.6
percent in 2014, the European Commission said yesterday. By the
end of this year, Greece will have lost a fifth of its economic
output since it entered the recession in 2008.  The highest regional jobless rate was in Epirus and part of
Macedonia in northern Greece, at 28.5 percent, up from 27.6
percent in July, the statistical authority said. The lowest rate
was in Crete, at 19.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  