-- Greek Aid Payment Call Won’t Be Made Next Week, EU Official Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-11-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/greek-aid-payment-call-won-t-be-made-next-week-eu-official-says.html
Euro-area finance ministers may not
make a decision on unlocking funds for  Greece  until late
November as they await a full report on the country’s compliance
with the terms of its bailout, a European Union official said.  Finance chiefs won’t make the call to release 31.5 billion
euros ($40.1 billion) of aid for Greece that has been frozen
since June when they meet in Brussels on Nov. 12, the official
said yesterday on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  Ministers will await a final report from the so-called
troika that oversees euro-area bailouts on Greece’s efforts to
meet the conditions of its second bailout since 2010 before
taking action, the official said. While a preliminary version
may be available for the Nov. 12 meeting, it won’t be enough for
ministers to base their decision on, the official said.  Greece is under pressure to make more efforts to rein in
its  budget deficit  and deregulate the economy. While German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  last month traveled to  Athens  to signal
her willingness to keep the Greece in the euro, the country is
still struggling to reach its debt-reduction targets amid a
combination of Greek political resistance to more cuts and
recession that has brought record unemployment.  “We’re not out of the woods yet,” German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Hamburg yesterday. “I don’t see how
we can take the decision already next week.”  General Strike  The EU official said Nov. 26 is a possible date for euro-
area finance ministers to sign off on the next disbursement of
rescue aid to Greece.  A Greek government spokesman declined to comment when asked
if a decision on the aid payment would be made at the Nov. 12
meeting.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras mustered the support
of enough lawmakers to secure approval of a bill on pension,
wage and benefit cuts needed for bailout funds to flow. The vote
occurred on the second day of a 48-hour general strike that shut
down hospitals, schools and government services and brought
public transport to a standstill. Apparent changes in
privatization laws will need to be evaluated, the official said.  The parliament will convene again on Nov. 11 to consider on
the 2013 budget. European Commission spokesman Simon O’Connor
saidthat the vote will be another “crucial” step toward
freeing up rescue funds.  The Greek government is working “in a good and
constructive spirit” with the troika, which comprises the
commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund , he said. “We certainly hope and expect that we
will be able to conclude this work in the coming days and to
work toward what we hope will be policy decisions on Monday at
the eurogroup.”  Greece has received 240 billion euros in aid pledges from
the EU and the International Monetary Fund since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  