-- Greek Short-Selling Ban Could Be Lifted Early
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-11-08T16:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/greek-short-selling-ban-could-be-lifted-early.html
Greece ’s market regulator said a ban
on short-selling stocks could be lifted early if equities keep
climbing, the government wins the next slice of European Union
bailout money and banks are recapitalized.  “We are very open if things turn out positively to lift
the ban even before the expiry of the three-month period,”
Constantinos Botopoulos, chairman of the Hellenic Capital Market
Commission, said by phone today. “We have noted the new
positive developments, both in markets and in the political
landscape, but it would be for us a bad moment now before the
two main events” of EU funds arriving and banks being
recapitalized.  Greece’s benchmark  ASE Index (ASE)  has surged 67 percent from a
two-decade low reached June 5 as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  pledged to do everything necessary to defend the
euro. The measure fell 3.8 percent to 794.67 at the close of
trading in Athens today.  Greek lawmakers approved a package of austerity measures
needed to unlock the EU bailout funds at a vote in Parliament
early today. The bill on pension, wage and benefit cuts was
approved with 153 votes in favor and 128 against.  Euro-area finance ministers may not make a decision on
granting funds until late November as they await a full report
on Greece’s compliance with the terms of its bailout, an EU
official said today. Finance chiefs won’t make the call to
release 31.5 billion euros ($40.1 billion) of aid for Greece
that has been frozen since June when they meet in Brussels on
Nov. 12, the official said on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  The Greek regulator introduced the short-selling ban in
August 2011. The restrictions were last extended at the end of
October, and are currently due to expire on Jan. 31.  “The maximum period for one ban is three months,”
Botopoulos said. “Hopefully, if the situation becomes better,
we’ll be able to lift it even before or see how things stand
after the three months have elapsed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  