-- Imeggable Pushes Defense Consolidation With First Buyout
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-08T13:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/imeggable-pushes-defense-consolidation-with-first-buyout.html
Imeggable Holdings’ acquisition of
 Air Parts Ltd.  is the first in the buyout fund’s strategy of
consolidating small defense-equipment suppliers in the U.K.,
group partner Stephen Greenwood said.  The company has raised about 150 million pounds ($240
million) in debt funding to finance purchases as it targets
manufacturers posting annual sales of 25 million pounds or less,
Greenwood said in a telephone interview.  Centric Commercial
Finance Ltd.  was one of the main lenders for the Air Parts
takeover, which was completed in October, he said.  Declining European defense budgets and equipment makers’
demands for larger, more financially resilient suppliers are
creating pressure on smaller businesses to join forces or seek
larger partners.  Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE) , a U.K.
military-communications equipment provider that’s the world’s
biggest sonar manufacturer, said in July that it’s looking for
more purchases following eight acquisitions in two years.  “This industry is now set to consolidate,” Greenwood
said. Imeggable will explore purchases of component providers
and services companies as long as they are focused on the
defense market, he said.  Among targets for the Gibraltar-based buyout fund are
retiring owners looking to dispose of their companies, Greenwood
said.  “There is quite a bit of pent-up demand from people who
want to sell their business,” he said in the Nov. 5 interview.  Supplying BAE  Air Parts is a Woking, England-based producer of brackets,
bolts and other items for manufacturers such as London-based  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s biggest defense contractor. Imeggable
started working on the takeover in August, said Greenwood, who
is serving as chief executive of Air Parts.  The purchase represents the first deal around which other
acquisitions will take place, and the buyout strategy includes
keeping much of the existing management team, he said.  Centric Commercial Finance provided asset-backed financing
for the takeover, Greenwood said. That form of funding was used,
rather than private equity, to avoid saddling Air Parts with
high interest payments, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  