-- IMF Adds to Pressure on Spain to Seek Bailout, ECB Help
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-11-08T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/imf-adds-to-pressure-on-spain-to-seek-bailout-ecb-help.html
The  International Monetary Fund  urged
euro-region countries facing high borrowing rates to seek a
bailout that will activate the  European Central Bank ’s bond-
purchase program, adding to pressure on  Spain , which has been
resisting the move.  In a note prepared for finance officials of the Group of 20
nations who met in Mexico Nov. 4-5 and released today, the IMF
said countries “under stress” should turn to the region’s
rescue mechanisms if needed while continuing to shore up their
public finances.  “Access to funding at reasonable costs is essential to
allow economies to adjust successfully,” the IMF wrote. “While
economies in the periphery must continue to adjust their fiscal
balances at a pace they can bear, in the current fragile
environment, putting in place the right policies may not be
sufficient to fully restore the confidence of markets, not least
because of implementation risks.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is keeping investors
guessing as to whether he will request a bailout that would
trigger the ECB’s Outright Monetary Transaction. He said on Nov.
6 that he needs to know how much the central bank would push
down Spain’s bond yields before his government applies for aid
and signs up to the conditions attached.  “Lower  interest rates  and easier financial conditions are
key factors to facilitate balance sheet repair and support
growth in the periphery,” said the IMF, which co-finances
bailouts in Greece, Portugal and Ireland.  The Washington-based IMF also said the threat of automatic
tax increases and spending cuts in the U.S. set to take effect
next year is a “major source of risk” on global growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  