-- India 15% Loan Growth Led by Cautious Buyers: Mortgages
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-11-09T07:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/india-15-loan-growth-led-by-cautious-buyers-mortgages.html
Raghavendra Deshpande took a 20-year
home loan in 2005 to buy a two-bedroom apartment in  Mumbai . He
plans to have it all repaid within three years.  “I don’t want to have debt for long, I want to be in
control,” said Deshpande, 41, a project manager at Itek
Business Solutions, who took a 1.3 million rupee ($23,921) loan
for his 1.8 million rupee property. “ Interest rates  matter too.
If I continue my loan for a longer tenure, my interest payments
will be higher than the principal loan amount.”  Home loan debt, at $104 billion or 8 percent of gross
domestic product, about a 10th of U.S. and European levels, will
grow about 15 percent annually over the next five years, to 13
percent of GDP by March 31, 2015, according to  Emkay Global
Financial Services Ltd. (EMKAY) , a Mumbai-based brokerage.  As Indians are drawn to financial services, technology and
manufacturing jobs in cities such as Mumbai, Bangalore and New
Delhi, more young professionals are cautiously borrowing to buy
their homes. The loans, which average 13 years at origination,
are repaid in less than five and a half, according to  Housing
Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) ,  India ’s  biggest  mortgage lender. That
helps banks keep bad loans in check and expand lending, and it
has driven up home prices, which led the world in gains over the
past decade, almost quadrupling through the end of last year.  ‘Debt Averse’  “People in India are very debt averse,” Keki M. Mistry,
chief executive officer of HDFC, said in an interview in Mumbai.
HDFC forecasts loan growth will expand as much as 20 percent for
the next few years. The average size of a home loan at HDFC
climbed 10 percent to 2.15 million rupees this year, from 1.95
million a year ago, the lender said.  India faces an urban housing shortage of 18.8 million
units, according to government estimates. The shortage will lead
to inadequate housing for about a quarter of the 81 million
households that live in urban India, according to a report.  “India’s demographic dividend is a major driver for the
mortgage finance market,” said  Brian Hunsaker , a Hong Kong-
based banking analyst at brokerage Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. “A
relatively younger population than other geographies ensures
more people will start earning in coming years or relocate,
triggering demand for mortgage loans.”  This demand is prompting optimism among India’s lenders.
Mortgages account for almost half of retail loans by the banking
sector, according to data from the Reserve Bank of India.
Mortgage loans constitute 9.3 percent, or 4.2 trillion rupees,
of the total loans by banks in India as of Sept. 21, data from
the central bank showed. By comparison, home loans in Singapore
make up 31 percent of total advances.  Smaller Cities  India had the biggest rise in housing prices in the world
in the decade to 2011, according to a  study  released by Lloyds
TSB International in June. Prices in India grew 284 percent over
the 10-year period compared to  Russia ’s 209 percent increase and
South Africa’s 161 percent gain.  China  clocked a 47 percent
increase, the data from Lloyds showed.  Demand is also increasing for homes in smaller Indian
cities such as Bhopal and Indore in central India and Jaipur in
the northwest of the country. Affordable pricing, improved
availability of loans and a shift in preference from independent
houses to apartments has boosted residential demand.  Small Indian cities will add 354 million square feet of
homes in the next three years, according to a CRISIL Research
 study  across 65 micro markets in 10 emerging real estate cities
in India. Sale of new apartments in these markets is estimated
to reach 180 billion rupees in the year ended March 31, 2012,
said CRISIL, the Indian rating unit of Standard & Poor’s.  HDFC’s top five markets for retail home loans include New
Delhi and its surrounding areas, Chennai, Mumbai, Bangalore and
Pune, it said.  ‘Smaller Cities’  “As the mortgage business penetrates into smaller cities
the repayment period will keep coming down,” R. V. Verma,
chairman of National Housing Bank, India’s regulator for
mortgage finance companies, said in an interview. “People in
smaller towns are more debt averse. This helps the mortgage
finance company grow faster as they can redeploy cash again.”  Prepayments have risen 14 percent in the year ended March
31, 2012, from 12 percent a year ago after the regulators for
banks and housing finance companies barred them from charging
prepayment penalties, according to CRISIL Research estimates.  Home  loans  at State Bank of India rose 13 percent in the
year to June 30 and made up 11 percent, or 1.05 trillion rupees,
of its loans as of June, according to the bank. State Bank has a
market share of 25.49 percent in India’s mortgage market,
according to the lender.  Shares (SBIN)  of State Bank of India gained more than nine times
in the decade to 2011. It rose 35 percent this year compared to
the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which climbed 22 percent.  Safer Bet  Indian banks’ outstanding loans to home buyers grew by 12
percent to 3.9 trillion rupees as of March 31 from a year ago,
while mortgage finance companies posted growth of 25 percent to
1.8 trillion rupees, according to Emkay Global.  “Independent mortgage finance companies will have an
advantage over the banks that are trying to focus on mortgage
loans,” said Hunsaker at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. “Sector
specific skills of housing finance companies will help them in
keeping bad loans at check and costs under control.”  Home loans late by 90 days or more account for 1.9 percent
of India’s mortgage market as of March 31, Ajay Srinivasan,
director at CRISIL Research, said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg queries. In comparison, the percent of mortgages
delinquent for 90 days in the U.S. was at 6.39 in September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Middle Class  “An Indian home buyer is worried about social status and
that stops him from defaulting on loan repayments linked to
apartments in which they are staying,” said Santosh Singh, a
Mumbai-based financial services analyst at Espirito Santo
Securities.  As more of India’s 1.2 billion population migrates’ to
cities from villages in search of better paying jobs, the need
for housing will grow. India’s middle class, in a country where
about 30 percent of the country’s people are under the age of
15, is expected to reach 267 million people in 2016 from 160
million last year according to the Asian Development Bank.  Most buyers take a home loan for 10 years or more and end
up repaying it within four to five years, Vikas Oberoi, chairman
of  Oberoi Realty Ltd. (OBER) , India’s second-largest developer by value
said. About 85 percent of home-loan borrowers are employed by
companies, while the rest are self-employed, according to
Srinivasan at CRISIL. The average age of the borrower was 35 to
36 years old.  Rates Unchanged  Banks have access to funds through deposits, where the cost
of funds is as low as 4 percent, while the housing finance
companies raise money through the sale of bonds or term loans at
rates which are at least 300 basis points higher, said Nitin Kumar, a Mumbai-based analyst at Quant Broking Pvt.  The size of the mortgage-backed securities market is
estimated at 72 billion rupees for the year ended March 31,
according to CRISIL Research, based on rated transactions.  India’s  central bank  on Oct. 30 left interest rates
unchanged at 8 percent to fight price pressures while cutting
lenders’ reserve requirements to back a policy revamp by the
government aimed at reviving growth.  India’s mortgage rates are among Asia’s highest at about 11
percent. Hong Kong’s average mortgage rate is about 2.15
percent, while China’s is 7.43 percent, according to Barclays
Plc. Indonesian rates range from 8 percent to 10 percent while
in South Korea they are about 5 percent, the bank said.  ‘Sweet Spot’  When tax incentives for mortgagees are considered, the
average cost of borrowing is closer to 7.1 percent, according to
HDFC, the world’s most valuable independent mortgage lender.  HDFC  shares  have gained 21 percent this year, giving it a
market value of 1.22 trillion rupees.  “India will remain a sweet spot among the global mortgage
finance markets,” V. K. Sharma, chief executive at the LIC
Housing Finance Ltd., the country’s second-largest mortgage
finance company, said in an interview. “Increasing income
levels, tax incentives, demographics and rapid urbanization will
keep driving demand in this deeply underpenetrated market where
asset quality remains healthy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  