-- Indonesia Holds Key Rate as Growth Withstands Global Risks
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-11-08T07:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/indonesia-holds-key-rate-as-growth-withstands-global-slowdown.html
Indonesia  kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged for a ninth straight meeting as economic growth
exceeding 6 percent reduced the need for monetary stimulus.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Indonesia’s growth has outperformed every major Asian
economy after  China  this year as the world’s fourth-most
populous nation lures investment, helping gross domestic product
expand 6.17 percent last quarter from a year earlier. The
country has avoided adding to a February rate cut while
neighbors from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  extended monetary
easing to counter faltering global growth, as the region’s
worst-performing currency this year boosted inflation pressure.  “Growth is persisting compared with other Asian
economies,” Edimon Ginting, a deputy country director at the
Asian Development Bank’s Indonesian resident mission based in
Jakarta, said in a telephone interview before the decision.
“There’s no room for the central bank to add stimulus for the
economy as we see the currency remaining under pressure and core
inflation will probably increase.”  The rupiah weakened 0.3 percent to 9,638 per dollar as of
1:58 p.m. in Jakarta. It has fallen more than 6 percent this
year, the biggest decline among 11 most-traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, reducing the scope for monetary easing.
The Jakarta Composite index slid 0.9 percent.  Inflation Quickens  Indonesia’s consumer prices climbed 4.61 percent in October
from a year earlier, pushing inflation to a 13-month high. The
core inflation rate was 4.59 percent, compared with a 4.12
percent pace the month before.  “Further interest-rate cuts in Indonesia are unlikely,”
Gareth Leather, Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said
in a note after the decision. “As one of the least trade-
dependent economies in Asia, Indonesia is well-positioned to
withstand the impact of weak global demand.”  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has pledged to build
more highways, airports and ports to improve infrastructure and
meet a growth target of an average 6.6 percent by the end of his
second term in 2014. The government expects growth to accelerate
to the fastest pace since before the Asian financial crisis next
year on investment and infrastructure spending.  Growth Forecast  GDP may expand 6.6 percent in 2013, compared with the
official budget target of 6.8 percent, Vice Finance Minister
Anny Ratnawati said in an interview this week. That would be the
biggest gain since 1996, based on International Monetary Fund
data. Growth may be 6.4 percent this year, she said.  “Economic growth is expected to accelerate, supported by
strong domestic consumption and investment,” the central bank
said today. “Exports are expected to improve with the recovery
in some trading partners, although the outlook remains shadowed
by global economic uncertainty.”  L’Oreal SA, the world’s largest cosmetics maker, expects to
boost sales in Indonesia by as much as 35 percent over the next
five years as an expanding middle class spurs demand. Annual
revenue for this year and next will probably rise more than 30
percent in the country, Vismay Sharma, the company’s country
chief, said in an Oct. 29 interview. L’Oreal yesterday
inaugurated a new West Java plant that will be its largest
factory globally.  External Pressure  Bank Indonesia reduced the 2012 growth target to 6.3
percent from 6.5 percent, Dody Budi Waluyo, an executive
director of strategic planning and public relations at the
authority, said today. The central bank kept the forecast for
2013 at 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent.  Inflation remains manageable and will probably be at the
midpoint of Bank Indonesia’s target range of 3.5 percent to 5.5
percent at the end of this year, the central bank said. Loans
growth as of the end of September was 22.9 percent from a year
earlier, it said.  Pressure on external balances are beginning to ease as the
current account and balance of payments improve, it said. The
rupiah’s movement is still in line with market conditions, and
the intensity of the depreciation is easing, Bank Indonesia said.  The current-account deficit in the third quarter narrowed
to 2.4 percent of GDP, or $5.34 billion, from 3.5 percent in the
second quarter, the bank said, citing a recovery in the trade
balance as consumption goods imports decline. The balance of
payment last quarter was a surplus of $834 million, and that may
increase as the capital account is boosted by foreign direct
investments, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  