-- LinkedIn Drops Most in Three Months as Rival’s Sales Miss
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-11-08T22:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/linkedin-drops-most-in-three-months-as-rival-reports-sales-miss.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the biggest
professional-networking website, fell the most in three months
amid a decline in other Web companies and  Monster Worldwide
Inc. (MWW) ’s report of third-quarter revenue that trailed estimates.  LinkedIn’s stock tumbled 4.8 percent to $96.35 at the close
in New York, the  biggest drop  since Aug. 2. The S&P 500
Information Technology Index declined 1.4 percent today to its
lowest level since July 12. Shares of Internet stocks fared
poorly; OpenTable Inc., Shutterfly Inc., Yelp Inc., Trulia Inc.
and Zillow Inc. all lost ground today.  LinkedIn’s  high  valuation -- it has a price-to-earnings
ratio of 134 times this year’s expected earnings -- and the
company’s tendency to  swing  more widely than the broader market
may have led to the  decline , said Bill Sutherland, an analyst at
Northland Securities Inc., which is based in  Minneapolis .  “It’s a tug-of-war in this stock between the valuation and
the perceived level of growth,” said Sutherland, who has an
 outperform  rating on the shares.  Investors believe LinkedIn’s fundamental performance is
sound and may be “locking in their gains,” he said. The shares
have  risen  53 percent this year. The company reported third-
quarter  sales  on Nov. 1 that topped analysts’ estimates as it
sold more subscriptions to its expanding customer base.  Morgan Stanley earlier reported a 3.9 percent passive stake
in Mountain View, California-based LinkedIn.  Monster Sale  Monster Worldwide, the Internet recruiting service
exploring a sale, reported third-quarter sales that declined and
missed analysts’ estimates. The stock rose the most in almost
six months an an intraday basis after the company said it will
seek a buyer for its ChinaHR unit and restructure to sell less
lucrative businesses.  “Monster reported today and had their usual mixed bag,”
said Sutherland. “It’s just been a bad week for high multiple,
high-beta stocks.”  LinkedIn’s shares are also reacting to a broader selloff in
Internet stocks that may be fueled by Wall Street’s reaction to
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election and a bearish outlook on
European sales, said Aaron Kessler, an analyst at Raymond James
& Associates in San Francisco. He has a market perform rating on
the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  