-- Lions Gate Gains Most in 2 Years on ‘Hunger Games’ Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-09T19:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/lions-gate-posts-quarterly-profit-on-hunger-games-sales.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  rose
the most in more than three years after video sales of “The
Hunger Games” helped quarterly profit beat analysts’ estimates
and bolstered the company’s outlook for the rest of the year.  The  shares  climbed 13 percent to $16.57 at 2:08 p.m. in New
York after gaining 15 percent, the most intraday since January
2009. The stock, up 75 percent this year through yesterday,
today was among the top performers in the Russell 2000 Index.  “Hunger Games” home-video revenue exceeded the studio’s
expectations, Chief Financial Officer James Keegan said today on
a conference call. Lions Gate sees continued revenue growth from
the final “Twilight” film, set for a Nov. 16 release, and from
foreign distribution deals that reduce risk on the next “Hunger
Games” movie, Chief Executive Officer Jon Feltheimer said.  “We’re in a stronger position than ever to secure
competitive terms with our distribution partners, create new
output agreements around the world and attract creative
talent,” Feltheimer said on the call.  Profit for the fiscal second quarter was $75.5 million, or
53 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $25.3 million, or
19 cents, a year earlier, the Vancouver-based company said
yesterday in a statement. That beat $12.4 million, the average
of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “‘The Hunger Games’ profits really filtered through on the
DVD,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with Wunderlich
Securities in Denver, who recommends buying the shares.  Novel-Based Films  Lions Gate is positioning itself as a major supplier of
novel-based films catering to teenagers and young adults. The
studio is releasing the final movie in the “Twilight” vampire
romance series and is developing films based on the books
“Ender’s Game,” “Chaos Walking” and “Divergent.”  “They’ve been on a roll creatively for a while now and
this is the first quarter you can see that flowing into the
financials,” said Harrigan. “The real story is their ability
to develop franchises.”  Lions Gate acquired the “Twilight” finale through the
acquisition in January of closely held Summit Entertainment for
$412.5 million.  Sales almost doubled in the quarter ended Sept. 30, to
$707 million. Revenue was ahead of the average-analyst estimate
of $623.4 million.  While the company hasn’t offered a forecast for fiscal
full-year sales and earnings, analysts  project  net income of
$76.7 million on sales of $2.51 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  