-- Iran Fired on U.S. Predator Drone in Gulf, Pentagon Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-11-09T00:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/iran-fired-on-u-s-predator-drone-in-gulf-pentagon-says.html
Iranian aircraft fired on an unarmed
U.S. Predator drone that was conducting routine surveillance in
international waters, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said.  The drone wasn’t hit and returned safely to its base,
Little said. The drone was 16 nautical miles from the Iranian
coast at the time of the incident on Nov. 1, he said.  “We believe this is the first time an unmanned aircraft
has been shot at over international waters in the  Arabian
Gulf ,” Little told reporters today in a Pentagon briefing.  International tensions over the waterway, also known as the
 Persian Gulf , have increased as the U.S. and allies have
tightened economic sanctions aimed at forcing  Iran  to abandon
elements of its nuclear program that could be used to develop an
atomic bomb. Iranian officials have periodically threatened to
close the  Strait of Hormuz , which leads into the gulf and
through which about 20 percent of the world’s oil transits
daily.  The Pentagon didn’t announce the attack on the drone when
it occurred because “we routinely do not advertise our
classified surveillance missions,” Little said at a news
conference.  Little said the Pentagon considered media reports of the
attack to be “an unauthorized disclosure of classified
information” and that he was commenting only because it had
already been disclosed.  The Pentagon has declined to comment on a drone that
crashed in Iran in December. Iranian officials showed off video
of the pilotless plane at the time.  No Warning  In the latest incident, the unmanned MQ-1 Predator
aircraft, made by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. of
 San Diego ,  California , was flying off the Iranian coast in
international airspace when it was attacked at 4:50 a.m. Eastern
Daylight time, Little said.  While the spokesman initially described an Iranian
“aircraft” attack, he said in a later e-mail that two Iranian
Su-25 Frogfoot ground-attack planes were involved in the
incident.  “Our working assumption is that they fired to take it
down,” he said at the press conference. “You’ll have to ask
the Iranians why they engaged in this action.”  The drone was fired on “at least twice” and was pursued
“for several miles,” Little said. The drone returned to its
base in the region without damage, he said.  He declined to name the base or identify what government
agency operated the drone. Both the military and the Central
Intelligence Agency use Predators.  The Predator has a cruise speed of 84 to 135 miles per hour
(135 to 217 kilometers per hour) and a wingspan of 55 feet (16.8
meters), according to an Air Force  factsheet .  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  “was advised very early in
the morning of the incident,” Little said. “The White House
was informed very quickly as well.”  The U.S., through Swiss intermediaries, expressed its
“very strong concerns” to Iran about the attack, Little said.  “We have communicated to the Iranians that we will
continue to conduct surveillance flights over international
waters over the Arabian Gulf consistent with long-standing
practice,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  