-- Iran Cyber-Repression Brings U.S. Sanctions on Officials
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-11-08T23:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/iran-cyber-repression-brings-u-s-sanctions-on-officials.html
The Obama administration imposed
 sanctions  on Iranian officials and government bodies for their
role in blocking Internet access, mobile-phone lines and
satellite television channels to stifle freedom of speech.  Reza Taghipour, the country’s minister of communications
and information technology, tops a blacklist that includes the
head of the Iranian police, Esmail Ahmadi Moghaddam, who in
September 2009 created a cyber-police unit that has blocked
foreign websites and social networks, the  U.S. Treasury 
Department said yesterday in a  statement .  Also designated is Ali Fazli, deputy commander of the Basij
militia, which the U.S. says has launched attacks against
websites, including those of foreign news outlets, and has
violently broken up peaceful protests.  Among the entities censured are the Press Supervisory
Board, which controls publication licensing, and the Ministry of
Culture and Islamic Guidance, which the U.S. says has been
involved in arresting and detaining more than 150 journalists
since the June 2009 presidential election in Iran.  “Today’s designations further demonstrate our resolve to
put a stop to the Iranian regime’s continued efforts to deny the
Iranian people access to information and the ability to speak
freely,”  David Cohen , the Treasury’s under secretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence, said in the statement.  The action comes on the heels of President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election and is an indication of the administration’s
determination to keep the pressure on the Islamic regime
suspected of pursuing nuclear weapons.  ‘Malign Use’  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies in Washington, said yesterday’s
initiatives are meant to underscore the role that government
restrictions on technology play in crushing dissent.  Internet social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter and
YouTube have become vital for activists, as the so-called Arab
Spring uprisings demonstrated. The U.S. has stepped up efforts
to stop regimes such as Iran and Syria from blocking such access
through what Obama has called the “ malign use  of technology.”  The Internet-related sanctions were imposed by the Treasury
Department under an  executive order  signed in October by Obama.
The president also signed an executive order in April
authorizing sanctions against individuals and entities that
provide  information technology  that aid regimes in cracking down
on dissidents.  The message is “if you sell technology to Iran you are
selling to the Revolutionary Guard Corps,” said Dubowitz.  Equipment Sales  A Bloomberg News  investigation  last year exposed Western
companies’ sales of surveillance systems to repressive
governments, including Iran and Syria. In Iran, European
companies provided or marketed gear to track citizens’ locations
and communications that  law enforcement  or state security
agencies would have access to, the investigation showed.  Several Middle Eastern countries, including Syria,
purchased surveillance technology from a chain of businesses
that had been a  Siemens AG (SIE)  unit, the Bloomberg probe showed. In
Bahrain, transcripts from such gear were used in brutal
interrogations, Bloomberg reported in August 2011.  In Syria, an Italian company,  Area SpA (YAI) , was building a
system to intercept, scan and catalog virtually every e-mail
that flows through the country, Bloomberg reported in November
2011. Following the disclosure, Area said it was exiting the
deal. The system included components from German and French
firms, as well as two U.S. companies, California-based  NetApp
Inc. (NTAP)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  In December, the European Union
barred exports of surveillance technology to Syria.  Web Filters  In the latest U.S. action, the Treasury Department also
sanctioned Rasool Jalili for alleged efforts to acquire
equipment for monitoring text-messaging traffic from abroad.  As of early July 2012, Jalili was actively assisting the
Iranian government’s Internet censorship activities and was
involved in blocking Iranian citizens’  Internet access  to
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s online auction site,
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, in addition to other websites,
according to the Treasury’s statement.  He also assisted in blocking any website that contained
content criticizing the Iranian government such as independent
and international newspapers, blogs, and activist sites,
according to the statement. Jalili’s company, AmnAfzar Gostar-e
Sharif, provided Internet censorship and filtering software to
the government, the U.S. said.  Many  Internet service providers  in Iran “use an integrated
software and hardware system known as Separ, produced by
AmnAfzar, which can monitor web traffic and block political
websites and Internet communications,” according to the U.S.
Treasury.  Jamming Satellite TV  The Treasury Department statement identified Taghipour, the
communications minister, as “one of the leading Iranian
officials” in charge of censorship and control of Internet
activities. He has been responsible for the blocking of mobile-
phone lines and text messaging, jamming of satellite television
channels, and local suspension of Internet connectivity in the
wake of the June 2009 elections, according to the statement.  Under the sanctions, any property or interests in property
in the U.S. or in the possession or control of U.S. persons in
which the designated entities or individuals have an interest
are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from
engaging in transactions with them, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  