-- Iran to China Threaten Obama’s Second-Term Promises
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-11-08T15:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/iran-to-china-threaten-obama-s-second-term-promises.html
After a presidential campaign waged
on the domestic terrain of jobs and economic growth, President
 Barack Obama  is confronted by a volatile international
environment that will help determine whether he can keep his
promise to restore America’s prosperity.  Israel is threatening to attack Iran’s nuclear facilities,
a move that would roil oil markets and draw U.S. military
support for the Jewish state. The promise of the Arab Spring has
given way to concerns about the future of the new democracies,
and Islamic extremists threaten Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen and
a swath of North Africa.  China , the largest  holder of U.S. debt , is undergoing a
generational change in leadership and flexing its muscles toward
its neighbors. Despite Obama’s first-term effort to improve ties
with Russia, the relationship remains prickly. While the  U.S.
economy  is recovering slowly, America’s European allies are
mired in a financial crisis that threatens the global economy.  “The world has become a global market where bad debt,
higher  oil prices  and defaulting economies travel far, fast and
wide,” said  Aaron David Miller , an analyst at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington. “The
problem is that a president has very little control over those
factors,” even though he must mitigate their effects.  Obama will confront diverse security challenges with a
shrinking defense budget that will force choices among costly
weapons systems that create jobs and boost local economies, but
may not be as well-suited to 21st Century warfare as less
expensive cyber weapons and special operations forces.  New Dangers  There are new dangers, too, from the effects of  climate
change  to cyberattacks by foreign intelligence agencies,
independent hackers and criminal groups.  Many of the U.S. economic crises over the last century were
brought on wholly or in part by conflicts with adversaries
abroad, said  Michael O’Hanlon , a national security specialist at
the  Brookings Institution , a Washington policy center.  From the 1930 Smoot-Hawley tariffs that helped deepen the
Great Depression to the oil embargo that accompanied the 1973
Arab-Israeli War to the last decade’s wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan that added a couple trillion dollars to the federal
deficit, history shows that foreign policy can’t be an
afterthought, O’Hanlon said.  Obama will handle the international issues with a revamped
national security team including a new secretary of state and
perhaps defense secretary.  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to
the  United Nations , is emerging as the favored candidate to
succeed Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , according to six
current or former White House official who spoke on the
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  Here are some of the major national security issues that
continue to percolate as Obama savors his election win:  Defense Spending  One of Obama’s most immediate tasks will be to avert
automatic spending cuts that will take effect Jan. 2 if the
lame-duck Congress and the president can’t agree on a plan to
rein in the federal deficit or buy more time to do so.  The Budget Control Act of 2011 shrinks the  Pentagon budget 
in two phases -- $487 billion through 2021 and an additional
$500 billion unless action is taken to avert the across-the-
board cuts known as sequestration. Non-defense “discretionary”
spending, including foreign aid, would be cut by 8.2 percent.  The defense industry has said sequestration would cost tens
of thousands of jobs, and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has
said it would be “devastating” to the military.  At the same time, a rising China and an intransigent Iran
underscore a need to add to the Navy’s nine available aircraft
carrier strike groups, said John Nagl, a research fellow at the
U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.  Iran, Syria  One of the highest-stakes diplomatic challenges will be
convincing Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  to
abandon his nation’s suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons. If
economic sanctions and diplomacy fail to produce results by
sometime next year, the president may be forced to risk a war
with Iran.  Kenneth Katzman , a Mideast specialist at the nonpartisan
 Congressional Research Service , said more economic sanctions are
the likely next step, along with repeated pledges to use force
if necessary. The president also must make clear that if Iran
compromises, the sanctions that have hobbled its trade and
tanked its currency will be lifted, he said.  The president also will be under growing pressure to
intervene in the bloody civil war in Syria, an Iranian ally,
which is destabilizing neighboring Lebanon, threatening Turkey
and Jordan and attracting a new generation of radical Islamists.  Al-Qaeda’s ‘Franchise’  Syria isn’t the only battleground for the evolving terror
threat. While al-Qaeda has been battered in Afghanistan and
Pakistan, it has metastasized into an “amorphous movement”
whose affiliates in numerous countries could “plot acts of
terrorism against the U.S. homeland,” Katzman said in an
interview.  Jeffrey Dressler , an analyst at the Institute for the Study
of War, a Washington policy group, said extremists have
increased their presence in Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Mali, Yemen
and Somalia. The al-Qaeda “global franchise,” he said, “is
going to pose even more significant challenges in five or 10
years.”  To slow extremism’s progress, the president will have to do
more than use drone strikes and special operations forces,
Dressler said. Shrinking budgets notwithstanding, the
administration will need to target the poverty and official
corruption that allow militant Islam to flourish, he said.  Changing Egypt  Obama faces unfamiliar terrain in the Middle East as the
protest movements that swept the region continue to alter
internal politics and foreign relations.  The long U.S. alliance with Egypt will be reshaped, said
 Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy
group. What comes next under the Muslim Brotherhood government
is critical to preserving Egypt’s peace accord with Israel and
to maintaining priority access for the U.S. military through the
 Suez Canal .  The moribund Palestinian-Israeli peace process may be
unlikely to draw much attention from the White House. If Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is able to form a new
government in early 2013, U.S.-Israeli ties may continue to be
strained by the tension in his relationship with Obama.  In the near-term, Obama will have to manage the drawdown of
U.S. combat forces from Afghanistan he’s promised by the end of
2014 without abandoning the Afghan government or letting
insurgents reverse fragile gains. He probably will seek to keep
10,000 to 15,000 non-combat forces in the country to support
counter-terrorism operations and train and advise Afghan forces,
Nagl said.  China Challenges  Elsewhere in Asia, the president faces economic, diplomatic
and strategic challenges from China, where he’ll need to engage
new leaders and soothe ill feelings from the anti-China rhetoric
of the presidential campaign. While China is America’s second-
largest trading partner, the two nations have been embroiled
since 2009 in disputes over autos, rare-earth minerals, steel,
tires, chicken parts, electronic-payment services, government
support for clean energy and other issues.  Trade Deficit  The U.S. goods trade deficit with China reached a record
$295.4 billion last year, and the Obama administration has said
the Chinese  yuan  is undervalued at the expense of U.S. exports.
How much pressure the U.S. can exert may be limited by China’s
status as the top U.S. creditor.  China had made clear “the ball is in the U.S. court” to
restore a “positive and cooperative” tone, said  Chris Johnson ,
a China specialist and former CIA analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Across Asia, the administration needs to impress on China,
Japan and others the importance of peacefully resolving island
claims in the energy-rich East and South China Seas, analysts
said. Obama will have to try to get them to resolve their
differences “without wading into the very nasty waters of all
these territorial disputes,” said Michael Kugelman, an Asia
analyst at the Wilson Center.  As the euro crisis enters its fourth year, it remains an
unpredictable threat to the global economy and a constraint on
the U.S.’s traditional allies. Belt-tightening coupled with war
fatigue after military actions in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya
means there’s scant appetite in Europe for interventions to
stabilize nations such as Somalia and Mali.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  