-- Jamaica Bond Yields Jump to Nine-Month High After Belize Default
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-11-08T13:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/jamaica-bond-yields-jump-to-nine-month-high-after-belize-default.html
Jamaica ’s borrowing costs are surging
to the highest level in nine months after defaults by two
Caribbean neighbors combine with the region’s slowest economic
growth prospects to undermine investor confidence.  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2019 from the island nation,
which restructured $7.8 billion of bonds almost three years ago,
reached 8.31 percent on Oct. 31, the highest since February, and
traded at 8.25 percent yesterday. Jamaican notes lost 0.9
percent in October, the worst performance among 15 Central
American and Caribbean nations, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Bonds sold by  Pakistan  that carry the same B- rating from
 Standard & Poor’s  returned 6.3 percent.  While Jamaican yields are below the 13 percent level
reached before its 2010 restructuring, some investors are
concerned that Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller’s government
will struggle with debt payments following Belize and Grenada’s
defaults this year, said  Stuart Culverhouse , the chief economist
at Exotix Ltd. in  London . Jamaica’s economy is forecast to
expand 0.9 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2017, the
slowest pace in  Latin America  and the Caribbean, according to
the  International Monetary Fund . Central bank  reserves  fell by
more than half since April 2011 to $1.1 billion in October.  “How much longer can Jamaica muddle through this with
virtually no growth?” said Franco Uccelli, a senior economist
for Central America and the Caribbean at JPMorgan in Miami. He
said that while he doesn’t forecast a default, investors “are
starting to wonder if after Belize, Jamaica could be next.”  Hurricane Sandy  The prime minister’s office directed questions to the
 Finance Ministry . Officials at the Finance Ministry didn’t
respond to repeated phone messages and e-mailed requests for
comment by  Bloomberg News .  Expansion for the $14.5 billion economy is expected to
remain weak as Simpson Miller vows to cut spending to lower debt
and a global slowdown damps mining exports, Jamaica’s central
bank said Aug. 24. That was before Hurricane Sandy caused at
least 5 billion Jamaican dollars ($55 million) in damages last
month before it headed to the U.S., though it largely spared
resorts along the northern coast.  “Even before the hurricane we faced serious economic
challenges,” Simpson Miller said Oct. 30. “This has been made
worse by the passage of  Hurricane Sandy .”  Bond investors are hesitant about the region as tourism-
dependent economies are “one hurricane away from a plunge in
GDP,” Marcela Meirelles, a Latin American strategist at TCW in
 Los Angeles , said in an interview.  Caribbean Defaults  Jamaica is one of at least five Caribbean island nations to
restructure its debt since 2004. Grenada missed a Sept. 15
payment on $193 million of bonds before paying investors within
a 30-day grace period. Belize is in talks with creditors who
hold almost $300 million of bonds, its second restructuring in
five years, after missing a $23 million payment in August and
then paying half that amount a month later.  Jamaica swapped $7.8 billion of local bonds for securities
with longer maturities and lower  interest rates  in 2010, when
its debt burden exceeded 120 percent of gross domestic product.
Debt surged to 140 percent of GDP in June after Jamaica failed
to meet its budget targets, according to the IMF.  Remittances to Jamaica fell 2.6 percent to $170 million in
August from a year earlier, the second monthly decline,
according to the central bank. While tourism is likely to
experience growth this year, the economy “remained flat” last
quarter after contracting 0.1 percent in the first three months
of 2012, the bank said in an Oct. 31 report. It blamed the
decline on a disruption of mining operations and weak demand for
aluminum.  Willingness to Pay  The government is “committed to a policy of fiscal
prudence and debt sustainability over the medium-term,” central
bank Governor Brian Wynter said in a Sept. 11 speech in
Kingston. The bank said new taxes on goods and services such as
phone calls will help reduce the  budget deficit  to 3.8 percent
of GDP from 6.2 percent last year.  Concern that Jamaica will restructure its debt again are
overblown, said Boris Segura, Latin America analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  “Jamaica has been the poster boy for imminent default for
years now, but they don’t default,” Segura said in a phone
interview. “The country has a weak ability to pay but strong
willingness to pay.”  Dominican Bonds  The spread between Jamaica’s 2019 bonds and 2018 notes sold
by the  Dominican Republic , the Caribbean’s largest economy, has
increased to 4.42 percentage points, the widest since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While both countries
are seeking new accords with the IMF after failing to rein in
spending, investors see Jamaica as the greater risk because of
its high ratio of debt to GDP, said Culverhouse.  “What will matter in the near term is getting an IMF
agreement sorted out and watching fiscal performance,”
Culverhouse, who has a “hold” rating on Jamaican bonds, said
in a phone interview. “If performance starts to wane, the room
for maneuver is pretty limited and that might raise more
concerns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  