-- Japan Buys Most Treasuries in a Year During September, MOF Says
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-11-08T01:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/japan-buys-most-treasuries-in-a-year-during-september-mof-says.html
Japanese investors bought the most
Treasuries in a year and the biggest amount of bunds since 2010,
according to the Asian nation’s Ministry of Finance.  Net purchases of  U.S. government debt  totaled 1.26 trillion
yen ($15.8 billion) in September, the largest figure since the
same month last year, MOF data showed today. Japanese money
managers acquired a net 881.5 billion yen of German sovereign
debt, the highest since June 2010.  Demand for the world’s safest assets grew as the U.S. faces
the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts, while the euro area’s prolonged debt crisis
weighs on the region’s economy.  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year bond
yielded 0.75 percent today, the lowest globally after
Switzerland and  Hong Kong .  “Money managers are struggling to find investment
opportunities domestically and have to look abroad,” said
Hideki Shibata, a senior strategist for rates and currencies at
Tokai Tokyo Research Center Co. “They need to go to haven
assets overseas because there still remain concerns about the
global economy.”  Japan raised its stake in Treasuries by 6 percent this year
through August to $1.12 trillion, according to Treasury
Department data released Oct. 16. Chinese holdings of the debt
rose 0.1 percent to $1.15 trillion.  The  Federal Reserve  announced a plan on Sept. 13 to buy $40
billion of mortgage debt every month in a third round of
quantitative easing. The  European Central Bank  unveiled an
unlimited bond-purchase program that month.  China sold a net 135.2 billion yen in Japanese short-term
debt in September and offered a net 19.7 billion yen in the
nation’s medium- and long-term securities, MOF data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  