-- Japanese Politicians Move to Steer Away From Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-11-08T07:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/japanese-politicians-move-to-steer-away-from-fiscal-cliff-1-.html
Japan ’s parliament began talks on how
to finance spending for the rest of this fiscal year after a
months-long impasse that has left the government weeks away from
running out of money.  “We can’t rule out the possibility of adverse economic
effects,” from any further delays, Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said today in the Diet’s lower house as debate began on
issuing 38.3 trillion yen ($480 billion) in debt to cover about
40 percent of spending for the year through March. Japan’s three
main parties have reached an agreement to approve the bond bill
in the lower house on Nov. 15,  Kyodo News  reported.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s ability to spend to shore
up an economy at risk of recession has been restrained by the
main opposition Liberal  Democratic Party ’s blocking of the bond
bill amid a dispute over the timing of an election. The LDP has
softened its stance as regions complain of economic pain from a
lack of funding and Group of 20 finance officials call for an
end to the gridlock.  The ruling Democratic Party of Japan and the opposition LDP
and New Komeito have agreed to pass the bill in the lower house
on Nov. 15, Kyodo News reported today, without citing anyone.
The legislation needs to be approved by the opposition-
controlled upper house once it clears the lower chamber.  Shinzo Abe, the LDP’s leader and a former prime minister,
said yesterday his party doesn’t plan to block the passage of
the bill, which was originally submitted in January, Jiji Press
reported.  Regional Pain  Disruption to spending by local authorities, which account
for about two-thirds of public outlays, could further drag on
the economy as exports and production slide. Gross domestic
product shrank an annualized 3.4 percent in the three months
through September, according to the median estimate of 17
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The data is due Nov. 12.  Jojima said last week that the government could run out of
money at the end of this month if the bill isn’t passed, while
his ministry warned investors that it may have to cancel a bond
auction scheduled for Dec. 4.  G-20 finance officials and central bankers said this week
that the delay in funding Japan’s budget is a downside risk to
global growth. Moody’s Investors Services said last week the
political gridlock is negative for Japan’s sovereign debt
rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  