-- Japan Futures, Australia Stocks Fall on U.S., Greek Debt Concern
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-11-08T23:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/japan-futures-australia-stocks-fall-on-u-s-greek-debt-concern.html
Japanese  stock futures  and Australian
equities fell amid concern Greece’s bailout will be delayed and
that President  Barack Obama ’s re-election endangers U.S. tax
breaks for investors.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets almost a third of its sales in Europe,
fell 1.4 percent from the closing price in Tokyo. Shares of
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. may be active after Moody’s cut the
Japanese shipping line’s issuer rating by two levels.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company by market value,
dropped 1 percent in Sydney.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,770 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,840
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,770 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
fell 0.9 percent today.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  slid 0.2
percent in Wellington.  “Investors have just gotten nervous,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“You’ve got residual concern about the U.S. fiscal cliff and
this delay in payments to Greece. The worries were there before.
It sounds a bit irrational, but that’s the way markets often
work. Once they start going down, the falling momentum triggers
more selling.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained about 12 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus measures in
Europe, the U.S., Japan and China boosted  market sentiment  amid
a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis. The Asian
benchmark traded at 13.4 times  estimated earnings  on average,
compared with 13.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.1
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent today. U.S. stocks fell yesterday, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to the lowest level since July.  Stocks have tumbled since the re-election of Obama and a
split Congress on concern they’ll be unable to compromise and
avoid a series of changes that have become known as the fiscal
cliff. The  Congressional Budget Office  released a report
yesterday reaffirming its previous projections that allowing
scheduled tax increases and automatic spending cuts to take
effect would lead to a recession in the first half of 2013.
Congress returns to Washington next week for a post-election
session that will focus on the fiscal cliff.  Greece Bailout  In Europe, finance ministers may not make a decision on
unlocking Euro-area funds for Greece until late November as they
await a full report on the country’s compliance with the terms
of its bailout, a European Union official said. Finance chiefs
won’t make the call to release 31.5 billion euros ($40.1
billion) of aid for  Greece  that has been frozen since June when
they meet in Brussels on Nov. 12, the official said yesterday on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S lost 1.6 percent to 92.42 yesterday in New
York, the lowest close since Oct. 10, on concern the country’s
incoming leadership may struggle to boost domestic demand as
growth ebbs in its export markets.  China’s central bank governor and statistics chief signaled
October data to be published from today will show growth
improving this quarter in the world’s second-largest economy.  Some indicators are rebounding and the economy is
stabilizing,  Zhou Xiaochuan , head of the People’s Bank of China,
said yesterday in Beijing at a briefing during the Communist
Party’s 18th Congress. Ma Jiantang, head of the National Bureau
of Statistics, said separately that people will be “more
confident” about the fourth-quarter expansion.  The ruling party yesterday started a weeklong meeting to
choose its fifth generation of leaders amid signs that the
economy is recovering from a seven-quarter slowdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  