-- Japan Machinery Orders Fall More Than Forecast on Exports
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-11-08T00:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/japan-machinery-orders-fall-more-than-forecast-on-exports.html
Japan ’s machinery orders fell more
than expected in September as slowing global demand hurts
exports, while the nation’s current account surplus narrowed to
its lowest level for the month since at least 1985.  Orders, an indicator of capital spending in three to six
months, declined 4.3 percent from the previous month, the
Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo . The median of 29 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.1 percent drop. The
 excess  in the broadest measure of Japan’s trade was 503.6
billion yen ($6.3 billion), compared with a median estimate of
761.8 billion yen, a Finance Ministry report showed.  Data due next week will probably show the world’s third-
largest economy  shrank  the most since last year’s earthquake. A
political impasse over deficit enabling legislation is impeding
the government’s scope to aid growth, placing the onus on the
central bank to add stimulus.  “We are in the middle of a technical recession” of two
consecutive quarters of contraction,  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief
Japan economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo and a former
Bank of Japan official, said before the report. “It’s hard for
the government to do anything to get us out of recession, so the
BOJ may need to do more.”  Gross domestic product  probably shrank an annualized 3.4
percent in the three months through September, the first decline
in five quarters, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Cabinet Office will release the
report Nov. 12.  Falling Output  Industrial production in September fell the most since the
March 2011 earthquake and  exports dropped  more than expected.
 Retail sales  the same month rose less than forecast as the
expiry of government subsidies for purchases of fuel-efficient
cars sapped consumer demand.  “The weak global economy is curbing orders from overseas
firms,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney, wrote in an e-mailed note before the report. A broader
investment slowdown has also dragged on machinery orders, he
said.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , the world’s largest maker of controls that run
machine tools, reported last month its first-half profit missed
its forecast as slower demand for goods in  Europe  dented
production and deterred manufacturers from investing in new
equipment.  The current account surplus has fallen from a peak of 3.3
trillion yen in March 2007, with the nation posting trade
deficits in 10 of the last 12 months. Only the income surplus,
the current account portion that includes earnings from overseas
investment, is preventing Japan from falling into deficit, which
would require overseas funding to service the world’s largest
public debt.  Exports Deteriorating  “The trade balance is worsening, mainly because of the
deterioration of exports,” Shirakawa said. “The current
account will turn to a deficit, possibly in 2016.”  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset-purchase program last
week for the second time in two months and unveiled an unlimited
program of low-interest loans for companies. The yen touched
80.68 per dollar on Nov. 2, three days after the BOJ’s decision,
its lowest since April.  The government announced Oct. 26 a 750 billion yen stimulus
package to shore up growth, the scope of which is limited
because the political opposition is blocking legislation that
allows borrowing to pay for this year’s deficit. The stand-off
leaves the government at risk of running out of money this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  