-- Pritzker Hires Kimpton’s Leondakis as Commune Hotels CEO
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-11-08T21:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/john-pritzker-names-kimpton-s-leondakis-commune-hotels-ceo-2-.html
John Pritzker, son of the late  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H)  founder Jay Pritzker, hired Niki Leondakis, a 19-
year veteran of Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group LLC, as chief
executive officer of Commune Hotels & Resorts.  Pritzker, co-chairman of New York-based Commune, wants
Leondakis, 51, to help the closely held company reach its goal
of $1 billion in revenue, he said in an interview this week.
Commune, which has 46 properties in its portfolio, wants to
reach that goal within five years, Pritzker said in February.
Leondakis, Kimpton’s president, has also served as chief
operating officer for the San Francisco-based company. She’ll
start at Commune on Nov. 26, Pritzker said.  “She gives us credibility with the LaSalles and the
Pebblebrooks of the world -- with the institutional money out
there,” said Pritzker, 59, referring to hotel investment
companies Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels and  Pebblebrook Hotel Trust. (PEB)   Commune is approaching $450 million in annual revenue this
year, up from about $380 million in 2011, according to Pritzker.
The company is working on seven management and acquisition
deals, including one in Miami, and is always seeking financial
partners to expand its portfolio, he said.  In July, Pritzker and investment company  AJ Capital
Partners  agreed to buy the Chicago Athletic Association building
for $13 million and spent $20 million to convert it to a luxury
boutique hotel.  At Kimpton, Leondakis’s responsibilities included
overseeing operations, sales and marketing, and revenue and
distribution. She joined the company in 1993 as director of
restaurant operations, became its COO in 2003 and president in
2010.  Commune’s properties include the 125-room  Hotel Tomo  in  San
Francisco ’s Japantown, the  Carmel Valley Ranch  in Carmel,
 California , and the Hollywood Roosevelt hotel in  Los Angeles .  The company is seeking to add a so-called micro brand,
featuring small rooms with high-end features such as flat-screen
televisions and MP3 player decks. Pritzker plans to announce a
new development in  Manhattan  and a conversion of an existing
hotel in  New York  within 60 days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  