-- JPMorgan Posts Trading Loss on 10 Days as Derivative Bet Unwinds
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-11-08T15:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/jpmorgan-posts-trading-loss-on-10-days-as-derivative-bet-unwinds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s traders lost
money on 10 days during the third quarter, down from 28 in the
prior three months when the largest  U.S. bank  struggled to
unwind a wrong-way bet on  credit derivatives .  Losses occurred on 39 days in the first nine months of this
year, compared with 18 days during the same period of 2011, New
York-based JPMorgan said today in a regulatory  filing . Traders
earned more than $200 million on seven days in the first nine
months, including five in the third quarter, the bank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, ousted traders and
managers and overhauled senior management amid more than $6.2
billion in losses at the chief investment office in  London . The
affair prompted the retirement of Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, spurred lawsuits from shareholders and drew civil and
criminal probes by at least three U.S. agencies.  Value-at-risk, or VaR, which measures the most the bank
might lose on 95 percent of its trading days, increased to $162
million during the first nine months of this year from an
average of $97 million in the same period last year.  The results aren’t directly comparable because the firm
used a new formula in the third quarter as it tried to improve
accuracy. Investigators focused attention on VaR because the
model was altered in January before some of the errant trades
were placed and may have obscured the mounting losses.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the New York-based investment
bank that made 55 percent of its revenue this year from sales
and trading, recorded losses from that business on two days in
the third quarter, down from 21 days in the same period last
year.  Morgan Stanley’s traders lost money on eight days during
the third quarter, the New York-based company said in a Nov. 7
filing.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.,
the second-largest U.S. lender, said last week it had one day of
trading losses, which were less than $1 million, and one day of
revenue with more than $100 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  