-- Kandinsky Sells for Record $23 Million in Mixed N.Y. Sale
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-08T16:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/kandinsky-painting-sells-for-record-23-million.html
A 1909 Wassily Kandinsky painting
sold for a record $23 million, one of the few bright spots at
Christie’s last night as nearly a third of the Impressionist and
modern art went unsold.  “It was a big bore,” said  New York  dealer Asher Edelman
as he left the midtown saleroom. Edelman attributed the uneven
results of the first of two weeks of major New York auctions to
“the storms, the economy, the lack of good material available,
the stock market” and disappointment with the U.S. election.  The 69 lots were offered a few hours after the Dow Jones
Industrial Index’s biggest drop in a year, following President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election. The sale coincided with a snowstorm
moving through  New Jersey  and New York a week after  Hurricane
Sandy .  The auction totaled $204.8 million, below the low estimate
of $209.3 million, with 21 lots failing to find buyers. The
unwanted included a Picasso bronze sculpture, paintings by
 Fernand Leger  and  Marc Chagall , and two other Kandinskys, an oil
painting and a watercolor.  The Kandinsky watercolor, “Zwei Schwarze Flecke” (1923),
was estimated between $1.8 million and $2.4 million. It was
consigned to auction as part of the settlement agreement in a
restitution case. The work once belonged to a German art
historian whose collection was seized by the Nazis after she
emigrated to the  Soviet Union .  The sale’s top lot was a 1905 Claude Monet painting of
waterlilies, which went for $43.8 million. The trophy from Wall
Street executive Herbert Allen Sr. was the second-priciest Monet
at auction. The French painter’s record was $80.4 million at
Christie’s London in 2008.  Proceeds benefit  Hackley School , in Tarrytown, New York,
where three generations of Allens studied. Allen’s widow, Ethel
Strong Allen, who died in July, left to the school the Monet and
two Impressionist landscapes, one by Camille Pissarro, another
by Alfred Sisley. The three raised $50.9 million.  Walled City  With striking orange and yellow hues, Kandinsky’s 1909
“Studie fur Improvisation 8” depicts pilgrims in the lower
foreground, one leaning on a tall sword, and a walled, onion-
domed city in the upper half.  “It’s everything you want from Kandinsky,” said Beverly
Schreiber Jacoby, president of New York-based  BSJ Fine Art . “It
has vivid, rich color and emotional intensity that Kandinsky
wanted the color to convey. It has a fairy-tale quality to it as
well.”  The work, which had a pre-sale estimate of $20 million to
$30 million, was consigned by the Volkart Foundation in
 Switzerland . It’s been widely exhibited in  Europe , including at
the Beyeler Foundation in Basel and at London’s Tate Modern.  The artist’s previous auction record, set in 1990 at
 Sotheby’s (BID) , came with the sale of the 1914 abstract canvas
“Fugue” for $20.9 million.  Bronze Rooster  The biggest casualty was Picasso’s bronze rooster
sculpture, “Coq,” which was conceived in 1932 and cast in the
1950s. Estimated between $10 million and $15 million, it didn’t
attract a bid.  “It’s not an easy piece,” said Loic Malle, Paris-based
curator and art adviser. “It’s not an appealing animal like a
cat or a dog.”  Marc Porter, the auctioneer’s Americas chairman and
international head of private sales, said the results were
skewed by excessive presale estimates that a seller stipulated
for 14 lots.  “If you tease out that collection, you’d see a different
result for the whole sale,” he said in an interview.  Picasso’s Lovers  Portraits of three Picasso lovers all made the sale’s top
10. The winner was a 1937 rendering of  Dora Maar  with orange
eyes and green eyelashes to match the background, which sold for
$13.1 million, surpassing the presale high estimate of $12
million.  The 1962 melancholy portrait of  Jacqueline Roque  sold for
$6.4 million. One from 1952 of  Francoise Gilot , who replaced
Maar and bore the artist two children, Claude and Paloma, sold
for $5.2 million.  Christie’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up
to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million, and 12
percent above $1 million. Pre-sale estimates don’t include the
buyer’s premium.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 