-- KBC Profit Beats Estimates on Tightening Spreads, Commissions
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-11-08T08:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/kbc-profit-beats-estimates-on-tightening-spreads-commissions.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, reported profit that beat analyst
estimates as tighter corporate credit spreads and commissions on
life-insurance sales made up for a shrinking  interest margin .  Third-quarter net income of 531 million euros compared with
a 1.58 billion-euro loss a year earlier, the Brussels-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts had projected profit
of 470 million euros, the median of nine estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Net interest income contracted 19 percent on an
underlying basis and costs fell 16 percent.  KBC said its  capital position  improved after selling 350
million euros of treasury shares last month and its balance
sheet continued to shrink. The bank and insurer forecast a
common equity ratio of 10.2 percent rather than 9.5 percent
assuming a full implementation of Basel III capital rules by the
end of next year after repayment of 4.17 billion euros of state
aid plus penalties. The capital roadmap assumes KBC will report
profit of an  average 380 million  euros in the next five
quarters.  “Earnings were better than anticipated on almost every
line,” Marc Leemans, an analyst at Bank Degroof in Brussels,
wrote in an investor note. “Total income exceeded expectations
on strong fee and commission income and results from marking to
market financial instruments.”  KBC rose as much as 4.3 percent on Euronext Brussels and
traded 49 cents higher at 18.79 euros by 9:26 a.m. local time.
The shares have gained 93 percent since the start of the year.  Biggest Source  Net interest income, KBC’s  biggest source  of revenue, fell
to 1.09 billion euros on an underlying basis from 1.34 billion
euros in the same period a year earlier. Adjusting for
 divestments , the drop was 13 percent as the difference between
what the bank pays for funds and what it charges for loans
narrowed 8 basis points from the preceding quarter to 1.74
percent.  KBC further reduced its investments in higher-yielding
sovereign bonds in Southern Europe and sold about 500 million
euros of Italian debt at a loss of 12 million euros before tax
in the quarter. KBC also disposed of all of its Spanish regional
 government bonds  at a loss of 13 million euros.  The bank set aside 283 million euros to cover loan losses
in the quarter, an increase from 198 million euros in the
preceding quarter. Loan provisions covered 61 percent of non-
performing loans at the end of September, down from 62 percent
at the end of June.  Provisions in Ireland, where KBC gave its local banking
unit an additional 100 million euros of capital to keep the Tier
1 ratio at more than 11 percent, dropped to 129 million euros
from 136 million euros in the second quarter. Provisions in
Ireland now cover 45 percent of non-performing loans in the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  