-- Kior Opens Wood-to-Gas Plant as Biofuel Makers Seek Scale
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/kior-opens-wood-to-gas-plant-as-biofuel-makers-seek-scale.html
Kior Inc. (KIOR) , a producer of
transportation fuels from biomass such as wood waste and non-
food crops, began production at its first commercial facility as
other U.S. biofuel companies including  Gevo Inc. (GEVO)  and  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) 
struggle to shift their technologies from the laboratory to the
factory.  Kior’s facility in Columbus,  Mississippi , will be able to
produce more than 13 million gallons (49 million liters) of
gasoline and diesel a year once it reaches full capacity in nine
to 12 months, Kate Perez, a company spokeswoman, said in an
interview yesterday. The Pasadena, Texas-based company is
planning another plant in  Natchez, Mississippi,  which will be
three times bigger.  Kior is one of several companies that have gone public in
the past two years to raise capital for high-volume plants that
process organic material into biofuels and chemicals. Some of
these efforts have been marked by delays and shutdowns as yields
failed to meet expectations, demonstrating the challenges of
commercializing a new technology, said Alejandro Zamorano Cadavid, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The biofuel companies “are not on schedule with their
original plans, and it’s not surprising,” Cadavid said in an
interview yesterday. “The common denominator is that they’ve
all underdelivered on promises from when they IPO’d.”  Kior has lost 49 percent of its market value since raising
$150 million in its June initial public offering. The plant
began production last month, on schedule, and encountered “only
normal start up issues,” Chief Executive Officer Fred Cannon
said on a conference call with analysts yesterday.  First Facility  By opening what he called “the world’s first commercial-
scale cellulosic gasoline and diesel facility,” Kior is making
as “shift from an R&D company to an operating company,” Cannon
said.  Other advanced biofuel companies have encountered setbacks.
Gevo, which has lost 87 percent of its value since its February
2011 IPO, began production in May at its flagship plant in
Luverne,  Minnesota , and then stopped in September. The
Englewood, Colorado-based company said its proprietary
isobutanol production system wasn’t delivering anticipated
yields. The plant is currently making standard ethanol while
Gevo adjusts its process.  Amyris, which is down 82 percent from its September 2010
IPO price, temporarily stopped production at two of three plants
that are located at partners’ facilities in the second quarter
to address issues with fermentation yields.  Solazyme Inc. (SZYM)  has fallen 59 percent since its May 2011 IPO.
The South  San Francisco , California-based company expects to
open a $145 million plant at a  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  sugar-cane mill in
 Brazil  in the fourth quarter of next year. The company said in
May that it won’t be be cash-flow positive until the end of
2013.  Complex Systems  Amyris, Gevo and Solazyme all use sugar-fermentation
processes to make fuel and chemicals.  “This is not about putting a bunch of servers in a room
and flipping on a switch -- we are dealing with complex
biological systems,” Joel Velasco, an Amyris spokesman, said by
e-mail.  Other companies are closer to commercial production. Ineos
Bio, a unit of Ineos Group Ltd., expects to begin production
this year at its first commercial plant in Vero Beach,  Florida .
The facility at full capacity will produce 8 million gallons of
ethanol a year from yard, vegetative and agricultural waste.  Poet LLC, the largest U.S. corn-ethanol producer, and
 Abengoa SA (ABG)  plan to begin operating facilities next year in Iowa
and  Kansas  that each will be capable of producing about 25
million gallons of ethanol a year from corn waste.  Kior’s top priority is ensuring that operations at the
Columbus plant go smoothly, Cannon said. “As far as the yields,
we’re not focused on those right now,” he said during the call.
“ Our focus right now is to get the plant up and stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  