-- Komercni Banka Quarterly Net Jumps After Greek Bond Loss
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-11-08T15:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/komercni-banka-quarterly-net-jumps-after-greek-bond-loss.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said its third-quarter profit more than
doubled as a one-time loss on Greek bonds from year earlier
wasn’t repeated.  Net income for the three-month period rose to 3.32 billion
koruna ($167 million) from 1.56 billion koruna a year earlier,
the Prague-based lender said today in a statement. That missed
the 3.38 billion-koruna median estimate by 10 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Net interest income, the lender’s largest
source of revenue, fell 2 percent to 5.46 billion koruna.  “Operational results dropped quarter-on-quarter as a
result of a worsening economic situation” Cyrrus AS analyst
Marek Hatlapatka said. “However, the drop was slightly bigger
than we expected, which is disappointing.” Hatlapatka
recommends investors to “buy” the shares.  The Czech economy contracted for three quarters through
June as households curbed spending in response to the faltering
economy and the country is facing the prospects of the longest
recession on record. The  Czech Republic , which isn’t part of the
17-country euro region, relies on the 27-nation European Union
to buy 80 percent of exports.  Komercni’s performance was “generally successful in the
challenging macroeconomic context,” Chief Executive Officer
Henri Bonnet said in a separate statement. “In response to the
uncertainty caused by slowing export demand and turbulence in
domestic politics, Czech customers are more cautious, thus
reducing the demand for loans despite extremely low  interest
rates .”  Banking Income  Komercni fell 73 koruna, or 1.9 percent, to 3,786.  Komercni’s third-quarter net banking income fell 5.5
percent to 7.8 billion koruna from a year earlier. Gross
operating income declined 10 percent to 4.47 billion koruna.  Komercni hasn’t seen any changes in lending trend in the
current quarter from the previous three months, Chief Executive
Officer Henri Bonnet said at the press briefing today. The
executive also reiterated Komercni policy of paying out 60 to 70
percent of profit in dividends, adding that there isn’t any
commitment to it.  The lender said on Nov. 8 last year that it wrote down 2.64
billion koruna in Greek bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  