-- National Security Committes in Congress Face Shake-Ups
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-08T19:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/national-security-committes-in-congress-face-shake-ups.html
A shake-up is under way on the
congressional committees that oversee national security and
defense just days after elections that did little to change the
balance of power in the U.S. Senate and House.  Hours after the last polls closed Nov. 6, two top
Republicans on the House Foreign Affairs Committee began to
compete for the chairmanship now held by Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of
Florida, who has reached a term limit for the post. The top
Democrat on the panel, Howard Berman of California, was defeated
in the election, leaving another vacancy.  In the Senate, the top Republicans on both the Armed
Services and Foreign Relations committees will be replaced when
a new session begins in January, and President Barack Obama
would create another opening if he nominates Foreign Relations
Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, to
succeed  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state.  “Is it possible for there to be any more uncertainty?”
said  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst at the Lexington
Institute, an Arlington, Virginia-based research organization.  The changes come as pressures to reduce U.S. budget
deficits make it difficult to predict defense spending and Obama
faces international challenges from Iran and Syria to Russia and
China. The shifts, which will be resolved before the new session
of Congress begins in January, follow elections that generally
yielded a status quo result.  Democrats retained control of the Senate, picking up two
seats to hold a 55-45 majority. In the House, Republicans remain
in power despite losing a half dozen seats to Democrats while
Obama won a second term.  Retirements, Defeats  The impending shifts were caused by a mix of retirements,
rules limiting the terms of committee leaders and ballot-box
losses, said Michael Mandelbaum, a professor at Johns Hopkins
University’s School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington.  “There’s always turnover, but there’s more turnover this
cycle than is usual,” said Mandelbaum, the author of “The
Frugal Superpower,” which examines the fiscal pressures on U.S.
defense.  The shakeup is part of a drain of congressional expertise
on national security issues in recent years, said  Byron Callan ,
a defense analyst with Capital Alpha Partners in Washington.  Losing Gravitas  “There hasn’t been a lot of gravitas for years -- the
equivalent of a Sam Nunn or a Les Aspin, someone who was steeped
in defense issues,” said Callan, referring to long-time
chairmen of the Senate and House armed services panels.  The departure of Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, a six-
term lawmaker who’s the senior Republican on the Foreign
Relations Committee, leaves his party without its elder
statesman on international affairs in the chamber. Lugar, who
was defeated in a Republican primary in May, was a leader in
efforts to stem the spread of weapons of mass destruction.  He helped push a strategic arms reduction treaty with
Russia through the Senate in 2010 over the opposition of
Republican leaders. More recently, he’s opposed deeper U.S.
involvement in the rebellion against Syrian President Bashar al- Assad.  The lawmaker most likely to replace Lugar, Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, is next in line in committee seniority even
though he only won his second term this week. If Corker is
selected by Republican colleagues, he’s pledged to review all
foreign aid and State Department programs.  While Corker has reached across the aisle to Democrats on
some issues, he’s likely to side with Republican leaders most of
the time, according to Thompson.  ‘Congenial Partisan’  “Lugar hearkens back to a period of bipartisan consensus,
when the operative phrase was that politics ends at the water’s
edge,” Thompson said. “Corker is a partisan, although he’s a
congenial partisan. He is going to be more likely to make
decisions based on ideological considerations than Lugar would
have been.”  Kerry is a possible choice to replace Hillary Clinton as
secretary of state. A strike against him is the prospect that
Republican Senator  Scott Brown , who was ousted by Democrat
 Elizabeth Warren  this week, might run successfully for Kerry’s
seat if it opens, Mandlebaum said.  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, is
emerging as the favored candidate to succeed the departing
Clinton, according to six current or former White House
officials who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss
internal deliberations. They emphasized that Obama hasn’t made a
decision yet.  McCain’s Limits  On the Democratic-controlled Senate Armed Services
Committee, Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the top Republican,
must step aside because of term limits.  Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the Republican next in
line, said in a statement yesterday that he’s “looking
forward” to taking McCain’s place if Republicans support him,
and is concerned about the impact of across-the-board cuts to
defense spending, known as “sequestration,” that will start in
January unless a bipartisan debt deal is reached.  “My focus on the committee will be on military readiness,
acquisition reform, and preventing the potential hollowing out
of our forces,” Inhofe said. “After more than a decade of war,
our personnel and equipment needs will be wide-ranging, and I am
ready to address these very important issues.”  ‘Hangar Queen’  Inhofe, whose state is home to  Fort Sill , an Army post in
Lawton, Oklahoma, has focused on Army artillery issues. He’s
also a supporter of missile defense and was a leader in the
successful fight against President  Bill Clinton ’s effort to
ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, which would ban all
nuclear weapons test explosions.  The biggest difference between Inhofe and McCain is
McCain’s role as a critic of cost overruns on weapons programs
such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
McCain has called the company’s F-22 fighter “the most
expensive, corroding hangar queen ever.”  “McCain is a center-right legislator who has dedicated
much of his career to reform of the military acquisition system
and oversight of the Pentagon,” Thompson said. “His removal
would really change the environment in which the defense
industry and the military services operate.”  Inhofe, a leader among Republicans who challenge the
science showing humans are causing global climate change, has
criticized the Navy’s spending on “green energy” development.  Dicks Retiring  Changes also will come to the Republican-led House
Appropriations Committee with the retirement of Representative
 Norm Dicks  of Washington, the top Democrat on the full committee
and on its defense subcommittee. Dicks is a chief protector of
defense spending and the interests of  Boeing Co. (BA) , which employs
thousands of people in his western Washington district.  He’s likely to be replaced on the full committee by
Representative  Nita Lowey , a  New York  Democrat, and on the
subcommittee by Representative Peter Visclosky, an Indiana
Democrat, according to a lobbyist for a defense contractor who
requested anonymity.  On the House Foreign Relations Committee, Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican, seeks to replace Ros-Lehtinen
after heading the panel’s subcommittee on terrorism,
nonproliferation and trade.  Libya, Iran  Royce said in a letter to House Republican colleagues
yesterday that if selected he will probe the Sept. 11 attacks at
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that left U.S. Ambassador
Chris Stevens and three other Americans dead. He also said he
will take steps to pressure Iran to stop nuclear weapons
development.  “Right now, the gravest threat facing the U.S. and our
allies is Iran,” Royce said. “We need to be doing all we can
to pressure its regime to stop its march to nuclear weapons.”  His leading rival for the post, Representative  Chris Smith 
of New Jersey, heads the subcommittee on Africa, global health
and human rights. In a statement, he said he’s encouraged by
feedback he’s getting from House Republican leaders as he
pursues the post. “I am ready and eager to successfully
communicate our foreign policy priorities,” he said.  The exodus of national-security experts from Congress
included the 2009 retirement of former Senate Armed Services
Committee Chairman John Warner, a Virginia Republican and former
Navy Secretary; the 2010 defeat of House Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Ike Skelton , a Missouri Democrat; the 2008
election defeat of former Senate Appropriations Committee
Chairman  Ted Stevens , an Alaska Republican; and the 2010 death
of Pennsylvania Democratic Representative John Murtha, who led
the House defense appropriations subcommittee before Dicks.  Mandelbaum said the end of the Cold War has made the
national security committees less attractive to lawmakers, in
part by limiting the appeal of foreign policy and defense
credentials to voters in re-election campaigns.  “During the Cold War, this was important, especially
defense,” he said. “So someone like Sam Nunn or John Warner
could entrench themselves by being defense experts. That’s not
true anymore. It’s not as high-profile or important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  