-- Natural Gas That Backed Romney May Gain From Obama Win
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-11-08T16:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/natural-gas-that-backed-romney-may-gain-from-obama-win.html
Natural gas producers such as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  spent millions of dollars this year trying to defeat
Democrats, such as President Barack Obama. His re-election may
end up being a boon for them.  While Obama will continue with a series of environmental
regulations that would curb the production and use of coal, his
policies promise to boost demand for natural gas in vehicles and
 power plants  and facilitate domestic oil and gas output to
levels not seen in more than two decades.  “Facts are stubborn things and they often defy people’s
ideology,” John Hanger, a special counsel at Eckert Seamans
Cherin & Mellott, LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and the
former top environmental regulator in that state, said in an
interview. Obama’s “policies on the demand side are most
favorable.”  The re-election of Obama and continuation of Republican
control of the  House of Representatives  opens the possibility
for legislation to boost demand for gas, including incentives
for natural-gas vehicles, Hanger said. Republicans lawmakers may
also try to limit actions the administration could take to
regulate hydraulic fracturing or curb production on federal
lands.  Coal is likely the biggest loser, while wind, solar and
biofuel producers are set to gain. An expiring production tax
credit for wind power is now more likely to be extended, said
 Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the  American Wind Energy
Association .  Oil’s Fate  Oil faces an uncertain fate. Pressure on Obama from
environmentalists to turn down the Keystone XL pipeline from the
Canadian tar sands began even before he gave his victory speech
early yesterday. Obama pledged to raise taxes on  oil companies ,
a move the industry says would stifle its growth. And Obama’s
Environmental Protection Agency and Interior Department are
considering regulations on hydraulic fracturing, which would
raise costs for drillers.  “You’re going to see a much more aggressive attempt to
regulate fracking,”  Mike McKenna , an oil-industry lobbyist and
president of MWR Strategies Inc. in Washington, said in an
interview.  Oil, gas, coal and electricity interests donated in this
election as if their fate depended on it. Together, energy
companies  spent  more than $115 million on the election, more
than on any campaign since at least 1990, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics’ aggregation of federal data.
Eighty percent of candidate donations went to Republicans.  API Reaction  Now that the election is over, representatives of those
industries say they are ready to work with Obama and other
Democrats.  Obama “is now going for a full-throated endorsement of oil
and natural gas production in the United States, which is 180
degrees opposite from where he started,”  Jack Gerard , the
president of the American Petroleum Institute in Washington,
which represents producers such as Exxon and service companies
such as  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , said in an interview. “The real
question will be: Will the president’s actions match his
words?”  Coal advocates, who had accused Obama of waging a “war on
coal,” said they hoped for a change in his approach.  “I think Obama and that administration heard a lot of
things about coal and energy overall during the campaign,” John Eaves, CEO of  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , said in an interview. “Hopefully
that will translate into a more positive approach to energy as
we move forward.”  Environmental Pressure  Environmentalists predict that the EPA will not let up. In
the first Obama term, EPA issued rules to curb mercury and
sulfur dioxide from coal-fired power plants. While those rules
still face court challenges, other measures are coming from the
EPA and together they will mean stricter standards on pollution,
especially from coal-plants. The EPA is considering rules on the
water those plants use, and on coal-ash waste.  “There is a lot of regulation in the pipeline,” James Lucier, managing director at Capital Alpha Partners LLC in
Washington, said in an interview. “It will represent a
substantial tightening in environmental standards.”  Next on the EPA’s agenda is finalizing the first-ever
standards for greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants, a rule
that Republican candidate Mitt Romney had said he opposed.  Coal Shares  The EPA rules will put pressure on coal power plants, which
will have a beneficial impact on demand for natural gas,
according to  Kevin Book , managing director at ClearView Energy
Partners LLC, a Washington-based policy-analysis firm.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  slid
more than 9.5 percent yesterday on bets Obama’s re-election will
mean more regulation for the industry. Standard and Poor’s 500
Energy  Index (S5ENRS) , which includes a cross-section of the energy
industry including coal, declined 3.1 percent.  Less demand for coal could mean more demand for natural gas
in the power industry.  The “next wave” of environmental standards for coal
plants “will probably add another incremental gas demand share,
which is pretty significant,” Book said in an interview.
“Those numbers are real.”  Low natural gas prices have already prompted a shift. In
2008, about 48 percent of the U.S. electricity came from coal.
In August, that total had slipped to 38 percent, according to
the Energy Information Administration.  Fuel Efficiency  In addition, regulations issued to force automakers to
improve the fuel efficiency for their vehicles through 2025
include incentives to boost the production of natural-gas
powered cars. Romney had pledged to roll those back, as well.  While regulations on fracking could raise the costs of
producing gas, the real challenge is boosting demand, given low
gas prices, according to Hanger.  “Obama actually has been very good to the natural gas
industry,” Joshua Greene, a Washington-based attorney at  Patton
Boggs LLP  who specializes in energy, said in an interview.  Even for oil, the cost of higher regulations won’t
substantially harm profits, since those additional costs are
unlikely to exceed 50 cents a barrel, said Amy Myers Jaffe,
executive director of energy and sustainability at the
 University of California , Davis.  Output Surge  U.S. output of oil and other liquid petroleum products is
expected to surge by more than 80 percent through 2020, the kind
of consistent growth that hasn’t been seen since the 1960s, said
 Edward Morse , global head of commodities research for  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  Obama has made more acreage available to energy companies
than any president since  Ronald Reagan , and more drilling is
taking place on federal land than at any time in history, Morse
said.  “We intend to work constructively with the president and
his administration,” Kenneth Cohen, vice president of public
and government affairs, at Exxon, said in an e-mail. “Key focus
areas are tax policy, free trade in energy, enhanced access to
domestic oil and gas and including sound science and an economic
cost-benefit analysis in future regulatory initiatives.”  Obama does face two imminent choices that pit his
environmental supporters against energy producers.  Applications to export more than 27 billion cubic feet a
day of liquefied natural gas from the lower 48 states were filed
with the U.S. as of Oct. 26, according to a list on the Energy
Department’s website. The U.S. isn’t expected to approve all
pending applications, according to a Nov. 6 report from
Washington Analysis.  Keystone XL  Deciding on whether to permit the Keystone XL pipeline, is
already shaping up as one of the earliest and most contentious
energy decisions of Obama’s second term.  The pipeline would carry 830,000 barrels of Canadian tar
sands oil a day to refineries on the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Obama
rejected developer  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s permit application for
the $7.6 billion project in January after pressure from
environmentalists, and asked the company to re-submit a bid with
a different route that won’t endanger water supplies in
Nebraska. The company has filed a new proposal.  Gerard singled out the project’s approval as an immediate
step that Obama could take to prove his support to that
industry.  “It will be one of the early tests for the president,” he
told reporters today during a telephone conference call.  ‘Battle Royale’  At the same time, thousands of environmentalists are
pledging to rekindle demonstrations outside of the White House
in the coming weeks in opposition to the pipeline.  Keystone “will be Battle Royale” with environmental
groups, said Charles Ebinger, an energy specialist and senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  What also isn’t clear is if Congress will approve new
funding or tax breaks for clean energy, or will decide to tackle
measures to attack global warming, such as imposing a carbon
tax. The Sierra Club and other environmental groups say that is
their top priority.  “There is a reckoning that needs to take place in the
Republican Party, and it’s hard to figure out where they’ll come
out,”  Michael Brune , the executive director of the Sierra Club,
said in an interview. “It’s hard to predict if Congress could
agree on taking a long lunch break right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  