-- Shell, Sunoco Settle Groundwater Suit With New Hampshire
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-08T18:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/new-hampshire-settles-with-shell-sunoco-over-contamination-1-.html
New Hampshire reached a $35 million
settlement with Shell Oil Co. and Sunoco Inc. of a lawsuit over
claims that the gasoline refiners and manufacturers used
chemicals that contaminated groundwater.  The state sued a number of oil companies in 2003, charging
that they knew the gasoline additive methyl tertiary butyl ether
(MTBE) would pollute water supplies, state Attorney General
Michael Delaney said today in a statement.  “My office will continue to hold oil companies responsible
for their role in causing groundwater contamination in this
state,” Delaney said. “This is a substantial recovery that
will be used to clean up contaminated groundwaters throughout
New Hampshire.”  A trial against the other remaining defendants, which
include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Citgo Petroleum Corp. and Vitol SA, is set to begin in Concord,
New Hampshire, in January. It may last three to four months.  The state has settled the suit with other oil companies,
including Hess Corp. and Chevron Corp., Assistant Attorney
General Mary Maloney said in an interview.  Maloney said the state may seek “several hundreds of
millions” of dollars in damages in the jury trial. MTBE
continues to be a pollutant in New Hampshire, especially since
many residents use well water, she said.  “MTBE, because of its ubiquity and solubility, gets into
the bedrock,” she said.  Press-relations representatives for Houston-based Shell and
Philadelphia-based Sunoco didn’t immediately reply to messages
seeking comment on the settlement. Shell’s U.S. unit is part of
Netherlands-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and Sunoco is a unit of
Dallas-based  Energy Transfer Partners LP. (ETP)   The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-
0550, State of New Hampshire Superior Court (Merrimack).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  