-- New Jersey Judge Extends Dedline for Absentee Ballots
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-08T22:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/new-jersey-judge-extends-dedline-for-absentee-ballots.html
New Jersey residents who tried
unsuccessfully on Election Day to obtain a ballot through e-mail
or fax have until tomorrow to vote after a state judge extended
the deadline.  Superior Court Judge Walter Koprowski in  Newark  yesterday
ordered county clerks to continue accepting and processing
applications until noon tomorrow for voters who can prove they
tried to get a ballot on Election Day and failed.  Voters have to show they were unable to obtain ballots,
such as a returned e-mail message or a sheet showing a fax
didn’t go through.  The  American Civil Liberties Union   of New Jersey asked the
court to intervene based on complaints from voters displaced by
 Hurricane Sandy  who said they couldn’t obtain ballots from
county offices overwhelmed by requests.  Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno on Nov. 3  directed  that
voters displaced by the storm be allowed to vote by fax or e-
mail like overseas residents.  Guadagno three days later extended the deadline through
tomorrow as long as the request was received by 5 p.m. on
Election Day. The directive didn’t provide relief for voters who
couldn’t get in touch with their county clerks, the ACLU said.  “The county clerks shall accept and process applications
for vote by mail ballot that were submitted in accordance with
the lieutenant governor’s directives, but were not received by
the county clerk due to capacity limitations or other technical
limitations of the county clerk, provided that the displaced
voter supplies proof” Koprowski said in his order.  The case is Ertel v. Essex County Board of Elections,
Superior Court of  New Jersey , Essex County (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 