-- New Taxes Not Just Spending Cuts Needed to Avoid Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2012-11-08T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/new-taxes-not-just-spending-cuts-needed-to-avoid-fiscal-cliff.html
In the coming months the same
president and largely the same Congress will try to fix the same
problem: How to bring the $1.1 trillion federal deficit and
$11.3 trillion  public debt  under control.  More immediately, they need to avoid the brutal automatic
cuts and tax increases that will take place in January unless
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans can reach
some sort of deal.  Although Republicans and Democrats persist in making it
seem like bringing spending in line with revenue is some form of
particle physics, there’s no mystery to the calculations,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 12 issue.  The money will come out of the nation’s $2 trillion
entitlement programs. It will come out of the Defense
Department’s $680 billion budget. And it will come from tax
increases. There will be plenty of arguing over what to cut.  There’s no arguing where the money is, except in
Washington. Even after the failed 2011 debt negotiations set the
country on course to this fiscal cliff, Republicans insist that
the savings can be found elsewhere, no military cuts or tax
increases necessary.  Discretionary Spending  Paul Ryan, a Republican who’s still the chairman of the
House Budget Committee -- he lost the vice presidency Nov. 6 but
won an eighth congressional term with 55 percent of the vote in
his Wisconsin district -- has proposed, over the next 10 years,
to cut in half the “nonsecurity discretionary spending” that
makes up the rest of the  federal budget .  “That sounds OK until you start to look at what’s there,”
says Philip Joyce, a professor at the University of Maryland
School of Public Policy who spent five years with the
Congressional Budget Office. “You’re talking Commerce, you’re
talking NOAA, the weather service, the Economic Development
Administration,” he says. “They do real things.”  Outside the Capitol, nonsecurity discretionary spending is
what people think of as “the government.”  It includes the Treasury Department, the Department of
Justice, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  Necessary Services  These are services that are mostly necessary and desirable
even by the standards of many small-government Republicans.
They’re cheap, too. In 2011 this spending cost $371 billion, 10
percent of the total federal budget.  In a primary debate last November, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  remembered two departments he’d eliminate as president:
commerce and education. Together last year, that duo cost $74
billion -- 2 percent of federal outlays, and 6 percent of the
deficit.  The Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  said he’d cut out of the
budget, requested less than $500 million this year, a comically
small slice of the problem.  Let’s make the calculation easy, and cut it all -- the
whole federal government aside from the Pentagon and entitlement
programs such as Social Security and Medicare.  Fire every one of the 2.8 million federal employees, close
the buildings they work in, and eliminate the government
services they provide -- and budget-cutters wouldn’t even get
one-third of the way toward eliminating the annual federal
 deficit .  Waste, Abuse  What’s more, because the projected growth in costs over the
next decades comes almost entirely from entitlements, the amount
that goes to the rest of government will become an even smaller
part of the problem in the future.  Getting rid of inefficiency in government agencies is hard.  “There is no line-item in these departments that reads
‘waste, fraud and abuse,’” says Joyce.  Almost all 20th century presidents have attempted to
reorganize agencies or make them more efficient; yet entropy
keeps winning.  That isn’t to say it’s not worth doing. It’s just a matter
of priorities -- and of recognizing that the conversation about
whether to shrink the Department of Education isn’t the same as
the one about how to shrink the federal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in  Washington  at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  