-- Nigeria Eurobond Yields Slip After S&P Rating; Naira Unchanged
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-11-08T11:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/nigeria-eurobond-yields-slip-after-s-p-rating-naira-unchanged.html
Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of
Eurobonds fell after Standard & Poor’s raised its rating on the
West African country by one grade. The naira was unchanged in
Lagos trading.  Borrowing costs on the 6.75 percent dollar debt maturing in
2021 slipped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.42
percent at 10:35 a.m. in London trading, the lowest level since
their January 2011 issue. Yields on the Eurobonds of  Africa ’s
biggest oil producer have tumbled 169 basis points this year.
The naira was steady at 157.3 a dollar on the interbank market
in Lagos, the commercial capital.  S&P increased Nigeria’s credit rating to BB-, three levels
below investment grade, yesterday as sub-Saharan Africa’s second
biggest economy increased foreign-currency reserves because of
high oil prices and due to the government’s decision to cut fuel
subsidies in January, raise electricity tariffs and privatize
the state-run power industry. Moody’s Investors Service
separately assigned Nigeria a Ba3 rating yesterday, the
equivalent of its grades at S&P and Fitch.  “S&P cited the country’s strong external reserves which
have held firmly above the $40 billion threshold in recent
months as underpinning its improved outlook on the country,”
Oludare Fajimolu and Gloria Obayagbo, Lagos-based analysts at
CSL Stockbrokers Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note today. “The
rating agency also hinted at improved optimism about progress
with on-going financial and power sector reform programs.”  Yields on Nigeria’s 16.39 percent local currency bonds due
2022 declined one basis point to 12.77 percent, according to
yesterday’s prices compiled on the website of the Financial
Markets Dealers Association.  “Nigeria’s rating upgrade holds the potential to improve
the global attractiveness of the local debt market, in our
view,” the CSL Stockbrokers analysts said.  Ghana ’s cedi rose less than 0.1 percent to 1.8806 a dollar
in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  