-- Noble Seeks Investment Opportunities After Failed Arrium Offer
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-11-08T16:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/noble-seeks-investment-opportunities-after-failed-arrium-offer.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ,  Asia ’s biggest
publicly listed commodity trader, said it’s looking at
investment opportunities after reporting profit that missed
estimates and a failed bid for Australian steelmaker  Arrium (ARI)  Ltd.  Net income  was $75.2 million in the three months to Sept.
30, from a loss of $17.5 million a year earlier, the Hong Kong-
based company said yesterday in a statement. That missed the
$154.6 million mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  A group led by Noble and Posco, Asia’s third-biggest
steelmaker by output, last month terminated a A$1.2 billion
($1.25 billion) offer for Arrium after the target’s board
rejected two bids and refused to engage. Noble will receive $810
million from asset sales by January, it said in a separate
presentation yesterday.  “Given our financial strength, and the stress occurring in
markets, we continue to see very attractive investment
opportunities across many of our products,” Chief Executive
Officer Yusuf Alireza said in a separate statement.  Noble fell 1.5 percent to S$1.275 at the close in  Singapore 
yesterday, before the earnings were announced. The  stock  has
advanced 13 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent gain
in the benchmark  Straits Times  index.  Sydney-based Arrium said on Oct. 31 it rejected the second,
higher offer by the consortium which included Noble, Posco and
other Korean investors because it undervalued the company. The
group, known as Steelmakers  Australia , had offered 88 Australian
cents a share, up from an original bid of 75 cents.  Moved On  Noble wanted Arrium for its iron ore assets, Alireza, a
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-president who joined Noble as
CEO in April, said yesterday on a conference call. The company
has now has “moved on” from the Arrium bid, he said.  The company continues to have “close partnerships with
 Posco (005490) , investors in  Korea ” which are valuable on both the
business and investment aspects, Alireza said.  There are investment opportunities across all its
businesses including shale gas and nonferrous metals, Alireza
said on the call. It has a big “geographic footprint” in Asia
and Latin America, and sees opportunities to expand in Africa
and Russia, he said.  Adverse Markets  Noble “has tended to be more countercyclical. They do tend
to invest even when the market is adverse,” said James Koh, an
analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings in Singapore. “The focus
would probably still be looking at all different pillars.”  Operating income from supply chain at its energy business,
its largest unit, expanded 42 percent to $219.3 million, and 38
percent to $26.8 million at its metals division, in the quarter,
Noble said. The agriculture unit, the second-biggest by  revenue ,
posted a 35 percent decline in sales to $3.7 billion.  Noble will target agricultural assets in the U.S. as it
seeks to meet demand from China and sees potential for deals
across its units, Alireza said Aug. 21 in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  “Our focus remains on ensuring we build out our three main
business lines while at the same time maintaining a strong and
liquid balance sheet,” Alireza said yesterday. “All our
businesses are at different stages of maturity and our strategy
is not a one month, one quarter, or even one year strategy but
one that we are confident will build  shareholder value  over the
next few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  