-- Nvidia Third-Quarter Earnings Top Estimates on Tablet Orders
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/nvidia-s-third-quarter-earnings-top-estimates-on-tablet-orders.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
processors, reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates as it grabbed market share and won orders
for chips used in tablet computers.  Net income in the period that ended Oct. 28 rose to $209.1
million, or 33 cents a share, from $178.3 million, or 29 cents,
a year earlier,  Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia said
yesterday in a statement. Revenue climbed 13 percent to $1.2
billion. Analysts on average had estimated earnings of 30 cents
on sales of $1.2 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Orders for Nvidia’s Tegra chips used in Google Inc.’s and
Microsoft Corp.’s new tablets are helping it sidestep a slump in
demand for personal computers, according to Ambrish Srivastava,
a San Francisco-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets. The
company is also taking share from rival  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  in the market for chips used in add-on cards that speed
graphics in PCs, Srivastava wrote in a report.  “The fundamentals are OK,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , a New
York-based analyst at MKM Partners LLC. “These guys are gaining
market share and Tegra seems to be doing well.”  The company also said it will begin paying a dividend for
the first time, initiating a quarterly payout of 7.5 cents a
share on Dec. 14, and extended a $2.7 billion share-repurchase
program through December 2014.  Nvidia shares rose as high as $13.10 after the report
yesterday. They had gained less than 1 percent to $12.68 at the
close in  New York , and are down 8.5 percent this  year .  Branching Out  Under Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang, Nvidia has
branched out into processors that run mobile phones and tablets,
trying to lessen its dependence on PCs.  Revenue in the fourth quarter, which ends in January, will
rise to $1.03 billion to $1.18 billion, the company said.
Analysts had estimated $1.21 billion on average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A year earlier, Nvidia had sales of
$953.2 million.  While predictions fell short of published estimates, many
investors had been expecting a lower forecast, MKM’s Berenbaum
said.  Last month,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the largest maker of chips for
PCs, said profit was being hurt by rising stockpiles of unsold
chips as consumers and corporations scale back purchases. The PC
market is on course for its first annual decline in more than a
decade, according to researcher  IHS ISuppli .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  