-- Oakley to Partner Tour de France After Dropping Armstrong
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-08T11:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/oakley-to-become-tour-de-france-sponsor-after-dropping-armstrong.html
Luxottica Group SpA’s (LUX)  Oakley eyewear
company will become a partner of the Tour de France bicycle race
next year after ending a long relationship with Lance Armstrong.  Chief Executive Officer Colin Baden said in an interview in
London yesterday that Oakley did not receive a discount because
of the doping scandal centering around Armstrong, who was
stripped of his Tour titles for 1999-2005.  Oakley’s move comes at a time when sponsors such as the
Netherlands’ biggest mortgage lender, Rabobank Groep, are
shunning cycling because of the doping scandal.  “I would like to see that the sport be what it once was,”
Baden said, without giving details of the sponsorship deal.
“It’s unfortunate what we’ve all experienced. It would be
really nice to get back to the place where it’s admired,
respected and understood.”  Oakley had been working on the sponsorship deal for 12
months. Baden said the decision to partner the Tour for the
first time deepens the company’s relationship with a sport where
he says the Oakley brand “was discovered.”  Oakley signed its first cycling endorsement with  Greg LeMond , the American who won three Tour de France crowns in 1986
to 1990. Since then, it has endorsed top riders including 2012
winner Bradley Wiggins of Britain.  The  Foothill Ranch , California-based company was one of
Armstrong’s earliest sponsors. Its relationship with the 41-
year-old stretches back to before he recovered from testicular
cancer to win what was a record seven straight Tour titles. It
was the last major sponsor to ditch Armstrong.  Livestrong Foundation  Baden said Oakley paid Armstrong’s medical bills during
cancer treatment and has raised $10 million for the Livestrong
Foundation cancer charity through royalty payments on some of
its products in the past five years.  Armstrong started Livestrong, which was originally known as
the  Lance Armstrong  Foundation, in 1997. He stepped down as
chairman in October and was dropped by sponsors including  Nike
Inc. (NKE) ,  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  after the
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency on Oct. 10 released a 202-page summary
of its investigation of Armstrong that said his cycling career
was “fueled from start to finish by doping.”  Oakley, as well as other sponsors such as Nike, will
continue to support Livestrong.  “My wife’s a cancer survivor,” Baden said. “My belief
and hope is that the foundation can continue its mission. Only
time will tell, but it’s something we as a brand will still
stand behind and we believe strongly that fighting cancer is a
worthy cause.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  