-- Obama and Boehner’s Bridge Across the Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   S e a n   W e s t
-- 2012-11-08T23:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-and-boehner-s-bridge-across-the-fiscal-cliff.html
The last time President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker  John Boehner  squared off over fiscal problems,
they triggered tremendous market volatility, cost the U.S. its
AAA credit rating and nearly pushed the government into default.  Voters were so impressed with the results that they have
re-elected the two leaders so they can have  another go  -- this
time to help the country avoid a headlong dive over the dreaded
fiscal cliff.  Fear not: The players are the same, but the game has
fundamentally  changed.   The  battle  in 2011 over the debt ceiling wasn’t actually
about the debt ceiling: It was about fixing the deficit. But
neither side wanted to accept a compromise that might antagonize
party loyalists on the eve of campaign season or to make
concessions that the election outcome might render unnecessary.  They spent so much time debating an unreachable big deal
that they had to rush simply to agree to raise the debt limit
without defaulting. Markets  shudder  when the country with the
lowest credit risk in the world has to think about paying its
bills.  The fiscal cliff -- the automatic tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect in January if Obama and Boehner
don’t reach a budget deal -- is much different.  Stalling Strategy  There is a large battle to be had over broader  deficit
reduction , but that is not the immediate issue facing Washington
on Jan. 1. No one thinks the deficit will be solved in the lame-
duck period: Avoiding the fiscal cliff means simply finding a
way to delay the problem this year without surrendering
negotiating leverage for the larger fight next year.  In 2011, expectations were raised that Democrats and
Republicans would solve fiscal problems in conjunction with a
debt-limit increase in order to avoid a credit downgrade and
keep the bond vigilantes at bay. This year, credit raters and
Treasury markets have  signaled  that the U.S. will not be
punished for “punting” decisions into 2013.  Thus, avoiding the fiscal cliff requires only “building a
bridge” to the new year. Both sides have clear incentives to
avoid a disaster for which both parties would be blamed. Neither
side has a better alternative. That’s why the fiscal cliff is a
self-denying prophecy: It’s so bad, it not only can’t happen, it
can’t credibly be threatened.  If either side takes a  hard-line position  while threatening
to push the U.S. over the edge, external pressure from business
leaders and voters rains down upon it. That’s why neither side
campaigned on willingness to go over the cliff absent a deal on
its terms.  Obama was just  re-elected  on a pledge to raise taxes on the
wealthiest Americans, and voters have given him a mandate to
pursue his policies. Some of the fear aroused by dire media
warnings of fiscal-cliff disaster centers on the misconception
that, because the so-called Bush tax cuts expire at year-end,
the president has an incentive to ride over the cliff, let all
these tax cuts expire, and then simply put the tax cuts for the
middle class back in place next year.  Of course, in the interim, there would be a dramatic fiscal
and market shock from both the onset of austerity and the fear
that it will not be reversed.  If there is no fiscal cliff deal, Obama would then preside
over economic and financial carnage as he tries to frame his
second term. Instead of crafting an ambitious second-term vision
for his January inaugural address, he would instead spend his
time and energy trying to push off blame for the economic
calamity under way.  Possible Meltdown  The voters who just granted him a second term would see
hundreds of dollars of cuts to their first paychecks in 2013.
Companies that backed him will fire workers as government
contracts are cut and the broader corporate community will
scream about how the recovery has been knocked off course. Far
from freeing him to play hero later, this meltdown would
strangle his second term before it began.  Boehner’s position is similar. The election’s weakening of
the  Tea Party  strengthens the speaker’s control of his caucus,
but he is weaker today relative to the newly re-elected
president than he was last year. Boehner knows he risks a public
backlash if he appears to lead a party blamed for legislative
obstruction into plunging the  U.S. economy  over the edge.  That sort of blame would dramatically reduce his leverage
in the larger 2013 fiscal debate where the real, substantive
issues remain on the table. This came through very clearly in
his first post-election press conference: In total contrast to
the shoot-from-the hip speaker of 2011, Boehner’s  speech  was a
plea for a deal, delivered from two teleprompters. He knows he
has little room for error.  Both men want to avoid disaster before the year’s end and
earn some credit for a landmark deal in 2013. The only way to do
that is to avoid the immediate cliff by building a bridge.  This will require a president who will never again face the
judgment of voters to move off his pledge to veto across-the-
board tax cuts at year’s end. It will require Republicans to
provide Obama political cover to do so by agreeing to some
smaller down payment now -- such as reducing the amount of  tax
deductions  the wealthy can take in 2013. It will then require
around-the-clock negotiations to decide how to word such a deal
and to twist enough arms to make sure it can pass Congress
before the turn of the year.  Will  Washington  do all this before the New Year’s Eve ball
drops in Times Square? Given the pain that failure would inflict
on everyone involved, both sides have little choice.  (Sean West is U.S. practice head and director at Eurasia
Group, a global political risk advisory firm. You can follow him
on Twitter at  @seanpwest . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  political imperative of
immigration reform  and on why  China’s rulers can’t go on
controlling information ;  Jonathan Alter  on how  Obama and
business can heal their breach ;  Margaret Carlson  on why  another
“Year of the Woman” is nothing to celebrate ; Stephen L. Carter
on why  we shouldn’t worry about low voter turnout ; William Pesek
on a  possible thaw between the two Koreas ; Jonathan Weil on  one
honest man on Wall Street ; Adam Minter on the  view from Beijing
during the party congress .  To contact the writers of this article:  media@eurasiagroup.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 