-- Obama’s Second Chance to Be Historic
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-11-08T02:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-runs-into-extremists-courting-failure.html
Barack Obama  made history in 2008. It
may now be his fate merely to mark time.  Obama’s election as the first black president closed a
chapter -- though surely not the book -- in America’s long,
vexed racial history, just as  John F. Kennedy ’s election as the
first Roman Catholic president in 1960 amounted to a major
cadence in the nation’s turbulent religious history. Kennedy
proved to be both the first and last Catholic president, in the
sense that Catholicism has never since defined political
identities the way it did for most of the Republic’s first two
centuries (think Al Smith’s crushing defeat in 1928).  And as predicted in this space four years ago, Obama has
already proved to be both the first black president and the last
black president. He has shattered a historic barrier that can’t
be put back together again.  To be clear: There will undoubtedly be black presidential
candidates in the future, but their racial identity won’t
principally determine their political destinies, just as Obama’s
race played no material role in the campaign just concluded.
Nor, importantly, did  Mitt Romney ’s Mormon faith. The absence of
both racial and religious politicking in this election cycle --
not to mention voter approval of same-sex marriage in three
states -- testifies powerfully to the American people’s
expanding sense of tolerance and inclusion.  Paradoxical Counterweight  The dilation of our definition of “we, the people” is a
large and commendable historical achievement, a sign of the
nation’s deepening commitment to its founding principles of
equality and justice for all -- and perhaps a healthy if
somewhat paradoxical counterweight to the alarmingly widening
economic inequality of our time.  But the Founders left some other legacies, too, not all of
them as praiseworthy in our time as in theirs. Take two matters:
our fabled system of checks and balances and the workings of our
political parties.  “The great object of terror and suspicion to the people of
the thirteen provinces was power,” wrote Henry Adams, America’s
most trenchantly insightful historian. “Not merely power in the
hands of a president or a prince, of one assembly or several, of
many citizens or few, but power in the abstract, wherever it
existed and under whatever form it was known.”  Even  Thomas Jefferson , famous for his sunny appraisal of
human nature and his faith in the good sense of the common folk,
insisted that “in questions of power, then, let no more be
heard of confidence in man, but bind him down from mischief by
the chains of the Constitution.”  The framers’ fear of power informed virtually every
paragraph of the constitution they drafted in the sweltering
Philadelphia summer of 1787. They created a governing system
laced with all those crosscutting and countervailing mechanisms
that we learned about in civics class: divided sovereignty
between federal and state governments; legislative authority
shared by two chambers with different rules, their members
chosen by different methods and on different cycles; a president
beholden to Congress on many counts, not least for his war-
making powers, and elected by yet another method (the  Electoral
College ) and on yet another calendar cycle; and a blessedly
independent judiciary (though staffed only through joint
presidential and congressional approval of nominees).  Avoiding Factions  The framers purposefully built a limited-government
apparatus well-suited to a fairly homogeneous, mostly
agricultural society of some 4 million people. But they also
worried a lot about how well their system would work if the
dreaded demon of “faction” -- what today we call political
parties -- somehow slithered into this Edenic scene. In a
famously clever argument, James Madison’s celebrated  Federalist
Paper No. 10  argued that the sheer scale, plurality of
interests, and fluidity of movement and status in the teeming
new nation would impede the formation of permanent factions and
thus inoculate Americans against the kinds of tyranny -- or
deadlock -- that factions bred.  Yet factions emerged nonetheless, and quickly. In the first
full decade of nationhood, Federalists such as  Alexander Hamilton  sharply distinguished themselves from “Democratic-
Republicans” like Thomas Jefferson, setting the stage in 1800
for one of the most venomously contested presidential elections
in all of American history. Jefferson narrowly defeated his
Federalist foes on that occasion, and in his  Inaugural Address 
spoke the conciliatory words that have formed the template for
all presidential winners (and losers) ever since: “We are all
Republicans, we are all Federalists,” he said, and added: “If
there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this Union or
to change its republican form, let them stand undisturbed as
monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be
tolerated where reason is left free to combat it.”  Generous sentiments, and they helped give birth to a
remarkable season of national comity and political calm that
historians have labeled “The Era of Good Feelings.” The
factions of the 1790s were largely defanged. The Federalists
virtually disappeared as an organized political bloc. Political
parties as we know them today were all but invisible. More than
two decades of stability allowed the young nation to consolidate
its hard-won revolutionary gains and shape its institutions and
habits for the long haul. Expressing the national mood, the
electorate returned a string of three two-term presidents: the
“Virginia Dynasty” of Jefferson, Madison and James Monroe.  This blissful interlude came to a noisy end in the bitterly
controversial election of 1824 and the subsequent emergence of
essentially permanent political parties in the age of  Andrew Jackson  -- the recognizable origins of the political culture
we’ve had ever since. The two-party system born in Jackson’s day
served the nation well for more than a century thereafter. But
that system has become seriously dysfunctional today, in ways
that recollect Madison’s worst fears about faction.  Irreconcilable Conflict  With Obama’s re-election we now have for only the second
time in American history three back-to-back two-term
 presidencies . But if the Virginia Dynasty’s 24-year reign
signified stability and common purpose, our own presidential
trifecta, ironically, has been attended by stasis and seemingly
irreconcilable conflict.  Our current situation makes a mockery of Madison’s
beguiling explanation for why we have nothing to fear from
factions. And both Mitt Romney’s and Barack Obama’s ritual
gestures on election night of comradeship across the aisle were
so perfunctory as to make a mockery of Jefferson’s famously
inclusive axiom. If the Mexicans hadn’t come along first, we
might describe our present political predicament as an American
Standoff. Under the circumstances, maybe  New York  Times
columnist Tom Friedman can be forgiven for fantasizing that “if
we could just be  China  for a day,” we might get some business
done.  But we are not China, nor are we the can-do America of
yesteryear. After a seemingly endless $6 billion campaign, for
all practical purposes we are right back where we have been
since at least 2010. Two political parties face each other
across an ideological chasm that would have beggared Madison’s
imagination.  As meticulously documented in Thomas E. Mann’s and Norman J. Ornstein’s blistering book, “It’s Even Worse Than It Looks:
How the American Constitutional System Collided With the New
Politics of Extremism,” one of those parties -- the  Republican
Party  -- has moved much further from the political centerline
than the other. Thanks not least to the Tea Party infusion of
recent years, the GOP has become less a conventional political
party than what Mann and Ornstein call “an insurgent outlier in
American politics. It is ideologically extreme; scornful of
compromise; unmoved by conventional understanding of facts,
evidence, and science; and dismissive of the legitimacy of its
political opposition.”  Parliamentary Problem  Mann and Ornstein go on to explain the deep incompatibility
of our inherited constitutional system, which is predicated on
the necessity of compromise, with the de facto parliamentary-
style winner-take-all, damn-the-opposition mentality of so many
of today’s Republicans.  Congressional Republicans  have displayed remarkable
discipline over the last few years, holding their ranks fast and
spurning repeated presidential blandishments. Simply as a matter
of political craft, it’s been an impressive performance. Yet
they have failed to make good on Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ’s hope to make Barack Obama a one-term president. Can
the re-elected president now induce them, at last, to get in
touch with their inner Jefferson, find common ground, and usher
in a new Era of Good Feelings? Now that would be one for the
history books.  (David M. Kennedy, winner of the Pulitzer Prize in history,
is the Donald J. McLachlan Professor of History Emeritus and
director of the Bill Lane Center for the American West at
 Stanford University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Mary Duenwald on  the prospects of a carbon tax , James
Greiff on  restoring Wall Street-White House ties  and Zara
Kessler on  Mitt Romney’s 49 percent problem .  Plus, the editors on how President Barack Obama can  avoid the
fiscal cliff  and  start on his global to-do list ;  Caroline Baum 
on  why Congress doesn’t listen to voters ; Clive Crook on how
 Obama can make this election matter ;  Ezra Klein  on  the opening
for filibuster reform ; W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm on  the
California business that might come to Texas ; Odd Arne Westad on
 China’s more nationalistic leadership .  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Kennedy at  dmk@stanford.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  