-- Obama Won Record Share of Florida’s Cuban-American: Poll
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-11-08T21:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-won-record-share-of-florida-s-cuban-american-poll.html
President  Barack Obama  won a historic
share of the Cuban-American vote in  Florida , loosening the
 Republican Party ’s grip on a traditional base of support in the
biggest swing state, according to a Miami-based polling firm,
Bendixen & Amandi International.  Obama won 48 percent of the Cuban-American vote on Nov. 6,
compared with 52 percent for Republican  Mitt Romney , pollster
Fernand Amandi told reporters in Miami today.  About 45 percent of Cuban-Americans born on the Caribbean
island -- traditionally Republican -- backed Obama, his polling
found. Overall, the president won 61 percent of Florida’s
Hispanic voters, about 17 percent of the state’s electorate.  “This is dramatically different from what we’ve seen in
cycles past,” Amandi said.  The poll of 4,866 voters in six  south Florida  counties has
a possible margin of error of plus or minus 1.4 percentage
points. Bendixen & Amandi, which specializes in surveying the
Hispanic community and previously worked for the Obama campaign,
said it produced this poll independently.  Statewide, Obama was leading Romney by 0.6 percentage
points among all voters, as the state remained uncalled with
absentee ballots still being counted in Broward, Palm Beach and
Duval counties, according to Chris Cate, spokesman for the
Florida State Department.  Republicans Concerned  In the wake of Romney’s national defeat, Representative
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of South Florida and Senator Marco Rubio,
both Republicans, said their party needs to do more to attract
minorities and immigrants.  “The conservative movement should have particular appeal
to people in minority and immigrant communities who are trying
to make it, and Republicans need to work harder than ever to
communicate our beliefs to them,” Rubio said in a statement
today.  Republicans are losing support among Florida’s Cuban
community as younger voters turn toward the  Democratic Party  and
the percentage of the electorate made up of older Cuban-American
immigrants shrinks, the poll showed. The trend is found in other
Hispanic communities as well, including among Nicaraguans,
Puerto Ricans and Venezuelans.  “Historically, Nicaraguans have been regarded as the
ideological brothers and sisters of the Cubans,” said Sergio Bendixen, the company’s president. About 74 percent of
Nicaraguan-Americans backed Obama this year while 76 percent of
Venezuelan-Americans did, according to the poll.  Both Bendixen and Amandi said they predict Florida
Hispanics will be majority Democratic by the 2016 presidential
race, though Bendixen said a run by former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, who is popular among Hispanics, could reverse the trend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  