-- Obama Re-Election Makes Muni Tax Cap More Plausible, Posner Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   W i l l i a m   G l a s g a l l
-- 2012-11-08T18:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-re-election-makes-muni-tax-cap-more-plausible-posner-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
makes his proposal to cap the tax-exemption for interest on
municipal debt “more plausible,” said Matt Posner at Municipal
Market Advisors.  Obama, in an effort to trim the  federal budget  deficit, has
proposed limiting the value of the muni-bond tax break for higher
earners to 28 percent, down from 35 percent. Local governments
can borrow more cheaply through the $3.7 trillion municipal
market because investors are willing to accept lower yields in
return for tax-free income.  “This election makes the administration’s proposal for a
28 percent cap much more plausible,” Posner, an analyst for MMA
in  Washington , said today at the Bloomberg Portfolio Manager
conference in New York. “In the Senate, even before this
election, there was bipartisan talk already that this 28 percent
idea had legs.”  While the plan may come up during the congressional session
that begins next week, it is unlikely to be enacted until fiscal
2014, he said.  Posner and and fellow panelist Peter Coffin, president of
Boston-based Breckinridge Capital Advisors Inc., said a better
alternative to the cap proposal would be reducing the number of
issuers eligible to sell tax-exempt debt. General-obligation
bonds and essential-service revenue bonds could remain tax-free,
Posner said.  Limiting the exemption is “not a good idea” because
investors would view a cap as a “moving target” subject to
change by politicians, Posner said.  A cap would disproportionately raise borrowing costs for
smaller municipal issuers, Coffin said. Instead, larger
entities, those borrowing $250 million or more, should sell
taxable debt, shrinking the tax-free market and raising federal
revenue, he said.  Posner said he’s seeing “pushback” on retroactively
applying a cap to previously issued munis. Because of that, the
ceiling would probably apply only to future issuance, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall in New York at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  