-- Obama’s Economy Seen Gaining in New Term Regardless of Policies
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-11-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-s-economy-seen-gaining-in-new-term-regardless-of-policies.html
President  Barack Obama  promises to
use his second term to boost the  U.S. economy . The opposite is
more like it: A strengthening economy will boost the president’s
second term.  Job growth is poised to continue increasing  tax revenue ,
which will make it easier to shrink the budget  deficit  while
keeping taxes low and preserving essential spending.  All this will probably occur without any magic emanating
from the Oval Office. It would likely have taken place if  Mitt Romney  had been elected president, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Nov. 12 issue.  “The economy’s operating well below potential, and there’s
a lot of room for growth” regardless of who’s in office, says
 Mark Zandi , chief economist of forecaster Moody’s Analytics.  Something could still go wrong, but the median prediction
of 37 economists surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators is
that during the next four years, economic growth will gather
momentum as jobless people return to work and unused machinery
is put back into service.  “The self-correcting forces in the economy will prevail,”
predicts Ben Herzon, senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers
LLC, a forecasting firm in St. Louis.  Ready for Growth  By a range of indicators, the economy is better situated
for growth today than it has been in years. Banks have
strengthened their balance sheets. Most households, which
borrowed too much during the housing bubble, have pared their
debt back to normal levels through a combination of frugality
and default.  Upper-income households’ balance sheets “are as pristine as
they’ve ever been,” although mortgage debt remains a heavy
burden at lower-income levels, Zandi says.  Housing prices have gone from falling to rising, buoying
confidence. Increased  consumer spending  should induce more
business investment in a virtuous circle. And there’s pent-up
demand for residential and commercial construction.  That’s not to say growth will be gangbusters. It may not
even be strong enough to get the U.S. back to full employment by
the time the president’s second term comes to an end.  Obama worked hard during the campaign to persuade voters
that he shouldn’t be held responsible for the weakness of the
economy. They apparently listened: Not since  Franklin Roosevelt 
has a president been re-elected with the  unemployment rate  as
high as it is now, 7.9 percent as of October.  Limiting Influence  By the same token, Obama can’t claim all the credit for the
recovery that began slowly in June 2009 and is on track to
continue through his second term.  Most economists say the influence of the president, any
president, over an almost $16 trillion economy is smaller than
commonly believed.  “Knowing who’s going to be president takes you only about
10 percent of the way,” says  Robert Shapiro , a Democratic
adviser and chairman of Sonecon LLC, a Washington-based economic
consulting firm.  Even Obama’s former chief economic adviser,  Austan Goolsbee , once said, “Most all of the economy has nothing to do
with the government.”  Presidents’ policy choices do matter during crises, like
the one that greeted Obama when he took office in January 2009.
As Obama never tires of pointing out, the U.S. was losing about
800,000 jobs a month.  Less Support  Moody’s Zandi argues that “what Obama did with regard to
fiscal policy was critical to avoiding a depression.” A
Republican president might have acted less aggressively and
allowed the economy to tank.  Derring-do is no longer essential. “The economy needs less
support from the government in the coming four years than in the
past four,” says  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist of
UniCredit Group, a European banking group.  Contrary to what both campaigns argued, Obama’s second term
won’t look that different from what would have been Romney’s
first when it comes to the elements that affect the economy.  Federal deficits ballooned to more than $1 trillion in each
of the past four fiscal years because the deepest recession
since World War II forced up  government spending  while
depressing  tax revenue .  Things will start getting back to normal in the coming term
as the economy continues to revive and more working people pay
taxes. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says that
even if the Bush tax cuts are extended in full, federal revenue
will soar by 2016.  Spending Cuts  Both candidates promised to reduce the  budget deficit  by
similar amounts. Romney vowed to lower taxes across the board
and shrink the deficit through spending cuts; Obama also plans
to rely heavily on spending cuts, though he says he’ll get a
quarter of deficit reduction through higher taxes. That
distinction, while important to individual constituents, matters
much less to economic forecasters.  The same goes for spending. Where the dollars go is of
intense concern to lobbyists for defense contractors, farmers
and the like, yet not as important to forecasters, who focus on
the balance of spending and revenue more than its composition.  Deficits might even be smaller under Obama than they would
have been under Romney -- who, like  George W. Bush , might have
persuaded Congress to give him lots of tax reductions but not so
many spending cuts. It’s telling that the major economic
forecasters didn’t bother creating separate scenarios for an
Obama win vs. a Romney win. The differences were too small to
justify the effort.  Monetary Policy  Forecasters do care -- a lot -- about monetary policy
because  interest rates  have a big influence on economic
activity. The easy-money policy of the past four years is likely
to continue throughout Obama’s second term. Wall Street was
nervous that a President Romney would appoint an inflation hawk
such as his adviser, Hoover Institution economist  John Taylor ,
to replace Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  when
Bernanke’s term ends in January 2014.  Obama will probably pick someone more in Bernanke’s mold,
such as Fed Vice Chair  Janet Yellen . Bottom line: little or no
change.  So what will drive economic growth during the next four
years? Mostly, the natural healing process.  Exceeding Forecasts  The Fed’s rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee pegs
the economy’s long-run potential growth rate at 2.3 percent to
2.5 percent. Yet growth is likely to exceed that pace slightly
for the next few years as unused labor and capital are put back
into service.  Blue Chip Economic Indicators says the average forecast of
economists it surveys is for growth of about 3 percent a year in
2014, 2015 and 2016, with the unemployment rate gradually
sinking over the period from 7.4 percent to 6.9 percent to
6.5 percent.  The 6.5 percent unemployment predicted for Obama’s last
year in office, while better, is still above the historical
average. Blue Chip’s survey doesn’t project the jobless rate
will be less than 6 percent until 2019, showing just how long it
takes for the economy to recover from a severe blow like the
2007-09 recession.  It’s possible that growth could beat expectations by the
end of Obama’s second term -- or the economy could just as
easily underperform.  Growth forecasts are predicated on the assumption that the
federal government keeps the confidence of the world’s investors
by putting itself on a plausible path to financial stability.  Taking Medicine  Putting off spending cuts made sense when the economy was
weak and vulnerable, although if Congress and the White House
continue to avoid taking their medicine when the country is in
better shape, bond investors may lose confidence and demand to
be paid higher yields on America’s $11 trillion mountain of
publicly held debt.  The state of the world economy will affect the U.S.’s
prospects, too, and there the American president has even less
influence than he does at home.  If Europe’s debt crisis gets bad enough it could damage the
U.S. financial system -- payback for the harm America did in
2008 after the Lehman Brothers meltdown.  Maybe a hard landing in China will disrupt global growth.
Or war in the Middle East will cause an oil shock. Even if none
of that happens, job growth will be constrained by
globalization, says  John Silvia , chief economist of Wells Fargo
Securities LLC.  Foreign Demand  U.S. companies will continue to satisfy growing foreign
demand by building factories abroad, not in the U.S., Silvia
says. “The character of the  labor market  has changed,” he says.
“It’s much harder to integrate low-skilled or semiskilled
workers into the economy.”  Democratic adviser Shapiro says “the central economic
problem” of the next four years is to “change the path of
earnings” so the benefits of economic growth reach ordinary
workers, not just corporations and their shareholders.  Politically speaking, the president’s biggest advantage is
that expectations have been beaten down so far that even so-so
economic growth will look pretty good to the average American.
For a while anyway.  The biggest risk for Obama is that by 2016, a slo-mo
recovery in a socially polarized economy will cease to impress.
The crises may be less extreme over the next four years, but the
economic challenges are no smaller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in  New York  at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  