-- Obama’s Strengthened Hand May Force Republican Opponents to Deal
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-08T03:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-s-strengthened-hand-may-force-republican-opponents-to-deal.html
At first glance, the results of the
2012 election look like a return to the status quo: President
Obama was re-elected, Democrats retained the Senate and
Republicans held on to the House.  But don’t be fooled. The political dynamic of the next four
years will be almost exactly the opposite of the last four.  Sure, partisan bickering will endure. There will still be
Red America and Blue America,  Fox News  and  MSNBC . But with one
big difference: During Obama’s first term, and particularly in
the last two years, the  Republican Party  had most of the
leverage.  Republicans’ willingness to reject stimulus, default on the
debt and sabotage the nation’s credit rating --- threats that
shook financial markets --- often put the White House at the
mercy of the opposition, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Nov. 12 edition.  In Obama’s second term, leverage will shift to the
Democrats on almost every issue of importance. And that shift
has already begun.  The defining struggle in Obama’s first term was the battle
for revenue. From the president’s original 2009 stimulus package
to last year’s showdown over renewing the payroll tax cut, Obama
was unsuccessful in his attempts to generate higher  tax revenue 
to enable further spending.  Obama confronted a Republican party determined to starve
government and convinced that its path back to power lay in
engineering his failure. As Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said in 2010, “The single most
important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be
a one-term president.”  Hold the Line  Republicans mostly held the line.  To keep the economy afloat, the White House cut the deals
it felt it had to. Many, such as Obama’s agreement to extend all
of the Bush tax cuts in 2010, were poorly received by Democrats.
Now comes the payoff.  The expiration of those cuts and the automatic reductions
set to take effect at year’s end --- the so-called fiscal cliff
--- mean that Obama and the Democrats can gain a huge source of
new revenue by doing nothing at all.  Republican priorities are the ones suddenly in peril. The
combination of tax increases on the rich, higher capital-gains
taxes and sharp cuts in defense spending have congressional
Republicans deeply worried. To mitigate these, they will have to
bargain.  Tough Talk  Despite their post-election tough talk, Republican leaders
have dealt themselves a lousy hand. Obama can propose a “middle-
class tax cut” for the 98 percent of American households earning
less than $250,000 a year, while letting the Bush tax cuts
expire for those earning more, and dare the Republicans to block
it. If they do, everyone’s taxes will rise on Jan. 1.  It’s true that going over the fiscal cliff, as some
Democrats believe will happen, would set back the recovery and
could eventually cause a recession. But Democratic leaders in
Congress believe the public furor would be too intense for
Republicans to withstand for long.  Going over the cliff would also weaken the Republicans’
greatest point of leverage: renewing their threat to default on
the national debt.  Right now, the Treasury expects to hit the debt ceiling in
February. But if the cliff can’t be avoided, tax rates will rise
and government coffers will swell, delaying the date of default,
thus diminishing the Republicans’ advantage.  Date Pushed Back  Alice Rivlin , the founding director of the Office of
Management and Budget and a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , says that “as quickly as the IRS began changing the
withholding schedule, the date would be pushed back.”  This new, post-election reality should compel both sides
toward the “Grand Bargain” on entitlement and tax reform that
President Barack Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , tried, and failed, to strike in the summer of 2011.
Most people in Washington expect these negotiations to dominate
the 2013 calendar year.  Here again, leverage has shifted from Republicans to
Democrats.  “The message of this election is twofold,” says Senator
Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat. “Americans want us to come
together around a balanced compromise. And the major issue
surrounding the fiscal cliff that was litigated in the election
was revenues. Voters clearly sided with us. The president made
it a campaign issue, and he won.”  Republican Battle  Privately, some Republicans, especially in the Senate,
share this assessment. Many more don’t. The battle to control
the Republican Party and determine its course could inflict
further damage on the conservative cause.  “The ’right wing of the Republican Party’ has become a
redundancy,” says Republican strategist Rich Galen. “It now is
the Republican Party, and there simply aren’t enough voters who
agree with all of the  Tea Party  doctrine to win a national
election.”  Establishment conservatives recognize this problem.  “It’s clear that, with our losses in the presidential race
and a number of key Senate races, we have a period of reflection
and recalibration ahead,” Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, chairman
of the National Republican Senate Committee, said on Nov. 7.
“While some will want to blame one wing of the party over the
other, the reality is candidates from all corners of our GOP
lost tonight. Clearly, we have work to do in the weeks and
months ahead.”  Activist Base  The trouble for Republicans is that the party is dominated
not by Washington figures like Cornyn and the consulting class
but by its activist base. Once a welcome source of energy that
catapulted Republicans to control of the House in 2010, the Tea
Party has become a millstone. Flawed candidates have twice cost
Republicans control of the Senate, in 2010 and 2012, and could
do so again in 2014.  At the same time, the Republican Senate caucus has moved
further to the right. Relative moderates such as  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas and  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts are
departing; staunch right-wingers like incoming Senators Ted Cruz
off Texas and Deb Fischer off Nebraska will replace them.  And the senior party members who might steer a safer path
are hemmed in by the threat of Tea Party challenges back home.
Cornyn, McConnell,  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia are all up for reelection in two years, and
they are aware of the fate that befell ousted colleagues such as
 Richard Lugar  of Indiana and Bob Bennett off Utah.  Immigration Issue  Where this tension could hurt Republicans most in Obama’s
second term is on immigration, the other big issue sure to come
to the fore in the next two years.  In September, Obama was taken to task in a Telemundo
candidate forum for not having fulfilled his pledge to push for
a path to citizenship or legal work status for the nation’s 12
million illegal immigrants.  He lamely submitted that “you can’t change Washington from
the inside. You can only change it from the outside.”  A month later, in an off-the-record interview with the Des
Moines Register soon made public, he shared his true thoughts.
“Since this is off the record,” he said, “I will just be very
blunt. Should I win a second term, a big reason is because the
Republican nominee and the Republican Party have so alienated
the fastest-growing demographic group in the country, the Latino
community. And this is a relatively new phenomenon. I am fairly
confident that they’re going to have a deep interest in getting
that done.”  Tidal Wave  Obama could see coming, as any poll-watcher could, the
demographic tidal wave that swamped Republicans on Nov. 6.  Exit polls show that 89 percent of  Mitt Romney ’s votes were
from whites, compared with 56 percent for Obama. Latinos went to
Obama in record numbers, 71 percent to Romney’s 29 percent, down
sharply from the 44 percent  George W. Bush  won in 2000. Obama
also carried 93 percent of blacks and 73 percent of Asians. In
1980 whites cast about 90 percent of all votes; this year they
cast 72 percent, and that number falls an average of
two percentage points every four years.  Republicans have become prisoners of demography, helpless
to break free from the nativism of their activist base. Bush
failed to persuade a much more moderate Congress to pass
immigration reform in 2007.  Obama will soon try again. In the process, he will expose
the deep fissure among Republicans that, if not bridged, will
consign the party to minority status, certainly in presidential
elections. Solving this problem and ending the party’s
unconscionable voter suppression efforts stand as the
Republicans’ two greatest challenges to broadening their appeal
in the years ahead.  Brighter Picture  For Democrats, the picture is brighter.  Obama’s first-term achievements, including the health-care
law and Wall Street reform, are now secure. A second term marked
by an improving economy and capped with historic tax and
entitlement reform seems well within reach.  That would put Obama among a select group of Democratic
presidents. When the scope of his Nov. 6 victory became clear,
some giddy liberals likened Obama to  Ronald Reagan , the
Republican whose legacy defined much of the last quarter century
of American politics.  Such comparisons may be premature. But looking four years
out, they are not unthinkable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  