-- Obama Re-Election Chances 2-to-1 in Intrade Bets
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-11-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/obama-re-election-chances-2-to-1-in-intrade-bets.html
Count the Intrade.com political
futures market among the winners of the 2012 election, along
with blogger and statistician Nate Silver.  The BGOV Barometer shows Intrade betting on election eve
came close to predicting the electoral vote in the presidential
race as well as the outcome of competitive races for the U.S.
Senate.  The results burnish the reputation of Intrade and Silver as
election prognosticators after both gained prominence in 2008 by
offering predictions that closely mirrored the eventual result.
Intrade betting the night before the Nov. 6 balloting showed
President  Barack Obama  a 2-to-1 favorite to win re-election over
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “Overall they did pretty well,” Julian Zelizer, a
Princeton University professor of history and public affairs,
said of Intrade’s predictions. “But that said, they were just
following the conventional wisdom, which said at a certain point
the electoral mass favored Obama.”  Intrade betting called every state correctly with the
possible exception of  Florida , where votes were close enough
that they were still being counted late yesterday. Nov. 5 wagers
had given Romney a 70.2 percent chance of winning the state’s 29
electoral votes.  Silver correctly predicted Obama’s nationwide victory and,
if Florida goes for the president, will have called all 50 U.S.
states on his FiveThirtyEight blog, published by the  New York 
Times.   Senate Races  Intrade correctly called eight out of 10 Senate contests it
dubbed “key races,” missing in North Dakota and  Montana . In
North Dakota, where Intrade gave the Republican candidate an 87
percent chance of winning, Democrat Heidi Heitkamp, a former
state attorney general, defeated Republican U.S. Representative
Rick Berg in a race that took until yesterday to call. In
Montana, Democratic U.S. Senator Jon Tester held on to his seat
with 48.8 percent of the vote to defeat Republican challenger
Denny Rehberg. Intrade had called the race a 68 percent favorite
for Rehberg, a U.S. House member.  The potential miss in Florida, where Intrade gave Romney a
70 percent chance of winning, shows “limits” in using market-
based predictions for elections rather than statistics-based
indicators, Zelizer said yesterday in an interview.  Easier Betting  In 2008, placing a winning wager on the election outcome
was easier, he said.  “The combination of the financial collapse and Bush’s
unpopularity made it more obvious that McCain was going to
lose,” Zelizer said. “In the more competitive battleground
situation it’s probably easier to make a mistake.”  With the count in Florida still to be finished, Obama was
leading Romney nationwide in the popular vote and won a decisive
Electoral College victory.  Intrade’s Internet betting pool rivals,  Betfair  and  IEM ,
were even more optimistic about the president’s prospects,
putting the likelihood of his re-election at 77 percent and 75
percent respectively at about 5 p.m. the day before the
election.  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , Ireland’s largest bookmaker, didn’t wait
for all the votes to be counted to declare a winner saying it
would  pay out  for an Obama victory. The Dublin-based company
said it was paying out more than 500,000 euros ($640,000) on
Obama bets.  “Paddy Power believes it’s a done deal and Obama is a
nailed-on certainty to win a second term,” the company said in
a statement on its website.  With the exception of Florida, the electoral map shown by
wagering at Dublin-based Intrade hewed closely to the results
from aggregated polling data at  Pollster.com .  2008 Record  In 2008, Intrade bettors said Obama would win 364 electoral
votes, one fewer than he actually received in his campaign
against Republican challenger John McCain. Silver’s poll
analysis correctly predicted outcomes in 49 of the 50 states,
missing Obama’s win of  Indiana  that year.  Intrade first offered a presidential wagering market for
the George W. Bush-John Kerry contest in 2004. Its subscribers
correctly predicted the winner of all 50 states.  Intrade allows users to place bets on hundreds of political
and other events which are presented as yes-or-no questions.  Share price is determined by cumulative betting. Winners
receive $10 per share while losers receive zero. The site
charges members a monthly fee of $4.99 per account to enter the
betting pool.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  