-- Oil Rises From Four-Month Low After U.S. Jobless Claims
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-11-08T21:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/oil-rises-from-four-month-low-after-u-s-jobless-claims.html
Oil climbed from a four-month low
after fewer Americans than forecast filed claims for
unemployment insurance and Greek lawmakers approved a package of
austerity measures needed to unlock further financial aid.  Futures rose 0.8 percent as the Labor Department said
applications for  jobless benefits  fell by 8,000 to 355,000 last
week. The Greek Parliament passed a bill on pension, wage and
benefit cuts. Oil gave up some of its intraday gains as equities
declined and the euro reached a two-month low versus the dollar.  “Unemployment claims fell further, which is a hopeful
signal about the economy,” said John Kilduff, a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “Concerns about the euro-zone have eased again with the
passage of further austerity measures in  Greece .”  Crude oil for December delivery rose 65 cents to settle at
$85.09 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
contract dropped $4.27 yesterday to $84.44, the lowest
settlement since July 10. Prices are down 14 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement increased 43 cents, or
0.4 percent, to end the session at $107.25 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Economists forecast jobless claims would be little changed
from the prior week at 365,000, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  Beating Expectations  “The jobless claims are better than expected,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The labor picture seems to be
stabilizing.”  Consumer confidence  climbed last week as Americans’ ratings
of the economy reached the highest level in more than four
years. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 34.4
in the period ended Nov. 4, the best reading since April, from
minus 34.7 the previous week.  The U.S. consumed 18.8 million barrels a day of oil in
2011, or 21 percent of the world’s total, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “The low is probably in for the fourth quarter and the
buyers are sticking their toes in the water,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago .  Greece’s bill on pension, wage and benefit cuts was
approved with 153 votes in favor in the 300-seat Parliament
early today, according to Athanasios Nakos, the acting speaker.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said today the
economic outlook is worsening and the bank stands ready to
activate its bond-purchase program if governments fulfill the
necessary conditions.  U.S. Election  Crude dropped the most since Dec. 14 yesterday, after
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, won re-election. Obama faces
a battle with the Republican-controlled House of Representatives
over about $607 billion of tax increases and federal spending
cuts that are set to take effect automatically in January as
part of last year’s debt negotiations.  “The market will be under pressure due to the looming
budget debate and the  European debt crisis ,” McGillian said.  The Congressional Budget Office has said the American
economy will contract by as much as 0.5 percent next year if
Congress fails to stop the measures known collectively as the
“fiscal cliff.”  “There was some conciliatory talk yesterday, which points
to a budget deal,” Kilduff said. “They may want to get any
pain out of the way early on in the term.”  Equities Drop  Oil pared gains as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.2
percent in New York. The euro dropped to $1.2717, the lowest
level since Sept. 7. A weaker euro and stronger dollar reduce
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “There are still worries about what’s going on in
 Europe ,” said Tom Pawlicki, director of market research at
Chicago-based EOXLive.  Demand for crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will decline through to 2016 because of the
weakening economic outlook and growing reliance on competing
sources such as U.S. shale oil deposits and natural gas liquids,
the group said today in its annual World Oil Outlook.  U.S. oil production rose to the highest level in almost 18
years last week as a shale drilling boom cut reliance on foreign
fuel, the Energy Department said in a report yesterday.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 508,813
contracts as of 4:07 p.m. Volume totaled 738,743 contracts
yesterday, 41 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  