-- Home Inns Leads Consumer Slump on Demand: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-08T22:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/home-inns-leads-consumer-slump-on-demand-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell to a one-month
low in  New York , led by consumer stocks, on concern the
country’s incoming leadership may struggle to boost domestic
demand as growth in its export markets ebbs.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. lost 1.6 percent to 92.42, the lowest
close since Oct. 10. Budget hotel operator  Home Inns & Hotels
Management Inc. (HMIN)  sank the most in seven weeks and  China Southern
Airlines Co. (ZNH) , Asia’s biggest airline by passenger numbers,
dropped to the lowest since Oct. 3. Social-networking website
 Renren Inc. (RENN)  gained while Spreadtrum Communications, Inc., a
chipmaker, plunged after markets closed.  Xi Jinping is slated to replace  Hu Jintao  as general
secretary of  China ’s Communist Party, which started its 18th
congress in Beijing yesterday. The economy Xi is inheriting is
“unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable,” Hu said at the
meeting, and a Chinese  producer price index  report today may
show prices sank in October for an eighth month, adding to
global slowdown concerns as Europe delays a decision on funds
for Greece and a re-elected  Barack Obama  faces a so-called
fiscal cliff.  “There’s increasing recognition that the structure of the
economy has to change,” Tony Hann, who oversees $400 million of
assets as head of emerging-market equities at Blackfriars Asset
Management Ltd., said by phone from  London  yesterday. “Any of
the issues either in China or globally haven’t been necessarily
properly resolved. The market hasn’t fully taken it on board
yet.”  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2 percent to $36.52 in
New York yesterday, the lowest level since Oct. 12. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.2 percent to 1,377.51, the lowest
since Aug. 2.  Home Inns tumbled 3.8 percent to $27.51 yesterday, the
steepest one-day drop since Sept. 17. The Shanghai-based company
is scheduled to release third-quarter earnings on Nov. 13.  7
Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN) , a Guangzhou-based hotel-chain
operator, and  China Lodging Group Inc. (HTHT)  reported sales
projections for the fourth quarter this month that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  51job, also based in  Shanghai , surged 7.9 percent to
$50.45. The company’s third-quarter adjusted earnings per share
was 68 cents, compared with the 64-cent estimate of Timothy McHugh, an analyst in Chicago at William Blair & Co who rates
the stock the equivalent of buy. McHugh was the only analyst
 covering  the company that provided earnings predictions.  Renren Appeal  American depositary receipts of China Southern slipped 3.3
percent to $22.32, the lowest level since Oct. 3. The ADRs
traded 2.3 percent below equivalent shares in Hong Kong, the
deepest discount since Oct. 22.  Renren, which runs a social networking site similar to
Facebook Inc. based in Beijing, gained 5.3 percent, the most
since Aug. 6, to $3.38. The shares gained on speculation the
pending initial public offering of Guangzhou-based YY Inc.,
which runs a similar networking platform, may lure investors to
the Chinese Internet sector, according to Echo He, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York who rates Renren hold.  YY is offering to sell 7.8 million American depositary
shares priced between $10.50 and $12.50 each, according to a
company filing on Nov. 7.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  led a decline in solar-
panel makers, with Changzhou, China-based Trina sinking 9.2
percent to $3.65 and LDK tumbling 8.7 percent to 89 cents.  The U.S. International Trade Commission upheld duties on
imports from companies including Trina on Nov. 7, saying
domestic makers of solar cells were harmed by Chinese companies.  Spreadtrum Plunges  Spreadtrum (SPRD) , a maker of mobile chips, plunged 11 percent to
$18.9 in after-hours trading after closing with a gain of 0.3
percent to $21.33. The Pudong, China-based company reported
after markets closed that third-quarter sales of $187.9 million,
beating a $184.2 million estimate by 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “In Q4, we anticipate continuing increases in R&D
spendings as we bring new products to market and expand our
portfolio to new technologies,” Spreadtrum Chief Financial
Officer Shannon Gao said in a statement. “In the short term, we
expect that our operating margin will remain stable.”  ‘Work Harder’  President Hu said in a speech at the opening of the party
congress that China must double per-capita income and gross
domestic product by 2020, from 2010. Economic development
remains unbalanced and China’s leaders must “work harder” to
solve those problems, he said.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks
traded in  Hong Kong  declined 2.6 percent to 10,527.13, while the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.6 percent to 2,071.509.  Chinese producer prices may have fallen 2.7 percent last
month, compared with a 3.6 percent decline in September,
according to the median forecast of 31 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Industrial output probably rose 9.4 percent in
October from a year earlier, accelerating from a 9.2 percent
gain a month earlier, according to the median estimate of 30
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Some indicators are rebounding and the economy is
stabilizing, after slowing for seven quarters,  Zhou Xiaochuan ,
head of the People’s Bank of China, said yesterday in Beijing at
a briefing. Ma Jiantang, head of the National Bureau of
Statistics, said separately that people will be “more
confident” about growth in the fourth quarter.  “China is not in for a hard landing,” said  Neel Kashkari ,
head of global equities at Pacific Investment Management Co., in
an interview on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “It is slowing
but we think the transition overall will be successful. We think
they will get their big policy moves right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  