-- Monster Worldwide Seeks Sale of ChinaHR in Restructuring
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-11-08T22:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/monster-worldwide-seeks-to-sell-chinahr-unit-amid-restructuring.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , the Internet-
recruiting service exploring a sale, rose the most in a month
after saying it will seek a buyer for its ChinaHR unit and
restructure to shed less lucrative businesses.  The company is evaluating “all options” for developing
markets and curtailing losses in those regions, New York-based
Monster said in a statement today. The  shares  gained 10 percent
to $6.29 at the close in  New York , the biggest daily increase
since Oct. 8. The stock has declined 21 percent this year.  Monster, which first said in March it was considering a
sale, has been trimming its workforce and cutting costs after
European economic turmoil caused clients to pare use of its
products and companies such as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  offer alternative
recruitment tools. Additional measures announced today will curb
costs by about $130 million a year, Monster said.  “It looks like they’re trying to make it easier for the
company to be sold and sell off pieces to make the company more
attractive as a whole,” said Eric Handler, an analyst at MKM
Partners LLC. “The market remains choppy. They’re doing a good
job of taking costs out of the equation.”  Still, the China unit’s growth has slowed since Monster
bought its final stake in the company in 2008, said Randle Reece, an analyst at Avondale Partners LLC.  “ChinaHR has lost most of its share of the Chinese online
help-wanted market,” said Reece, who is based in Nashville,
 Tennessee . “Any consideration they receive for disposing of
ChinaHR is likely to be insignificant.”  The company bought its initial 40 percent stake in ChineHR
in 2005 for $50 million. Monster increased its holdings to
44.4 percent in a $19.9 million transaction in 2006 and then
purchased the rest for $174 million two years later.  Goodwill Writedown  The price paid for the final 55.6 percent of ChinaHR valued
the entire business at $300 million, Reece said in an e-mail.
The company wrote down its goodwill by $216 million in the third
quarter, which accounts for most of ChinaHR’s $262 million in
goodwill, he said. Goodwill is the amount above the fair value
of net assets paid for an acquisition.  Monster continues to consider the sale of the whole
company, Timothy Yates, executive vice president, told investors
and analysts today on a conference call. A “substantial
number” of potential buyers have received management
presentations, he said.  “The recent uncertainty has resulted in our review of
strategic alternatives taking longer than we anticipated,”
Yates said. “Some of these discussions are ongoing and we
cannot predict the timing or the specifics of the outcome from
the process.”  Sales Decline  Third-quarter sales fell 11 percent to $221.7 million,
missing the $233.9 million average estimate of analysts,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The net loss was
$194.2 million, or $1.75 a share, compared with income of $31.8
million, or 26 cents, a year earlier. Profit excluding some
items was 9 cents a share, topping the 5-cent average estimate.  Revenue for the careers North America unit, which made up
47 percent of sales last year, was $115.5 million, a 6.3 percent
drop from the previous year. International revenue declined
16 percent to $87.5 million.  Monster forecast fourth-quarter earnings from continuing
operations of 5 cents to 10 cents a share. The company expects
pretax restructuring expenses of as much as $60 million to be
recorded in the current quarter.  In January, Monster said it planned to trim its workforce
by about 400 jobs, or 7 percent, according to a statement at the
time. Chief Executive Officer Sal Iannuzzi said in March he
would consider selling the company as a whole or in parts and
hired Stone Key Partners LLC and  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch to help.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  