-- LOOP Receiving Increasing Amounts of Domestic Oil by Tanker
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-11-08T20:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/loop-receiving-increasing-amounts-of-domestic-oil-by-tanker.html
The  Louisiana  Offshore Oil Port, the
U.S.’s largest point of entry for foreign crude, is receiving an
increasing amount of domestic oil shipped by tanker and is
taking steps to accept more in the future.  The port began accepting cargoes in August after making
modifications to one of its three offshore buoys to allow hook-
ups to smaller domestic vessels, said Jeff Singer, a business
development representative for LOOP LLC. Most of the shipments,
which are about 330,000 barrels each, are Eagle Ford oil coming
from Corpus Christi, Texas.  Shipments have risen as more crude produced inland reaches
the Gulf Coast and is bought by refiners as a less-expensive
alternative to oil imported or produced in the Gulf of Mexico.
Plains Marketing’s posted price for Eagle Ford  crude  in south
Texas was $95.75 a barrel yesterday, compared with $105.44 a
barrel for Light Louisiana Sweet, a similar oil.  “It’s pretty variable today, sometimes we see two to three
shipments a week, sometimes there are a few weeks between
shipments,” Singer said yesterday during a tour of the
company’s Clovelly, Louisiana, import hub. “So it’s not totally
a steady stream, but it’s increasing, and it really has been
since we got it online in August.”  Flint Hills Resources LLC, a subsidiary of Koch Industries
Inc., opened an export terminal earlier this year near its
Corpus Christi refining complex to ship excess Eagle Ford oil it
receives but can’t process.  Eagle Ford  Output from the Eagle Ford shale formation may increase to
468,000 barrels a day by the end of the year, analysts at
Simmons and Co. wrote in a July 19 report. The field produced no
oil as of April 2008, according to data from the  Texas  Railroad
Commission. Oil production in Texas rose to 2 million barrels a
day in August, the highest level since June 1988, Energy
Department data show.  LOOP has also received waterborne shipments from St. James,
Louisiana, which can receive rail shipments of Bakken oil from
North Dakota. St. James terminals don’t have pipeline access to
some Louisiana refineries that the LOOP system does, Singer
said. LOOP plans to make modifications at its other two offshore
buoys so they can also accept domestic cargoes, he said.  The port has eight underground caverns that can store about
58 million barrels of oil and 15 above-ground storage tanks with
about 9 million barrels of capacity. LOOP received 901,599
barrels a day of imports in August, according to the Louisiana
Department of Natural Resources.  LOOP has direct access to Louisiana refineries and the 1.2
million-barrel-a-day Capline pipeline that moves oil from St.
James to Patoka,  Illinois . In addition to foreign and domestic
cargoes, the port also takes streams of Mars and Thunder Horse
crudes from the Gulf of Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  