-- Top Dim Sum Fund Returns 22% With Road King Debt: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-08T03:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/top-dim-sum-fund-returns-22-with-road-king-debt-china-credit.html
This year’s best-performing offshore
 yuan  fixed-income fund bought the dollar debt of a highways
operator and a cement maker as  China  stepped up infrastructure
spending to counter a seven-quarter economic slowdown.  BOCHK RMB High Yield Bond Fund, run by the  Hong Kong  arm of
China’s fourth-biggest bank, handed a 22 percent return to
dollar investors as it bought notes issued by  Road King
Infrastructure Ltd. (1098)  and China Shanshui Cement Group Ltd. The
China Southern Dragon Dynamic Fund - RMB High Yield Bond Fund,
run by CSOP Asset Management Ltd., ranked second with a 18
percent gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among
rivals restricted to yuan-denominated notes, Guangfa RMB Focus
Fund performed best with a 13 percent return.  “We have turned neutral or even slightly overweight on
industrial and infrastructure sectors as the government is
adding stimulus, most evidently by an acceleration in railway
investment,” Ken Hu, who manages the 455 million yuan ($73
million) fund as chief investment officer for fixed income at
the Bank of China Ltd. vehicle, said in a Nov. 5 phone
interview.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government approved infrastructure
projects worth close to 1 trillion yuan in the first eight
months of 2012, supporting expansion in the world’s second-
biggest economy. The best-performing fund managers were those
allowed to buy the dollar-denominated debt of Chinese companies
as global monetary easing spurred the flow of capital into
emerging-market assets and yuan appreciation stalled.  Dollar Bonds  Dim Sum bonds accounted for 9 percent of the Bank of China
fund at the end of October, down from 12 percent in July,
according to the investment vehicle’s data. Dollar notes made up
89 percent of Hu’s holdings and were hedged by taking positions
that profit from yuan gains in the currency-forwards market.  Chinese dollar debt rallied 21.5 percent this year,
according to a JPMorgan index, and is still yielding more than
Dim Sum securities. Yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong  returned 
5.9 percent, an index compiled by  Bank of China  showed.  The  average weighted yield  of dollar notes included in the
JPMorgan gauge was 5.02 percent yesterday, the lowest level in
data going back to October 2005. It reached a record 13.74
percent in October 2008 as global credit markets froze following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Dim Sum bonds’
average  yield  declined 108 basis points, or 1.08 percentage
points, this year to 4.87 percent.  “When it comes to high-yielders, the Chinese dollar bonds
are still more attractive than those in yuan,” said Hu. “As
the economy slows, companies are no longer expanding
aggressively. That means stronger cash flows, and it’s safer for
bond investors.”  ‘Interesting Opportunities’  The yield on Road King’s dollar bonds due 2017 was 8.3
percent yesterday, compared with the 9.875 percent coupon
offered in its September sale, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price of the debt rose 6.3 percent since its
debut. The highways builder’s Dim Sum bonds maturing in 2014
yielded 6 percent.  Shanshui Cement’s dollar bonds due 2017 climbed 9 percent
since their April debut, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt yielded 7.8 percent yesterday, less than the
10.5 percent coupon on the notes. The company’s yuan-denominated
bonds due 2014 yielded 6.7 percent, having been sold with a 6.5
percent coupon.  “Given the improving outlook for infrastructure or real-
estate investments, some selective industrial names may present
interesting opportunities,” said Kai He, the Hong Kong-based
fund manager of CSOP’s vehicle. He prefers corporate debt over
sovereign, and high-yield over high-grade “because tail risks
have been largely reduced,  interest rates  are low and are
unlikely to drop further.”  Railway Projects  China’s spending on railways may jump 96 percent from a
year ago to 224 billion yuan this quarter should the government
want to meet its annual investment target of 516 billion yuan,
Yang Tao and Xia Tian, analysts at Citic Securities Co., wrote
in a Nov. 1 report. The country added 13 rail infrastructure
projects to this year’s construction investment plans, boosting
the number to 22, Economic Information Daily reported Oct. 23.  A once-a-decade leadership transition in China, which will
start today with the Communist Party’s 18th Congress, is fueling
bets for more stimulus. Xi Jinping, currently the vice
president, is almost certain to become the party general
secretary at the congress and then the nation’s president in
March.  Possible Stimulus  “China’s new government could implement a large stimulus,
and an area such as infrastructure could be quickly targeted on
a broad scale,” said Michelle Gibley, director of international
research at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp. “However,
we caution investors, as we believe speculative excesses could
make China’s economic recovery more difficult and slower than
many expect, presenting headwinds to a sustained rally.”  Five-year credit-default  swaps  protecting China’s sovereign
debt dropped five basis points this week to 62 in  New York , the
lowest level since November 2010, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government or
company fails to adhere to its debt agreement.  The People’s Bank of China has held its benchmark lending
rate at 6 percent since cutting it to that level in July. The
central bank has also kept the reserve ratio for the biggest
banks at 20 percent since May. The Federal Reserve’s third round
of so-called quantitative easing could lead to higher  price
levels  in China, according to Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Masterlink Securities Corp.  Inflation, Growth  Data tomorrow is forecast to show  inflation  held at 1.9
percent in October, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. July’s 1.8 percent increase in consumer
prices was the smallest since January 2010, official figures
show. The  yield  on China’s 10-year bonds has risen 13 basis
points to 3.58 percent so far this quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter, the
slowest pace in three years, and is forecast to grow 7.7 percent
in the three months through December, according to the median
estimate in Bloomberg survey of economists. An official
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.2 in October, suggesting
manufacturing expanded for the first time in three months.  On the back of slower growth, top Dim Sum bond fund
managers see limited room for yuan gains this year. The currency
fell 0.1 percent versus the greenback so far in November,
trimming this year’s advance to 0.8 percent. That compares with
a 4.7 percent increase in 2011. The yuan rose 0.01 percent to
6.2429 per dollar in  Shanghai  today, touching the top of its
permitted trading range.  “ China’s economy  has shown signs of bottoming out, but we
are probably not going to see a strong pickup, instead a gradual
but more stable recovery is likely,” said CSOP’s He. “The
current yuan level is close to equilibrium. Therefore, we are
not taking an active currency position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  