-- Orient-Express Rejects Buyout Offer From Indian Hotels
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-11-08T21:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/orient-express-board-rejects-takeover-offer-from-indian-hotels.html
Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , owner of
New York’s 21 Club restaurant and the Hotel Cipriani in  Venice ,
 Italy , rejected a takeover offer by  Indian Hotels Co. (IH) , saying
the bid undervalues the company.  “Your opportunistic proposal was made at a time when the
price of Orient-Express shares has been significantly
depressed,” the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said in a
letter to Indian Hotels. “Our board has unanimously concluded
that your proposal significantly undervalues Orient-Express, and
that now would be a highly disadvantageous time to sell.”  Indian Hotels, in collaboration with other entities
associated with Mumbai-based Tata Group, last month offered to
buy the 93.1 percent of Orient-Express it doesn’t already own
for $12.63 a share. The unsolicited bid was 43 percent higher
than Orient-Express’s 20-day average price, a record premium for
the industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The board is deeply committed to creating value for our
shareholders and will take whatever actions it believes will
best accomplish that objective,” J. Robert Lovejoy, chairman of
Orient-Express, said in a statement. “We carefully evaluated
the Indian Hotels proposal in that spirit but unanimously
concluded it is deeply unattractive from a financial
perspective.”  ‘Highly Disadvantageous’  The economy, “conditions in the luxury hotel business and
factors unique to Orient-Express would make this a highly
disadvantageous time to sell the company to realize its true
value,” he said.  As part of the transaction, Montezemolo & Partners, a
family-owned Italian fund, would invest $100 million for a
minority stake in Orient-Express through its Charme II Fund,
Indian Hotels said last month.  The partners “are reviewing the position taken by the
Orient-Express board and considering their options with respect
to their offer to acquire Orient-Express,” Indian Hotels said
in a statement today.  Orient-Express fell 11 percent to $10.55 at the close of
trading in New York, the most since August 2011.  The company owns and operates luxury hotels, trains and
restaurants worldwide including the Copacabana Palace in Rio de
Janeiro and the Venice Simplon-Orient Express train. The
company’s shares, which peaked at $64.80 in October 2007 before
the global financial crisis, have since plunged more than 80
percent.  Debt, Economy  “What hurt Orient-Express in the last few years was the
economy and too much debt,” Chris Agnew, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners LLC with a buy rating
on the stock, said in an interview. “That has held them back in
accelerating some of their investments to help maximize
returns.”  Indian Hotels -- the country’s biggest hotel operator, with
properties including the Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai and the
Pierre Hotel in New York -- has held a portion of Orient-Express
since 2007, when it paid $211.3 million for a stake in the
company. Soon after the purchase, Orient-Express rejected an
attempt by Indian Hotels to pursue strategic discussions.  In April, Indian Hotels restarted efforts to increase its
stake in Orient-Express, two people with knowledge of the matter
said at the time.  “We know from the past that their returns on assets had
been much higher than what they are today,” Agnew said. “If
you believe they can get back to those returns, and obviously
Orient-Express does, the stock should be worth more than the
offer.”  Orient-Express also said today that it named John M. Scott
III, 47, president, chief executive officer and a director. He
most recently served as president and CEO of luxury hotel chain
Rosewood Hotels & Resorts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  