-- Loughner Faces Life Term for Killing 6, Wounding Giffords
-- B y   A . J .   F l i c k   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-08T19:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/loughner-sentenced-to-life-for-killing-6-wounding-giffords.html
Jared Lee Loughner was sentenced to
life in prison after pleading guilty to killing six people and
attempting to assassinate U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  
at a constituent gathering last year in Tucson,  Arizona .  Loughner, 24, wearing a brown dress shirt and khaki pants,
sat with his arms folded and was expressionless as he was
sentenced today in federal court in Tucson. Under the terms of
his Aug. 7 plea agreement, he was given seven consecutive life
sentences for the attempted assassination of Giffords, the
first-degree murder of a federal judge and one of Gifford’s
aides, and the slaying of four participants at Giffords’
“Congress on Your Corner” event for constituents on Jan. 8,
2011.  The government agreed not to seek the death penalty for the
murders of U.S. District Judge John M. Roll and Gabriel
Zimmerman, Gifford’s aide, or the four other people, including a
nine-year-old girl. Prosecutors said they wouldn’t seek
restitution because victims said they didn’t want any.  Giffords, 42, survived the shooting rampage outside a
Safeway grocery store, where Loughner shot her through the head
from point-blank range. Giffords, a Democrat, resigned from
Congress in January to focus on her recovery. She had won a
third term in 2010.  Gun Laws  Mark Kelly , her husband, in court criticized politicians
for failing to protect citizens by allowing lax gun laws.  “As a nation, we’ve repeatedly passed up the opportunities
to address the issue,” Kelly, a retired astronaut, said, citing
other shooting massacres in Columbine and Aurora, both in
 Colorado . “In this state we elect officials so feckless, like
Governor Jan Brewer.”  “Our state legislature busies itself naming an official
Arizona state gun just weeks after (the shooting) instead of
doing its job,” he said.  Kelly spoke to Loughner, too.  “You may have put a bullet in her head, but you haven’t
put a dent in her spirit and commitment to make this world a
better place,” Kelly said of Giffords, who stood by his side as
he spoke. “You have decades upon decades to contemplate your
crime. After today, after this moment, Gabby and I are done
thinking about you.”  Supported Agreement  Most of the victims who spoke in court addressed Loughner
directly.  Patricia Maisch, one of the victims who took the gun from
Loughner, said she opposed the death penalty and supported the
plea agreement for life in prison. She said she wants him to get
treatment so that he will always remember his “horrific
crime.”  Suzi Hileman, who was shot while she tried to shield
Christina-Taylor Green, the nine-year-old, was visibly angry.
She told Loughner that he turned a “civics lesson into a
nightmare.”  She said that although society “failed” Loughner,
“that’s not enough. There’s still the pesky fact you pointed a
weapon and shot it three times.”  Loughner faces an additional 140 years in prison under his
plea deal for the attempted murder of two of Giffords’s other
aides, including Ron Barber, who in June won a special election
to fill the remainder of Giffords’s term, and for wounding 10
other participants at the meeting.  ‘Determination, Compassion’  “While her work as a member of Congress was disrupted, you
did not take away her determination and compassion, nor her
desire to serve,” Barber said to Loughner in court today. “Her
recovery is an inspiration to the entire country.”  “This tragedy of brutal violence you inflicted does not
define us as individuals nor as a community. This tragedy has
shown us so much what it means to help support each other and
focus on improving our community.”  It was “clear” Loughner was mentally ill and not
diagnosed before the shootings, U.S. Attorney  John Leonardo  in
Phoenix said after the Aug. 7 hearing where Loughner pleaded
guilty. The decision not to seek the death penalty was a
“certain and just resolution to the case,” he said.  “I was armed with a Glock model 19, 9 mm semi-automatic
pistol, loaded with 33 rounds of ammunition, and 3 additional
magazines containing an additional 60 rounds of ammunition,”
Loughner said in his plea agreement. “Prior to arriving, I had
formed a plan to kill Congresswoman Giffords and the people who
were at Congress on Your Corner.”  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 