-- Loughner Faces Life Term for Killing 6, Wounding Giffords
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A . J .   F l i c k
-- 2012-11-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/loughner-faces-life-term-for-killing-6-wounding-giffords.html
Jared Lee Loughner is set to be
sentenced to life in prison after pleading guilty to attempting
last year to assassinate U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords 
as well as to killing six people in Tucson,  Arizona .  Loughner, 24, is scheduled to be sentenced today in federal
court in Tucson. Under the terms of his Aug. 7 plea agreement,
he faces seven consecutive life sentences for the attempted
assassination of Giffords, the first-degree murder of a federal
judge and one of Gifford’s aides, and the slaying of four
participants at Giffords’ “Congress on Your Corner” event for
constituents on Jan. 8, 2011.  The government agreed not to seek the death penalty for the
murders of U.S. District Judge John M. Roll and Gabriel
Zimmerman, Gifford’s aide, or the four other people, including a
nine-year-old girl.  Giffords, 42, survived the shooting rampage outside a
Safeway grocery store, where Loughner shot her through the head
from point-blank range. Giffords, a Democrat, resigned from
Congress in January to focus on her recovery. She had won a
third term in 2010.  “I was armed with a Glock model 19, 9 mm semi-automatic
pistol, loaded with 33 rounds of ammunition, and 3 additional
magazines containing an additional 60 rounds of ammunition,”
Loughner said in his plea agreement. “Prior to arriving, I had
formed a plan to kill Congresswoman Giffords and the people who
were at Congress on Your Corner.”  Mentally Ill  Loughner faces an additional 140 years in prison under his
plea deal for the attempted murder of two of Giffords’s other
aides, including Ron Barber, who in June won a special election
to fill the remainder of Giffords’s term, and for wounding 10
other participants at the meeting.  It was “clear” Loughner was mentally ill and not
diagnosed before the shootings, U.S. Attorney  John Leonardo  in
Phoenix said after the Aug. 7 hearing where Loughner pleaded
guilty. The decision not to seek the death penalty was a
“certain and just resolution to the case,” he said.  Loughner had been medicated with antipsychotic drugs and
confined to a federal prison hospital in Springfield,  Missouri ,
after U.S. District Judge Larry Burns found him not competent to
stand trial last year. Burns approved the drugging over the
objections of Loughner’s lawyer.  The judge ruled in August that Loughner, who prison
psychologists diagnosed as suffering from schizophrenia, was
mentally competent and accepted his plea.  Loughner’s Realization  Christina Pietz, a Bureau of Prisons psychologist who has
treated him, testified that as time went on and Loughner took
prescribed medication voluntarily, the seriousness of the
shooting dawned on him.  “I did especially cry about the child,” Loughner told
Pietz once, referring to 9-year-old victim Christina-Taylor
Green.  In the months before the shooting, Loughner had posted
videos on MySpace and YouTube that prosecutors last year said
showed he may have had mental issues, including a seven-minute
clip of a hooded and masked person that prosecutors believed to
be him wearing garbage bags on his lower body and burning an
American flag.  E-mails from Tucson-based Pima Community College, which
expelled Loughner in September 2010, revealed campus police
reports and exchanges between administrators about his
increasingly erratic behavior in classrooms, including “creepy
stares” and challenges to teachers, saying that he had a right
to earn an “A” “regardless of what answers he gives because
of free speech.”  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 