-- Palm Oil Must Drop 6% in Weeks to Lure Buyers, Mistry Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-11-08T12:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/palm-oil-must-drop-8-in-weeks-to-lure-buyers-mistry-says-2-.html
Palm oil , the world’s most-consumed
cooking oil, must decline about 6 percent in the next few weeks
to attract buyers and clear record inventories, according to
Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  Futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the global
benchmark, need to drop to 2,200 ringgit ($719) a metric ton for
the third delivery month, Mistry told a conference in Guangzhou,
China today, reiterating a forecast on Oct. 16. Prices last fell
below that level in November 2009. Global vegetable oil
stockpiles are at a record and reserves of palm and lauric oils
will keep expanding until December, he said.  Palm oil, used in everything from biofuels to candy to
noodles, has slumped 26 percent this year as an economic
slowdown in  China  and the European Union curbed demand, pushing
inventories to an all-time high in Malaysia, the second-largest
producer. Futures for January, the third month, fell 2.5 percent
to close at 2,336 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur today. The most-active
contract fell to a three-year low of 2,230 ringgit on Oct. 3,
and has since rallied 5 percent, reducing the appeal of the
tropical oil as a biofuel feedstock.  “In the last fortnight, palm oil has completely priced
itself out of any meaningful energy demand,” said Mistry, who
in June, correctly forecast a slump. “I believe a period of two
months of low prices is required to stimulate extra demand and
clear away stocks.”  Biofuel Demand  Global food use grew by about 3.5 million tons, while
consumption for biodiesel shrunk 2 million tons in the year
ended Sept. 30 because of double-counting of used oil, waste
matters and certain animal oils, said Mistry, who’s worked in
the industry for 35 years. Supply expanded by 5.9 million tons,
leading to a surplus of 4.4 million tons, he said.  Malaysia ’s  reserves  probably increased to a record of 2.7
million tons in October, from an all-time high of 2.48 million
tons in September as a monthly  output  of 2 million tons exceeded
exports, according to a Bloomberg survey. October production may
drop to just below 2 million tons and decline further to 1.8
million tons in November, Mistry said. The Malaysian Palm Oil
Board will release data on Nov. 12.  Inventories in Malaysia will reach a record 3 million tons
on Jan. 1, Mistry said, restating a prediction. It will take a
long time to reduce the stockpiles as Malaysia will suspend tax-
free exports of crude palm oil from January, he said.  The Malaysian government may have to announce some
“loopholes and exemptions” to its new export tax structure to
allow for substantial duty-free shipments to prevent exports
from dropping each month, said Mistry.  Tax Changes  Malaysia will cut the export duty on crude palm oil, or
CPO, and abolish a duty-free shipment quota from 2013,
Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok
said on Oct. 12. The new rates will range from 4.5 percent to
8.5 percent, rising as prices climb from 2,250 ringgit a ton to
3,600 ringgit. The existing levy is 23 percent.  High prices of crude palm oil in  Kuala Lumpur  will give
Indonesian exporters an arbitrage opportunity to ship to
Malaysia, turning the nation into a major importer, Mistry said.  “I believe a substantial tonnage of Indonesian crude palm
oil is being shipped to Malaysia in November even as I speak,
with more to come in December,” he said.  Indonesia , the largest producer, reduced taxes last year to
boost exports of processed oil, increasing competition for
refiners in Malaysia.  Tough Standards  China may increase  imports  of crude palm oil as stringent
specifications for refined, bleached and deodorized palm olein
come into effect from Jan. 1, said Mistry. The world’s biggest
cooking oil consumer plans to tighten rules on imports to
improve food-safety standards.  Production may total 18.4 million tons this year in
Malaysia and 27.5 million tons in Indonesia, said Mistry. The
receding threat of an El Nino weather event and better rainfall
have improved production prospects, he said.  While the cyclical  bull market  for commodities may be
coming to an end, prospects for the palm oil industry are
brighter than ever, said Mistry.  “When you have China and  India  as your principal
customers, you never need worry about demand or price,” he
said. “However, this should not lead producers to complacency
and to demand high prices all the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  