-- Palm Oil Shipments From Indonesia Jumping to 10-Month High
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-11-09T09:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/palm-oil-shipments-from-indonesia-seen-jumping-to-10-month-high.html
Palm oil  exports from Indonesia, the
world’s largest producer, will probably climb 13 percent this
month to the highest level since January as lower prices and
taxes spur importers to boost purchases.  Shipments are set to increase to 1.6 million metric tons
from an estimated 1.41 million tons in October, according to the
median of estimates from three plantation executives, an analyst
and a refiner compiled by Bloomberg. Output will decline to 2.4
million tons from 2.43 million tons, the survey showed.
Stockpiles may drop to 2.5 million tons from 2.6 million tons,
three respondents said.  Palm oil, used in everything from soap to biofuels, has
lost 27 percent this year as the global economic slowdown hurt
demand while increased production in Indonesia and  Malaysia , the
two biggest growers, boosted reserves. Prices need to drop
further in the next few weeks to attract buyers and clear
inventories, which are at a record in Malaysia, according to
Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  “Some traders will boost purchases, hoping that prices
rebound,” said Teguh Patriawan, president director at Jakarta-
based planter PT Nusantara Sawit Persada. He expects shipments
to total at least 1.5 million tons this month.  Palm oil for January delivery fell 0.6 percent to 2,323
ringgit ($759) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange today.
Most-active prices dropped to 2,230 ringgit on Oct. 3, the
lowest since November 2009. Futures need to fall to 2,200
ringgit, Mistry said yesterday, reiterating a forecast.  Lower Taxes  Shipments from  Indonesia  may rise after the government cut
the tax on exports of the crude variety to 9 percent this month
from 13.5 percent in October, said Susanto, head of marketing at
the Indonesian Palm Oil Association, known as Gapki.  The tax on crude palm oil this month is the lowest since
October 2010, when it was 7.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The duty on refined, bleached and
deodorized, or RBD, palm olein was halved to 3 percent, while
that on RBD palm oil was reduced to zero from 4 percent.  Exports from Indonesia dropped 2.1 percent to 1.38 million
tons in September as  India  and China reduced purchases,  Gapki 
said on Oct. 29. Shipments to India, the biggest buyer, declined
9.5 percent to 507,460 tons and purchases by China fell 8
percent to 205,730 tons, association data showed.  Figures for exports last month have not been issued. The
estimate of 1.41 million tons was the median from a Bloomberg
survey of four plantation executives, a refiner and an analyst
published on Oct. 8. Projected exports in November would be the
highest since January, when they were 1.64 million tons,
according to Gapki data.  Record Reserves  Global vegetable-oil  reserves  are at a record and palm and
lauric oil stockpiles will keep expanding until December, Mistry
said at a conference in  China  yesterday. Indonesian exporters
may be shipping “substantial” cargoes to Malaysia to benefit
from higher prices there, said Mistry, who’s worked in the
industry for 35 years.  Stockpiles in Malaysia reached a record 2.48 million tons
in September after surging 46 percent from June, according to
data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, which is set to release
figures for October on Nov. 12. A Bloomberg survey published on
Nov. 6 showed that stockpiles in Malaysia may have expanded
further last month, reaching 2.7 million tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  