-- Peres Inaugurates Jewish Museum Funded by Putin, Vekselberg
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-08T14:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/peres-inaugurates-jewish-museum-funded-by-putin-vekselberg-1-.html
Israeli President Shimon Peres
inaugurated a $50 million Jewish museum and tolerance center in
Moscow partly financed by President Vladimir Putin and
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg .  “We were very moved by the support of President Putin, his
personal contribution to this museum,” Peres said today at a
ceremony attended by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov at
the museum, located in a Constructivist landmark, a former  bus
garage  built in the 1920s. “The heroism of the Russian people
and their allies delivered a decisive blow to the fascists and
saved the world, humankind and the Jewish people.”  The center is “our common contribution in the fight
against xenophobia and nationalism,” Putin said at the start of
talks with Peres. Putin donated one month’s salary to help
finance the construction of the museum. He declared income of
3.7 million rubles ($117,000) last year and 5 million rubles in
2010, according to the government.  The Jewish community in  Russia , which shrank after the
collapse of the Soviet Union because of emigration, now numbers
153,000, according to the latest official census, and as many as
1 million, according to the Federation of Jewish Communities of
Russia. The center would serve as a “ memorial ” to Jews who
died in the Soviet Union during World War II as well as other
nationalities targeted by German invaders, Putin said yesterday
at a meeting with two leaders of the country’s Jewish community.  Israel  and Russia have forged close ties since the end of
the Cold War. More than 1 million Russian speakers live in
Israel, or close to 15 percent of the population, after a wave
of Jewish emigration from the former Soviet Union.  Putin’s Opinion  “More important than Putin’s salary is Putin’s position,”
said Vekselberg, who is the richest Russian with a fortune of
$17.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
“Putin is the real leader of this country and his opinion is
very influential. He strongly supports this idea. He strongly
supports the multicultural approach.”  Ninety percent of the funds to build the museum were
private, said the businessman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  