-- Peru Probably Will Keep 4.25% Rate as Focus Turns to Curbing Sol
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-11-08T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/peru-probably-will-keep-4-25-rate-as-focus-turns-to-curbing-sol.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged for the 18th consecutive month
today after taking steps to stem a rally in the sol and restrain
credit demand.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
all 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The decision will be
announced at about 6 p.m. in Lima.  The monetary authority increased reserve requirements last
week for a third straight month to slow credit growth in  South
America ’s fastest growing economy and to counter the
appreciation of the  sol , which touched a 15-year high against
the dollar last month. The annual inflation rate fell to a 16-
month low in October, allowing policy makers to focus on
addressing inflows using macro-prudential measures.  “Inflation is no longer a concern and growth is stable,”
said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru, in a
telephone interview from Lima. “Capital inflows and the sol’s
appreciation have the authorities worried and will be their
focus in the months ahead.”  Record low borrowing costs in the U.S., the European Union
and  Japan  have prompted Peruvian companies to turn to
international bond markets and foreign banks for financing.
Record foreign direct investment and demand for Peruvian
 government bonds  have added to inflows.  Exchange Rate  The central bank increased the average reserve requirement
for sol and dollar deposits by 0.75 percentage point on Oct. 30,
the largest of the four increases this year. The average deposit
ratio in September was 16.9 percent for soles and 38.9 percent
for dollars, it said.  Policy makers have boosted reserves by buying a record
$12.5 billion in the  spot market  this year and last month
proposed tightening restrictions on banks’ sales of greenbacks
to tame the sol. Limits on private pension fund investments
overseas will probably be relaxed by year-end to boost demand
for dollars, Velarde said in an Oct. 25 interview.  Swings in the currency can harm Peru’s economy, where 43.8
percent of all credit is denominated in dollars, while
appreciation can lead to calls for protectionism, Velarde said.  “Peru is one of the few countries in  Latin America  where
people are used to taking out loans in dollars, so that makes
monetary policy a bit more difficult,” he said.  The sol weakened 0.3 percent to 2.6080 per dollar
yesterday. The currency closed at 2.5780 on Oct. 17.  Investment, Trade, Prices  Private investment climbed 16 percent in the third quarter,
fueling a 6.4 percent rise in gross domestic product, after a
6.1 percent rise in the first half, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said at an event in  Lima  yesterday.  Though a weak global economy has hurt demand for Peru’s
copper exports, there are signs of stronger growth in the U.S.
and  China , the nation’s biggest trading partners, Castilla said.  Peru, the world’s third-largest copper producer, will boost
output 62 percent over the next two years as new mines  start
producing, Velarde said Sept. 28. Copper has gained 0.2 percent
this year to $3.4415 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Exports declined 3.3 percent to $3.86 billion in September
compared with the year earlier period, exporters association
Adex said Nov. 6.  Tax collection increased 7.8 percent to 6.92 billion soles
($2.67 billion) in October from the same month a year earlier,
led by increased sales tax revenue, tax and customs agency Sunat
said Nov. 6.  Prices, Markets  Consumer prices  last month fell the most since 2009,
declining 0.16 percent largely because of lower food costs. The
 annual inflation  rate fell to 3.25 percent from 3.74 percent in
September. The central bank targets an annual rate of 2 percent
plus or minus 1 percent. are unlikely to dent private
investment, he said.  The Lima Stock Exchange’s  benchmark index  has advanced 7.3
percent this year and the sol has appreciated 3.5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar . The extra yield investors demand to own
Peruvian government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has
decreased 99 basis points to 117 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Increased  reserve requirements  will cause loan growth to
slow in the fourth quarter of 2012, said Eduardo Torres-Llosa,
chief executive officer of Banco Continental, the Peruvian unit
of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, in an Oct. 31 interview.  Lending will increase 14 percent this year and 12 percent
next year, after expanding 17 percent in 2011, he said.  ‘Not Done Yet’  Banks are increasing provisions as a precautionary move
amid rising loan delinquency rates and signs some consumers have
taken on too much debt, Torres-Llosa said.  “The economy is doing well,” he said. “Slowing the pace
of credit doesn’t hurt anyone.”  Policy makers are considering an increase in loan
provisions to stem a rise in consumer borrowing in dollars, said
Oscar Rivera, president of the country’s banking association,
Asbanc. Lower  interest rates  on dollar loans and the sol’s
appreciation are spurring demand for car and home loans in the
U.S. currency, he said.  “Recent monetary policy measures are aimed at easing the
pace of currency appreciation and slowing credit in a preventive
way,” Guerrero said. “Probably they’ll keep on raising reserve
requirements. They’re not done yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  