-- Peugeot Falls to 27-Year Low on Citigroup Recommendation
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-11-08T14:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/peugeot-falls-to-27-year-low-on-citigroup-recommendation.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-
biggest carmaker, traded at the lowest level in almost three
decades after  Citigroup Inc. (C)  cut its recommendation on the stock
because of the manufacturer’s struggles with cash.  Peugeot dropped as much as 5.1 percent to 4.51 euros and
was trading down 4.3 percent at 2:41 p.m. in Paris, valuing the
company at 1.61 billion euros ($2.05 billion). The stock sold
today at the  lowest price  since 1985, when it traded at 2.21
euros, according to data provided by the exchange operator NYSE
Euronext.  The manufacturer said in July that it had been burning
through about 200 million euros in cash monthly at its
automotive unit for the past year. Liquidity at Paris-based
Peugeot may become stretched by the end of 2014, analysts at
Citigroup, including Philip Watkins in  London , said today in a
research report. The bank reduced its recommendation on Peugeot
to sell from neutral, and lowered the stock-price estimate by
more than half to 3 euros from 8.50 euros.  The carmaker said in October that net debt at the end of
2012 will widen to about 3 billion euros, from a target set in
July of 2.5 billion euros, as industrywide auto sales in Europe
head for the biggest drop in 19 years. Moody’s Investors Service
cut Peugeot’s long-term debt  rating  to three levels below
investment-grade on Oct. 10, adding pressure on its banking
unit, Banque PSA Finance, which is still rated investment-grade.  France ’s government stepped in on Oct. 24 to rescue Peugeot
by guaranteeing as much as 7 billion euros in new bonds in
exchange for greater influence over company strategy. The
automaker needed the French state backing for the banking unit
to keep down borrowing costs and offer customers competitive
financing rates.  The state and workers will each receive a seat on the board
of directors, and an outside committee will be set up with veto
power over any “significant” changes in Peugeot’s operations,
the French Finance Ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  