-- Philippine Bonds Gain, Swaps Near Record Low on Odds for Easing
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-11-08T09:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/philippine-bonds-advance-on-rate-cut-speculation-peso-steady.html
Philippine six-year bonds rallied for
a fourth day and  interest-rate swaps  were near a record low on
speculation slowing inflation will give the central bank more
room to cut borrowing costs.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  has reduced its benchmark rate
four times this year to 3.5 percent, most recently on Oct. 25.
 Consumer prices  rose 3.1 percent in October from a year earlier,
the least in four months, the government reported this week.  “The latest inflation data increases the probability that
BSP will deliver another rate cut in December,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila.  The yield on the 5 percent bonds due August 2018 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.2 percent as of the
close in  Manila , according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services. That’s the lowest level since the notes started
trading in August last year.  One-year interest-rate swaps rose five basis points to 1.3
percent after touching 1.25 percent yesterday, the lowest level
in Bloomberg data going back to 2003. The next policy meeting is
scheduled for Dec. 13.  The  Philippines  plans to sell 10-year global peso notes and
will buy back as much as $1.5 billion of dollar debt, according
to a statement from the government today. The peso securities
will be sold at a yield of around 4.1 percent, a person familiar
with the deal who declined to be named because the details are
private, said today.  Peso Volatility  The peso was little changed at 41.052 per dollar, just shy
of 41.050 reached yesterday that was the weakest since March
2008, according to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, held at 4.7 percent.  Bangko Sentral Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in a
text message yesterday that the authorities have been “very
vigilant” in curbing volatility in the peso. Prolonged currency
appreciation could be “destabilizing,” he added.  The peso has strengthened 6.8 percent this year, the best
performance among  Asia ’s most-traded currencies.  The central bank has imposed higher capital charges on non-
deliverable forwards, banned overseas funds from special-deposit
accounts and liberalized foreign-currency regulations to boost
demand for dollars, Guinigundo said. The monetary authority has
also encouraged the government and companies to pay
international debt ahead of schedule, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  