-- Pimco Seeing Higher Taxes Drives Gross to Buy Local: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/pimco-seeing-higher-taxes-drives-gross-to-buy-local-muni-credit.html
Bill Gross , whose $281 billion Total
Return Fund already holds the most municipal debt in six years,
says now is the time to buy more with higher taxes looming
following President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  With the election past, investors are turning their sights
to the so-called fiscal cliff, $607 billion of spending cuts and
tax increases that will start in January unless Congress acts.
Obama wants to use the leverage from his victory to reach a
“grand bargain” that uses tax increases and spending cuts to
shrink budget deficits.  “Muni bonds, which are tax-free, would be a valuable type
of asset going forward,” Gross, who manages the world’s biggest
bond  fund  at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s Street
Smart.  Pimco is looking to the $3.7 trillion muni market as local
yields are at their lowest since the 1960s and as states and
cities recover from the longest recession since the 1930s. State
revenue has grown for 10 straight quarters, though collections
are still below the 2008 peak, according to the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany ,  New York .  Yield Comparison  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of keeping its benchmark
overnight rate close to zero to help spur growth has pushed
Treasury yields even lower than those on local debt.  Yields on benchmark 10-year municipals fell about 0.04
percentage point yesterday to  1.65 percent , about even with
similar-maturity Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
For investors in the top tax bracket, the equivalent taxable
yield is about 2.54 percent.  Yields on 10-year munis have  exceeded  those on Treasuries
for the past year on average. That runs counter to the
historical relationship, where muni yields have been about 93
percent of federal yields on average since 2001. Investors are
typically willing to accept the lower yields because the
interest on munis is tax-exempt.  The extra yield on munis also boosts the securities’
appeal, Gross, 68, said in an e-mail sent through  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman.  Pimco has also added munis because of their relative
stability compared with other fixed-income classes amid price
swings generated by Europe’s debt crisis. Local bonds are poised
to earn more than federal debt this year when adjusted for
volatility.  Market Beater  Local debt has returned 4 percent in 2012 after accounting
for price swings, compared with 0.6 percent for Treasuries and
2.8 percent for corporate bonds, according to data compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Bloomberg.  Gross directed 5 percent of his fund to munis in September.
It was the first time he’s held that high a percentage of munis
in consecutive months since at least 2006, according to Pimco’s
website.  The fund has earned  9.4 percent  this year, beating 94
percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
invests in government, mortgage and investment-grade company
fixed-income securities. Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer
 Allianz SE .  Ebby Gerry, who helps manage $14 billion of munis at UBS
Global Asset Management Inc. in New York, agreed that tax rates
may rise.  Tax-Exempt Debate  The administration and Congress may look at changing
credits or tax breaks, including curbing the exemption for
munis, to reduce the deficit, Gerry said.  Obama, 51, has proposed capping the value of itemized
deductions at 28 percent, down from 35 percent. At the same
time, he wants to raise the top tax rate on ordinary income to
39.6 percent from 35 percent, and to increase taxes on  capital
gains  and dividends.  “There’s a greater probability that income-tax rates will
rise sooner than the full  tax exemption  gets lowered,” said
Gerry.  In trading yesterday, the iShares S&P National AMT-Free
Municipal Bond Fund, the largest exchange-traded fund tracking
munis, rose to  $112.53 (MUB) , the highest since Feb. 22.  Following are pending municipal-bond sales:  NEW JERSEY plans to sell $2.6 billion of short-term debt
with JPMorgan Securities LLC as underwriter. The state postponed
the sale last week because of  Hurricane Sandy . (Added Nov. 8)  MINNESOTA is set to sell $654 million of debt backed by an
annual appropriation as soon as Nov. 14. Proceeds will refund
tobacco bonds sold in 2011, according to bond documents. (Added
Nov. 8)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  