-- Planned Parenthood Wins Extended Ban on Texas Funding Cuts
-- B y   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/planned-parenthood-seeks-to-extend-ban-on-texas-funding-cuts.html
Planned Parenthood  won an extension
of an order blocking Texas from making cuts in funding to its
clinics because the organization provides abortion services.  Texas officials were stopped by an Oct. 26 temporary
restraining order issued by Judge Amy Clark Meachum in Austin
from eliminating public funds for the 49 Planned Parenthood
clinics in the state that don’t provide abortions.  After a hearing yesterday in Austin, U.S. District Judge
Stephen Yelenosky said he is extending Meachum’s order.  Yelenosky said that by labeling all Planned Parenthood
clinics as being affiliated with abortion providers, state
officials are using a definition of “affiliate” that goes
against the law on funding for the Women’s Health Program
written by the Legislature.  “The plaintiffs are likely to prevail on their claim that
the rule is inconsistent with the instructions of the Texas
Legislature,” Yelenosky wrote in a letter to attorneys.  Texas will immediately appeal the decision, which
“incorrectly halts implementation of state law,” Lauren Bean,
spokeswoman for state Attorney General  Greg Abbott , said in an
e-mail.  “This is another victory for the women of Texas that
Planned Parenthood is proud to serve,” Pete Schenkkan, a lawyer
for the organization, said outside the courtroom.  Lawyers for the state and Planned Parenthood said they want
to schedule a December trial before Yelenosky.  Cut Services  A state ban will cost Planned Parenthood about $13 million
a year in government reimbursements, force it to close some
health centers, and interfere with health care for low-income
women, the group said in court filings.  University of Texas sociology professor Joseph Potter, a
reproductive health expert, testified yesterday that cutting
funding for Planned Parenthood would hurt clinics and patients.  “You can’t put it back together again. It would take a
long time,” Potter said, testifying for Planned Parenthood.  When past public funding was reduced, clinics have closed
and remaining clinics have cut back on services such as long-
term birth control methods, he said.  The Obama administration said it would withdraw U.S.
funding for the Women’s Health Program in  Texas  after state
lawmakers last year passed a regulation blocking participation
by groups affiliated with elective-abortion providers. The
program is funded mostly by the federal government, but also by
the state. Planned Parenthood is one of the organizations to
receive reimbursements through this program.  Lacks Jurisdiction  Attorneys for the state have said in their court filings
that the court lacks jurisdiction over Kyle Janek, executive
commissioner of the Texas Health and Human Services Commission,
which runs the Women’s Health Program. Ninety percent of the
Medicaid program’s funding comes from the federal government.  Planned Parenthood sued the commission and Janek last month
after the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New Orleans  refused to hear a
dispute in a related lawsuit.  If the federal funding is pulled, Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican, and Janek have said they are prepared to pay for the
program with state money, with other clinics replacing Planned
Parenthood.  Patricio Gonzales, chief executive officer of Planned
Parenthood of Hidalgo County, testified yesterday that his
clinics serve predominantly Hispanic women, 90 percent of whom
are below the poverty level.  “Our patients are some of the poorest in the state and the
country,” he said.  Staff Cutbacks  Gonzales said the Women’s Health Program accounts for 70 to
80 percent of the four clinics’ budgets in the county, which is
in south Texas. If Planned Parenthood couldn’t participate in
the program, he said it would likely close two or three of the
clinics and cut staffing by about half.  “It would have a devastating impact,” Gonzales said,
adding that patients “would not have providers.”  Planned Parenthood asked Nov. 6 that its federal lawsuit
against the state be dismissed. If the state court rules in its
favor, there would be no need for the federal court in Austin to
decide claims based on the U.S. Constitution, Planned Parenthood
said in a court filing.  The state’s ban on funding is invalid because it violates a
state law that prevents the Women’s Health Program from being
changed to lose federal funding, Mike McKetta, an attorney for
Planned Parenthood, told the judge.  Challenge ‘Flawed’  “Planned Parenthood has finally acknowledged what we have
known from the very beginning -- their constitutional challenge
is flawed on its face,” Perry said in a statement. “Venue
shopping and courtroom sleight-of-hand in no way helps the women
of Texas.”  Schenkkan, the Planned Parenthood attorney, said outside
the hearing that the governor misconstrued the organization’s
motion. The federal case was “dismissed without prejudice,”
and Planned Parenthood can return later to federal court, he
said.  The state court case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas
Family Planning and Preventative Health Services Inc. v. Texas
Health & Human Services Commission, D-1-GN-12-003365, Judicial
District Court of Travis County (Austin).  The federal case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County
Texas v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Texas (Austin). The appeals court case is Planned Parenthood
of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-50377,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelley Shannon in Austin, Texas, at  kelley@kelleyshannon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  