-- Price-Fixing Charges, UPS’s TNT Bid, Libor: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-08T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/price-fixing-charges-ups-s-tnt-bid-libor-compliance.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
and  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  may be fined by European Union
antitrust regulators within weeks over price-fixing agreements
for cathode-ray tubes used in televisions, four people said.  Technicolor SA (TCH)  is also among companies earmarked for
possible European Commission fines as soon as Nov. 28, one of
the people said. Other manufacturers including Toshiba Corp.
have been asked to meet with EU officials before a preliminary
decision on fines by a panel of EU and national competition
authorities, another person said. The people spoke on condition
of anonymity because the process isn’t public.  Sales of cathode-ray tubes used in televisions and computer
monitors fell after customers switched to slimmer liquid-crystal
and plasma display sets. Philips and Technicolor, previously
known as Thomson SA, received objections in the EU probe in
2009. Antitrust watchdogs in the EU, Japan and South Korea
raided companies in 2007 over concerns they colluded to fix
prices for tubes in computer monitors and color televisions.  The commission can fine cartel members as much as 10
percent of their annual sales. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman
for the Brussels-based authority, declined to comment on the
matter.  Joost Akkermans, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips,
declined to comment because the investigation is ongoing.
Thibault Peulen, a spokesman for Technicolor in Paris, declined
to comment. Tokyo-based Toshiba declined to immediately comment.
LG and Panasonic didn’t immediately respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Compliance Action  UPS Seeks Antitrust Hearing With EU to Defend TNT Express Bid  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, will defend its 5.16 billion-euro ($6.6
billion) bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  at a hearing with European Union
antitrust regulators next week.  UPS will meet with the European Commission on Nov. 12, the
regulator said in a  filing  on its website. UPS needs to offer
“substantial remedies” to eliminate concerns over the deal
that will double its size in Europe, EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said last week.  UPS received antitrust objections from regulators last
month listing possible problems with the bid. Regulators told
the company that buying TNT would remove one of its few serious
competitors in the European delivery services market, a person
familiar with the regulators’ complaint said earlier this week.
TNT and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader, are
seen by the EU as UPS’s main competitors for next-day express
deliveries within Europe, the person said.  “Our preliminary view is that serious competition concerns
would arise in both cases, and substantial remedies are
needed,” Almunia said on Nov. 2.  Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for UPS in Atlanta, yesterday
declined to comment on what UPS would say at the hearing. UPS is
committed to the transaction and would address the EU’s concerns
in confidential talks with regulators, she said last week in
response to Almunia’s comments.  Ernst Moeksis, a spokesman for TNT in Hoofddorp, the
Netherlands, said requests for comment should go to UPS.  The Brussels-based commission must rule on the transaction
by Jan. 15.  RBS Japan Unit Faces Probe Including Libor, Official Says  A Japanese inspection of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
brokerage in Tokyo will include a probe into whether it was
involved in possible attempts to manipulate interbank interest
rates, according to a government official with knowledge of the
matter.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission ’s
routine onsite inspection will begin as soon as Nov. 12,
encompassing internal controls for Libor and Tibor, the official
said, asking not to be named because the matter is confidential.  RBS (RBS)  is one of more than a dozen banks worldwide facing
regulatory probes into allegations that they manipulated the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester 
said last week that he expects the Edinburgh-based bank will be
fined in coming months to settle investigations.  Hiroshi Okada, a spokesman for Japan’s Financial Services
Agency, which oversees the SESC, declined to comment, saying it
doesn’t talk about probes of specific companies. Atsuko
Yoshitsugu, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for RBS Securities Japan
Ltd., declined to comment.  RBS hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing by Japanese
regulators, which conduct regular inspections of financial
companies to ensure markets are fair and transparent. Tokai
Tokyo Securities Co. and SBI Securities Co. are among firms
currently being examined by the SESC, according to its website.  RBS continues to cooperate fully with investigations by
authorities into its submissions, communications and procedures
relating to the setting of Libor and other rates, the bank said
in its earnings report on Nov. 2.  Compliance Policy  Obama May Levy Carbon Tax to Cut U.S. Deficit, HSBC Says  Barack Obama  may consider introducing a tax on carbon
emissions to help cut the U.S. budget deficit after winning a
second term as president, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   A tax starting at $20 a metric ton of carbon dioxide
equivalent and rising at about 6 percent a year could raise $154
billion by 2021, Nick Robins, an analyst at the bank in London,
said yesterday in an e-mailed research note, citing
Congressional Research Service estimates. “Applied to the
Congressional Budget Office’s 2012 baseline, this would halve
the fiscal deficit by 2022,” Robins said.  Hurricane Sandy  sparked discussion on climate protection in
the election after presidential candidates focused on other
debates, HSBC said. A continued Republican majority in the U.S.
House of Representatives means Obama’s scope for action will be
limited, Robins said. Cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the
 U.S. Senate  after narrowly passing the house in 2009.  North American discharges fell 1.3 percent last year amid
slowing economic growth. In China, the world’s biggest emitter,
 greenhouse gases  from fuel use rose more than 9 percent in 2011,
according to BP Plc statistics published on June 13.  “Cap-and-trade has been demonized” and Obama probably
won’t seek to install such a program in his second term, Richard
Sandor, founder of the world’s biggest carbon trading exchange
in Europe, said yesterday in London.  In the Courts  Level Global Co-Founder Faces Jury as FBI Raids Yield Trial  Almost two years ago, Level Global Investors LP and
Diamondback Capital Management LLC were among four hedge funds
raided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as part of a
nationwide crackdown on insider trading.  This week, the first two defendants from those firms are on
trial in Manhattan federal court, as the U.S. continues its
unprecedented five-year-old investigation of market corruption
at hedge funds, technology companies and consulting firms.  Level Global co-founder Anthony Chiasson and  Todd Newman , a
former portfolio manager for Stamford, Connecticut-based
Diamondback, are accused of making more than $67 million in
illicit profits by trading on inside information in  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan is
presiding over the trial of both men, who have pleaded not
guilty. Jury selection began yesterday.  The case is the latest chapter in a series of probes that
last month yielded a two-year prison sentence for their highest-
profile target, former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat
Gupta. Gupta, convicted of insider trading, conspired with
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Rajaratnam, who is
serving an 11-year term, has asked an appeals court to throw out
his conviction, arguing wiretaps used in his case were illegal.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara have said Chiasson and Newman were part of a group of
fund managers, analysts and technology company employees who
traded stock tips in a conspiracy that operated from 2007 to
2009.  The trial, which had been scheduled to start Oct. 29, was
delayed by the courthouse’s closing after Hurricane Sandy.  Stephen Fishbein and John Nathanson, Newman’s lawyers, and
Greg Morvillo and  Reid Weingarten , lawyers for Chiasson,
declined to comment on the trial.  Diamondback agreed to pay more than $9 million to resolve a
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over trades made in
2008 and 2009.  In January, Diamondback and Bharara’s office entered into a
non-prosecution agreement related to the actions of the two men.
Prosecutors said the alleged misconduct “was not known by”
others at Diamondback.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  United Technologies Directors Sued Over China Export Fines  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Sikorsky helicopters, was sued by a shareholder
alleging mismanagement and seeking to replace the company’s
board.  Directors of the Hartford, Connecticut-based industrial
conglomerate should have exercised better oversight to avoid
U.S. fines for supplying China with software used in developing
attack helicopters, the Harold Grill 2 IRA contends in a lawsuit
filed Nov. 5 in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Board members violated their duties “by abdicating their
responsibilities of supervision and oversight” and as a result
“sullied United Technologies’ reputation as a defense
contractor, undermined its claims to good governance, and
exposed it to criminal charges,” the investor claimed.  In June, United Technologies units pleaded guilty to
violating the Arms Export Control Act and making false
statements in connection with exports of software used to
develop its Z-10 helicopter, supplied to the Chinese army
beginning in 2009, U.S. federal authorities said.  The company’s Pratt & Whitney Canada unit and its U.S.-
based Hamilton Sundstrand unit agreed to pay more than $75
million as part of a settlement with the U.S. Justice Department
and State Department, according to prosecutors.  Congress imposed a ban on licenses or approvals of defense
articles to China in February 1990, specifically including
helicopters.  “The allegations in this lawsuit are entirely without
merit,”  John Moran , a United Technologies spokesman, said in an
e-mailed message. He said the company “is committed to
conducting business in full compliance with all export control
regulations and achieving its goal of best-in-class
performance.”  The case is Grill v. United Technologies, CA7999, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  UBS Denies Claim Employees Can’t Testify in Adoboli’s Defense  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s top employment lawyer in Europe denied claims by
former trader Kweku Adoboli that bank workers are barred from
testifying in his defense at a trial over a $2.3 billion trading
loss.  While UBS contracts may prevent current or former employees
from disparaging the Zurich-based bank or sharing intellectual
property, there’s nothing stopping them from answering questions
in litigation, Jamie Howard, the bank’s head of employment law
for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said yesterday in
London.  Regardless of the “implied duty of fidelity” in such
contracts, employees may testify against the bank “if required
by law,” Howard said.  Adoboli, originally from Ghana, is on trial for fraud and
false accounting over the loss caused from unauthorized trades.
Prosecutors asked Howard to testify after Adoboli’s lawyer
suggested workers were being prevented or discouraged from
helping bolster the former trader’s defense.  HSBC Liable for Ignoring Madoff-Linked Fund Loss, Investors Say  HSBC Holdings Plc failed to keep millions in clients’
assets invested with Bernard Madoff safe “under lock and key,”
investors in an Irish fund said.  Kalix Fund Ltd. invested in  Thema International Fund Plc (TIFHUQE) ,
which in turn invested with Madoff. London-based HSBC, as
Thema’s custodian, didn’t act in time to protect investors’
money from fraud, even though it knew of the risks of dealing
with Madoff, a lawyer for Kalix told Judge Peter Charleton in a
Dublin court yesterday. The lender also handed over custodian
duties to Madoff and then tried to conceal it, the lawyer said.  HSBC, Europe’s largest lender by market value, faces more
than 50 complaints in Ireland -- including from Thema, Kalix, AA
(Alternative Advantage) Plc investors, and  Unione di Banche
Italiane ScpA (UBI)  -- for allegedly failing in its duties as
custodian for Thema. That fund is trying to recover about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in assets lost after Madoff’s
arrest. The Kalix complaint is the first of them to reach trial.  HSBC said in an e-mailed statement it has good defenses to
the claims made against it, wasn’t aware of the fraud prior to
Madoff’s confession and also lost $1 billion of its own assets.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history and is
serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Sued by Sealink Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
sued by Sealink Funding Ltd. for damages tied to an investment
in $513 million worth of residential mortgage-backed securities.  Sealink, in a suit filed yesterday in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan, accused Citigroup of misrepresenting
and omitting information on the underwriting standards used to
issue loans pooled to create the securities. Sealink is seeking
more than the principal amount of the securities in damages.  Citigroup, based in New York, has been fending off
litigation tied to mortgage-backed securities since the
financial crisis, when U.S. taxpayers had to rescue the lender
with a $45 billion bailout. The bank is cooperating in response
to subpoenas and requests for information from regulators
concerning its “mortgage-related conduct,” according to a
quarterly regulatory filing.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the suit.  Sealink was created to manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s
riskiest assets after the German lender almost collapsed. It has
filed lawsuits in New York over investments in mortgage bonds
against banks including UBS AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The case is Sealink Funding Ltd. v. Citigroup Inc.,
653844/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Interviews and Speeches  Deceit Behind Danish Bank Bust Impossible to Catch, FSA Says  Denmark’s financial watchdog defended its failure to
prevent alleged accounting fraud at the nation’s latest bank
insolvency after lawmakers called for a probe into the
regulator’s practices.   Toender Bank A/S, which declared bankruptcy on Nov. 2
after an inspection by the Financial Supervisory Authority
revealed impairments big enough to wipe out the regional
lender’s equity, was guilty of a “massive misrepresentation”
of its financial health that more rigorous scrutiny wouldn’t
have uncovered earlier, FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard
said.  “It’s massive non-compliance with the laws and
regulations, and we can never be 100 percent sure that this
won’t happen again,” Noedgaard, whose office is based in
Copenhagen, said in an interview Nov. 6. After going over the
accounts of 90 of Denmark’s roughly 105 banks, “we haven’t seen
anything like this before,” he said.  More than a dozen regional lenders have collapsed since
Denmark’s housing bubble burst in 2008, threatening to push the
nation into its second  recession  in less than a year. The
 International Monetary Fund  said Nov. 5 that the FSA should
broaden its oversight of Denmark’s regional lenders and even
consider enforcing risk-based  deposit insurance .  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  