-- Prudential Projects Lower Investment Returns; Shares Drop
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-08T21:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/prudential-projects-lower-investment-returns-shares-drop.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, fell the most in sixth months
in New York trading after lowering its assumptions for equity
and bond returns.  The insurer slipped 4.8 percent to $52.76 at 4:15 p.m. The
Newark, New Jersey-based company cut its projection of annual
stock market returns, including dividends, to 8 percent from
9.25 percent. The projection for bond returns was lowered by
about 100 basis points, the company said on a conference call
today. The new estimate is for 4.6 percent total returns.  Weaker investment results pressure earnings at life
insurers, which hold securities to back obligations to clients.
Prudential posted a third-quarter  net loss  of $618 million
yesterday, fueled by costs tied to derivatives, currency-related
contracts, long-term care policies and an annual review of
actuarial assumptions.  “That’s a pretty heavy thing to say, that common stocks
will permanently produce a lower rate of return than you had
anticipated,”  Eric Berg , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets,
said on a conference call today with company executives.  Mark Grier, Prudential’s vice chairman, said that stock
gains are typically correlated with returns on bonds. Fixed
income yields are at near-record lows as the  Federal Reserve ,
led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , has said it will keep rates low
through at least the middle of 2015.  “Maintaining a reasonable relationship between fixed
income returns and equity returns is appropriate,” Grier said.
“The  risk premium  in the market tends to be over a long period
of time, fairly durable.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 1.2 percent, paring
its return for the year to 12 percent including dividends. The
return is less than five percent over the past five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Pak in  New York  at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  