-- Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Widened in September as Imports Rose
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-widened-in-september-as-imports-rose.html
The  trade  deficit in the U.S.
probably widened in September as imports climbed, economists
said before a report today.  The gap grew to $45 billion, the biggest since May, from
$44.2 billion in August, according to the  median forecast  of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumers in the U.S. have begun to spend more as the job
market stabilizes, boosting the inflow of goods made abroad as
retailers restock ahead of the year-end holidays. At the same
time, exports have weakened for two straight months as the
global expansion deteriorated, hurting manufacturers like
 Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)   “Higher  oil prices  likely joined with stronger consumer
demand to lift imports,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist
at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . Exports may
“get a small boost from industrial demand” for commodities, he
said.  The Commerce Department will issue the trade report at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from deficits of $47.6 billion to $42 billion.  A slowdown in global growth curbed demand in both July and
August, with exports dropping in two consecutive months for the
first time in almost a year. The euro area’s economy hasn’t
expanded since the third quarter of 2011, and the rate of growth
in both Canada and  China  has slowed this year relative to last.  No Catalyst  “The pace of growth is unusually weak for this stage of a
recovery cycle, and uncertainty in the U.S., China and  Europe  is
resulting in cautious business investment,” Patrick Fitzgerald,
director of  investor relations  at Emerson Electric, said during
a Nov. 6 earnings call. “At present, there is no obvious
catalyst for economic growth acceleration.”  In the three months to September, U.S. sales at the St.
Louis-based maker of equipment for  power plants  and data centers
grew 2 percent from a year earlier, and they were little changed
in Europe and China, Farr said.  When those economies begin to turn around, businesses
abroad may have an incentive to buy American-made products,
which are becoming less expensive as the  value  of the dollar
falls. It was down 3.1 percent on Nov. 2 against a basket of
currencies from America’s biggest trading partners after
reaching an almost-two-year peak in late July, according to
Federal Reserve figures. The data also show the dollar has
dropped 28.5 percent over the past decade.  For now, imports are likely to grow as consumer demand
firms, widening the  trade gap .  Consumer spending  advanced in
September by the most since February.  By contrast, business investment in the U.S. is stalling as
concern over the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and
spending cuts slated for next year holds companies back.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  