-- Trading in First Carbon Units Shows Progress in Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-08T03:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/trading-in-first-carbon-units-shows-progress-in-australia.html
Australia’s top emissions regulator
says the national carbon market is stepping up to the next level
as the government gives away the first permits to polluters
ranging from Rio Tinto Group to  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , with banks showing
an interest in buying the units.  Australia’s  Clean Energy Regulator  has issued about 45
million free permits as part of the government’s program to help
businesses that are constrained in their ability to pass on the
costs of a carbon price. Businesses can sell the carbon units
back to the government or to other companies.  “We’re seeing transactions,” Chloe Munro, the regulator’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview in  Melbourne ,
where she’s attending a carbon conference. “The market is
starting to do what you’d expect it to do.”  Australia began charging about 300 of its largest polluters
a price of A$23 ($24) a ton for their greenhouse gas emissions
on July 1 and plans to introduce a cap-and-trade system in 2015.
While Prime Minister Julia Gillard won support last year for her
carbon legislation, she has trailed in the polls behind Tony Abbott, the opposition leader. Abbott has pledged to end what he
has called a “toxic tax.”  The “vast majority” of the carbon units for the year will
be issued by December, said Munro, who started at the Clean
Energy Regulator in April overseeing the government’s carbon
price and has a staff of about 350 people. “Banks are
interested in acquiring those units,” she added.  Climate Change Risk  The regulator also has approved seven projects under the
government’s program allowing farmers and land owners to earn
credits by storing carbon or reducing greenhouse gas emissions,
resulting in additional carbon units coming onto the market. By
June 15, Australian companies subject to the carbon price will
be required to purchase permits amounting to 75 percent of their
2012 emissions unless they show that their obligations will be
less, Munro said.  Australia  abandoned an attempt to set a minimum price for
carbon permits and announced Aug. 28 it was linking to the
European Union market, preparing for global emissions trading.  “From an administrative point of view, it’s definitely a
positive,” said Munro, who previously worked as chairman of the
National Water Commission. “From a client point of view, it
should also be seen as a positive because having access to a
larger market with a forward price is very good.”  Munro said she started thinking about the idea of putting a
price on carbon emissions 20 years ago, describing herself as
“an open-minded skeptic” at the time.  Political Questions  “The weight of scientific opinion is that there’s a risk
of dangerous climate change as a result of human activity, so if
that’s the case, and you can see the consequences in making an
investment in adjusting the economy to reduce that risk, that’s
a sensible strategy,” she said.  The threat that Australia’s carbon market will be
terminated and industry opposition to paying for their emissions
aren’t distracting Munro from her focus on building trust in the
regulator, she said. Political arguments against carbon pricing
are being debunked because the start of carbon pricing didn’t
result in the catastrophic scenarios that opponents were
predicting, she said.  The country’s emitters are making a “clear distinction”
between having a professional relationship with the regulator
and any opposition they might have to the country’s carbon
policy, she said.  “Most liable entities simply don’t want to get into that
territory on non-compliance,” Munro said. “That’s not to say
they are complying with huge enthusiasm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  