-- Recession Besets AAA Finland as Crisis Kills Jobs: Nordic Credit
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-11-08T09:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/recession-besets-aaa-finland-as-crisis-kills-jobs-nordic-credit.html
Finland’s job losses and export slump
are driving the AAA rated nation into a recession as growth in
its European trade partners evaporates.  The  economy  of one of only four-remaining top-rated euro
members contracted in August for the first time since February
2010, as companies fire workers in response to shrinking export
markets.  “Growth has been extinguished in Europe,” Roger Wessman,
Helsinki-based chief economist at Nordea Bank AB, said by phone
yesterday. “The weakness in the Finnish economy is a result of
its export markets. It looks very likely Finland is in a
recession.”  The specter of a Finnish recession comes as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  warns that recent data
suggest even  Germany  -- the 17-member currency bloc’s biggest
economy -- is struggling to escape the region’s debt turmoil.
Eleven economies in the 27-member European Union will shrink
this year for a region-wide contraction of 0.3 percent, the
European Commission said yesterday.  The crisis in the euro zone has brought Finnish industry to
its knees. Companies including stainless steel-maker  Rautaruukki
Oyj (RTRKS)  and paper-machine manufacturer  Metso Oyj (MEO1V)  have responded to
declining exports with job cuts, undermining confidence in the
Nordic economy. Technology, one of Finland’s main industries,
isn’t faring any better as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  loses market share to
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Apple Inc.  No Funding  Finland’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.6 percent in
August from a year earlier, the most since February 2010, a
trend indicator showed yesterday. In the second quarter, GDP
contracted 1.1 percent from the prior three months, the
statistics agency estimates. The data are calculated
differently.  Finnish exports fell an annual 8 percent in September, with
sales to the European Union plunging 14 percent, the customs
office said yesterday. New orders for the technology industry
have contracted for five consecutive quarters.  Companies interested in buying Finland’s investment goods
have struggled to obtain funding, said Jorma Turunen, chief
executive officer of the Federation of Finnish Technology
Industries, whose members produce 60 percent of the country’s
exports and employ a quarter of its workforce.  “ Europe  is in recession, the market just isn’t there,”
Turunen said in a phone interview. “Visibility is limited.”  Technology Orders  New orders received by Finland’s technology industry
plummeted an annual 20 percent last quarter and 14 percent from
the prior three-month period, presaging a slump in exports,
according to the federation. The value of order books was 10
percent lower at the end of September than a year ago.  The technology industry, which includes metals and
machinery, hasn’t recovered from the 2008 drop in sales that
caused Finland’s economy to shrink 8.5 percent in 2009. Exports
of mobile phones from the country ended in July, according to
the industry group.  The government needs to do more to ease the pressure
mounting on  Finland ’s manufacturers, Turunen at the technology
industry group said.  “Finnish industry is running hurdles, only its hurdles are
higher than for other countries,” Turunen said. “Our
competitors are passing us by left, right and center.”  Finland’s deteriorating economic outlook is increasing the
nation’s debt burden, relative to GDP. Public debt will swell to
54.7 percent of GDP next year, compared with 33.9 percent in
2008, the European Commission said yesterday.  Bond Reaction  Finland’s 10-year benchmark bond yields have risen 34 basis
points from a euro-era low of 1.33 percent on Aug. 2, to 1.67
percent yesterday. The spread to similar-maturity German yields
widened to 28 basis points during the period.  Still, Finland’s debt dynamics will continue to outperform
those of the  euro zone ’s southern members, meaning the Nordic
nation’s yield spread to Germany is unlikely to widen much more,
according to Jussi Hiljanen, the head of fixed-income research
at SEB AB in  Stockholm .  “International investors and credit-rating companies see
Finnish economic fundamentals as very good,” Hiljanen said.
“It’s one of the rare AAA countries, which makes it a haven
investment.”  The yield on Finland’s 1.625 percent note due September
2022 eased about two basis points 1.66 percent as of 11:41 a.m.
local time. The yield on the two-year note was minus 0.010
percent.  Five-year credit default swaps on Finland rose one basis
point to 30 basis points, versus 32 basis points on German debt,
according to data available on Bloomberg.  No Plan  Finland’s economy will grow 0.1 percent this year, the
weakest expansion rate in the Nordic region, according to the
European Commission. It had previously projected growth of 0.8
percent in 2012. The Commission also cut its estimate for next
year’s expansion to 0.8 percent from 1.6 percent.  Finnish policy makers, shielded from market forces by the
government’s AAA credit rating, are trying to reduce debt
instead of boosting demand in the economy. In neighboring
 Sweden , which isn’t a euro member, the government presented a
stimulus budget to jump-start the biggest Nordic economy.  “The only sustainable solution to boosting growth is to
improve the competitiveness of exporters,” Wessman at Nordea
said.  Big Picture  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s government has said it will
review the need for new budget cuts and tax increases in March,
when it debates the spending framework through 2017. The six-
party coalition, which took two months to form after the April
2011 general elections, is split on how to balance the budget.  The government is borrowing 9.2 billion euros ($11.7
billion) this year to fund the gap between revenue and
expenditure, as Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen presents
“optimistic” forecasts for the economy, Turunen said.  “Unfortunately the government is missing the big picture,
it lacks a plan to boost growth and investments,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  