-- Reitmans Moves Into U.S. With Toys ‘R’ Us
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-08T21:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/reitmans-moves-into-u-s-with-toys-r-us.html
Reitmans Ltd. (RET/A) , the largest Canadian
fashion retailer by market value, is expanding its Thyme
Maternity brand into the U.S. with an agreement to open stores
across the country in Babies “R” Us locations operated by  Toys
“R” Us Inc. (TOYS)   The Montreal-based company will open shop-in-shops in 150
Babies “R” Us stores this month and will be available to U.S.
customers through the retailer’s website, the company said in a
statement today. Thyme Maternity already has 20 shops in Babies
“R” Us locations in  Canada .  “The advantages that we see is that we have existing real
estate, proven real estate in the bigger box stores, and they
certainly have established traffic, and we can thrive off that
traffic,” said Jeremy Reitman, the company’s chief executive
officer by phone from  Montreal .  Reitmans is following  Loblaw Companies Ltd. (L)  in using the
shop-in-shop concept as a fast and inexpensive way to move south
as the Canadian retail market gets more competitive with the
expansion of U.S. giants like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  Loblaw announced in July it would sell its Joe Fresh
clothing label at 700 J.C. Penney Co. Inc. stores across the
U.S.  Jeremy Reitman said the company has attempted U.S.
expansion before but has been unsuccessful. This latest venture
could “grow significantly,” and Reitmans may consider bringing
more of its brands to the U.S. if Thyme is successful. The
company also operates Reitmans, RW & Co., Penningtons and
Addition Elle banners.  “We’re estimating we should be able to produce substantial
volume over the years and it should add to our bottom line,”
said Reitman.  Reitman fell 29 cents or 2.4 percent to C$11.88 at the
close in Toronto today and has fallen 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  