-- Repsol Net Income Jumps 36% as Production Surges in Libya
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-11-08T11:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/repsol-net-income-jumps-36-as-production-surges-in-libya-3-.html
Repsol SA (REP) , the Spanish oil producer
that had its Argentinian unit nationalized this year, said
third-quarter profit jumped more than expected as Libyan  oil
wells  returned and new fields started in Bolivia and the U.S.  Net income rose 36 percent to 760 million euros ($970
million) from a year earlier, the company said today in a
regulatory filing. That beat the 587 million-euro average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Increased production from Repsol’s new discoveries is
starting to compensate for the loss of  YPF SA (YPF) , Argentina’s
largest oil producer. Output in the third quarter averaged
339,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, up 20 percent on the
year. Higher profits at refineries in Spain and liquefied
natural gas trading also contributed to earnings.  “Upstream returns and margins will exhibit one of the
greatest improvements within the sector over the next few
years,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a note. “Repsol produced another strong quarter of
results, with all of its business reporting operating income
ahead of expectations.”  Production in  Libya  was 44,000 barrels a day in the third
quarter, reaching levels seen before the conflict that ousted
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.  Repsol rose as much as 2.5 percent to 15.39 euros in  Madrid 
and traded at 15.27 euros at 12:20 p.m. local time.  Refining Margin  Repsol’s adjusted operating income from refining and
marketing climbed 47 percent from a year earlier as the average
margin from refining crude oil more than tripled to $6.40 a
barrel.  “Today’s figures show that there is a lot of Repsol after
YPF,” Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Repsol, said from Madrid.  The explorer accelerated disposals, including the sale of
LNG assets, and cut dividend payments after the seizure of YPF.
Net financial debt fell 252 million euros in the third quarter
to 4.92 billion euros.  “While underlying operations were on track, the critical
issue for Repsol remains progress on asset sales especially in
the LNG business,” RBC Capital Markets analyst Peter Hutton
said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  