-- RIM’s BlackBerry 10 Gets Federal Security Nod
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-08T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/rim-s-blackberry-10-gets-government-security-nod-ahead-of-debut.html
Research In Motion (RIMM)  Ltd. said its new
BlackBerry 10 operating system has won security certification
from the U.S. government as the debut approaches of the
smartphone platform it’s counting on to revive sales.  BlackBerry 10 handsets and tablet computers have earned a
stamp of approval for secure communications known as FIPS 140-2
by the  National Institute of Standards and Technology , said
 Michael Brown , RIM’s vice president for security product
management. It’s the first time that BlackBerrys have been
certified for FIPS, or Federal Information Processing Standards,
before their commercial debut.  “It’s a very important tick in the box that the other guys
don’t have,” said John Jackson, a mobile platforms analyst at
research firm IDC in  Boston . “The sooner they can get a head
start in actively engaging these markets with BB10, the
better.”  RIM, which plans to introduce the operating system in next
year’s first quarter, is looking to shore up its support among
U.S. government agencies that have been among its biggest and
staunchest clients. The company is relying on those customers as
it cedes market share among U.S. consumers to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Gold Standard  The certification should help cement the device’s
reputation with government customers as the gold standard for
mobile-device security, Brown said.  “‘The FIPS announcement helps our customers understand
that we’re going to continue on that path,” Brown said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The benefit there for customers
is they have that secure platform to build solutions that allows
them to be successful.”  The Defense Department last month said it plans to hire a
contractor to build a system that will manage and secure at
least 162,500 Android devices and Apple devices, a potential
threat to Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM’s dominance in  Washington .  RIM says it has more than 1 million government customers in
 North America  alone. Scott Totzke, senior vice president for
BlackBerry security, said in April that sales to U.S. federal
agencies are rising and the BlackBerry is still a White House
fixture.  A significant threat to its government and corporate
business has been a shift by some organizations to allow
employees to bring devices to work and then install a security
layer into the software, said IDC’s Jackson. Booz Allen Hamilton
Inc., whose 25,000 staff members provide consulting services to
the U.S. government, last month dropped RIM as a smartphone
supplier.  Apple Tide  There has been a “tide of Apple devices coming into the
enterprise, but there will be core enterprise markets and
government markets where this sort of security is non-
negotiable,” said Jackson. FIPS certification “is a very
important step for RIM in securing its right to continue to
address those markets with BB10.”  RIM slipped 0.5 percent to $8.20 at the close in  New York ,
adding to yesterday’s  decline , the biggest since June, after a
Pacific Crest Securities report said BlackBerry 10 will struggle
to attract buyers.  RIM last week said more than 50 carriers have begun lab-
testing the new smartphones, spurring a rally in the shares from
investors betting that the debut will come early next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  