-- Federer Qualifies for ATP Semifinals With Win Over Ferrer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-08T17:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/roger-federer-qualifies-for-atp-semifinals-with-win-over-ferrer.html
Defending champion  Roger Federer 
moved into the last four of the ATP World Tour Finals by
overcoming an error-strewn performance to defeat  David Ferrer .  Federer, the most successful player at the season-ending
championships with six titles, won 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) at London’s O2
arena.  “It was tough match,” second-ranked Federer said in a
courtside interview. “And it was a long match.”  Federer struggled with his serve for most of the afternoon
and produced 39 unforced errors, fifteen more than Ferrer. He
also struck 28 winners, twelve more than the fourth-seeded
Spaniard.  The 31-year-old Swiss right-hander also won his opening
match at the ATP Finals, which feature a round-robin format that
divides the world’s top eight singles players and doubles pairs
into two groups of four, with the top two in each section moving
into the single elimination semifinal stage.  Federer, the first man to qualify for the last four, has
never lost to Ferrer in 14 matches. Ferrer has won a tour-
leading seven tournaments this season, one more his opponent,
and entered today’s meeting on an 11-match win streak that
included titles in Valencia and Paris.  Top Spot  After being eclipsed in the rankings last year by  Novak
Djokovic  of  Serbia , Federer peaked at Wimbledon this year, where
he beat Britain’s  Andy Murray  to win a men’s record-extending
17th Grand Slam title. He won the silver medal at the London
Olympics and completed a record 302nd week at No. 1 before being
bumped aside by Djokovic this week. He’ll end the season inside
the top two for the ninth time in 10 years.  Just like at the four majors, Federer’s achievements at the
ATP Finals are unrivaled in the men’s game: a 41-7 career record
in 11 appearances and the unprecedented six titles. Lendl and
 Pete Sampras  are next with five championships.  Federer squandered a 3-0 lead in the first set today, and
then hit an easy forehand opportunity into the net at 4-3.
After taking the set on Ferrer’s backhand error, Federer saved
two break points in the opening game of the second.  Federer regained the rhythm on his serve in the tiebreaker
as he improved his first-serve percentage -- which had been at
40 percent for most of the match -- to 53 percent. He set up
three match points with an ace, and moved to his 10th ATP
semifinal with a service winner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net  