-- RSA Sales Increase as Emerging Markets Outweigh Flat U.K.
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-11-08T17:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/rsa-sales-increase-as-emerging-markets-outweigh-flat-u-k-1-.html
RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA) , the U.K.’s
biggest property and casualty insurer by market value, said
nine-month revenue rose 4 percent as growing demand from
 emerging markets  outweighed flat sales in the U.K.  Net written premiums were 6.21 billion pounds ($9.9
billion) in the nine months to Sept. 30, compared with 6.13
billion pounds in the same period in 2011, the London-based
insurer said today in a statement.  The company repeated its forecast for investment income of
about 500 million pounds this year and estimated it will pay out
less than 96 pence in claims for every pound it takes in
premiums. RSA, formerly known as Royal & Sun Alliance, is
seeking to write more policies in markets such as Chile, Uruguay
and the  Middle East  to offset falling sales in Europe and
stagnant growth in its home market.  “The non-life rating environment remains challenging, but
RSA continues to drive rate increases through its operations,”
 Barrie Cornes , a London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co.
with a hold rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients
today. “RSA remains resilient and is well-positioned for the
eventual rebound of economies and markets.”  The firm doesn’t write policies in the U.S. so wasn’t
affected by  Hurricane Sandy , Cornes said. The storm is estimated
by Eqecat Inc. to eventually cost insurers as much as $20
billion.  Revenue from emerging markets grew 15 percent to 887
million pounds in the period, while sales in the U.K. and
western Europe were unchanged at 2.73 billion pounds, RSA said.
Sales in Scandinavia rose 2 percent and Canadian revenue rose 6
percent.  The stock  fell 0.6 percent to 112.4 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 4 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 