-- Rubenstein Sees Carried Interest on Table Post Election
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-08T23:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/rubenstein-says-carried-interest-taxation-will-be-addressed.html
David Rubenstein , co-founder of
buyout firm  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , said taxation of carried interest
will probably be discussed as part of a comprehensive tax
overhaul following the U.S. elections.  “After the lame duck, we expect that comprehensive  tax
reform  will likely be on the agenda of the new Congress and the
president,” Rubenstein, referring to the period after the new
Congressional session begins on Jan. 3, said on a conference
call today discussing his firm’s earnings. “Carried-interest
taxation and a great variety of other issues will no doubt be
addressed.”  Taxation of private-equity managers has come under scrutiny
this year as Mitt Romney’s bid for the presidency shed light on
the benefits enjoyed by some of the wealthiest buyout executives
and investors. Now several executives see one of the industry’s
treasured assets, the preferential tax treatment of its profits,
in jeopardy as President  Barack Obama  seeks to remake the U.S.
tax system in his second term.  Buyout managers receive most of their earnings as so-called
carried interest, which typically equals 20 percent of the
profits earned from investments they make using clients’ money.
The profits are taxed at a 15 percent rate, rather than the 35
percent top rate that applies to ordinary income, because they
are treated by the tax code as a capital gain.  Investors Lose  Romney, a co-founder and former chief executive officer of
Boston-based buyout firm Bain Capital LLC, has a personal
fortune estimated at $250 million.  Obama, who beat Romney on Nov. 6 to be re-elected to a
second term, reiterated in his budget proposal earlier this year
his intent to tax carried interest, which is earned by private-
equity partners as well as hedge-fund managers, at ordinary
income rates. The change would produce $10 billion in revenue
from 2012 through 2016 and $21 billion over the next decade,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “Obama’s win is a loss for private-equity investors,”
 Roger Freeman , a director of equity research at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
said in an e-mail after the election results were known.
Dealmakers are “expecting higher taxes, including likely on
carried interest.”  Changing the tax treatment of so-called carry was going to
be a consideration under either an Obama or Romney
administration, according to  Leon Black , CEO of  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , which oversees $105 billion. Congress will have
to look at different sources of revenues to close the  U.S.
budget deficit , Black told Reuters at the SuperInvestor
conference in Paris.  Council’s Plans  “It may not mean a direct hit to the bottom line for the
firms, but investors will see their tax bills increase,”
Freeman said.  The  Private Equity Growth Capital Council , the industry’s
lobbying group in Washington, is re-focusing its efforts now
that the election is over. The group spent much of the year
highlighting buyout success stories on the Web to counter
criticisms of Romney’s private-equity tenure. Now it intends to
return to convincing Congressional lawmakers that legal benefits
in the industry also help the broader economy.  “We’re focused more on  Capitol Hill ,”  Steve Judge , the
organization’s CEO, said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “Our members want to know whether
there will be tax reform next year. They ask a lot about that.”  The council’s 36 member firms include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
the largest private-equity company by assets; Carlyle, the
second-biggest;  KKR & Co. (KKR) ; TPG Capital; and Apollo. The firms
pay membership fees to the group, which advocates on their
behalf.  Compromise Potential  “I’m sure the president will go after that,”  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School
of Business who studies the private-equity industry, said in a
telephone interview regarding changing the tax treatment of
carried interest. “What it really depends on now is what the
 House of Representatives  and Obama can compromise on.”  The council is also lobbying to keep in place the tax
deduction for interest on debt financing, which private-equity
firms rely on to fund buyouts and amplify returns, as well as
persuading lawmakers that partnerships shouldn’t be taxed as
corporations, Judge said. Most private-equity firms are
structured as partnerships.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  Rubenstein has urged lawmakers to consider the effects of
higher taxation on carried interest, which generates most of the
cash profits collected by private-equity managers. A lifelong
Democrat, the 63-year-old said in an Oct. 7 interview on
Bloomberg Radio that the tax treatment of private-equity and
hedge-fund profits shouldn’t be singled out, and should instead
be considered in the context of comprehensive changes of the  tax
code .  “That’s one of the concerns that we’ve always had about
this issue: the law of unintended consequences,” Rubenstein
said today. “You don’t really know if you change the way that
we’re taxed, whether the fact that the U.S. is the dominant
private-equity country in the world will change or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  