-- Rumsfeld Wins Dismissal of Suit Tying Him to Torture
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-08T18:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/rumsfeld-wins-dismissal-of-suit-tying-him-to-torture.html
Donald Rumsfeld, a former U.S.
defense secretary under President George W. Bush, won dismissal
of a lawsuit brought by two Americans claiming he’s responsible
for their alleged torture in  Iraq .  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago yesterday reversed a
ruling last year by a three-judge panel that had upheld the
right of security-firm workers Donald Vance and Nathan Ertel to
pursue the suit they filed in 2006.  The men claimed they had been captured and tortured by U.S.
military personnel in Iraq after trying to blow the whistle on
illegal arms sales by their employer to groups opposing the
American occupation. They alleged Rumsfeld had authorized the
“harsh interrogation methods” to which they were subjected,
according to the appeals court ruling.  “Even if we were to create a common-law damages remedy
against military personnel and their civilian superiors, former
Secretary Rumsfeld could not be held liable,” Chief U.S.
Circuit Judge Frank H. Easterbrook wrote for the majority in the
8-3 ruling.  “He did not arrest plaintiffs, hold them incommunicado,
refuse to speak with the FBI, subject them to loud noises,
threaten them while they wore hoods, and so on,” Easterbrook
said.  Vance and Ertel accused the former defense secretary of
approving of those techniques and failing to reign in
subordinates who used them without authorization, according to
the decision.  Dissenting Opinion  U.S. Circuit Judge David F. Hamilton, author of last year’s
three-judge ruling, wrote the dissenting opinion.  “Every member of this court recognizes that the job of the
military is challenging, dangerous, and critical to our national
security,” Hamilton said. “For these reasons and more, members
of the armed forces enjoy unparalleled respect in our society.
But this respect does not put the military’s highest officers
beyond the reach of the Constitution,” or the courts.  “I think the majority opinion is incorrect,”  Chicago 
attorney Michael Kanovitz, who represented Vance and Ertel, said
in a telephone interview. Petitioning the U.S. Supreme Court for
permission to appeal remains an option, he said.  The case is Vance v. Rumsfeld, 10-1687 and 10-2442, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  