-- Russia Set to Skip Rate Increase on Inflation Surprise
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-11-08T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/russia-set-to-skip-rate-increase-on-inflation-surprise.html
Russia , the largest emerging economy
to raise  interest rates  this year, will probably refrain from
increasing borrowing costs today after inflation unexpectedly
slowed in October for the first time in six months.  Bank Rossii will leave the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
at a meeting in Moscow, half a percentage point above the record
low, according to 21 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Two
predict a quarter-point increase. Policy makers will hold their
main short-term lending and deposit rates at 5.5 percent and
4.25 percent, two separate surveys showed.  Russia raised its refinancing rate for the first time in 16
months in September as a surge in price growth pushed inflation
beyond the 6 percent upper limit of the regulator’s target
range. Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev , whose third and final term at
the helm of Bank Rossii ends in 2013, needs to check price gains
next year as the economy slows and his counterparts from  Poland 
to the  Philippines  reduce borrowing costs.  “October showed that inflation expectations are easing,
and that inflation is slowing after the earlier surge,” Oleg Vyugin, chairman of MDM Bank and a former Bank Rossii first
deputy chairman, said in a telephone interview. “There’s no
reason to touch rates.”  Three-month borrowing costs may fall 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, in the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with
a jump of 21 basis points forecast on Oct. 4, the day before
Bank Rossii’s last rate meeting. The cost to fix floating
interest payments in rubles for a year using rate swaps was 7.53
percent yesterday.  Inflation Surprise  Price growth unexpectedly slowed to 6.5 percent from a year
earlier in October, the Federal Statistics Service said Nov. 6.
 Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as energy,
decelerated for a first time on a monthly basis since May.  Most Russians named rising prices as their biggest concern,
topping corruption, poverty and drug abuse, in an August poll
published by the Moscow-based Levada Center. Inflation slowed to
a post-Soviet low of 3.6 percent in April and May after the
government pushed back increases in utility tariffs by six
months to July 1.  “We’re more surprised that we’re seeing less core
inflation than we would have expected,” said  Clemens Grafe ,
chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Moscow. “We see
far less wage pressure developing than we would have expected,
but I think it’s too early really to be complacent on that.”  Slower core inflation may convince Bank Rossii to hold
rates because it’s an indicator of the monetary pressure behind
rising prices, analysts at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow wrote in
a research note yesterday.  Market Strains  “There’s rising tension on the money market, which is
already experiencing a sort of monetary tightening as short-term
interest rates exceed the central bank’s lowest refinancing rate
by almost 1 percentage point,” they said.  The Ruonia overnight rate, a weighted average for ruble
deposits among banks, rose to 6.46 percent on Oct. 31, the
highest since June, easing to 5.82 percent yesterday according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers want to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent next year, half a percentage point higher than
previously targeted, after conceding consumer-price growth
breached that range in 2012.  Ruble, Outflows  Capital outflows and the central bank’s policy of allowing
a more flexible ruble are helping reduce the role of  money
supply  in driving up prices, said Vladimir Pantyushin, chief
economist for Russia and the CIS at Barclays Plc’s investment-
banking unit in Moscow. Food now accounts for about 40 percent
of Russian inflation and will recede as a factor next year, he
said.  “We see a big correlation between global and Russian food
prices, and globally there is a contraction,” he said. “There
was a burst that stabilized in June and now we see the
rollback.”  Russia’s M2, the broadest measure of money supply, grew
14.8 percent in September, the slowest since November 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy grew 2.8 percent in the third quarter, down
from a 4.5 percent pace in the first half of the year, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said last month.  Even so, Russia was the only emerging market to show
improvements in both the manufacturing and services purchasing
managers’ indexes last month, according to Goldman’s Grafe. He
forecasts a quarter-point increase in all rates this week as
policy makers focus on meeting next year’s inflation goal.  Deposit Rate  The central bank may also raise the overnight deposit rate
alone, which would help it assert control over short-term
interest rates by setting a higher floor, said Maxim Oreshkin,
chief economist at VTB Capital in Moscow.  “The central bank has repeatedly said it thinks the
current interest rates corridor is too large,” he said.
“Increasing the deposit rate wouldn’t really influence market
money rates at the moment, but it would show the central bank is
moving toward narrowing the corridor and continues to take
inflation seriously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  