-- Safaricom First-Half Profit Surges as Voice, Data Sales Jump
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-11-08T18:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/safaricom-first-half-profit-surges-as-voice-data-sales-jump-1-.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  East Africa ’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, said first-half profit almost doubled
after voice and data revenue jumped as it benefited from higher
calling rates and a more stable Kenyan shilling.  Net income surged to 7.77 billion shillings ($91 million)
in the six months through September from 4.01 billion shillings
a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer John Tombleson told
reporters today in the capital, Nairobi. The company raised its
guidance for full-year earnings, saying revenue would show “low
double-digit growth.”  “They are on track to meet our full-year estimate of 38
percent profit growth,” Eric Musau, a research analyst at
Standard Investment Bank, said in an interview at the briefing.  Safaricom raised call charges in October 2011 for the first
time in 11 years amid a weakening currency and accelerating
inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy. The increase came
after a price war with competitors including  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) ’s Kenyan unit, known as Airtel Networks  Kenya  Ltd., that
resulted in profit plunging 47 percent in the six months through
September 2011.  “The price war that affected us in 2011 is what hit our
profit last year,” Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore told
reporters today. “We have now recovered from that.”  Safaricom, which is 40 percent-owned by  Vodafone Plc (VOD) , the
world’s biggest mobile-phone operator, said revenue in the first
half grew 19 percent to 59 billion shillings as the number of
customers increased by 7 percent to 19.2 million.  Voice, Data  Voice revenue climbed 19 percent to 37.4 billion shillings,
while data sales climbed 29 percent to 3.98 billion shillings.
Income from MPESA, the company’s mobile money-transfer service,
surged 32 percent to 10.4 billion shillings as the number of
customers grew 2.4 percent to 15.2 million, the company said.  Capital expenditure in the fiscal year through March will
be 23 billion shillings, with 95 percent of it going to network
improvement, Tombleson said.  Over the next five years, Safaricom will spend 2 billion
shillings annually on a fiber-optic network that will expand by
500 kilometers (311 miles) each year, Collymore said.  “Fiber will begin to come gradually onto the ground
towards the end of the financial year,” he said.  Chairman Nicholas Ng’ang’a said the company also benefited
from a lower inflation rate and the shilling’s recovery against
the  U.S. dollar .  Inflation Slows  Kenya’s currency declined 17 percent against the dollar in
the six months through September 2011 as inflation surged to
more than three times the government’s target, peaking at almost
20 percent in November 2011.  The shilling has traded little changed this year, gaining
0.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation
slowed for an 11th month to 4.1 percent last month.  Shares in Safaricom, Kenya’s  second-biggest company  by
market value, have rallied 51 percent this year, outperforming a
34 percent rise in the  Nairobi Securities Exchange All-Share
Index. (NSEASI)   Safaricom also competes with Telkom Kenya Ltd., a joint
venture between the government and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , and Essar
Telecom Kenya Ltd., a unit of Essar Group of  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  