-- Sappi Targets Higher-Margin Cellulose to Boost Profit
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-11-13T14:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/sappi-targets-higher-margin-cellulose-to-boost-profit-ceo-says.html
     (Corrects additional capacity in sixth paragraph of story
published Nov. 8.)  Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s biggest maker
of glossy paper, returned to profitability for the full year as
it shifted its focus away from paper and toward higher-margin
chemical cellulose.  The company posted a profit of $104 million for the 12
months through September, compared with a year earlier loss of
$232 million, the Johannesburg-based papermaker said in a
statement. Its earnings per share of 20 cents compared with a
loss of 45 cents a year ago and beat analyst  estimates  of 18
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In three to four years’ time, most of our business must
come from high-margin operations,” Chief Executive Officer
Ralph Boëttger said in a phone interview today. “Chemical
cellulose contributes 18 percent to 20 percent of our sales and
once the new plants become operational, that will increase to as
much as 35 percent.”  Chemical cellulose is a type of fiber made from wood that
can be used in consumer products including cellophane wrap,
clothing and make-up such as lipstick.  Add Capacity  Sappi  gained  3 percent to a near-four month high of 25.50
rand in Johannesburg by 11:43 a.m. About 826,000 shares changed
hands, or 54 percent of the daily average for the past three
months.  The paper and pulp company is converting part of its South
African Ngodwana mill to produce 210,000 metric tons of
cellulose a year. It is also modifying its Cloquet, Minnesota
plant to produce another 300,000 tons. This will add to current
production capacity of 800,000 tons at its Saiccor, South
Africa-based plant before the middle of next year, Boëttger
said.  Sappi said its European and North American paper businesses
delivered good performances in the fourth quarter, helping to
offset weaker market conditions in Southern Africa.  Full year sales fell 13 percent to $6.3 billion.  “Given continued uncertainty in global financial markets,
and questions around the timing of any meaningful economic
recovery in our major markets, we expect trading conditions to
remain challenging for the next twelve months,” Boëttger said
in a statement.  The company reduced its debt to $1.9 billion from $2.1
billion a year ago as of the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  