-- Senegal to Seek New Iron Ore Partners After ArcelorMittal
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-11-08T10:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/senegal-to-seek-new-iron-ore-partners-after-arcelormittal.html
Senegal will resolve a legal dispute
with  ArcelorMittal (MT)  before negotiating with other companies on
developing its iron-ore reserves, the state mining company said.  “We are in the legal process for non-respect of the
contract so that they can liberate the concession to another
company,” said Birame Diouf, director general of Societe des
Mines de Fer du Senegal Oriental, known by its French acronym
Miferso, in an interview in the capital of Dakar on Nov. 6. “We
await the verdict to start discussions with other companies.”  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, signed a
$2.2 billion deal in 2007 that included building a rail line to
the coast and upgrading the port in Dakar, with production
scheduled to begin last year. The Luxembourg-based producer
suspended the project in 2009 after the world financial crisis.
Diouf declined to name companies that may discuss the resource.  Hearings into the resulting dispute were held in September
and a decision is due this year or early 2013, ArcelorMittal
said by e-mail. “Briefings and hearings as to damages could
follow depending on the decision,” the steelmaker said.  Energy and Mines Minister Aly Ngouille Ndiaye said on Nov.
6 he hoped the verdict would be given by the end of the year.  Senegal, in the Court of Arbitration of the  International
Chamber of Commerce , claims a breach of contract and estimates
provisionally damages of $750 million, ArcelorMittal said.  The country’s eastern region has 600 million metric tons of
proven iron-ore reserves, Diouf said. Mining projects, including
zircon and gold operations, will spur growth of the economy, the
second-biggest in the eight-nation West African monetary union,
to 4.3 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  Neighbor  Guinea  is developing iron-ore mines, while  Sierra
Leone  and  Liberia  began shipments of the steelmaking material
last year. ArcelorMittal operates in Liberia, Rio Tinto Group
and Vale SA have interests in Guinea and African Minerals Ltd.
and London Mining Plc have sites in Sierra Leone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Bowers in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  