-- Serbia Raises Main Rate to Tame Accelerating Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-11-08T11:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/serbia-raises-main-rate-to-tame-accelerating-inflation.html
Serbia ’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  for a fifth time since June to tame
inflation after it accelerated above 10 percent.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije lifted today the
 one-week repurchase rate  0.2 percentage point to 10.95 percent,
the highest since September last year. Twelve economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  predicted a quarter-point increase, one
expected a half-point boost and eight forecast no change.  “Monetary-policy tightening aims to counter heightened
inflationary pressures and to prevent the spillover of the
effects of price increases, notably food, to other prices,” the
bank said in a statement, adding that the increase “should
contribute to the drop in year-on-year inflation next year and
its retreat within the target band by the end of 2013.”  Serbian policy makers are seeking to damp inflation that
rose to 10.3 percent in September, the highest since August last
year. That contrasts with regional peers in  Hungary , the Czech
Republic and  Poland , where central banks are following the U.S.
and U.K. with cuts aimed at halting an economic slowdown amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The dinar traded at 112.7020 against the euro at 12:51 p.m.
in Belgrade, 0.6 percent up on the session, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The National Bank of Serbia began raising the benchmark
rate in June from 9.5 percent citing elevated inflationary
expectations and higher-than-expected growth in food and
administered prices.  Hyperinflation  The government, led by the Socialists of late Serbian
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  whose rule in the 1990s was marked
hyperinflation and currency denominations, is seeking to curb
price increases and restart growth. Serbian unemployment is
among the highest in Europe, with one in four out of work.  The dinar was Europe’s worst-performing currency in the
first half of 2012 due to capital outflows, low foreign-direct
investment and weaker exports.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic , in office since
July 27, offered subsidies to banks to encourage cheaper lending
to cash-starved companies, forcing lenders to sell euros and
unleashing the appreciation trend in a thin foreign-exchange
market driven by cash flows rather than fundamentals. The dinar
has gained 4.6 percent against the euro since then, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Price Growth  Inflation has been quickening since April, when it fell to
a 30-year low of 2.7 percent due to rising food prices amid drop
in farm output. The central bank sees inflation near 12 percent
in December, more than double its official end-2012 target of 4
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points.  Price growth has accelerated even as the economy fell into
its second recession in three years.  Gross domestic product   has
declined for three quarters, dropping 2.2 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, according to
preliminary data.  The government sees the economy shrinking 1 percent this
year before rebounding to 2 percent growth in 2013, led by
exports of  Fiat SpA (F)  cars and foreign investment.  Fiscal Policies  The central bank has repeatedly said the pace and scope of
tightening will depend on fiscal policies. The government plans
to narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6 percent of GDP in 2013 from 6.7
percent this year and balance the budget by 2016, according to a
draft budget.  The planned cutbacks and the way the government handles the
central bank’s autonomy will be key to Serbia’s bid to persuade
the  International Monetary Fund  to approve a new loan for the
Balkan state.  The Washington-based lender suspended a $1.3 billion loan
in February after the government slipped on agreed fiscal
targets ahead of May 6 general elections. An IMF mission will
arrive in Belgrade on Nov. 13 for the first stage of loan talks
and return by February after evaluating the 2013 budget and
deficit-cutting measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  