-- Siemens Seeks $7.7 Billion Savings in Culling by Loescher
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-11-08T14:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/siemens-seeks-7-7-billion-savings-in-culling-by-loescher.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  unveiled a 6 billion-euro
($7.7 billion) efficiency push to help get  Europe ’s largest
engineering company back to last year’s profitability,
acknowledging that it was slow to react to shrinking demand.  Half of the savings will come from better internal
cooperation on production, design and development, with other
spending reductions stemming from a review of global activities
or improving process quality, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said in Berlin today. While workforce cuts aren’t a
driving force behind the plan, some job losses will be an
inevitable component, he said.  Siemens rose to a 15-month  high  on investor optimism that
Loescher will use his most sweeping cost purge yet to weed out
underperforming assets. The CEO, in his second five-year term,
said today he’ll dispose of the water-treatment activities that
Munich-based Siemens bought almost a decade ago because it’s the
wrong fit, a month after he put solar-power units up for sale.  “Global growth forecasts will more likely be revised
downwards, so this is homework we have to do, and we have to do
it continuously,” Loescher said as he presented the company’s
fiscal full-year earnings at a gas-turbine factory in Berlin.
Apart from economic headwinds, Loescher said, Siemens must make
up for persistent price pressure and higher costs including
wages, making 2013 “very challenging.”  Narrowing Margin  Operating profit as a proportion of sales at the four main
businesses fell to 9.5 percent in 2012 from 12.8 percent a year
earlier. The savings program has a target of restoring the
margin to at least 12 percent by 2014, in the absence of
economic growth to provide a lift.  The European Commission said yesterday that gross domestic
product in the 17 nations sharing the euro will fall by 0.4
percent in 2012, with near stagnation next year. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today that the economic
outlook is worsening.  Siemens forecast that profit in the year started Oct. 1
will fall to as little as 4.5 billion euros, held back by about
1 billion euros in costs from the spending-reduction program.
Sales may fail to match the 78.3 billion euros generated in
fiscal 2012 after new orders that year plunged 10 percent.  Energy Writedowns  One-time costs in fiscal 2012 amounted to about 1.2 billion
euros, half of which were posted at the energy business in the
fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said. Siemens
booked a writedown of 327 million euros because of stricter
European Union rules for trade with  Iran , 133 million euros to
reduce capacity in power transmission and 106 million euros for
a nuclear-power project in  Finland .  The charges resulted in operating profit in the energy
units plunging 57 percent in the quarter to 346 million euros.
Earnings rose at the health-care and infrastructure operations.
Profit at the industrial business fell 6 percent to 726 million
euros. Siemens faces more charges in 2013, as separate programs
to improve performance in health-care and power-transmission
units are under way.  Loescher is sticking to a target of increasing sales to 100
billion euros, helped by acquisitions in industries Siemens is
targeting for expansion. His track record got another dent as
fourth-quarter earnings were held back by about 250 million
euros in losses on solar activities, which Siemens plans to
divest just three years after building the operations through
acquisitions. Siemens has lost more than 500 million euros at
its solar business over the past two years alone.  ‘Extremely Strict’  “We will be extremely strict when allocating capital,”
Loescher said.  Siemens will acquire LMS International, a closely held
Belgian maker of product life-cycle management software, for
about 680 million euros, the German company also said today. LMS
had sales of 140 million euros in the first nine months of this
year, and employs 1,200 people.  Siemens  rose  as much as 5 percent to 82.78 euros, the
highest intraday price Aug. 3, 2011. The stock, which has the
biggest weighting on  Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index, traded at
81.13 euros at 3:34 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing Siemens at about
71.4 billion euros.  The manufacturer proposed a  dividend  of 3 euros a share for
fiscal 2012 today, unchanged from the previous year. Siemens
said it seeks to return 40 percent to 60 percent of earnings to
shareholders, a quota that can include repurchasing its stock.
Siemens concluded a three-month, 2.9 billion-euro buyback
yesterday.  The savings program follows cost-cutting projects at  Royal
Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , a competitor in lighting systems and
medical equipment, and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , which competes with Siemens in
power systems. Loescher, who used to work at  General Electric
Co. (GE) , has said he would measure Siemens against its main rivals
as he improves profitability at the German company.  “This is not a great new strategy,” Loescher said today.
“All our renowned rivals are doing this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Berlin via 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  