-- Slovenian Union Vote Call on Bad Bank Raises Bailout Risk
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-08T11:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/slovenia-trade-union-files-request-for-vote-on-bad-bank-plan-1-.html
Slovenian Parliamentary Speaker
Gregor Virant said he’ll decide on whether to hold a referendum
on a plan to recapitalize the nation’s banks on Nov. 12, after a
trade union requested the vote, raising the risk of a bailout.  Virant on Nov. 2 rejected the motion by 30 opposition
lawmakers, who also called for a plebiscite on the creation of a
wealth fund meant to ease the sale of state assets. The union of
workers in the chemical, non-metal and rubber industries filed
for the vote before the lawmakers’ motion. Signatures required
for the referendum were first deemed lost and were later found,
Virant said today.  “I don’t want a referendum, but according to rules I have
to allow the union to start collecting signatures from Monday,”
he told reporters in Ljubljana. “With this signature saga, we
have suffered moral damage that may harm Parliament’s
reputation.”  Standard & Poor’s put Slovenia’s rating on Credit Watch
negative on Nov. 6 because a possible referendum on the plan to
overhaul the economy raised concern the government would be
unable to enforce the measures. Failure to implement the
overhaul by year-end may force the Adriatic nation to seek an
international bailout, Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  has said.  The government asked the  Constitutional Court  to rule if
the vote on the creation of a wealth fund should go ahead and
will probably do the same for the bank-plan referendum,
according to Virant.  Credit Watch  Going ahead with the vote may lead the other main rating
companies to follow S&P in putting Slovenia on credit watch,
Andraz Grahek, an independent financial adviser in Ljubljana,
said in a phone interview.  Still, “there is a slight possibility the top court will
deem the referendum call on the bank plan unconstitutional,
since its rejection would indeed undermine the financial
stability and operability of the country,” he said.  The trade union has 35 days to collect 40,000 signatures
from citizens and if successful, Virant has to call the vote,
which will probably take place in January.  Slovenia’s bank stabilization plan foresees the creation of
a government agency that would take non-performing loans from
the country’s ailing lenders amounting to as much as 4 billion
euros ($5.1 billion) in exchange for state-backed bonds that
would probably be eligible as collateral for further financing
with the  European Central Bank , Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
has said.  “If there is indeed a referendum, the plan to save the
banking system will fail and no similar legislation can be
adopted for a period of one year,” Grahek said. “This could be
very problematic and could prevent Slovenia to ask for aid from
the European Stability Mechanism to prop up the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  