-- SM Investments May Beat 14% Growth Target on Bank, Retail
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-11-09T06:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/sm-investments-may-beat-14-growth-target-on-bank-retail.html
SM Investments Corp. (SM) , Philippine
billionaire  Henry Sy ’s holding company, may beat its target for
profit growth of as much as 14 percent this year on higher
earnings at its bank and retail ventures. The stock rose the
most in three weeks.  An accelerating domestic economy and record low  interest
rates  are fueling growth at the businesses, Chief Financial
Officer Jose Sio said in an interview in Manila. The company
yesterday posted a 16 percent increase in third-quarter profit
to 5.23 billion pesos ($127 million).  The  Philippines ’ $225 billion  economy  grew 5.9 percent in
the second quarter and is on pace for its fastest annual growth
rate since expanding 7.6 percent in 2010. The nation’s central
bank has cut its benchmark rate four times this year, falling to
a record low 3.5 percent last month, to boost growth and has
said has room for more reductions as inflation remains tame.  “The group is in a sweet spot and could easily overshoot
their target,” said Alex Pomento, head of research at Macquarie
Group Ltd.’s  Manila  unit. “Economic growth is accelerating
while the group will get a big boost in the fourth quarter when
consumer spending is usually at its strongest.”  Manila-based SM Investments owns the nation’s largest
grocery and department store operators, with a network of 193
stores nationwide. It also owns  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) , the nation’s
biggest bank by assets, and SM Prime Holdings Inc., the
country’s biggest shopping mall operator with 46 centers in the
Philippines and four in  China .  SM Investments  shares  rose 2 percent to 815 pesos as of
2:25 p.m. in Manila, heading for sharpest gain since Oct. 17.
The stock extended this year’s gain to 40 percent, beating a 25
percent advance in the benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index. (PCOMP)   ‘Strongest Quarter’  Earnings for the nine months ended Sept. rose 14 percent to
16.1 billion pesos, SM Investments said yesterday.  The company had previously targeted full-year profit growth
of 12 percent to 14 percent. Growth at the top of that range
would result in net income of 24.2 billion pesos based on its
 2011 earnings  of 21.2 billion pesos.  “We could exceed our budget because the last three months
is our strongest quarter,” Sio said. “The economy is doing
quite well, while favorable interest rates and rising income and
inflows from abroad are encouraging consumer spending.”  SM Investments derived 33 percent of its 2011 profit in the
fourth quarter.  SM Prime (SMPH) , the biggest Philippine shopping mall operator,
plans to borrow as much as 15 billion pesos next year in peso
and dollar denominated bonds to help fund developments, Chief
Financial Officer Jeffrey Lim said in a separate interview.  The mall operator, which is 22 percent owned by Sy’s
holding company, will use the funds to help finance its 30
billion peso capital expenditure budget, he said.  Capital Spending  “The interest rate is low and the environment is quite
attractive,” Lim said. SM Prime opened five Philippine malls in
the first nine months of the year and is scheduled to open a
shopping center in in Chongqing next month, its fifth in China.  As a group, SM Investments is budgeting 65 billion pesos
for  capital spending  in 2013, up from 56 billion pesos this
year, Sio said. The company’s retail and mall ventures will
benefit from Christmas and New Year spending, while BDO Unibank
raised $1 billion from a rights offer in July to expand its loan
books at a time when  consumer spending  is picking up from the
holidays, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  