-- Snow Pelts East Coast States as Storm Follows Sandy’s Steps
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-08T08:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/snow-pelts-east-coast-states-as-storm-follows-sandy-s-steps-1-.html
A coastal storm pushed a band of snow
into the states around  New York City  as winds and flooding
threatened the region still recovering from damage caused by
 Hurricane Sandy .  Snow was falling at a rate of about 1 inch (2.5
centimeters) per hour and was forecast to taper off as it hit a
broader area, according to the U.S. National Weather Service.
More than 6 inches were reported in areas of  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , at about 10:55 p.m. local time yesterday.  The so-called nor’easter caused the cancellation of more
than 1,700 flights, prompted the Long Island Rail Road to
suspend all services and threatened to exacerbate power outages
that have prevailed since Sandy struck on Oct. 29 near Atlantic
City,  New Jersey . There were 672,572 customers without power in
the Northeast, according to the latest U.S. Energy Department
report at 3 p.m. yesterday. That was up 22,156 from earlier in
the day.  “We’re seeing a heavy band moving over parts of New York
City now, over the Bronx and upper  Manhattan ,”  Brian Ciemnecki ,
a  National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton, New York,
said by telephone. Coastal flooding is “scheduled to touch
minor benchmarks with tonight’s high tide in a bunch of
locations.”  The storm may delay efforts to restore power and possibly
cause further blackouts, according to a statement from
 Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , which provides electricity to New York
City and Westchester County.  Sandy Destruction  Sandy struck the U.S. and Caribbean last week, killing at
least 177 people, according to the  Associated Press . The storm
hit New York and New Jersey as it came ashore Oct. 29. About 8.5
million homes and businesses were without power at its peak and
may have caused as much as $20 billion in insured damage,
according to  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX) , the biggest Lloyd’s of London insurer
by market value.  A surge of 2.5 to 5 feet is forecast along the coast of New
Jersey to Long Island, said Lauren Nash, a National Weather
Service meteorologist. In New York City’s Battery Park, which
flooded last week during Sandy, the surge may send water about 3
feet above the normal high-tide mark, which constitutes moderate
flooding, Nash said.  That would be lower than the record 13.88 feet set on Oct.
29 at Sandy’s peak, according to the weather service.  Evacuations  Shore towns in New York and New Jersey ordered evacuations
ahead of the nor’easter. Residents in communities from Toms
River to Highlands, New Jersey, were told to leave threatened
parts, according to website postings yesterday. On New York’s
Long Island, Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano ordered
evacuations from flood or storm-surge zones. Islip officials
directed people to leave Fire Island and waterfront
neighborhoods.  “The sand dunes have been removed by Sandy,” said  Paul
Walker , a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . The water won’t be “as high as Sandy but with the
dunes gone there are going to be some problems caused by coastal
flooding with this storm,” he said.  The storm’s sustained winds are expected to be 20 to 25
miles (32 to 40 kilometers) per hour, with gusts as intense as
60 mph in some areas, Nash said earlier.  Most of the flights that have been canceled are to and from
Newark, followed by New York’s La Guardia and John F. Kennedy
airports, according to  FlightAware.com , a Houston-based airline
tracking company.  Travel Delays  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s biggest air
carrier, suspended most flights to and from the  New York  area
for 24 hours starting at midday local time. AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines , based in Fort Worth, Texas, and its American Eagle
regional partner grounded 365 flights, stopping service in
Philadelphia at noon local time yesterday and at 3 p.m. in New
York.  Delta Air Lines Inc. scrapped 200 flights, while US Airways
Group Inc. canceled 237 yesterday and today. Both carriers
warned the numbers may rise. Dallas-based Southwest Airlines Co.
suspended about 50 and JetBlue Airways Corp., whose biggest
airport operation is at Kennedy, grounded 16 flights. The
carriers expect to resume service today.  While the storm is typical for late autumn, it has caught
the public’s attention because it comes so soon after Sandy,
said  Tom Downs , a meteorologist at Weather 2000 Inc. in New
York.  “With everything that happened last week, everyone is
over-sensitive,” Downs said by telephone. “There might be a
little more flooding than we typically see.”  Rail Road  There’s no estimated time for restoration of service on the
 Long Island Rail Road , NotifyNYC said in an e-mail. The
commuter-rail service links Manhattan with communities across
Long Island, to the easternmost tip of Suffolk County.  The storm may bring as much as 2 inches of snow to
Manhattan and possibly 4 inches to interior regions of the East
Coast from  Maryland  to  Maine , according to the weather service.  Philadelphia may get 4 inches, while Baltimore may see an
inch of snowfall, according to the service.  The mountains in New York to New Hampshire may get as much
as 6 inches, though the storm probably won’t signal an early
start to the ski season because temperatures will rise this
weekend, causing the snow to melt, Walker said.  A gradual improvement in the weather will begin in New York
and the mid-Atlantic states, Walker said.  Temperatures are forecast to rise to the mid-50s Fahrenheit
(about 13 degrees Celsius) in many areas of the Northeast after
the storm, Walker said. The high in New York City may be 61 on
Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  