-- SocGen Quarterly Net Falls 86% on Debt Charge, Greek Sale
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-11-08T08:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/socgen-quarterly-net-falls-86-on-debt-charge-greek-unit-sale.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank, reported an 86 percent decline in third-quarter
profit as losses on asset sales and a charge related to its own
debt outweighed an investment-banking rebound.  Net income dropped to 85 million euros ($109 million) from
622 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
in an e-mailed statement today. Earnings at the corporate and
investment bank rose fourfold, lifting the bank’s shares by as
much as 3.7 percent in Paris trading.  “The underlying performances are satisfying,” said
 Francois Chaulet , who helps manage 250 million euros at
Montsegur Finance in Paris, including Societe Generale shares.
“It’s a kickstart on improving profitability” after cutting
assets and increasing capital, said Chaulet.  Societe Generale has been eliminating jobs and selling
assets as rising capital requirements and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis squeeze profit. The bank booked a 130 million-euro
loss after  agreeing to sell  its Greek unit last month for 1
million euros, and took a loss of 92 million euros on the sale
of Los Angeles-based asset-management unit TCW Group Inc. The
bank had losses of 58 million euros from the sale of loans at
the corporate and investment bank and 82 million euros on its
portfolio of assets left over from the subprime crisis.  The Paris-based bank also booked an accounting charge of
389 million euros tied to the theoretical cost of buying back
its own debt as market prices fluctuate. Leaving aside the non-
recurring items, profit amounted to 856 million euros.  Capital Goals  Societe Generale lowered risk-weighted assets by 5.4
billion euros in the third quarter and completed its loan-
disposal program at the corporate and investment bank, selling
16 billion euros of assets since June 2011.  The company stuck to a goal of reaching a core Tier 1
capital ratio under Basel III standards of 9 percent to 9.5
percent by the end of 2013 by retaining earnings and reducing
assets.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s largest bank, reached a 9.5
percent Basel III capital ratio at the end of September.  Societe Generale has said a sale of businesses can provide
an “additional capital buffer.” The TCW transaction, scheduled
to close in the first quarter, will increase Societe Generale’s
Basel III ratio by 0.13 percentage points, the bank estimated on
Aug. 9. Separately, Qatar National Bank is in talks to buy a
majority stake in the French bank’s Egyptian unit, National
Societe Generale Bank SAE.  Egypt Approach  The bank is taking an “opportunistic approach” to the
 Egypt  unit and may reach a deal if “the price is good,” said
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Severin Cabannes in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  Societe Generale has cut about 1,600 jobs at the corporate
and investment bank this year after shuffling the division’s
management. Securities firms have posted gains in revenue since
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s July pledge to do
“whatever it takes” to defend the euro sparked a rally in bond
markets.  French banks, the biggest foreign holders of private and
public debt in the euro-area’s problem economies, are benefiting
from the ECB’s moves as the crisis enters its fourth year.  Societe Generale rose 3.2 percent to 25.38 euros by 9:39
a.m. in Paris. The stock is up 47 percent in Paris trading this
year, while BNP Paribas  gained  33 percent and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , France’s No. 3 bank by market value, climbed about 37
percent.  Profit Leaps  Deutsche Bank AG, Europe’s largest bank by assets, posted
an increase in third-quarter profit last week as revenue from
trading bonds and other products jumped 67 percent.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said last month its fixed-income, currencies
and commodities revenue climbed 28 percent in the quarter from a
year earlier. BNP Paribas said capital-markets revenue climbed
as fixed-income sales more than doubled to 1.13 billion euros.  Profit at Societe Generale’s corporate and investment bank
jumped to 322 million euros in the third quarter from 77 million
euros a year earlier, the bank said. That topped the 156
million-euro average estimate of analysts. Revenue from fixed
income, currencies and commodities climbed to 678 million euros,
higher than analysts’ estimate of 433 million euros.  Cabannes said it’s “difficult to be sure” the improved
situation will last and that the markets are likely to remain
volatile in the future.  Societe Generale has accelerated disposals of subprime-era
assets, including U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities,
since mid-2011. The French bank trimmed its subprime-era non-
investment-grade assets to 3.2 billion euros as of Oct. 17.  Economy Crawling  Net income at Societe Generale’s French consumer-banking
network fell 10 percent to 351 million euros, in line with the
analysts’ estimate. While the division’s costs fell 1.2 percent,
money set aside for bad loans at the unit rose 28 percent to 216
million euros, Societe Generale said.  “In a French economy which has slowed to a crawl, the
French networks posted solid results,” Societe Generale said.  At its international consumer-banking business, profit rose
24 percent to 112 million euros. Societe Generale’s Russian
retail-banking unit had a 10 million-euro third-quarter profit
after cutting 10 percent of its staff, or about 2,500 jobs, in
the past 12 months, it said.  Unlike BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole, Societe Generale
doesn’t operate an Italian branch network. French banks held
$540 billion in private and public debt in  Greece , Ireland,
 Italy ,  Portugal  and Spain at the end of June, Bank for
International Settlements data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 