-- South African Corn Gains on Concern About Insufficient Rain
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-11-08T11:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/south-african-corn-gains-on-concern-about-insufficient-rain.html
South African corn gained the most in
more than two weeks as concern mounts that there won’t be enough
rain in the main growing areas. The rand weakened against the
dollar.  Yellow corn for delivery in December, the most active
contract climbed 1.4 percent, the most since Oct. 19, to 2,527
rand ($290) a metric ton by the midday close in Johannesburg.
The white variety increased 1.1 percent to 2,477 rand a ton.  Farmers need at least 200 millimeters (8 inches) of rain by
the end of December to ensure optimal conditions for corn
plants, Johan van den Berg, an agricultural meteorologist at
Santam Agriculture, a division of South africa’s largest short-
term insurer,  Santam Ltd. (SNT) , said on Oct. 26.  The rand declined 0.8 percent to 8.6979 a dollar as of 1:04
p.m. A weaker rand increases the price of imported grains.  “People are still worried about the lack of rain in some
growing areas, Brink van Wyk, a trader at BVG (Pty) Ltd., said
by phone in Johannesburg. ‘‘The rain is becoming more and more
important as planting season approaches and the rand weakened.’’  South Africa’s Free State province, which produces 40
percent of the nation’s corn, is partly cloudy and warm with
isolated showers and thunderstorms in the central parts, but
scattered in the east where severe thunderstorms are expected
today, the  South African Weather Service  said on its website.
Mpumalanga province, which produces 21 percent of corn, had
morning drizzle today and is cloudy and cold. Scattered showers
and thunderstorms are expected.  South Africa is the continent’s largest corn producer. Meal
made from white corn is one of the country’s staple foods and
the yellow variety is mainly used as animal feed.  Wheat for delivery in December also rose, by 0.9 percent to
3,719 rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  