-- Sri Lanka Targets Narrowest Budget Gap Since 1977 as Taxes Rise
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-11-08T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/sri-lanka-targets-narrowest-budget-gap-since-1977-as-taxes-rise.html
Sri Lanka pledged to narrow its
fiscal deficit to the least in more than three decades after
raising taxes and projecting an increase in revenue on faster
economic growth.  The island will aim for a shortfall of 5.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013, compared with 6.2 percent this year,
President Mahinda Rajapaksa said in his budget  speech  in Colombo
yesterday. He broadened the application of value added tax and
nation building tax to larger supermarkets and raised duties on
liquor imports.  The central bank signaled in a report before the speech
that cooling inflation may boost scope to ease monetary policy,
predicting economic expansion will quicken to 7.5 percent in
2013. The nation raised interest rates earlier in 2012 and let
the rupee drop to tackle a trade deficit that pressured foreign
reserves, part of a policy revamp that restrained the economy.  “Higher taxes and better tax collection from faster growth
seems to be the strategy to narrow the deficit,” said Sanjeewa Fernando, an analyst at CT Smith Stockbrokers in  Colombo . “In
the absence of fiscal stimulus, monetary policy will have to
ensure that growth targets are met.”  Rajapaksa said the island is reaping the benefits of peace,
helping to lower debt levels and unemployment, adding investment
needs to rise. Sri Lanka’s 26-year civil war ended in 2009.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka said in its report that “an
easing of both fiscal and monetary policy measures adopted
domestically to address issues in certain sectors” is expected
in 2013.  Slowing Inflation  The bank forecast inflation will slow to “mid-single digit
levels” next year, after reaching almost 10 percent in July
following the slide in the rupee.  The currency is down about 12 percent against the dollar in
2012, raising import costs. The benchmark  Colombo All-Share
Index (CSEALL)  has slumped more than 8 percent in the same period.  The monetary authority left  interest rates  unchanged for a
sixth month on Oct. 23 to damp inflation. There will be “some
space to loosen” policy to aid economic growth next year if
inflation is under control, Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said
after that decision.  Consumer prices  rose 8.9 percent in October from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in five months. Growth in the $59
billion economy exceeded 8 percent last year.  Total government spending in 2013 will increase to 1.79
trillion rupees ($13.7 billion), from 1.54 trillion rupees this
year, according to budget documents. Tax revenue was projected
at 1.13 trillion rupees, from 921 billion rupees.  The targeted fiscal shortfall of 5.8 percent of GDP next
year would be the least since 4.5 percent in 1977.  Sri Lanka’s trade deficit in the nine months through
September was $6.78 billion. Foreign reserves stood at $7.05
billion by the end of September. The International Monetary Fund
has loaned the nation $2.6 billion to help rebuild them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net : 