-- Stock Swings to Rise on Fiscal Cliff, Pimco’s Kashkari Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-11-08T21:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/stock-swings-to-rise-on-fiscal-cliff-pimco-s-kashkari-says-1-.html
Stock-market volatility will increase
by the end of the year as Congress delays reaching a resolution
on extending spending and tax cuts until 2013, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari.  “There have been little signs of Republicans and Democrats
really coming together to solve the fiscal cliff in a bipartisan
matter,” Kashkari, 39, who heads global equities at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, said at the Bloomberg Portfolio
Manager conference in New York. His firm manages about $8
billion in stocks and $1.92 trillion in total assets. “More
likely, we’re going to see brinkmanship like we saw with the
debt ceiling a year ago.”  Democrats maintained control of the  U.S. Senate  in the
election results this week as Republicans kept their majority in
the  House of Representatives . Lawmakers face the so-called
fiscal cliff, or $607 billion of tax increases and federal
spending cuts set to kick in automatically in January. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said the economy would contract
by as much as 0.5 percent next year if Congress doesn’t act.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index tumbled as much as 19
percent last year, within 1 percent of a  bear market , after U.S.
officials struggled to agree on raising the debt limit. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index jumped 32
percent in 2011, for its biggest advance in three years.  The benchmark gauge for American equities is up 9.5 percent
in 2012 amid central banks’ easing measures and U.S. corporate
earnings exceeding  analysts’ estimates . The VIX has dropped 21
percent this year.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slumped the most in a year
yesterday as investors’ focus turned to the budget debate
following President  Barack Obama ’s re-election. It lost 0.9
percent to 12,811.32, the lowest level since July 25, in New
York today.  Debt Ceiling  Last year, Congress “raised the debt ceiling, which was
the right thing to do, but they did a heck of a lot of damage in
the meantime by scaring businesses, scaring investors, keeping
them on the sidelines,” Kashkari said. “We’re expecting to see
choppy markets up until the last second when a deal is
ultimately struck.”  Fidelity Investments ’ James Morrow said that while he
hasn’t made any adjustments in his portfolio in anticipation of
changes to dividend and capital gains taxes, resolving the
fiscal cliff would lift investor confidence in the stock market.
If Congress fails to avert the fiscal cliff, the rate on
dividends for high-income taxpayers is set to rise in January to
43.4 percent from 15 percent and the top rate on  capital gains 
to 23.8 percent from 15 percent.  More than $100 billion has been pulled from equity mutual
funds this year, while bond funds lured in about $270 billion,
according to data from the  Investment Company Institute  in
 Washington .  ‘Positive Outcome’  “What’s more important for equities is, ‘Is there a
solution around the fiscal policy and is there a positive
outcome that people could feel more optimistic about?’” Morrow,
a stocks fund manager at Fidelity, which oversees $1.58
trillion, said at the conference roundtable today.  The stock market is pricing in no resolution to the fiscal
cliff, according to Diane Jaffee, the New York-based group
managing director for U.S. equities who oversees about $5.3
billion in assets at TCW Group Inc.  “We’re near-term cautious” on stocks, Jaffee said in an
earlier roundtable at the conference. “We’re looking for
companies with bottom-up catalysts for change, for self-help
regardless of the macroeconomic environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  