-- Sun and Higher Temperatures May Return to Northeast This Weekend
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-08T13:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/sun-and-higher-temperatures-may-return-to-northeast-this-weekend.html
The nor’easter that dumped 4 to 8
inches (10 to 20 centimeters) of snow from New Jersey to
 Massachusetts  is leaving the area and will be replaced by warm
and dry weather this weekend.  Temperatures may reach the low 60s Fahrenheit (about 16
Celsius) starting next week, which will help melt yesterday’s
snow and ice, said Lauren Nash, a meteorologist with the
 National Weather Service  in Upton, New York.  “The snow is ending here from west to east; it has already
ended over New Jersey” and New York City, Nash said by
telephone. “The good news is after that, we are expecting dry
weather through Monday. It is going to warm up.”  The storm crossed the area devastated by  Hurricane Sandy 
last week, adding to power outages and tying up transportation.
At least 1,612 flights were canceled yesterday and today 578
more have been scrubbed at U.S. airports, according to  Flight
Aware , an airline tracking company in Houston.  Newark had the most flights canceled yesterday and today,
followed by LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy airports in New York.  The storm added at least 22,156 more customers to power
outage rolls as of yesterday, pushing the total to 672,572,
according to a U.S. Energy Department report.  An area from New Jersey to Boston’s suburbs received from 4
to 8 inches of snow, with some locations getting up to a foot,
said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in State
College,  Pennsylvania .  Quick Melt  Because the ground hasn’t frozen in the Northeast yet, the
snow won’t last long once temperatures rise, he said.  “Not only will it melt from above but underneath,” Kines
said. “It will certainly take a big hit today and especially
tomorrow when you get up into the 50s. It will disappear
quickly.”  Warmer weather will begin in the Washington and
Philadelphia areas and then move north through the course of the
weekend, Kines said.  In Central Park, the high today is expected to reach 48
today, 60 on Nov. 10 and 67 by Nov. 12, according to the
National Weather Service.  The normal high for this time of year is 58, Nash said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  