-- Swisscom Lowers Earnings Forecast as Quarterly Profit Drops
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-11-08T09:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/swisscom-misses-third-quarter-profit-estimates-lowers-forecast.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
phone company, reduced its full-year earnings forecast on costs
related to cutting jobs after third-quarter profit missed
analysts’ estimates.  Net income declined to 458 million francs ($485 million)
from 564 million francs a year earlier, the Bern-based company
said in a  statement  today. That missed the 480 million-franc
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales fell
0.4 percent to 2.81 billion francs, matching the estimate.  “The Swiss business was weaker than expected mainly due to
the residential market,” said Serge Rotzer, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel AG. “Domestic business has been weak in many countries
in  Europe  this year. The main difference is that Swisscom has
new tariff plans, which should lead to better earnings in the
future.”  Swisscom cut its  prediction  of 2012 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 4.35 billion
francs from an earlier forecast of 4.4 billion francs. The phone
company cited non-recurring costs of 50 million francs in
connection with changes in headcount.  Italy Business  The stock fell 1.3 percent to 381.90 francs at 10:15 a.m.
in Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of 19.8
billion francs. The shares gained 8.7 percent this year through
yesterday compared with a 9.7 percent drop of the 23-company
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications Services Index.  Swisscom repeated its full-year sales forecast, which it
had lowered in August after the rise of the franc against the
euro weighed on revenue from  Italy . Swisscom expects revenue to
decline to 11.3 billion francs this year.  Swisscom bought Italian fixed-line and Internet operator
Fastweb SpA in 2007 to compensate for slowing domestic growth.
The operator has also suffered from competition in Italy. The
 Swiss National Bank  has pledged to enforce the franc ceiling of
1.20 per euro since September 2011 to fight deflation and help
exporters.  Third-quarter Ebitda fell 9.8 percent to 1.13 billion
francs. The carrier repeated that if all 2012 targets are met,
it plans to propose a dividend of 22 francs per share to be paid
next year.  The company said Oct. 31 that it will eliminate about 100
managerial positions and 300 other jobs, while at the same time
creating about 300 jobs in growth areas.  Price Erosion  “Price erosion over the past year has accelerated
slightly,” Chief Executive Officer Carsten Schloter said in a
conference call today. “The acquisition of new clients is
excellent, in all businesses.”  Swisscom’s domestic operations reported a 0.3 percent
decline in revenue.  “Price erosion in the Swiss market amounting to 280
million francs was almost offset by growth businesses worth
about 255 million francs,” the company said in a statement.  Swisscom is introducing new offerings to attract customers
and compensate for falling sales resulting from competition,
pressure on prices and changes in consumer behavior. In June the
company started new  flat-rate  mobile and Internet plans and it
has begun bundled offerings such as Vivo Casa, which combines
fixed-line access with telephony, Internet and TV.  “Swisscom is continuing to struggle with price erosion as
customers move to flat-rate tariffs,” brokerage Espirito Santo
said in a note today.  Fastweb added 31,000 users in the third quarter. Third-
quarter net revenue at the business fell 2.9 percent to 408
million euros ($520 million). CEO Schloter said Fastweb is
“doing really well” and has booked the highest growth in
customer numbers in Italy over the past three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  