-- Swiss Re May Consider Special Dividend on 62% Profit Jump
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-11-08T09:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/swiss-re-may-consider-special-dividend-after-profit-jumps-62-.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, said it may consider paying a special
dividend after third-quarter profit beat analyst expectations
following smaller losses from natural disasters.  Swiss Re climbed the most almost five months in Zurich
trading after net income rose 62 percent to $2.18 billion from a
year earlier. That beat the $1.35 billion average estimate of 16
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lower natural catastrophe claims increased third-quarter
profit, which was also boosted by a $626 million gain from the
sale of its U.S. Admin Re business to  Prudential Plc. (PRU)  Chief
Financial Officer George Quinn said Swiss Re may consider paying
a special dividend should the reinsurer be unable to find ways
of deploying excess capital that meet its return expectations.  “The result, being ahead in all units, beats all
expectations,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst
with Vontobel Holding AG who has a buy rating on the shares.
“Hinting for the first time that they might use some of the
excess capital for a potential special dividend is also good.”  Swiss Re increased as much as 3.3 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since June 19, and was up 2.5 percent to 67.55
francs at 9:51 a.m. in Zurich. The stock has advanced 41 percent
this year compared with the 35 percent gain at larger rival
 Munich Re .  Beating Targets  Swiss Re said in the first nine months of the year, it was
ahead of targets for a return on equity averaging 700 basis
points above the risk-free yield of a five-year U.S. Treasury
bond and annual earnings per share growth of 10 percent.  “We have achieved very good financial results in a
volatile environment,” Chief Executive Officer Michel Lies said
in a statement. “A low large loss burden and the one-off gain
from the sale of the Admin Re U.S. business in the quarter
undoubtedly helped.”  The Zurich-based reinsurer said spending on claims and
costs as a percentage of property-and-casualty reinsurance
premiums, the so-called combined ratio, improved to 72 percent
from 85.3 percent helped by fewer natural catastrophe losses and
reserve releases.  “The combined ratio jumps out, which is beating all market
participants,” said Schuermann. “That is not only because of
reserve releases, but from outstanding underlying
profitability.”  Hurricane Sandy  Premiums and fee income rose 11 percent to $6.6 billion,
driven by property and casualty, Swiss Re’s biggest business.  Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, and  Hannover Re (HNR1) 
both raised their full-year earnings forecasts this week after
higher investment income contributed to better-than-expected
third-quarter profit.  Swiss Re said it’s too early to estimate claims from Sandy,
the Atlantic superstorm that left 8.5 million homes and
businesses without power after hitting  New Jersey ,  New York  and
other East Coast states on Oct. 29.  Hurricane Sandy  may cost
insurers and reinsurers, which shoulder some of the risks in
return for a share of the premiums, $10 billion to $20 billion,
according to Eqecat Inc., a catastrophic risk modeler.  Swiss Re expects moderate price increases when reinsurance
contracts are renewed in January, with Hurricane Sandy probably
having “some impact,” Quinn said on a conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  