-- Syria’s Assad Not Leaving as U.S. Allies Boost Pressure
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-08T16:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/syria-s-assad-not-leaving-as-u-s-allies-boost-pressure.html
The cost of any Western military
operation in  Syria  would be “unmanageable,” President Bashar al-Assad said as he again vowed that he won’t flee from his war-
torn country, Russian state broadcaster RT reported.  Assad’s comments, translated into Russian and e-mailed
today, came as 6,000 Syrian refugees fleeing the violence
arrived in Turkey, NTV television said, citing Turkish
authorities.  The U.S. is pushing to reunite the Syrian opposition to
stand against Assad while the rebels seek help from the outside
world. Britain, meanwhile, is examining the legality of
supplying arms to Syrian rebels under clauses of a European
Union embargo that allow exemptions in cases of humanitarian
suffering, an official in Prime Minister David Cameron’s office
said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s re-election and Cameron’s
visit to the Middle East, which ended yesterday with a trip to a
refugee camp on the Syrian-Jordanian border, provide a fresh
impetus to look at ways of toppling Assad, said the official,
who declined to be named in line with U.K. government practice.
Cameron wants all options back on the table, the official said.  Heavy Weapons  “The best thing to do for the rebels is to increase their
fighting capacity with heavy weapons, including missiles, and
create a central military command for them to elevate their
revolution to the next phase,” said Nihat Ali Ozcan, a
terrorism analyst at the Economic Policy Research Foundation in
Ankara. “The rebels want help from the U.S. in this aspect. I
don’t think declaring a no-fly zone over Syria is an option for
now, and Assad hopes Obama will continue to avoid a risky
operation against Syria.”  At least 127 Syrians, including nine children, died in the
fighting yesterday, according to the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights. More than 35,000 people have died since the
uprising against Assad began in March 2011, according to the
U.K.-based activist group. The conflict today spilled over into
 Turkey , with stray bullets wounding three people in border town
of Ceylanpinar, the state-run Anatolia news agency reported,
citing authorities. The clashes led some 6,000 Syrians to flee
to Turkey since 2 a.m. today, NTV said. The latest official
statement on Nov. 6 said 112,000 refugees were in Turkey.  Cameron has urged international action to support the
rebels and oust Assad, blaming China and  Russia  for blocking
such moves at the United Nations.  U.S. Pressure  Washington  is pressuring the main Syrian opposition group
to include more representatives from inside the country. Those
efforts are faltering, according to Naji Tayara, an opposition
member.  The Syrian National Council, a largely expatriate
opposition umbrella organization, is meeting in Doha to choose
an 11-member executive body and a president. Its failure to
elect a woman or members of different opposition groups to its
40-member secretariat earlier today fell short of expectations
of having an inclusive, diversified representation, Tayara said
by telephone from the Qatari capital. The secretariat will
select the executive body and the SNC president.  “It’s true,” Tayara said when asked whether the U.S.-led
initiative is floundering. While he described the outcome of the
secretariat’s election as a “disaster,” he said he remains
“hopeful” for a solution. “Negotiations are still under way
to have the plan pass. The U.S. and Qataris are working to put
everybody on the same table.”  Opposition Differences  Differences between Syria’s various opposition groups are
hampering efforts to unite them so they gain legitimacy in the
eyes of Syrians, as well as the international community. Pro-
Islamic groups now control about 51 percent of the SNC
secretariat and some opposition groups shunned the selection
process, Tayara said.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said the U.S. is
backing a search for new Syrian opposition leaders to draw wider
support and better represent those sacrificing their lives to
remove Assad. The U.S. is frustrated with the SNC, which has
been consumed by infighting and, in the view of U.S. officials,
has failed to convey to different Syrian minority groups,
particularly Christians and the Alawites of Assad’s clan, that
they would be protected in a post-Assad future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  