-- U.K. Looking at Legality of Arming Syrian Rebels
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-k-looking-at-legality-of-arming-syrian-rebels.html
Britain is examining if it’s legal to
supply arms to Syrian rebels under clauses of a European Union
embargo that allow exemptions in cases of humanitarian
suffering, an official in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office
said.  The re-election of  Barack Obama  as U.S. president and
Cameron’s visit to the  Middle East , which ended yesterday with a
trip to a refugee camp on the Syrian-Jordanian border, provide a
fresh impetus to look at ways of toppling Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, said the official, who declined to be named in
line with U.K. government practice. Cameron wants all options
back on the table, the official said.  “Let’s be frank, what we’ve done for the last 18 months
hasn’t been enough,” the prime minister told reporters
yesterday in Amman, the Jordanian capital. “The slaughter
continues; the bloodshed is appalling. So let’s work together on
really pushing what more we can do, what other steps we can take
to hasten the end of this regime.”  More than 35,000 people have died since the uprising
against Assad began in March 2011, according to the opposition
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . Cameron has urged
international action to support the rebels and remove Assad from
power, blaming China and Russia for blocking such moves at the
 United Nations .  The U.K. wants to put more pressure on Russia and China to
drop their support for Assad, the official said. Cameron,
describing Obama as “a re-elected president with a new
mandate,” said he was looking forward to working with him on
the issue.  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday he’d
authorized British diplomats to have direct contact with Syrian
armed groups, to “understand better the situation in Syria and
the relationship between political and armed opposition
groups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Amman, Jordan, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  