-- U.K. Stocks Decline to Five-Week Low as Greek Aid Delayed
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-11-08T16:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-k-stocks-advance-on-spanish-debt-sale-greek-austerity.html
U.K. stocks  slid to a five-week low,
erasing earlier gains after a European Union official said a
decision on unlocking funds for  Greece  may not be made until
late November.  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  sank the most in 14 years as the U.K.’s
largest construction company said the outlook for profit margins
has faded because of a lack of building work in Britain.  G4S Plc (GFS) 
declined the most in three months after losing a U.K. prison
contract.  BTG Plc (BTG)  jumped 7.6 percent after the drugmaker
reported an increase in first-half earnings and revenue.
Burberry Group Plc climbed 1.3 percent.  The FTSE 100 Index fell 15.58 points, or 0.3 percent, to
5,776.05 at the close in  London , the lowest since Sept. 28. The
gauge fell 1.6 percent yesterday as the European Commission cut
its euro-area growth forecast and concern over an impending U.S.
fiscal crisis overshadowed the re-election of President  Barack
Obama . The FTSE All-Share Index also declined 0.3 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.8 percent.  “Equities posted a small bounce on the open but this has
quickly fizzled out as traders remain relatively bearish,”
 Manoj Ladwa , the head of trading at TJ Markets in London, wrote
in an e-mail. “The raft of corporate earnings this morning has
done little to lift confidence amongst traders. Now the U.S.
election is out of the way, the euro zone seems to be coming
back to the forefront.”  The benchmark FTSE 100 has still climbed 3.7 percent this
year as the  European Central Bank  unveiled an unlimited bond-
buying plan and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing.  BOE Assistance  The  Bank of England  halted expansion of its asset-purchase
program today after some policy makers questioned its
effectiveness in supporting a recovery that remains lackluster.
The Monetary Policy Committee kept its target for asset
purchases at 375 billion pounds ($598 billion), as forecast by
35 of 45 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank also
held its  key interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  In Greece, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras obtained a
parliamentary majority for a package of austerity measures
needed to unlock further financial aid from the EU. The bill on
pension, wage and benefit cuts was approved with 153 votes in
favor in the 300-seat Parliament early today, according to
acting speaker Athanasios Nakos. A total of 128 lawmakers voted
against the bill, while 18 abstained and one member was absent.  Aid Decision  The  FTSE 100 (UKX) , which earlier rose as much as 0.6 percent,
erased its gains as an EU official said euro-area finance
ministers may not make a decision on unlocking funds until late
November as they await a full report on Greece’s compliance with
the terms of its bailout.  Finance chiefs won’t make the call to release 31.5 billion
euros ($40.1 billion) of aid for Greece that has been frozen
since June when they meet in Brussels on Nov. 12, the official
said today on condition of anonymity.  Balfour Beatty slumped 18 percent to 250.1 pence, the
biggest drop since October 1998. The company’s order book
decreased by 4 percent to 14.4 billion pounds in the three
months through September, weighed down by a deteriorating U.K.
construction industry.  G4S slid 3.1 percent to 259.2 pence, the biggest drop since
July 17. The U.K. government stripped the company of its
contract to run the Wolds prison in Yorkshire following
criticism of its shortcomings in providing security for the
London Olympics. G4S also failed to win further jail contracts
it had bid for.  ENRC Drops  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , a Kazakh metals producer,
slipped 3.4 percent to 294.6 pence after it said sales in the
first nine months slumped and will continue be pressured by
lower prices. Revenue “deteriorated sharply” as prices for
 iron ore  declined by 26 percent and ferroalloys fell 8 percent,
ENRC said, without giving dollar figures.  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND)  retreated 2 percent to 794.5
pence. The U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust said
first-half profit declined 9.8 percent after it sold buildings
to finance developments.  BTG surged 7.6 percent to 352.4 pence, its biggest gain in
a month. The drugmaker said revenue and earnings rose in the
first half and maintained its 2013 forecast.  Burberry (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker, climbed
1.3 percent to 1,214 pence. Hermes International SCA, the French
maker of Birkin bags and silk scarves, reported third-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its 2012 revenue
growth target to more than 13 percent on surging demand in Asia.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  advanced 5.8 percent to
38 pence, the biggest increase since May 24. The provider of
phone services in the Caribbean reported first-half earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $445
million, compared with the average analyst estimate of $442
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  