-- U.S. Third Quarter Foreign Exchange Operations (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-11-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-s-third-quarter-foreign-exchange-operations-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
foreign exchange operations report.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS  July-September 2012  During the third quarter, the U.S. dollar’s nominal trade-
weighted exchange value declined 2.6 percent as measured by the
Federal Reserve Board’s major currencies index. The dollar
depreciated broadly, with depreciations of 1.5 percent against
the euro and 2.4 percent against the Japanese yen. The dollar’s
depreciation occurred against a backdrop of weaker-than-expected
U.S. economic data and expectations for additional U.S. monetary
accommodation as well as improved sentiment toward the euro
area’s sovereign debt and banking crisis. The U.S. monetary
authorities did not intervene in the foreign exchange markets
during the quarter.  U.S. DOLLAR DEPRECIATES AMID EXPECTATIONS OF FURTHER FOMC POLICY
EASING  During the third quarter, the dollar depreciated against most
major currencies amid weaker-than-expected U.S. economic data
and rising expectations for additional accommodative action by
the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). In particular, the
weaker-than-expected August employment report and regional
manufacturing data as well as weakening or generally limited
improvement in other economic data contributed to increased
expectations for additional policy easing by the FOMC. These
expectations were reinforced by the August FOMC meeting minutes
and Chairman Bernanke’s Jackson Hole speech, which was generally
perceived as reinforcing the Chairman’s accommodative policy
stance and economic assessment. Despite some debate among market
participants regarding the form of accommodation, expectations
remained anchored toward additional easing throughout the
quarter.  At its September meeting, the FOMC extended its forward-rate
guidance on the path of the federal funds rate, initiated new
purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities, and communicated
expectations for the accommodative stance of policy to remain
appropriate even after the economic recovery strengthens.
Although market participants overall characterized the FOMC’s
decision as more accommodative than expected, the U.S. dollar
was little changed immediately following the decision. Market
participants generally suggested that the limited change in the
dollar indicated that additional easing was largely priced in
following weaker-than-expected August employment data. Indeed,
the U.S. dollar’s value as measured by the Federal Reserve
Board’s major currencies index declined 1.4 percent following
weaker-than-expected employment data in the week leading up to
the FOMC meeting.  During the quarter, the U.S. dollar depreciated 2.4 percent
against the Japanese yen. The moves tended to track U.S. and
Japanese interest rate differentials, as the spread of two-year
Treasury yields over Japanese government bonds (JGB) declined on
net during the period. Toward the end of the quarter, the
dollar-yen exchange rate reached a seven-month intraday low of
¥77.13 per dollar, near the level at which Japanese authorities
last intervened in foreign exchange markets. Indeed, Japanese
officials raised the prospect of foreign exchange intervention
by commenting publicly that movements in the yen did not reflect
the state of the Japanese economy and that options were
available to counter such moves, if necessary. These comments
reportedly helped limit further yen appreciation toward the end
of September. Of note, the Bank of  Japan  (BoJ) announced
additional easing measures at its September meeting, including a
¥10 trillion increase in the purchasing capacity of its asset
purchase program, a six-month extension of the program, and a
removal of the minimum bid rate of 10 basis points for JGB
purchases.  U.S. DOLLAR DEPRECIATES AMID PERCEIVED REDUCTION IN NEAR-TERM
TAIL RISKS IN EURO AREA  The dollar depreciated 1.5 percent against the euro during the
third quarter, as sentiment toward the euro area improved
following a speech by European Central Bank (ECB) President
Mario Draghi in late July and the ECB’s September policy
announcement. The perceived reduction in near-term tail risks in
the euro area contributed to the dollar’s depreciation during
the quarter against other major currencies, with depreciations
of 5.4 percent against the Swedish krona, 3.9 percent against
the Mexican peso, and 2.9 percent against the British pound.
Market participants focused on President Draghi’s statements
suggesting that the ECB would act to preserve the euro and
maintain proper functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel. In September, the ECB announced a plan to conduct
Outright Monetary Transactions aimed at safeguarding an
appropriate monetary policy transmission and a singleness of
euro area monetary policy. These developments reversed the
euro’s depreciation against the dollar that had occurred
throughout the second quarter and carried into the third,
including the more than 1 percent depreciation following the
ECB’s July decision to reduce its main refinancing and deposit
rates by 25 basis points, to 0.75 percent and 0 percent,
respectively. Following the July ECB meeting, sovereign bill
yields of several euro area countries declined notably, some of
which to negative levels. Overall, the improved tone during the
quarter was reflected across asset classes, with intra-euro-area
sovereign yield spreads narrowing, equities rising, and foreign
exchange market indicators showing reduced concerns about near-
term euro depreciation.  These developments led to significant declines in ten-year
Spanish and Italian government debt spreads. Indeed, the Spanish
ten-year spread to the German equivalent bond narrowed from a
record 639 basis points on July 24, just prior to President
Draghi’s speech, to 450 basis points by the end of the quarter.
At the same time, five-year sovereign credit default swap
spreads for Spain declined from a record 641 basis points on
July 24 to end the quarter at 381 basis points, while spreads in
 Italy  fell from 573 to 356 basis points.  The improved tone in the euro area was also reflected in a
number of foreign exchange market indicators that showed an
easing in concerns about near-term euro depreciation. Measures
of one-month and one-year implied volatility in the euro-dollar
pair declined to pre-Lehman Brothers levels. Risk reversals,
which measure the relative price premium of call and put
options, suggested that demand for protection against euro
depreciation declined during the quarter. However, on balance
euro-dollar risk reversals continued to indicate a premium for
put options over call options on the currency pair, suggesting
that sentiment toward the euro remained cautious.  Market participants also cited improved sentiment toward the
euro area as contributing to an appreciation of the euro against
the Swiss franc. During the quarter, the franc depreciated
against the euro as the euro-Swiss franc exchange rate traded
above the CHF1.20 per euro exchange rate floor established by
the Swiss National Bank (SNB) in September 2011. The exchange
rate increased to an intraday high of CHF1.21846 per euro during
the quarter, the highest level since the beginning of 2012.
Consistent with the easing pressure on the euro-Swiss franc
pair, the pace of reserves accumulation slowed during the
quarter as the SNB’s foreign exchange reserves increased by
CHF64 billion, compared with a CHF128 billion rise in the second
quarter. Monthly increases in foreign exchange reserves during
the quarter confirmed the reduced pace of accumulation, with
increases of CHF44 billion in July, CHF12 billion in August, and
CHF8 billion in September--bringing total reserves to CHF429
billion.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE HOLDINGS  The U.S. monetary authorities did not undertake any intervention
operations during the quarter. As of September 30, the value of
the U.S. Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund foreign-
currency-denominated assets totaled $25.77 billion, comprised of
euro and yen holdings. The Federal Reserve System Open Market
Account holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled
$25.79 billion, also comprised of euro and yen holdings.  Dollar Liquidity Swap Arrangements with Foreign Central Banks  On November 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with
the Bank of Canada, the Bank of  England , the BoJ, the ECB, and
the SNB, agreed to reduce the rate charged on dollar liquidity
swap arrangements and to extend authorization of these swap
arrangements through February 1, 2013. The rate charged on the
dollar liquidity swap arrangements was reduced from the U.S.
dollar overnight index swap (OIS) rate plus 100 basis points to
the OIS rate plus 50 basis points. As of September 30, the ECB
had $12.55 billion outstanding in swaps with the Federal
Reserve. Balances on all other dollar liquidity and bilateral
liquidity swap arrangements were zero. In addition, as a
contingency measure, the central banks agreed to establish
temporary bilateral liquidity swap arrangements so that each
bank could provide liquidity, if necessary, in any of the
respective currencies.  Foreign Exchange Reserve Holdings  The U.S. monetary authorities invest their foreign currency
reserves in a variety of instruments that yield market-related
rates of return and have a high degree of liquidity and credit
quality. To the greatest extent practicable, the investments are
split evenly between the System Open Market Account and the
Exchange Stabilization Fund. A significant portion of the U.S.
monetary authorities’ foreign exchange reserves is invested on
an outright basis in German, French, and Japanese government
securities. Another portion is invested in euro-denominated
repurchase agreements, under which the U.S. monetary authorities
accept sovereign debt backed by the full faith and credit of the
following governments:  Belgium ,  France ,  Germany , Italy, the
Netherlands, and Spain. Foreign currency reserves are also
invested at the Bank for International Settlements and in
facilities at other official institutions. As of September 30,
2012, direct holdings of foreign government securities totaled
$25 billion. Additionally, foreign government securities held
under repurchase agreements were $1.54 billion, a decrease from
$4.84 billion at the end of the second quarter, as rates offered
on such investments were either very low or negative in the
third quarter following the ECB’s policy decision to reduce the
main refinancing and deposit rates to 0.75 percent and 0
percent, respectively, on July 5.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of  New York   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  