-- U.S. Needs $70 Oil to Keep 18-Year Output High, Allidina Says
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-11-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-s-needs-70-oil-to-keep-18-year-output-high-allidina-says.html
Oil near $70 a barrel would
“significantly curtail” decisions to invest in new U.S.
supply, said  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at
Morgan Stanley.  Projects in areas such as the Bakken region of North Dakota
needs West Texas Intermediate crude prices from $70 to $75 a
barrel to break even, Allidina said in an interview in Singapore
today. Production from areas there and the Eagle Ford tract in
Texas have pushed U.S. output to an 18-year high, which he
called “stellar production growth.”  “Supply growth is magnificent in the U.S., but you’re not
going to get that supply growth if  oil prices  are $70 a
barrel,” he said. “That’s not to say that you would see
production fall materially the day we hit $70. But the decision
to invest would be significantly curtailed.”  U.S.  crude production  climbed to 6.68 million barrels a day
in the week ended Nov. 2, the Energy Department reported
yesterday. It was the most since Dec. 23, 1994. Improvements in
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, have
unlocked oil trapped in deep underground rock formations in
states such as  North Dakota , Texas and Oklahoma.  Oil for December delivery rose as much as 71 cents to
$85.15 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange today. It lost $4.27 yesterday to $84.44, the lowest
close since July 10. Prices are down 14 percent this year.  Faster production decline rates, or the speed at which a
well runs dry, boosts the  capital costs  for non-conventional oil
projects, Sijin Cheng, a analyst at Barclays Plc said to
reporters in Singapore today.  ‘Well-Supported’  “The downside is very well-supported for oil prices if
you’re just looking at non-conventionals,” she said. “If WTI
goes below $85, that’s going to be very painful for a lot of the
non-conventional producers.”  The re-election Nov. 6 of President  Barack Obama  over
challenger  Mitt Romney  won’t have a significant impact on oil
prices, Allidina said.  “On the margin, there might be some nuances, but nothing I
would trade on.” he said.  Brent crude  traded in London will average from $110 to $115
a barrel next year, he said, maintaining a call he made in
September. “From a global point of view, the production picture
is not as constructive,” said Allidina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  