-- U.S. Consumer Comfort Climbs to Highest Level Since April
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-08T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-s-consumer-comfort-climbs-to-highest-level-since-april.html
Consumer confidence  climbed last week
as Americans’ ratings of the economy reached the highest level
in more than four years.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 34.4 in
the period ended Nov. 4, the best reading since April, from
minus 34.7 the previous week. Twenty percent of those surveyed
had a positive view of the world’s largest economy, the most
since March 2008.  The gains may further invigorate household spending and
propel retailers like Macy’s Inc. ahead of the year-end
holidays. The end of the contentious presidential race, combined
with an improving job market, may continue to boost sentiment
even as the lingering effects of superstorm Sandy limit any
short-run rebound, according to economist  Joseph Brusuelas .  “With the election now in the rear-view mirror and the
holidays ahead, the underlying improvement in the trend across
all major consumer confidence readings will reassert itself in
coming weeks,” said Brusuelas, a senior economist at Bloomberg
LP in New York. “That being said, given the damage from the
storm, a transitory downdraft in consumer comfort should be
expected.”  In a separate report today, Labor Department figures showed
the number of Americans filing first-time applications for
 unemployment benefits  declined last week as the effects of
 Hurricane Sandy  started to show up.  Jobless claims  dropped by
8,000 to 355,000 in the week ended Nov. 3.  Stocks rose as JPMorgan Chase & Co. paced a rally in
financial shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent to 1,396.42 at 9:33 a.m. in New York.  Economy Gauge  The comfort index’s state of the economy gauge rose to
minus 60.1 from minus 63.1 the previous week. The barometer
measuring Americans’ views of their personal finances was little
changed at minus 3.6 after minus 3.5 the previous week. The
buying climate index decreased to minus 39.3 from minus 37.4 the
previous week.  “The toughest economic recovery we have seen over the last
several years appears to be finally gaining some traction with
noticeable improvements in retail sales, consumer confidence,
unemployment and housing market,” Steven Grimes, chief
executive officer of Retail Properties of America Inc., a real
estate investment service based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , said on
a Nov. 6 earnings conference call.  The rating on the  U.S. economy  has improved 11 percentage
points in the past month and 17 points since a recent low on
Aug. 19, today’s figures showed.  The pickup in confidence is coinciding with more household
spending. Retail sales in September and August had the best
back-to-back showing since late 2010. Purchases rose 0.8 percent
in September, the biggest gain since February, after advancing
0.5 percent in August, the Commerce Department said on Oct. 29.  Labor Market  Progress in the labor market is also lifting Americans’
moods. Employers added 171,000 workers in October, more than
forecast, the Labor Department reported on Nov. 2.  “Things are looking up, if I look at the job survey it’s
looking better,” said Don Krueger, 60, from  New York . Although
he recently lost his job in the financial services industry, he
is optimistic about his employment prospects and is making
purchases.  “I’ll be spending money, fixing up my house, maybe doing a
few real-estate transactions, taking advantage of some of the
low prices right now,” said Krueger. “I’m pretty confident I’m
going to get a job pretty quickly.”  Presidential Election  In the week leading up to the election, the Bloomberg index
among Democrats fell to minus 23.5 from minus 22.9 the previous
week. Republican sentiment decreased to minus 39.6 from minus
37.8. Sentiment among Independents, or swing-voters, rose to
minus 39.7, the highest since June, from minus 40.7 the prior
week.  “There was a clear political element to economic views
heading into the election,” with Democrats being the least
pessimistic, said  Gary Langer , president of New York-based
Langer Research Associates, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg. “In political terms, the index was in poor
condition,” having been closer to levels previously associated
with a loss by the incumbent or his party.  President  Barack Obama  prevailed over Republican  Mitt
Romney  in an electoral sweep by carrying swing states such as
Colorado, Ohio and  Virginia .  Today’s figures showed sentiment among those working full-
time and households earning more than $50,000 a year climbed to
the highest levels since January 2008.  Hurricane Sandy  Sentiment may suffer a temporary setback due to Sandy, the
Atlantic superstorm that hit the Northeast U.S. last week and
caused widespread power outages, flooding and led to at least
100 deaths. The storm caused as much as $50 billion in economic
damage, according to Eqecat Inc., a provider of catastrophic
risk models.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  