-- U.S. Downgrade Threat ‘Nonsense,’ OppenheimerFunds’s Willis Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   J o s e p h   B r u s u e l a s
-- 2012-11-08T20:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-s-downgrade-threat-nonsense-oppenheimerfunds-s-willis-says.html
Bond investors would ignore a
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating if lawmakers fail to reach
a budget agreement that avoids the fiscal cliff, according to
panelists at a money manager conference.  “It would not be a problem if the U.S. received a
downgrade,” said Mike Materasso, co-chairman of the fixed-
income policy committee at Franklin Templeton Investments in New
York, at the Bloomberg Portfolio Manager Conference in New York.
“The U.S. is experiencing problems many other developed
countries are facing.”  Congress and President  Barack Obama  must confront more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to take
effect in 2013 or risk the economy tipping back into recession.
 Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating on
Aug. 5, 2011, after months of political wrangling that pushed
the nation to the deadline an agreement to lift the debt
ceiling.  Fitch Ratings  warned yesterday that the U.S. may be
downgraded next year unless lawmakers avoid the fiscal cliff and
raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner, while Moody’s
Investors Service said it will wait to see the economic impact
should the nation experience a fiscal shock.  “It’s nonsense,” said Troy Willis, vice president at
senior portfolio manager at OppenheimerFunds Inc. “Tell me
what’s a better credit out there.”  Bond Rally  Since Treasuries were downgraded in 2011, the securities
have returned 6.7 percent as of Nov. 7. Even with the downgrade
and a jump in  marketable  Treasuries outstanding since 2007 to
$10.9 trillion as of Oct. 31 from $4.5 trillion, 10-year yields
are down from 2.56 percent when S&P cut the U.S. one step to
AA+. The yield touched a record low 1.379 percent on July 25.  “You can be downgraded and your yields can rally,” said
 Eric Stein , a Boston-based portfolio manager at Eaton Vance
Management, which oversees $198 billion. “It’s the benefit of
having a reserve currency.”  Yields dropped the most in five months yesterday as Obama’s
re-election bolstered bets the  Federal Reserve  will keep
supporting the economy and the fiscal cliff looms.  “There’s a low probability that we’ll have this fiscal
cliff,” Willis of OppenheimerFunds said. Raising taxes and
cutting spending would be “good for bonds,” he added.  All three panelists agreed that if Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  stepped down from his position in 2014, Janet L.
Yellen, Fed vice chairman, would replace him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  