-- U.S. Treasury Sets Sanctions for Iran Human Rights Abuses
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-11-08T20:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/u-s-treasury-sets-sanctions-for-iran-human-rights-abuses.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
had imposed sanctions on 17 Iranian individuals and entities
related to the government’s censorship and its support of
terrorism.  The action was part of the U.S. effort to increase pressure
on Iran over its nuclear program as well as responding to its
 human rights  abuses and support of terrorism, the Treasury
Department said today in a statement.  Today’s announcement identified individuals and entities
being sanctioned for their involvement in censorship, including
attacks on foreign websites, tracking domestic Internet
activities by opposition activists, and restricting publications
and satellite television.  Those sanctioned include Ali Fazli, deputy commander of the
Basij militia, which has launched attacks against websites; Reza
Taghipour, minister of communications and information
technology, who has been responsible for jamming satellite
television and blocking Internet connectivity; and Rasool
Jalili, who has been involved in attempting to acquire Internet
monitoring equipment, according to the statement.  Esmail Ahmadi Moghaddam, head of the Iranian police since
2005, was designated for his role in directing the monitoring
and tracking of Internet activities in  Iran , according to the
Treasury’s statement.  Entities covered include the Center to Investigate
Organized Crime, which the U.S. says helps the government censor
websites and identify opposition activists, and the Ministry of
Culture and Islamic Guidance along with the Press Supervisory
Board.  The U.S. also added to the list of individuals and entities
designated for support of terrorism and for involvement in
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  