-- UBS Didn’t Turn ‘Blind Eye’ to Adoboli, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-11-08T13:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/ubs-didn-t-turn-blind-eye-to-adoboli-s-trades-prosecutor-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  didn’t turn “a blind eye” as
former trader Kweku Adoboli exceeded risk limits and booked fake
hedges to hide the exposure, the prosecution said.  It is “a fantastical suggestion” that the bank and its
management knew and approved of Adoboli exceeding risk limits,
prosecutor Sasha Wass told the London jury in closing arguments
today. Adoboli is on trial accused of causing a $2.3 billion
unauthorized trading loss.  “Does it make any sense at all that  Switzerland ’s largest
bank lets one of its traders gamble $12 billion?” Wass said.
“This was in a period of great volatility. The message that was
coming from the upper management is ‘Keep the delta flat. No
risk, please.’”  Part of Adoboli’s defense rests on his claim that his
managers pressured him to take on more risk and overlooked that
the profits the desk generated didn’t match its reported risk
profile. He also testified that his actions weren’t dishonest
because others at the bank knew of an internal account where he
held profits to cover future costs of the exchange-traded fund
desk where he worked.  Adoboli is charged with fraud and false accounting. He was
arrested after writing what prosecutors dubbed “the bombshell
e-mail” on Sept. 14, 2011, explaining his off-book trading to
an accountant and several of his managers at the bank.  “None of the defenses which Mr. Adoboli now relies on were
mentioned in his e-mail,” Wass said. “Instead he says in
effect, ‘Listen chaps, I fiddled the books and this is how I got
away with it, thanks, Kweku.’”  Adoboli accepts the facts of what happened, Wass said. He
said in his testimony that all of his actions were intended to
increase profits and help the bank.  “If Mr. Adoboli was honest when he exposed the bank to
risks, which were well in excess of his limits, why did he hide
the risk?” Wass said. “It could only have been done to hide
the fact that his real trades were in excess of his limits.”  The defense will present its closing arguments next. Then
the judge will sum up the case before jury deliberations begin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  