-- SNR Denton Merger, Skadden, Wachtell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-08T12:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/ubs-employment-lawyer-skadden-wachtell-business-of-law.html
SNR Denton LLP plans a three-way
merger with Salans LLP of France and Canada’s Fraser Milner
Casgrain LLP in a deal that, if approved, will create a firm
with $1.3 billion in annual revenue.  The U.S. based firm, a product of a 2010 tie-up between
Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP and the U.K.’s Denton Wilde
Sapte LLP, will combine to create a firm with “no headquarters,
no dominant culture” or geography, said Elliott Portnoy, who
will be the chief executive officer.  “There’s an opening in the market for a new firm that
meets the needs of clients in a very distinct way,” Portnoy
said in a telephone interview today.  Senior management from all three firms will present the
deal to their partners on Nov. 13, with a vote planned for the
end of the month, Portnoy said. If approved by all three, the
merger is expected to close in the first quarter of 2013,
creating one of the five largest law firms globally by
headcount, according to data compiled by The American Lawyer
magazine.  The proposed deal will be structured under a so-called
verein, allowing the firms to keep their profit pools separate.
Portnoy will serve as global CEO and Washington D.C.-based
Joseph Andrew as chairman.  All “the world’s largest firms are either U.S., U.K., or a
combination of the two,” Andrew said today. “This is a firm
that comes from all of the developed centers of the world.”  Litigation  UBS Denies Claim Employees Can’t Testify in Adoboli’s Defense  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s top employment lawyer in Europe denied claims by
former trader Kweku Adoboli that bank workers are barred from
testifying in his defense at a trial over a $2.3 billion trading
loss.  While UBS contracts may prevent current or former employees
from disparaging the Zurich-based bank or sharing intellectual
property, there’s nothing stopping them from answering questions
in litigation, Jamie Howard, the bank’s head of employment law
for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said today in London.  Regardless of the “implied duty of fidelity” in such
contracts, employees may testify against the bank “if required
by law,” Howard said.  Adoboli, originally from Ghana, is on trial for fraud and
false accounting over the loss caused from unauthorized trades.
Prosecutors asked Howard to testify after Adoboli’s lawyer
suggested workers were being prevented or discouraged from
helping bolster the former trader’s defense.  Adoboli ended eight days of testimony Nov. 6 by saying  text
messages  between him and his girlfriend in the days before his
arrest on Sept. 14, 2011, support his claim that he didn’t act
alone. He denied allegations by prosecutors that the texts may
have been staged in anticipation of a future defense.  Adoboli is accused of hiding the risk of his trades by
booking fake hedges at the Swiss bank and then hiding profit to
cover future losses before market fluctuations made his
positions untenable. As part of his defense, he claimed three
others on the exchange-traded-funds desk knew of or took part in
the activities and chose to let him take the fall alone.  None of the other traders have been charged.  Argentine Judge Orders Chevron Asset Seizure, Plaintiffs Say  An Argentine judge ordered the seizure of all  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ’s assets in the country, according to Enrique Bruchou, a
lawyer representing Ecuadorean plaintiffs in a lawsuit over
pollution in the Amazon rainforest.  Bruchou, an Argentine attorney at Bruchou, Fernandez,
Madero & Lombardi, made the comments yesterday in a conference
call. Civil Judge Elcuj Miranda ordered 40 percent of Chevron’s
Argentine bank accounts to be held in escrow, Bruchou said.
Miranda declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  The Ecuadorean plaintiffs said Oct. 31 they were asking an
Argentine court to enforce a $19 billion award against Chevron,
filing an attachment order in a Commercial Court of Justice in
Buenos Aires. The Ecuadoreans blame Texaco Inc., which Chevron
acquired in 2001, for destroying the environment in the Lago
Agrio region, damaging living conditions of 30,000 inhabitants.  Chevron is unaware of either a filing by the plaintiffs or
a court order in Argentina, James Craig, a spokesman for the  San
Ramon , California-based company said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “The plaintiffs’ lawyers have no legal right to embargo
subsidiary assets in Argentina and should not be allowed to
disrupt Argentina’s pursuit of its important energy resources,”
he said. “The Ecuador judgment is a product of bribery, fraud,
and it is illegitimate.”  Chevron, the fourth-largest producer of oil in Argentina,
signed a memorandum of understanding on Sept. 14 with  YPF SA (YPFD) ,
Argentina’s biggest energy company, to analyze a partnership to
jointly develop projects at the shale formation of Vaca Muerta.  Chevron will face more attachment requests in  Asia , Bruchou
said yesterday. Another related lawsuit was filed by the
Ecuadoreans in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Toronto
on May 30. The company on Oct. 9 lost a U.S. Supreme Court bid
to block the judgment imposed by an Ecuadorean court. The
highest U.S. court let stand a federal appeals court ruling
against Chevron that the Ecuadoreans can’t be barred from
seeking to collect the award anywhere in the world.  Deals  Skadden, Wachtell Advise on First California, PacWest Deal  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing First
California Financial Group Inc. in its acquisition by PacWest
Bancorp for about $231 million. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
is advising PacWest. PacWest will acquire First California for
$8.00 a First California common share, according to a company
statement.  First California, based in  Westlake Village , California, is
the parent of First California Bank and has approximately $2.0
billion in assets and 15 California branches. In connection with
the acquisition, First California Bank will be merged into
Pacific Western Bank, the Los Angeles-based wholly owned
subsidiary of PacWest Bancorp, the company said.  The Skadden team includes partners Gregg Noel,  Brian McCarthy  and Jonathan Ko, corporate; Brian Christiansen,
financial institutions regulatory and enforcement; Kenneth Betts, tax; and Joseph Yaffe, executive compensation and
benefits.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partners Edward
D. Herlihy and Matthew M. Guest.  Videos  Coffee Says Icahn May Start Proxy Fight for Netflix  John Coffee , a securities law professor at  Columbia
University , speaks with  Deirdre Bolton  about billionaire
investor Carl Ichan’s stake in  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and the outlook for
the company, in a video on Bloomberg Television’s “Money
Moves.”  Netflix Inc., the world’s largest subscription video
service, adopted a so-called poison pill to protect against a
hostile takeover after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  acquired
an almost 10 percent stake in the company.  The stockholder rights plan, approved unanimously by
Netflix’s board on Nov. 2, would be triggered if an “activist
shareholder” acquired 10 percent of the stock, or an
institutional investor bought 20 percent.  The move is meant to make a hostile takeover too costly.
Icahn, 76, said on Oct. 31 he holds stock and options
representing 5.54 million shares and that the video service is
an attractive target for larger companies including  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  that have entered the
market Netflix pioneered. The poison pill gives Chief Executive
Officer Reed Hastings time to press his international expansion.  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC is advising Netflix on
the matter. The team is led by firm chairman Larry Sonsini and
includes partners David Berger,  William B. Chandler, Bradley Finkelstein, Robert Sanchez and Warren de Wied.  Firm News  Paul Hastings’s Seoul Office Opens  Paul Hastings  LLP officially opened its office in Seoul
where the chairman of the Korea office, Jong Han Kim, and vice
chairman and corporate partner Daniel Kim will be based.  The practice will focus on three main areas: cross-border
mergers and acquisitions and joint ventures, complex cross-
border litigation including intellectual property and antitrust
matters, and international  capital markets , the firm said.  Kim represents Korean companies in their IP and antitrust
litigation in the U.S. and international institutions in their
investments in Korea.  “We are thrilled to have officially opened in Seoul,”
Jong Han Kim said in a statement, “and are confident that
establishing an on-the-ground presence will enable us to further
support our clients’ growth and ensure we provide the highest
level of service in this critical market.”  Paul Hastings has lawyers in 20 offices in the U.S., Europe
and Asia.  Moves  Massachusetts Governor’s Legal Counsel Hired by Goodwin Procter  Goodwin Procter LLP announced that Abim Thomas, formerly
Deputy Chief Legal Counsel to Massachusetts Governor  Deval
Patrick , has joined the firm’s litigation department as counsel
in its Boston office. Thomas will be a member of Goodwin’s
securities litigation and white collar defense group, as well as
the firm’s gaming, gambling and sweepstakes practice.  Thomas advised the governor on Massachusetts’ 2011 gaming
bill and served as the state’s lead negotiator for the 2012
tribal-state gaming compact, Goodwin said in a statement.  Goodwin Procter has 850 attorneys across nine offices in
the U.S., Asia and Europe.  Carlton Fields Hires Atlanta Real Estate Shareholder  Carlton Fields hired shareholder Charles T. Sharbaugh in
Atlanta in the real estate and finance practice group.
Sharbaugh, who was a partner at Paul Hastings LLP, is joined by
a real estate associate, the firm said.  Sharbaugh’s practice focuses on the representation of
private equity funds in acquisitions, dispositions and joint
venture arrangements. This includes representation of funds and
other investors in the acquisition of distressed assets and
loans. He also has experience in the representation of lenders
in secured transactions, sale and disposition of large asset
pools, sale leaseback transactions, and Section 42 tax credit
transactions.  Carlton Fields has more than 300 attorneys and government
consultants in eight U.S. offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 