-- Hudson Valley Capital Barred by Finra Over Trading Fraud
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-11-08T16:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/hudson-valley-capital-barred-by-finra-over-trading-fraud.html
Hudson Valley Capital Management was
expelled from the securities industry and its top executive
barred for life for fraudulently allocating trading losses to
customers, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Gillis defrauded clients this
year by covering up losses and sticking stock in customer
accounts at inflated prices, the Wall Street-funded regulator
said today in a  statement . One lost about $400,000, Finra said.  Gillis, 42, shared ownership of the Croton-on-Hudson, New
York-based brokerage with Charles Doller, who wasn’t banned or
suspended, according to Finra. Doller told Finra that he
notified regulators and clients as soon as he learned about the
fraudulent trades, according to regulatory  records .  “FINRA fully investigated Mr. Gillis and Hudson Valley
Capital Management within weeks of Gillis perpetrating his
fraudulent scheme and obtained evidence that led to the
disciplinary action announced today,” Cameron Funkhouser,
executive vice president of FINRA’s fraud-detection unit, said
in the statement.  Messages left at numbers listed for Gillis and Doller
weren’t immediately returned. Gillis moved last year to Saranac
Lake, New York, where he’s  planning to open  a microbrewery, the
Adirondack Daily Enterprise reported in August.  Fraud Unravels  Gillis lied to customers who complained about unauthorized
trading in February and July, Finra said. The fraud began to
unravel in August, when Gillis reported to Finra that his
brokerage was short of capital due to trading errors, the
regulator said.  A month later, Gillis told Finra investigators interviewing
him that he hadn’t manipulated the stock prices or defrauded
customers. Gillis confessed in a second interview two weeks
later.  Hudson Valley Capital said in a January  filing  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it lost $108,462
last year on a “trading error.” The firm’s total loss for the
year was $8,207 on revenue of $526,167, the filing shows. The
company was called Securities Trading Inc. until the end of
2009, when it was sold, according to another SEC  filing .  Hudson Valley Capital had no representatives other than
Gillis and Doller, Finra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at   zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  