-- Murder Mystery Surrounds Skeletons in Ancient Israel Well
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-08T10:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/murder-mystery-surrounds-skeletons-in-ancient-israel-well.html
Archaeologists are facing a possible
murder mystery after discovering two 8,500-year-old human
skeletons at the bottom of a rare Stone-Age well used by the
first farmers in  Israel ’s Jezreel Valley.  The skeletal remains belonged to a woman aged about 19 and
an older man, according to archaeologists who announced the
discovery today in an e-mailed release. The well dates back to
the Neolithic period, they said.  “How did they come to be in the well?” the  Israel
Antiquities Authority  asked in the statement. “Was this an
accident or perhaps a murder? As of now, the answer to this
question remains a mystery.”  The excavation of ancient wells is critical to
understanding the culture and economy of a period before the
invention of pottery vessels and metallic objects, Omri
Barzilai, head of the Prehistory Branch of the IAA, said.  The two oldest wells in the world were uncovered in Cyprus,
and are about 1,000 years older than this one, according to the
IAA. The Jezreel Valley well is the second from its period
discovered in Israel, it said.  “The impressive well was connected to an ancient farming
settlement, and it seems the inhabitants used it for their
subsistence and living,” Yotam Tepper, the site’s excavation
director said. “After these unknown individuals fell into the
well, it was no longer used, for the simple reason that the
water was contaminated.”  Sickle Blades  Objects found inside the well include flint sickle blades
used for harvesting, arrowheads and stone tools, he said.  The well shows the quarrying ability of the site’s ancient
inhabitants and the knowledge they had of local hydrology and
geology, which enabled them to quarry the limestone bedrock down
to the level of the water table, Tepper said.  “No doubt the quarrying of the well was a community effort
that took a long time,” he said.  The well, which was uncovered in excavations before the
enlarging of a highway by the National Roads Company, will be
conserved and exhibited.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 