-- Turkey Bond Yields Extend Stay at Record Lows on Barclays Report
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-11-08T15:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/turkey-bond-yields-extend-stay-at-record-lows-on-barclays-report.html
Turkey ’s bond  yields  extended their
decline to the lowest level since at least 2005 after Barclays
Bank Plc said Moody’s Investors Service could follow  Fitch
Ratings  with an upgrade, spurring demand for the nation’s debt.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 6.74 percent, retreating for the
fourth day at the close in Istanbul. The lira strengthened 0.2
percent to 1.7833 per dollar, after gaining 0.5 percent on Nov.
6 to the highest level since May 7.  Moody’s could upgrade Turkey to investment grade in the
next five to six months, analysts including Koon Chow and
 Christian Keller  at Barclays wrote in a note today. Fitch
boosted Turkey’s foreign-currency ranking one step higher to
BBB- with a stable outlook on Nov. 5, sending two-year yields to
a record low and driving the lira to its strongest level since
May. The upgrade would make Turkey an eligible issuer for
flagship investment-grade bond indexes, Barclays analysts said.  “The inclusion into Barclays’ flagship indices such as the
Global and Euro Aggregate could attract about $2-$2.5 billion in
new demand for the nation’s Eurobonds,” Barclays analysts said
in the report.  Yields on Turkey’s January 2030 dollar bonds fell to a
record low at 4.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s
 dollar-denominated sovereign bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries
plunged 16 basis points to 192, the biggest decline worldwide,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index showed.  Moody’s will hold a conference in Istanbul on Nov. 21.  Rating  “Turkey’s benchmark rate fell to an all-time low with
expectations of a Moody’s upgrade before the November 21 meeting
and on the Barclays report stating $2 billion to 2.5 billion of
inflows for Eurobonds if a second investment grade follows
Fitch,” Isik Okte, a strategist at Halk Securities in Istanbul,
said in e-mailed comments.  Moody’s raised Turkey to Ba1 on June 20, one level below
investment grade and three steps below  Russia , citing a
“significant” improvement in public finances and policies.
Greater resilience to external shocks is a prerequisite for
raising it to investment grade, the ratings company said in an
e-mailed statement on Oct. 30.  “We are seeing goods sums of real money entering Turkey,”
Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income trader at  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , said in e-
mailed comments. “The Barclays note affected the Eurobond
market and the credit default market.”  Credit-default swaps on Turkey fell 3 basis points to 150
today, falling below Russia for the first time October last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  