-- California Voters Add Local Taxes on Top of New Levies
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-11-08T21:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/voters-approve-local-sales-tax-increases-throughout-california.html
California  voters, who approved
statewide sales and income tax increases of $6 billion a year,
also approved higher sales levies in about two dozen cities and
counties strained by the financial downturn.  The municipalities, limited in raising property taxes by
Proposition 13, appealed for the boosts to help repair roads,
pay rising pensions costs and avert further cuts to staff and
services.  “State and local government budgets have been hit
extremely hard over the past few years, to an extent not seen in
past recessions,”  Alan Auerbach , an economics and law professor
at the  University of California , Berkeley, said by e-mail before
the votes. “The  sales tax  is about the only option that local
governments have to raise  tax revenue .”  Municipalities in California, the most populous U.S. state,
can’t impose higher sales taxes without going to voters, and the
state caps real-estate levies at 1 percent of a property’s most-
recent sales price. Three California cities -- Stockton, San
Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes -- have filed for Chapter 9
bankruptcy since June.  Voters approved Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to increase the
statewide sales tax to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent, and boost
rates on income starting at $250,000. Those making $1 million or
more will pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state. The
increases, which will raise an estimated $6 billion annually,
are to expire by 2018.  ‘Severe Cuts’  “We’ve received such severe cuts from the state that we do
not feel we can any longer provide the quantity and quality of
services to the most vulnerable populations, especially in
health care and human services,” Carole Groom, a supervisor in
San Mateo County, said ahead of the vote.  San Mateo County is home to  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s largest
payment network, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of  database
software .  Voters there approved a sales-tax increase of half-percent
for 10 years that will bring in $60 million in revenue annually.  Other municipalities asked their voters to approve sales-
tax increases to make up for the loss of redevelopment dollars.
Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, killed redevelopment programs
statewide this year and snatched their tax funds to cut
California’s deficit, putting additional strain on cities.  Redevelopment Loss  Healdsburg, a tourist destination in Sonoma County within a
20-minute drive of more than 100 wineries, “lost millions”
when redevelopment was eliminated, Marjie Pettus, the city
manager, said in a telephone interview before the vote.  “Redevelopment was the only tool we had to promote
economic development in Healdsburg,” Pettus said.  The city had just issued $20 million in bonds for
infrastructure projects when the dissolution of redevelopment
put the use of the money on hold, she said. Voters approved a
sales-tax increase to 8.5 percent from 8 percent, which will
generate about $1 million annually in new revenue for 10 years.  California cities had used redevelopment funds for
infrastructure improvement, graffiti removal, rehabilitating
downtown buildings and, in some cases, to supplement expenses
typically paid out of a general fund.  Brown was faced with an estimated $26.6 billion budget
deficit last year when he signed legislation abolishing about
400 redevelopment agencies statewide. The law took effect in
February.  Eastwood’s Carmel  In Carmel-by-the-Sea, where actor and director  Clint Eastwood  served as mayor in the 1980s and near the famed golf
course at Pebble Beach, voters approved a measure to increase
the sales tax by 1 percentage point for 10 years.  The new funds will go toward capital projects, including
maintaining city streets, and to pay off a $6.2 million pension
liability to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
the largest U.S. pension fund, Ken Talmage, Carmel’s vice mayor,
said in a telephone interview.                        “The local governments really need to try to compensate
for the lack of property taxes, sales taxes and other streams of
revenue they used to get,” Ann Crigler, a political science
professor at the University of  Southern California  in  Los
Angeles , said by phone.  “They are going to the community and saying ‘We have some
real needs here and are you willing to help?’” Crigler said.  Other municipalities with sales-tax increases included the
counties of Fresno, Marin, Napa and Santa Clara, along with the
cities of Albany, Capitola,  Culver City , Moraga, Orinda,
Salinas, Vacaville and Williams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  