-- Wal-Mart Plans Three Waves of Deals Around Black Friday
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/wal-mart-plans-three-waves-of-deals-around-black-friday.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, will feature three waves of deals around Black
Friday this year and will guarantee that customers will be able
to get certain items.  In-store specials will start to be offered at 8 p.m. on
Thanksgiving, which falls on Nov. 22 this year, followed by an
electronics event at 10 p.m. and a 5 a.m. start for its weekend
deals, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said today in a
statement.  Wal-Mart is starting its Black Friday sales two hours
earlier than last year as it seeks to lure customers during the
most important period of the year for retailers. Black Friday,
the day after Thanksgiving, was named so because it was
traditionally when retailers would become profitable.  The electronics deals will include an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad2 with
Wi-Fi for $399 plus a $75 gift card, a 32-inch Emerson LCD
television for $148 and an  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  Blu-ray player
for $38, Wal-Mart said. Customers who are in the store and in
the queue line between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. on Thanksgiving will
be guaranteed to get the items. If the products sell out before
11 p.m., the customers will receive a guarantee card for the
item that must be paid for by midnight and registered online.  “We ensure customers get the products they want for
Christmas,” Duncan Mac Naughton, chief merchandising and
marketing officer of Wal-Mart U.S., said yesterday on a
conference call. At other stores, they might stand outside in
line only to find the items have “run out immediately.”  Wal-Mart fell 0.9 percent to $73.11 yesterday in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  