-- Washington Voters Retain Gay Wedding Law Joining 8 States
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/washington-voters-retain-gay-wedding-law-joining-8-states.html
Washington  voters backed a law that
grants marriage rights to same-sex couples, joining Maryland,
Maine and six other states where the practice is legal.  The Washington measure asked whether to keep or reject a
law that passed earlier this year and was placed on hold pending
the outcome of the Nov. 6 election. It passed, 52 percent to 48
percent, according to the Associated Press.  “Washington voters sent a resounding message that nothing
less than marriage is full equality for gay and lesbian
couples,” Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign,
a Washington, D.C.-based advocacy group, said in a statement.
“This victory rounds out a landslide sweep of all four marriage
ballot measures.”  Washington was one of four states where voters dealt with
same-sex marriage issues. In Maine, an initiative backing such
unions became the first to pass that wasn’t tied to previous
legislation. The vote was 53 percent to 47 percent, an AP tally
shows.  Maryland  residents also affirmed a law legalizing the
practice, 52 percent to 48 percent. A Minnesota proposal to
amend the state constitution and define marriage as between a
man and a woman failed, 51 percent to 47 percent.  “Americans remain strongly in favor of marriage as the
union of one man and one woman,” Brian Brown, president of the
National Organization for Marriage, a Washington, D.C.-based
group that opposes same-sex marriage, said in a statement. “The
election results reflect the political and funding advantages
our opponents enjoyed in these very liberal states.”  Big Money  Advocates for gay marriage in Washington state raised
almost $14.1 million to campaign for retaining the law, compared
with about $2.7 million collected by opponents, state records
show.  Jeff Bezos , the  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  founder and chief
executive officer, put $2.5 million into the fight to keep the
law, and was joined by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman and co-founder
 Bill Gates , who gave $350,000, and CEO  Steve Ballmer , $100,000.  Governor  Christine Gregoire , who signed the bill earlier
this year, is a Democrat, and members of that party also control
the state Legislature.  “Washington has made history and I couldn’t be prouder,”
Gregoire said in a statement. “Voters stood up for what is
right and what is just and said that all Washington families are
equal under the law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 