-- Who Will Blink First, Obama or Boehner?
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-11-08T18:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/who-will-blink-first-obama-or-boehner-.html
This is part of a continuing dialogue
between Margaret Carlson and  Ramesh Ponnuru  about the 2012
campaign.  Ramesh: Well, that was fast. Not even 24 hours after
President  Barack Obama  won re-election, Speaker of the House
John Boehner restarted the argument over what to do about the
“fiscal cliff”: the fact that taxes are scheduled to go up, and
budgets down, at the start of January.  He started his  Wednesday afternoon remarks  with the usual
democratic pleasantries: Congratulations to the winners and some
piety about working together on the public’s business. Then he
sent much of  Washington  into confusion by saying, “We’re willing
to accept new revenue under the right conditions.”  The conditions: The revenue has to get raised through  tax
reform  rather than increases in tax rates, and entitlements have
to be reined in, too. He challenged Obama to come to the table.  Some conservatives freaked out, accusing Boehner of caving
on tax increases. Some liberals said he wasn’t really as
moderate as he sounded. Does Boehner mean that tax reform should
raise money by cutting tax breaks more than it cuts tax rates?
Or does he mean that it should raise money just by encouraging
economic growth?  If it’s the first, Boehner is going to have a problem with
conservatives -- especially  Grover Norquist , the party’s anti-
tax enforcer. If it’s the second, he’s not talking about much
revenue.  That’s a bargain that sounds grand to me, but liberals who
just won an election might disagree, don’t you think? My guess
is he’s being ambiguous so he can gauge the reaction.  Another question: What leverage does Boehner have, and what
leverage does he think he has? Obama doesn’t have to cut any
deal to get a lot of extra revenue. He can let taxes go up as
scheduled and challenge the Republicans to cut them only for the
middle class. Republicans can either go along or decide not to
and then blame him for the resulting middle-class tax hikes. Who
likes their odds better in that fight?  Republicans have another bit of leverage, beyond the threat
of blaming Democrats for tax increases: We’re getting close to
hitting the debt ceiling again, and in the normal order of
things  House Republicans  would have to agree to lift it. Boehner
didn’t link a tax deal to the debt ceiling in his remarks. What
do you want to bet those issues stay separate, Margaret?  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him
on Twitter.)  Margaret: Ramesh, no reason to be worried that Boehner is
going soft. He’s going through the motions of post-election
magnanimity. His party lost -- he had to say something nice
about working with the president.  What confused you, I think, was that you saw a glimpse of
the old Boehner before he was taken hostage by the  Tea Party  --
the martini-drinking smoker who used to dabble in compromise.  That was before he found himself leading, or following, a
caucus that was willing to do anything to have its way. House
Republicans were willing to reject stimulus at a time of grave
financial peril, and default on the debt, to remain pure in
their opposition to no new taxes (except, as some of them
proposed, on the poor, so they would have “some skin in the
game.”)  In an election that was otherwise a debacle for
Republicans, the House held its majority, and Boehner holds the
gavel as long as he coddles his most extreme members. So he
will.  Meanwhile, the president (unless you see something in him,
Ramesh, that I don’t) still believes in this hope-y, change-y
stuff Republicans consider a joke. He still sees himself as a
historic figure that can bridge the partisan divide.  It is Boehner’s tiny, eensy-weensy bit of openness to
dealing with Obama that is enraging conservatives. At the same
time, it is playing to Obama’s view of himself. The president’s
signature trait is an inability to negotiate from strength. He
leads with his best offer. If Obama were buying a car, he’d
probably pay full price and leave without radial tires.  In fairness to Obama, it’s foolish to call the bluff of an
opposition that’s already shown it will allow the U.S. to
default on its debt.  You’re right, Ramesh, that Obama doesn’t have to do
anything at all to raise revenue. But he can’t risk raising
taxes on the working and middle classes when the economy is
still shaky. Republicans, by contrast, are willing to risk
anything.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her
on Twitter.)
 