-- Xi Seen Focused on China-U.S. Ties as Mao’s Society Gone: Voices
-- B y   S t e p h e n   E n g l e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-11-08T04:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/xi-seen-focused-on-china-u-s-ties-as-mao-s-society-gone-voices.html
As  China ’s leaders gather for a once-
a-decade leadership change in Beijing likely to elevate Xi Jinping to general secretary of the Communist Party, Bloomberg
Television interviews analysts and people who have met the key
figures.  William Rhodes , chief executive officer of William R.
Rhodes Global Advisors LLC and former Citigroup Inc. senior vice
chairman: “I found Xi Jinping to be more open and more
interested in what was going in the rest of the world” compared
to President  Hu Jintao .  “I was very impressed with his interest in the economy,
financial affairs. He was looking for investment and he felt
that the most important relationship in the whole world, as I
do, is the U.S.-China relationship.”  China’s new leaders are “going to push harder on growing
the domestic economy against reliance on exports. I think
they’ll also open the financial system more.”  Rhodes said he met Xi first in May 2006 when Xi led a
delegation to the U.S. They had tea for almost two hours.  Sidney Rittenberg Sr., Mao Zedong’s former translator:  “I think this will be a pro-reform leading team. How much
they are able to reform is something that we don’t know yet.
There is hope I think that he is able to build a consensus for
reform.”  On the influence of elders, particularly  Jiang Zemin , on
the leadership handover: “I don’t think a great deal, I really
don’t. Obviously they are highly respected and they are listened
to but I don’t think that they have any sort of power.”  On whether Mao would like today’s China: “I don’t think he
would like it. He would like that China’s a great power but he
would not like the kind of society. They’ve kind of lost their
soul.”  Nicholas Lardy , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington and author of
“Sustaining China’s Economic Growth After the Global Financial
Crisis.”  On what China should do: “Financial reform would be near
the top of the list. Moving to liberalize  interest rates  more
fully. Allowing market forces to play a complete role in
determining the  exchange rate . They’ve moved in that direction
but they are not there all the way.”  Other suggestions include “getting rid of the price
subsidies that still benefit the manufacturing sector at the
expense of services. Maybe some reforms on the controls on where
people can live. Liberalizing labor markets.”  “All of those things would help to rebalance the sources
of economic growth away from investment towards consumption, and
that’s what they really must do if they want to sustain a
reasonable pace of economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Li  in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  