-- Tyrant’s Leverage Wanes Without Cognac Pipeline
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-11-08T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/tyrant-s-leverage-wanes-without-cognac-pipeline.html
One would be hard-pressed to accuse
South  Korea ’s Park Geun Hye of holding a grudge.  The presidential candidate wants to meet North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un to improve relations if she wins next month’s
presidential election. That’s mighty big of Park, considering
North Korean agents killed her mother in a 1974 assassination
attempt on her father when he led the South. It’s also a
heartening sign for this increasingly unhinged world of ours.  Park, 60, is the ruling party’s nominee and outpolling two
challengers. Victory is far from certain, though, thanks to the
plunging popularity of fellow party member President  Lee Myung Bak . Being the standard-bearer of a party hobbled by scandals
and a failed hard-line stance on  North Korea  is proving damaging
ahead of the Dec. 19 ballot. Also, Park’s two opponents, Ahn Cheol Soo and Moon Jae In, are now joining forces against her.  Yet Park’s olive branch may inspire more creative and
specific North Korea policies and lay the groundwork for a
formal detente. She wants to open offices in the two capitals of
Seoul and Pyongyang to improve communication, form a crisis-
management bureau to centralize control over national security,
diplomacy and unification issues, help North Korea join global
financial and trade organizations, and promote foreign
investment in the totalitarian state.  Global Spotlight  If she succeeds it will have implications for the U.S.,
where North Korea was barely mentioned by President  Barack Obama 
or challenger  Mitt Romney  during their recent campaigns. One of
the best things about Romney losing is that  John Bolton  will
stay in the private sector. The thought of Bolton,  George W. Bush ’s United Nations ambassador and prominent North Korea hawk,
playing a key role in a Romney White House had me losing sleep.
Of course, Obama hasn’t paid enough attention to peace on the
Korean peninsula.  Obama has a full plate of international flashpoints, from
 Iran ’s nuclear objectives to an ambitious  China  and a teetering
 Europe . But it would be a grave mistake not to put North Korea
high on America’s to-do list. Sanctions only go so far. A second
term affords Obama a chance to place this issue in the global
spotlight.  Reaching out to the late  Kim Jong Il , who ruled North Korea
until his death last December, bore little fruit for the
administrations of  Bill Clinton , Bush or Obama. Nor did Lee’s
predecessors, Roh Moo Hyun and Kim Dae Jung, get much mileage
out of visiting Pyongyang. And it might be awkward to see
veteran lawmaker Park negotiating with an untested dictator
believed to be less than half her age.  But the world confronting North Korea today is very
different from that a just a few years ago. In the age of GPS
tracking systems and military drones, it’s becoming ever harder
for the  Kim Dynasty  to conduct its favored businesses -- weapon
sales and counterfeiting. Printing fake $100 bills is easy;
transporting them in sufficient quantity isn’t. The same goes
for military hardware.  Sanctions have deprived the Kims of their currency of
choice:  luxury goods . They long bought the loyalty of generals
and party bigwigs with Mercedes sedans, Rolex watches, Tiffany
rings, Chanel perfumes, flat-screen televisions and pricey
cognac.  Enter Kim Jong Un, who took over upon his father’s death.
He’s been no slouch in the provocation department, rarely
missing a chance to threaten war. But then, it is what he must
do. The only way Kim can hold off the trigger-happy generals
looking over his shoulder is to show he is as macho as his dad.
Let’s just not miss the growing signs the Swiss-educated Kim may
differ.  Pyongyang’s Skyline  Take Pyongyang’s skyline. Kim is letting German hotel
operator Kempinski AG open one of the world’s tallest hotels, a
105-story,  pyramid-shaped  monstrosity that was started in the
1980s and never completed. Welcoming the luxury-hotel manager is
an attempt to court more overseas visitors. That isn’t a step
Kim’s predecessors would have had the confidence to take.  Earlier this year,  Japan ’s Mainichi newspaper reported that
Kim supports trying new strategies “whether they are from
China,  Russia  or Japan.” Domestic media reported that Kim said
the North’s fossilized industries must catch up with global
trends. This, too, marks an abrupt change in Kim-family
philosophy.  Then there are the quirkier hints, like hosting a Walt
Disney-themed extravaganza in Pyongyang and appropriating rapper
 Psy ’s hit “Gangnam Style” to tart up propaganda videos. Kim
has been shown smiling and breezing around town with his
stylish, young wife who news reports say may be pregnant -- the
kind of things you might not have time for if you are planning
to launch nuclear warheads.  The strategies his family used to retain power are less
available to Kim the younger. He must have noticed how quickly
Myanmar traveled from pariah state to investment darling when
the government relaxed its iron grip. He sees China becoming a
less-enthusiastic benefactor. And surely he is hearing that
 South Korea ’s next leader may be more inclined to approach the
North’s 24 million people with carrots than sticks.  It’s interesting that South Korea’s finance ministry,
perhaps sensing an opening with a less belligerent Kim at the
helm, chose this year to conduct a research project on the costs
and benefits of joining with the North. It is a timely sign that
not all of Lee’s team is holding a grudge. Nor, with any luck,
will Korea’s next leader.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Seoul  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  