-- Thyssenkrupp, Budweiser, Henckels: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-08T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/thyssenkrupp-budweiser-henckels-intellectual-property.html
Elevators at the World Trade Center
and Times Square made by  Thyssenkrupp AG (TKA)  contain technology that
a  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  unit said infringes one of its patents.  Schindler’s Inventio, based in Switzerland, said the patent
for elevator installation was issued by the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office in 1997 and reconfirmed last month, according
to a Nov. 6 filing in federal court in  New York .  “Locations where such infringement has occurred include at
least the elevator installations at 1 World Trade Center and 11
Times Square,” according to the complaint. Thyssenkrupp
Elevator Corp. has been aware that the Patent Office confirmed
the patent claims, Inventio said.  Inventio said it seeks an injunction to stop the elevator
unit from infringing the patent and a  jury trial . One World
Trade Center is a skyscraper under construction in  Lower
Manhattan  at the site of the twin towers that were destroyed in
the September 2001 terrorist attacks.  The complaint also alleges that Thyssenkrupp willfully
infringed its patent and encouraged infringement by other
parties, including the general contractors for the buildings’
construction and the providers of the security systems.  Essen, Germany-based Thyssenkrupp AG is the country’s
largest steelmaker. The company produces flat-rolled and cast
steel, elevators and escalators, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its press office didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Inventio v. Thyssenkrupp Elevator Americas, 12-
8072, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Budweiser Labels Should Be Obscured in Film, Brewer Requests  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  has asked Paramount Pictures Corp.
to find a way to obscure the label of the beer the character
played by  Denzel Washington  is drinking in the film “ Flight ,”
the  Associated Press   reported .  The brewer told AP in a statement that it hadn’t been
contacted in advance about the beer label and that it would
“never condone the misuse of our products.”  William Grant & Sons Inc., the U.S. distributor of
Stokichnaya vodka, told AP it also was unhappy with seeing its
product in the film and hadn’t authorized its use.  Professor Jay Dougherty, who heads Loyola Law School’s
Entertainment & Media Law Institute, said companies objecting to
their products in films hasn’t generally found sympathy with
courts, according to AP.  Henckels Fails to Block Issuance of Chinese Company’s Trademark  Zwilling JA Henckels AG, the German maker of Henckels
kitchen knives, has lost its attempt to block a trademark for a
stationery and porcelain company from Zibo City in Shandong,
China,  China Daily   reported .  Yu Weiping’s trademark application for his Ju Wang Sports
Culture Co. was challenged by the German company, which claimed
it was a deliberate copy of its mark, according to China Daily.  The sports company’s mark was based on a pattern of two
athletes playing cuju -- an ancient ball game -- on a 2,000-
year-old Han Dynasty seal Yu said he saw on exhibit at the
Imperial Palace in Beijing, according to the newspaper.  Yu, who was notified by the State Administration for
Industry and Commerce that his mark was approved, told China
Daily that this represented the triumph of a small Chinese
company over a large multinational company.  Court Refused to Chill Company’s Participation in Ice Cream Show  A Mexican company that produces and distributes the frozen
fruit bars known as “paletas” has failed in its attempt to
have a competitor with a similar-looking trademark barred from
an ice cream industry trade show.  Productos Lacteos Tocumbo SA had asked the court to order
Paleteria La Michoacana Inc. not to show products at the
International Association of Ice Cream Distributors and Vendors
annual meeting held in Miami this week.  The two companies both use the image of a little girl in
Mexican dress as trademarks. Modesto, California-based Paleteria
La Michoacana’s trademark was registered with the U.S. Patent
and  Trademark Office  in February 2007, according to court
papers.  The Mexican company’s mark was registered in April 2004,
and that company filed a successful petition with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to have that mark canceled. The mark
was canceled in May 2011, according to court papers.  Following this cancellation, Paleteria La Michoacana filed
a trademark suit in federal court in  Washington , seeking to
overturn the decision by the patent office.  With the convention coming up, the Mexican company then
asked the court for the order barring Paleteria La Michoacana
from exhibiting goods at the show using the disputed trademark.  In his Nov. 1 ruling, U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras
said that the Mexican company failed to represent it would
suffer irreparable harm from Paleteria La Michoacana’s presence
at the trade show. He noted that the public isn’t invited to the
show, and that the Mexican company hadn’t complained at the
previous year’s show about Paleteria La Michoacana’s exhibiting
goods with the disputed mark.  He said he hadn’t reached a decision on the merits of the
underlying case.  The case is Paleteria La Michoacana Inc. v. Productos
Lacteous Tocumba SA, 1:11-cv-01623-RC, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington D.C.).  Canada Goose Wins One Trademark Dispute, Settles Second Claim  Canada Goose Inc. , a Toronto-based maker of extreme weather
outerware, has won one trademark case and settled another, the
company said.  Sweden’s District Court of Stockholm found five Swedish
citizens guilty of trademark infringement, customs offenses and
felony fraud, the company said in a  statement . The court also
awarded  Canada  Goose damages of 701,000 Swedish krona
($105,000).  The defendants had operated a business from Thailand and
sold counterfeit Canada Goose jackets between 2009 and 2012 in
Sweden.  The fakes were of inferior quality and used raccoon dog fur
instead of coyote around the jacket hoods. They also used
feather mulch and other fillers instead of down.  The second case was against Toronto-based Fairweather
Ltd.’s International Clothiers unit. This suit, filed in
Canadian federal court in January, had accused International
Clothiers of selling knock-off copies of the Canada Goose
jackets.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed, Canada Goose
spokeswoman Carrie Baker said in an e-mail yesterday.  Earlier this year Fairweather settled a trademark dispute
with  Target Corp. (TGT)  over the use of the “Target” name with
retail stores in Canada. Terms of that settlement weren’t
disclosed.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Balaji Wins Temporary Ban on ‘Dirty Picture: Silk’ Issuance  Balaji Telefilms Ltd. (BLJT) , a Mumbai-based entertainment
company, persuaded the Bombay High Court to order a temporary
block to the issuance of a film by Akshaya Productions, the
Times of India  reported .  The court said that copyrights for “The Dirty Picture”
belonging to Balaji would be infringed by Akshaya’s “Dirty
Picture: Silk Sakkath Maga,” the newspaper reported.  Balaji had sought a ban on the use of “Dirty Picture” in
the title, saying its copyrights to the film and the underlying
literary work would be infringed if the film could be issued,
the Times reported.  “Silk” is also the name of the leading character in the
Balaji film, the newspaper reported.  Canada’s Society for the Reproduction Rights of Authors  Composers and publishers said in a statement that Canada’s
Copyright Board has approved a model the group developed for
royalties for the use of its members’ content by the Canadian
Broadcasting Corp. and most of  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) ’s channels,
with the exception of MusiquePlus.  The board certified SODRAC’s tariff for the 2009-2012
period and established the royalties to be collected for
reproductions of musical works embedded in films for the purpose
of distributing the content.  Under this tariff, a per-minute rate will apply, SODRAC
said.  SODRAC, established in 1985, is a 6,000-member group that
represents rights holders and collects royalties in Canada.  Anti-Islam Filmmaker Sent to Prison for Violating Probation  The  California  man linked to the “Innocence of Muslims”
YouTube video that sparked riots in the  Middle East  and North
Africa was sent to prison for one year for violating the terms
of his probation.  U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder in  Los Angeles 
yesterday sentenced Mark Basseley Youssef after he admitted to
using a name other than his true legal one, which violated the
terms of his supervised release following a 2010 conviction for
bank fraud.  Youssef, as part of an agreement with prosecutors, admitted
to four allegations, including falsely telling his probation
officer that he hadn’t used the name Sam Bacile, the name
attached to the YouTube account that posted the video. Snyder
denied a request by Youssef’s lawyer, Steven Seiden, to sentence
him to home confinement.  The video shows a fictional attack by Muslims on a
Christian family, followed by an account of the origins of Islam
depicting the prophet Muhammad as a womanizer.  Youssef is also the target of a civil copyright
infringement suit filed Sept. 26 by an actress who claims she
owns the copyright to her performance in the film.  The actress said in her pleadings that she has applied to
register the copyright for her performance with the U.S.
Copyright Office and requested expedited handling of her
application.  Google Inc.’s YouTube blocked access to the clip in  Egypt 
and Libya following protests at the U.S. embassy in Cairo and an
attack that killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three U.S.
personnel.  The criminal case is USA v. Youssef, 09-cr-00617, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).
The civil case is Garcia V. Nakoula, 2:12-cv-08135, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 