-- Yuan Reaches Top End of Band for a Fourth Day as Congress Starts
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-08T08:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/yuan-reaches-top-end-of-band-for-a-fourth-day-as-congress-starts.html
China’s yuan touched the top end of
its permitted trading range for a fourth straight day on
optimism a new generation of leaders will take more measures to
stimulate growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  President  Hu Jintao  said today that economic development
remains “unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable” as the
Communist Party’s 18th Congress started in Beijing, which will
entail a once-in-a-decade leadership change. The People’s Bank
of China’s yuan fixing was little changed for a third day as
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts in the U.S. loom
and Europe’s economic prospects deteriorate. The U.S. and
European Union are the Asian nation’s biggest export markets.  “Investors are hoping the new leadership will act to
stabilize growth,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst
at  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  in  Hong Kong . “Yet, the PBOC fixing
shows the government’s cautiousness given the U.S. fiscal
problems and Europe’s dim outlook.”  The  yuan  rose 0.01 percent to close at 6.2429 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System,
exceeding the PBOC’s  reference rate  by the maximum 1 percent
allowed. The daily fixing was set 0.01 percent higher at 6.3060
against the greenback.  People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said today
that the economy will be “relatively good” in the fourth
quarter. Gross domestic product rose 7.4 percent in the three
months through September, the slowest pace since the period
ended March 2009.  Congress Meeting  Vice President  Xi Jinping  is forecast to replace Hu as
general secretary of the 82 million-member party. Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang  is seen taking Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s spot on the
Standing Committee, setting him up to assume Wen’s job next
March. The party, founded in 1921, holds its congresses every
five years. The new Politburo Standing Committee will be
presented after the congress ends Nov. 14 and the new Central
Committee holds its first meeting.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan slipped 0.02
percent to 6.2355 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.09
percent to 6.3550, a 1.8 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate. One-month implied volatility for the onshore yuan, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
steady at 1.6 percent.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said in an
interview yesterday that China “obviously” has been
manipulating the yuan to create jobs. U.S. presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , who lost to Barack Obama in elections
yesterday, had waged his campaign on the basis he would put
pressure on China to address what he called an undervalued
currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  