-- Hyundai Faces Lawsuits After Overstating Fuel Efficiency
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-08T04:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/hyundai-faces-lawsuits-after-overstating-fuel-efficiency.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  face consumer lawsuits in the U.S. after the Korean
carmakers admitted they overstated the fuel efficiency of their
latest models.  A Hyundai owner and a Kia owner filed a complaint Nov. 2 in
federal court in Santa Ana,  California , seeking to represent
other owners of certain 2011 through 2013 models in a class
action, or group lawsuit, over the misrepresentations. Hagen
Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, a Seattle-based law firm representing
the plaintiffs, said yesterday in a statement that it filed a
second lawsuit in Los Angeles on behalf of owners.  The new lawsuit challenges the reimbursement scheme Hyundai
and Kia have offered affected owners, the firm said. The
economic damage to Hyundai and Kia owners could “approach”
$775 million, the  law firm  said.  The Seoul-based affiliates, which share engines, model
platforms and a chairman, must re-label the window stickers on
their cars and trucks for the error, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency said last week.  The automakers said in a statement that they will issue
debit cards to buyers of about 900,000 vehicles sold in the U.S.
in the past two years to reimburse them for higher-than-expected
fuel expenses. The companies said the overstatement resulted
from “procedural errors” at their testing facility in South
Korea.  Representatives of Hyundai’s and Kia’s U.S. affiliates
didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuits.  The case is Hunter v. Hyundai Motor America, 12-01909, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  