-- Zimbabwe to Force Banks to Buy Debt After Auction Flopped
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-11-08T15:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-08/zimbabwe-to-force-banks-to-buy-debt-after-auction-flopped.html
Zimbabwe  plans to force banks
operating in the country to buy its Treasury bills after
attempts to sell the first central bank securities since 2008
failed, the governor of the bank said.  The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe on Oct. 4 offered its first
Treasury bills since the country abandoned its currency and
adopted the dollar in a bid to curb inflation estimated by the
International Monetary Fund at 500 billion  percent . That offer
of 91-day securities failed with all bids rejected by the
central bank. The bank rejected all bids in two subsequent sales
including an offering of $30 million on Nov. 4. An Oct. 26
offering was partially successful.  “All the issues have met with some form of resistance,”
Gideon Gono, the central bank governor, told businessmen in
Harare, the capital, today. “‘Extraordinary circumstances
require extraordinary measures. We will be introducing a battery
of measures that will ensure compliance. A snub begets a snub.’’  Units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  operate in
the country while  South Africa (SBK) ’s Standard Bank Group Ltd. and
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  also have operations. In a Nov. 3 interview
Tendai Biti, the country’s finance minister, said he would
compel banks to buy negotiable certificates of deposit if they
didn’t support the Treasury bill program.  Political Agreement  Biti and the central bank are trying to kick-start the
country’s capital markets after a decade-long recession ended in
2009 when the 15-nation Southern African Development Community
negotiated a settlement that ended a political dispute. A
coalition government between President Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front and the Movement for
Democratic Change of Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai was then
formed.  At the Oct. 26 sale of $15 million of the bills the central
bank accepted $9.9 million of bids at an average yield of 8.51
percent.  Sam Malaba, deputy president of the Bankers Association of
Zimbabwe, was said to be unavailable when his office was called.
Calls to unit of Barclays and Standard Chartered in Harare
weren’t answered.  ‘‘Banks are resisting because they’re not sure government
will be able to repay the T-bills,” John Robertson, an
independent economist in Harare, said in an interview. “There’s
a lack of credibility with government and the banks don’t have
much of a gambling instinct.”  Recession, Inflation  Zimbabwe’s government has debt of $10.7 billion. according
to the finance ministry.  “Government likely wants to borrow at about 4 percent and
its likely that 8 percent to 10 percent would ultimately be
acceptable to the banks,” Robertson said. Lending rates between
banks are as high as 25 percent, he said. Annual inflation in
Zimbabwe was 3.2 percent in September, according to the national
statistics agency.  Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe ’s shares have fallen 42 percent
over the past year to 29 cents, giving the company a market
value of $62 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Industrial Index (ZHINDUSD) , the benchmark,
rose 7.7 percent over the same period.  Zimbabwe’s economy entered recession and inflation began to
surge after President Robert Mugabe in 2000 backed an often
violent program of seizing white-owned commercial farms and
redistributing them to black subsistence farmers.  Tobacco, Peas  Production of tobacco, then the country’s biggest source of
foreign currency, collapsed as did output of agricultural
exports ranging from roses and paprika to mange-tout peas. Corn
production also slumped, forcing imports of a staple food the
country had been self-sufficient in. Several years of famine
followed and millions of its citizens moved to neighboring
countries including South Africa and Botswana.  The economy contracted by about 40 percent between 1999 and
2003, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Attempts to encourage investment in the country’s platinum
industry have been hindered by a law that compels mining
companies to sell 51 percent of their local operations to black
Zimbabweans.  While Biti and Gono have not detailed how they will compel
the banks to lend to the country, Robertson that during the
recession they were at times forced to buy bills.  “If the banks bought them voluntarily, they could do so on
a short-term basis, but if the banks resisted, they’d be 270-day
bills, and that frightens the sector,” said Robertson.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  