-- ‘Mortgage Nanny’ Added to Lender Job Description
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-01-16T23:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/-mortgage-nanny-added-to-lender-job-description.html
Perhaps you have heard that the U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, created to do what the
name implies, issued rules last week to beef up mortgage-lending
standards.  One of them, the  ability-to-repay rule , was mandated by the
Dodd-Frank financial-reform law, many of whose regulations are
now being drafted. The new rule is “designed to ensure that
lenders are offering mortgages that consumers can actually
afford to pay back,”  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s director,
said in  prepared remarks  at a Jan. 10 field hearing.  And here I thought it was the borrower’s job to determine
if he has the means to repay a loan.  It used to be. Homebuyers would look at their income,
assets, monthly  cash flow ,  job security , debt outstanding and
things like that to determine if the family could afford to own
a home. The lender’s job was to perform adequate due diligence
and protect against loss by requiring a down payment.  That was before the housing bubble burst, before  toxic
mortgage loans  rippled through the entire economy, before the
government decided that allowing big banks to fail wasn’t an
option. Those events convinced lawmakers that more rules were in
order, ones that shifted the onus to the lender.  What does it say when we have to codify what should be
common sense and best lending practices?  Security Illusion  I think it says that incentives became misaligned. Lenders
cared more about the quality of the collateral than the quality
of the borrower, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. senior
economist  James Glassman . It makes perfect sense when  home
prices  are rising at 15 percent a year.  What it doesn’t say is that new rules will fix the problem.
They may even make it worse by creating the illusion of safety.  In the old days, a wannabe homeowner went into his local
bank to get a mortgage loan. The banker knew the applicant,
probably knew his father and grandfather, even handled the
finances for the family business. The banker knew his customer,
in the proper sense of the word.  Mortgage securitization helped change that relationship,
made it impersonal. The ultimate lender became the buyer of the
mortgage-backed security, which made the market more liquid and
enabled financial institutions to make more loans. “ Affordable
housing ” became a national priority. If a borrower didn’t
qualify for a mortgage under the existing rules, by all means,
lower the standards.  Without re-litigating the cause of the housing bubble --
greedy bankers or government housing policy -- suffice it to say
that more rules are no substitute for improved market
mechanisms, increased protection (more capital, less leverage)
and old-fashioned  law enforcement . People seem to forget that
 mortgage fraud  -- providing “any materially false, fictitious
or fraudulent statement or representation” on a loan
application -- was, and is, a felony. That applies to both
borrower and lender. Even the slimiest predatory lender didn’t
hold a gun to the borrower’s head to make him sign on the dotted
line. Only a handful went to  jail .  New regulations will never prevent the next crisis. They
can’t. The rule writers, as instructed by Congress, didn’t even
try this time, according to  Edward Pinto , a resident scholar at
the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington : They ignored
two of the  three C’s of underwriting .  A borrower’s credit reputation (credit score and history),
capacity (things like debt ratios and cash reserves) and
collateral (total equity or down payment) must all be acceptable
for the mortgage to qualify for sale to  Freddie Mac , according
to the government-sponsored enterprise.  Yet the new rule, as prescribed by Dodd-Frank, “focuses on
debt ratios at the expense of everything else,” Pinto said.
“There’s no standard for  credit quality . Lenders have to verify
the source of the down payment, but a down payment isn’t
required.” That’s because Congress viewed it as discriminating
against the poor, Pinto said.  Trust, Verify  The ability-to-repay rule requires lenders to verify a
potential borrower’s financial records, including income,
assets, employment status and overall debt obligations.
Affordability will be determined on the basis of the  interest
rate  over the life of the loan, not a teaser rate. “Credit
history” is one of the  eight criteria , but as Pinto said,
verifying credit history isn’t the same as setting minimum
standards.  What do lenders get for all their verification efforts?
Protection against liability suits on so-called qualified
mortgages.  A potential borrower’s total debt payments can’t exceed 43
percent of pretax income, according to the new rule. Unless, of
course, you qualify for a loan under the existing automated
underwriting systems of  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and the  Federal
Housing Administration , which were grandfathered for up to seven
years. And you wonder where the risks lie?  Rescuing Fannie and Freddie has cost the taxpayer about
$140 billion since they were taken over by the federal
government in 2008. The Obama administration has yet to offer an
alternative to the government’s long-standing role in housing
finance.  Then there’s the FHA, which insures lenders against losses
-- and suffered losses of its own last year. The $16.3 billion
deficit in its insurance fund in fiscal 2012 opens the door to a
taxpayer bailout for the first time in its 79-year history.  Together, the FHA, Fannie and Freddie back about 90 percent
of the home loans in the U.S. Fixing them must be a priority.  Relying on rules, rather than market forces, to allocate
credit will turn out to be a mistake. And as for potential
 homeowners , a short course in individual responsibility will
serve them better in the long run than turning the mortgage
lender into a nanny.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  