-- U.S. SEC to Offer Money-Market Overhaul Soon, Commissioner Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-17T00:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/-no-end-in-sight-to-volcker-rule-process-sec-commissioner-says.html
A second effort to overhaul rules
governing the $2.6 trillion money-fund industry will be offered
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission before the end of
March, said SEC Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher.  “I hope and expect in the first quarter to have a proposal
out for comment,” Gallagher said in a speech in  Washington 
yesterday. “Hopefully soon here we will see a proposal coming
out of the commission, something that is more tailored and will
engender much more cooperation from the industry than we have
seen before.”  Regulators have been working to overhaul rules governing
the money-fund industry since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. A proposal supported by
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to force money funds to choose
between a floating share value or a combination of capital
buffers and withdrawal restrictions was dropped in August after
failing to win support from a majority of commissioners.  No date has been set for a new proposal to reform money
funds, SEC spokesman  John Nester  said yesterday. Under the
direction of SEC Chairman Elisse Walter, the SEC staff is
discussing reform options with commissioners, he said.  In November, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a
group formed by the Dodd-Frank Act to address systemic financial
risks, urged the commission to try again.  Rules Insufficient  The effort appeared to be advancing in December after
Democratic Commissioner  Luis Aguilar , who opposed the earlier
proposal, said a study issued by SEC staff indicated that money-
fund rules adopted in 2010 were insufficient. He said he’ll
reconsider all the ideas presented before, including abandoning
the industry’s traditional $1 share price.  Gallagher said in September that he would probably support
a fluctuating share price. He said yesterday that the commission
was studying the tax and accounting impacts of such a change,
which could create gains and losses for investors.  He also said the commission would confer with the Treasury
Department and  Internal Revenue Service  “to find ways to
mitigate if not resolve” concerns about the impact on
investors.  “The issue is whether things are cash equivalents or not,
and we have to analyze whether they are cash equivalents,” he
told reporters after his speech to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s  Center  for Capital Market Competitiveness.  ‘Second Fiddle’  The SEC has played “second fiddle” to banking regulators
trying to complete the Volcker rule despite the agency’s
expertise in regulating trading and hedging practices, Gallagher
told the group. The rule, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
would ban banks from trading with their own funds.  Gallagher is one of two Republican commissioners who have
previously called for the rule to be re-proposed. The SEC is
evenly divided with two Democrats and two Republicans.
Regulators “could be focusing on other matters rather than
spinning their wheels with no end in sight,” Gallagher said of
the Volcker rule in his speech.  It’s still unclear which new regulations, some mandated by
Dodd-Frank, will be prioritized by Walter. She took over after
Schapiro left the position last month.  Gallagher, who had public disagreements with Schapiro over
the way she handled a money fund rule, was complimentary of
Walter.  ‘Terrific’ Outreach  “She has been terrific in outreach in getting all of our
input,” Gallagher said.  Gallagher said Walter could try to move forward with a
regulation that would impose a uniform fiduciary duty on
brokers, similar to the standard imposed on investment advisers.
The SEC is working on issuing a formal request for industry
comments to help regulators weigh the economic impact of a rule.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
a Wall Street trade group, said it believes the SEC will act
quickly on the rule.  “I think this would be an easy one to prioritize if she
wanted to, because it’s further down the road than others,”
said Gallagher, who has urged caution on any changes.  Gallagher also said he and fellow Republican Commissioner
 Troy Paredes  oppose a proposal to require public companies to
disclose their political spending. On a commission with only
four members, their opposition might stop the measure from
moving forward.  The SEC said last week that its staff was considering
whether to recommend such a proposal.  “That should not be one of our priorities,” Gallagher
said. “That is just a political wish-list item. I think I speak
for myself and I can speak for Commissioner Paredes. We have no
interest in pursuing that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  