-- ’Odd Couple’ in U.S. House to Tackle Mortgage Finance
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-01-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/-odd-couple-in-u-s-house-to-tackle-mortgage-finance.html
He calls the law tightening
oversight of  Wall Street  among the most “harmful our capital
markets have seen.” She has compared bankers to gangsters.  The will of the new Congress to begin rebuilding the U.S.
mortgage finance system rests largely in the hands of
Representatives Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican, and Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, known as partisan fighters from
opposite ends of the ideological spectrum.  Hensarling, 55, is the new chairman of the House Financial
Services Committee while Waters, 74, is the highest-ranking
Democrat. In addition to grappling with proposals to tweak and
amend the Dodd-Frank regulatory law, they will be seeking common
ground on what may be the panel’s biggest issue this year -- the
future of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac .  For Hensarling, the solution is to abolish the government-
owned mortgage companies and completely privatize the mortgage
market. Waters argues that some government involvement is needed
to preserve the 30-year fixed home loan.  “While we clearly have profound philosophical differences
-- some might call us Capitol Hill’s newest odd couple -- we are
exploring areas of common concern where we hopefully can work
together,” Hensarling said in an e-mail.  Because Hensarling is among few in Congress who would end
all U.S. backstops to the mortgage industry, he may have to
compromise even to win over his own party. That makes it likely
the two lawmakers eventually will support a plan that would
shrink the role of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac without
threatening to choke off the flow of money into home loans.  ‘A Believer’  Since he was first elected to Congress in 2002 from the
Dallas area, Hensarling has risen steadily in the Republican
leadership. He led opposition in the House to the $700 billion
banking bailout in 2008, suggesting it would put the U.S. on a
“slippery slope to socialism,” and voted against the Dodd-
Frank Act regulatory overhaul two years later.  “Jeb is a believer -- sort of tea party before there was a
Tea Party -- so certainly there are some things he won’t sign on
to,” said Mark Calabria, a former top Republican aide for the
Senate Banking Committee and who now directs financial
regulation studies at the Cato Institute. “But there are some
areas Maxine won’t sign on.”  Waters was a teacher and volunteer coordinator with the
Head Start early childhood education program before running for
Congress in 1990 from  Los Angeles .  Her relationship with the financial industry often has been
tense. In 2011, at a Congressional Black Caucus event in Los
Angeles, she called bankers “gangsters” and said if they
“don’t come up with loan modifications and keep people in their
homes that they’ve worked so hard for, we’re going to tax them
out of business.”  New Relationships  As she moves into a more prominent role on the committee,
Waters has sought to repair those ties, meeting with lobbyists
and hosting roundtable discussions on issues including
derivatives rules.  Waters also has begun holding campaign fundraisers that
include lobbyists for the biggest banks. That’s a first,
according to the lobbyists, though Waters’ chief of staff,
Mikael Moore, said he couldn’t confirm that.  “There are some folks in the industry meeting her for the
first time and they don’t have a relationship,” said James Ballentine, executive vice president of congressional relations
and political affairs at the American Bankers Association.
“Relationships are established over time.”  Dodd-Frank Changes  Pressing ahead with housing would be a new path for the
Financial Services Committee, which for five years has focused
on other areas of bank regulation under the chairmanships of
Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Spencer Bachus , a
Texas Republican. The Dodd-Frank Act, passed while the chamber
was under Democratic control in 2010, imposed new rules on much
of the industry but didn’t address Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Hensarling and Waters will have to deal with fixes to Dodd-
Frank, some considered technical and others more substantive.  Among proposals with bipartisan support are alterations to
the law’s derivatives provisions. Other changes, including a
Republican proposal to replace the director of that bureau with
a five-member commission, have lawmakers split along party lines
and may lead to prolonged debates, even if the Democratic-
controlled Senate is unlikely to take them up.  Unfinished Business  Still, with the departure of Bachus, who is prevented by
term limits from continuing as chairman, and the retirement of
Frank, Hensarling and Waters both said they consider mortgage
finance the most important piece of unfinished business.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have drawn almost $190 billion
in taxpayer aid since 2008, when they were seized by regulators
as they veered toward bankruptcy in the credit crisis. The
Treasury Department in February 2011 unveiled three options for
winding down the companies. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the administration would settle on a plan by the
middle of 2012. A blueprint hasn’t yet been released.  “We’ve ended up in limbo here,” Waters said in an
interview. “No real proposal coming either from the White House
or from Congress about exactly what we want to do.”  The debate over the companies’ future has been complicated
by their prominence in the housing market. As private investors
have pulled back in the recession, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
have come to own or guarantee more than 60 percent of
outstanding U.S. residential mortgages. The real estate industry
is among those lobbying to retain a government hand in the
market to avoid another sudden collapse in prices.  Campbell Bill  “You can’t pull the rug out from that in a year or two or
even five,” said Representative  John Campbell , a Republican
from California, who has offered a bill to replace the companies
with privately capitalized entities that would purchase
government backing for the mortgage bonds they issued.  Another measure, from Gary Miller, a California Republican,
and Carolyn McCarthy, a  New York  Democrat, would replace Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac with a government-run secondary market
facility.  While Campbell said there is bipartisan agreement to
replace the companies, “there is no agreement either between
the parties or within either party” about how to go about it.  “There’s a significant Republican minority that wants to
be reasonable,” said Frank, who said Hensarling may have to
compromise. “The Republicans will have to decide, do they stick
with him or go with John Campbell,  Gary Miller ?”  30-year Loan  Fannie Mae Chief Executive Officer Timothy Mayopoulos said
privatizing the system isn’t realistic. A government backstop is
needed because U.S. banks don’t have the capacity to fund the
entire mortgage system on their own, he said.  “Preserving the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage isn’t
something people should take lightly because it’s not a
naturally occurring phenomenon,” Mayopoulos said at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast on Jan. 8.  Another factor adding urgency to the discussion is the
possible shortfall faced by the insurance fund of the Federal
Housing Administration, which backs about $1.1 trillion in
mortgages. The FHA’s troubles should encourage all parties to
“come to the table and try to address this housing problem,”
said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican.  As chairman of Financial Services, Hensarling will have to
tame a 60-plus member panel known for partisan division. In his
nine years as a member of the committee, he displayed
“extreme” views, according to Frank.  Family Farm  Hensarling brings to the job a resume tailor-made for a
prominent Texas Republican. He grew up on his family’s farm near
College Station, graduated from  Texas A&M University  and earned
his law degree at the  University of Texas  in Austin. He also was
an Eagle Scout.  When he was chairman of the House Republican Conference,
the fourth-ranking job in the party’s leadership, Hensarling
also served as co-chairman of the 2011 congressional panel that
failed to reach an agreement on deficit reduction. In a July
opinion column published by the Wall Street Journal, he
criticized the Dodd-Frank law, saying that its “voluminous
rules are proving to be some of the most consuming, complex and
harmful our capital markets have seen.”  His political mentor, former Republican Senator  Phil Gramm 
of Texas, said that while Hensarling holds strong views he also
knows that negotiation is necessary to move legislation forward.  “He understands to get anything done you have to
compromise and that doesn’t change the fact that you have strong
views,” Gramm said in an interview.  Achieving Consensus  Dee Buchanan, a former chief of staff and top adviser to
Hensarling who is now a partner at Ogilvy Government Relations,
said Washington underestimates Hensarling’s ability to achieve
consensus, even on housing.  “I don’t think that he expects that it can get done
overnight, but I do think in his heart of hearts if it can’t get
done on his watch he can lay the foundation for an eventual
solution,” Buchanan said.  Building that foundation may be difficult without agreement
from the Democratic panel members led by Waters, since any
legislation approved by the Republican-controlled House would
have to pass the Democratic Senate and get the signature of
President Barack Obama.  “There’s a lot of talk about privatization but I do
believe we will come up with a comprehensive proposal,” Waters
said in the interview.  ‘Best-Prepared’  Waters’ clout could be enhanced by her efforts to forge
closer ties with the industry. On Dec. 5, for example, she met
with representatives from  Bank of America  Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at a townhouse near the Democratic National
Committee offices in Washington.  “There needs to be understanding within our financial
services industry that Mrs. Waters gets it and that she
understands the awesome dynamic complexity of this system and
she is absolutely the best-prepared to lead it at this time,”
said Representative  David Scott , a Democrat from Georgia and a
fellow member of the committee who organized the meeting.  Waters, the fifth of 13 children raised by a single mother,
graduated from California State University at Los Angeles. She
has won respect for her advocacy for AIDS research, low-income
housing and foreclosure relief, while also hitting some bumps
during her tenure.  Shoving Match  In September 2012, Waters was unanimously cleared by the
House Ethics Committee after its investigation into whether she
had helped OneUnited Bank of Boston obtain $12 million from the
Troubled Asset Relief Program because her husband owned stock in
the firm. In 2009, Waters engaged in a shoving match on the
House floor with David Obey, who was then a Democratic
representative from Wisconsin, over funding for an employment
center that bears her name.  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican
on the committee, calls Waters “very liberal.” Still, Moore,
Waters’ chief of staff and also her grandson, said Republicans
shouldn’t take her positions for granted and should realize that
things can change in her new role.  “When you are a rank-and-file member, it’s like you are
single -- you can do what you want, say what you want, and stay
out as late as you want,” Moore said. “Once you get to be
ranking member your level of responsibility is different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  