-- AB InBev Said to Bar Modelo Plant Sale for Bid Concession
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n ,   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ab-inbev-said-to-bar-modelo-plant-sale-in-takeover-bid.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, is unwilling to sell  Grupo Modelo  SAB’s newest
state-of-the-art beer bottling plant as a concession to win U.S.
approval of its $20.1 billion takeover of the Mexican company,
two people familiar with the matter said.  Any insistence by U.S. antitrust regulators for divestiture
of the plant, located near Piedras Negras,  Mexico , would be a
dealbreaker, either triggering litigation or causing AB InBev to
walk away from the transaction, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the matter isn’t public.  Talks between the companies and the  Justice Department ,
which is reviewing whether the transaction would hurt
competition in the domestic beer market, center on how to
structure a long-term supply and pricing agreement for importing
Modelo’s brands to the U.S., three people familiar with the
matter said Jan. 15. The department hasn’t demanded sales of
production assets or outsourcing of production to third parties,
the people said.  The antitrust division is examining a clause in the merger
contract between AB Inbev and Modelo that would allow AB InBev
after 10 years to buy back Modelo’s current U.S. importer, Crown
Imports LLC. Under the proposed deal, control of Crown would be
sold to  Constellation (STZ)  Brands Inc.  Competitors have argued the buy-back option should be
removed to ensure the importer remains independent, said another
person familiar with the matter.  AB InBev. Modelo  Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for AB InBev, and Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for Modelo, Mexico’s largest beer maker,
declined to comment.  AB InBev agreed in June to buy the 50 percent of Modelo it
doesn’t own already in a transaction that would marry Budweiser
with brands including Corona Extra, Negra Modelo and Pacifico.
Constellation plans to buy Modelo’s stake in Crown, the U.S.
distribution joint venture of the two companies, for $1.85
billion.  Modelo invested about $600 million in the Piedras Negras
plant, which it describes as “the most modern in the world” in
its 2010 annual report. Located close to the border with  Texas ,
the facility has a production capacity of 10 million hectoliters
a year, according to company statements. Modelo spokeswoman
Shelley declined to disclose the company’s current valuation of
the plant.  ‘Best Efforts’  Under terms of the merger contract, AB InBev is required to
show “reasonable best efforts” to obtain the required
antitrust approvals short of selling assets of more than $3
billion or any other action that would devalue the company by
that amount, according to the brewer’s SEC filing. In that
event, AB InBev may have to pay Modelo a termination fee equal
to $650 million, according to terms of the contract reported in
the filing.  Small brewers are concerned that the merger could hurt
their access to the market through wholesalers and retailers,
said Dan Kopman, chief executive officer of The Saint Louis
Brewery, an independent beermaker in  St. Louis  that produces
Schlafly Beer.  “It’s going to be most critical where you have high market
share for both Modelo and AB InBev,” such as southern
 California , south Texas and  Chicago , Kopman said. The related
proposed purchase of Modelo’s 50 percent stake in Crown Imports
by Constellation won’t reduce AB InBev’s influence over its
newly acquired brands, Kopman said.  ‘Rogue Mission’  “I don’t see that as a true separation,” Kopman said.
“AB InBev is not going to allow Constellation to go off on a
rogue mission in how they market Corona.”  The agreement to sell control of Crown would prevent AB
InBev from having influence in marketing, distributing and
pricing Modelo’s beers in the U.S., Constellation Chief
Executive Officer Rob Sands said in an interview June 29.
Constellation would become the sole U.S. importer of Modelo’s
brands. The deal also gives Crown more flexibility to import
other non-Mexican brands, Sands said.  AB InBev has the right to buy back the entire Crown
business every 10 years at a multiple of 13 times earnings
before interest and tax, according to the merger agreement. The
clause is subject to regulatory approval.  Mexico’s antitrust regulator approved the transaction in
November. AB InBev, which is based in Leuven,  Belgium , controls
18 percent of the global beer market. Its Bud Light brand is the
top selling U.S. beer and Modelo’s Corona is the top import.  Grupo Modelo, based in Mexico City, ranked fourth in the
North American beer market in 2011 with a 5.5 percent share by
volume, according to Bloomberg Industries and Euromonitor
International. AB InBev ranked No. 1 with a 48 percent share of
the market, far ahead of No. 2  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , which
had 16 percent market share during the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  