-- Abe Stimulus Risks Fizzling as Citigroup Sees Japan Job Gap
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-01-17T07:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/abe-stimulus-risks-fizzling-as-citigroup-sees-japan-job-deficit.html
Japan’s 10.3 trillion yen ($116
billion) fiscal stimulus may add less than a quarter of the jobs
the government predicts, casting doubt on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe engineering a sustained recovery.  Even with more central bank easing, most of the impact of
Abe’s spending won’t spread far beyond public works projects,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  says. It estimates that 100,000 jobs will be
created, compared with the government’s figure of 600,000.  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  says 150,000.  Abe is returning to a strategy that failed to end Japan’s
stagnation over the last two decades even as the nation’s debt
burden nearly tripled and extra stimulus spending totaled 80
trillion yen, according to BNP Paribas. Another failure may
deepen voter apathy in a political system that has produced
seven prime ministers in six years, while adding to the risk of
a surge in bond yields.  “Fiscal stimulus is like morphine, because if you want to
maintain the same level of effect you have to keep upping the
dose,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in  Tokyo .
“Japan has failed to achieve a sustainable economic expansion,
and the country’s record proves the strategy is wrong.”  The Abe administration has also sought a cheaper  exchange
rate , correcting from what Cabinet members say has been
excessive gains, which have eroded exporters’ competitiveness.
The yen resumed its decline today after two ministers were
reported saying there’s no change in the government’s stance.
The yen jumped two days ago after Economy Minister Akira Amari
said an excessively weak yen had negative effects.  Yen ‘Correcting’  Amari told reporters in Tokyo today that his comments this
week were misinterpreted and that the yen is still in the
process of correcting. Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi was
quoted by  Kyodo News  today saying there’s no shift away from
tackling a strong yen.  The yen snapped a two-day rally, falling 0.2 percent to
88.69 per dollar as of 4:06 p.m. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
gaining 0.1 percent, reversing earlier declines.  Yields on the 10-year government bond touched 0.73 percent,
the lowest since Dec. 17. The benchmark sovereign debt yield is
the lowest in the world after  Hong Kong  and  Switzerland .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said today it sees Asian Development
Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda as the main candidate to replace
BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa in April. Opposition leader
 Yoshimi Watanabe  said in an interview yesterday that the next
BOJ chief shouldn’t be a former central bank bureaucrat.  Past Stimulus  The Japanese government poured 33.8 trillion yen into
stimulus measures in the 1990s, with 45 trillion yen added in
the 2000s, according to estimates from BNP Paribas based on
Finance Ministry data.  The average economic growth rate decelerated from 4.6
percent in the 1980s to 1.1 percent in the 1990s and 0.8 percent
in the following decade, according to the brokerage.  More than a third of the spending package announced last
week will go to disaster prevention and reconstruction after the
March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Extra spending will boost
gross domestic product by about 2 percentage points, the
government said.  “There’ll be a positive effect on construction, but it
won’t ripple out to other industries,” said  Kiichi Murashima ,
Citigroup’s chief economist in Tokyo. “Companies are hesitant
to expand payrolls until they’re sure demand will improve.’  Low unemployment may be masking challenges as older workers
exit the labor force and wages stagnate in a nation struggling
to emerge from a third recession in five years.  Job Losses  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  eliminated more than 38,800 jobs in the
year ended September and said last week it may close some
businesses. Renesas Electronics Corp. said today it will cut
more than 3,000 jobs.  ‘‘At stake is whether wages will rise,” said  Hiroaki Muto ,
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. “Abe will
probably keep stimulating the economy through yen depreciation
and fiscal spending, but that won’t induce a rebound in
fundamentals that are crucial for jobs.”  The  jobs-to-applicants ratio , a barometer of supply and
demand, peaked in August and looks set for a cyclical downturn,
according to Takuji Okubo, chief economist at  Japan  Macro
Advisors and formerly of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Wages have
failed to rise for nine of the past 12 months.  “So far, Abe has presented no concrete remedies to reverse
the southbound trend of Japan’s job-market,” Okubo said. “We
can’t help but be skeptical about the employment outlook.”  Growth Outlook  Citigroup predicts that economic growth will rise to 2.2
percent in the fiscal year from April before falling to 0.3
percent the year after. Nomura Securities Co. says growth will
be 1.8 percent in the year from April and at 0.3 percent in the
following 12 months.  Japan’s government debt probably climbed to 237 percent of
annual economic output last year, the most in the world,
according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  While the  unemployment rate  fell to a four-year low of 4.1
percent in November, the rate among those aged 15-24 was 6.5
percent.  “Companies won’t increase hiring unless they’re convinced
that the economy will keep improving for two, three or four
years,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at the Daiichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Growth expectations have
weakened so much and it’s hard to change perceptions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  