-- Ackman Tells CNN McDonald May Not Be Right CEO for P&G
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-01-16T21:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ackman-tells-cnn-mcdonald-may-not-be-right-ceo-for-p-g.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer Bob McDonald may not be the right person to lead the
world’s largest consumer-products maker and the board may have
to replace him, activist investor  Bill Ackman  told CNN.  “It’s unlikely that Bob McDonald is the right CEO for the
company, based on his track record there,” Ackman said in an
interview on the station’s  website . He said he doesn’t think the
senior executives have confidence in McDonald, who took over in
July 2009.  Ackman bought a $1.8 billion  stake  in P&G in July, shortly
after McDonald began a turnaround program that includes trimming
$10 billion in costs through 2016 and renewing the company’s
focus on top categories and markets. Ackman, who leads hedge
fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP, has sought
management changes and break-ups of companies including Fortune
Brands Inc. and  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)   Ackman told  CNN  he had some ideas of potential replacements
for McDonald and that he would rely on the  board  to take needed
action. The board probably is giving McDonald “a little more
time,” though likely less than three years to show results, he
said.  “If the current senior team can’t do it, we expect the
board to make a change,” Ackman told CNN.  Ackman’s comments are “an unnecessary distraction” as P&G
undertakes a turnaround,  Paul Fox, a company spokesman, said
today in a telephone interview  “The situation isn’t changed,” he said. “The board has
made it clear that it supports Bob, the senior leadership team
and our growth strategies.”  P&G, based in Cincinnati, rose 0.3 percent to $69.34 at the
close in New York. The shares climbed 1.8 percent last year,
trailing the 13 percent gain at  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and the 15
percent increase at  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  