-- Ahmadinejad Asks Parliament to Back Subsidy Cut Plans
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-01-16T10:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ahmadinejad-in-parliament-to-push-iran-subsidies-reform-plan.html
Iranian president  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  asked the country’s parliament to unify in the face
of “enemy pressure” and to support the extension of a subsidy-
reduction plan that started three years ago.  Ahmadinejad has sought to implement a second phase of the
plan, including a further rise in energy prices, before he steps
down later this year, while parliament maintains the move would
fuel inflation, which officially quickened to 27.4 percent last
month.  The president’s speech took place ahead of a June
presidential election, as the president faces an unprecedented
level of criticism from political rivals attacking what they
describe as his economic mismanagement. Parliamentary speaker
 Ali Larijani  has said the president’s government is largely
responsible for Iran’s economic woes.  “The enemies want on one hand to put pressure on people
and get their revenge from them, and on the other hand squeeze
the government’s budget so they can hinder our progress,”
Ahmadinejad said in comments carried by the state-run  Iranian
Students News Agency .  The continuation of the subsidy reform plan “will help
ensure lasting development, bypass sanctions and cancel enemy
pressure,” the president said, according to the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency .  ‘Irrational’ Prices  Ahmadinejad said that intensified sanctions imposed by the
U.S. and European Union in protest against the country’s nuclear
program have slowed economic development and led to “irrational
price fluctuations,” giving way to trade disruption and
pressure on local production, ISNA said.  Iran’s government started a five-year program to remove
food and energy subsidies in December 2010 and distribute
monthly cash handouts to those in need. The second phase of the
plan, which was to be introduced last year, was put on hold amid
a drop in the value of the national currency and rising
inflation, partly the result of sanctions.  Critics say Ahmadinejad failed to hand part of the cash
saved to local producers as required by law, distributing most
of it to the population instead.  “A rise in the price of produce and energy will harm
production and this is why the parliament was against the
execution of the second phase of the plan,” Larijani was quoted
as saying by Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper on Jan. 13.  The U.S and its western allies say  Iran ’s nuclear
activities are a cover for the development of atomic weapons, a
charge the Persian Gulf country denies.  Iran is holding a presidential election on June 14 and
Ahmadinejad is constitutionally unable to run for a third
consecutive time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  