-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Drop on Stock Outflows, U.S. Debt Concern
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-01-16T08:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/taiwan-dollar-forwards-drop-on-stock-outflows-u-s-debt-concern.html
Taiwan dollar forwards declined for
a third day after overseas investors pulled funds from the
island’s stocks, reflecting concern brinkmanship by U.S.
lawmakers will delay an increase in the nation’s debt ceiling.  Foreigners cut their holdings of local shares by $187
million in the last two days and the benchmark Taiex  index  had
its biggest two-day slide since Dec. 21, exchange data show. The
World Bank yesterday cut its 2013 global economic growth
forecast to 2.4 percent from a June estimate of 3 percent. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner warned this week of
severe economic hardship should Congress fail to raise the debt
limit next month. Taiwan’s government bonds were steady.  “The U.S. debt negotiations could be a short-term drag on
market sentiment,” said Jenny Yun-ling Huang, an economist in
Taipei at Sinopac Financial Holdings. The local dollar’s advance
is being restrained by intervention to protect local exporters,
she said.  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.2 percent to
NT$28.965, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spot
exchange rate weakened 0.2 percent to NT$29.099 based on Taipei
Forex Inc. prices, after touching a 17-month high of NT$28.928
on Jan. 14.  The U.S. Treasury is using emergency measures to delay a
default as the total value of the nation’s debt nears the
existing ceiling. Exhausting the extraordinary steps without
raising the limit would require the Treasury to fund the
government with cash on hand, which wouldn’t be adequate “for
any meaningful length of time,” Geithner said.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options,
dropped to a one-week low of 3 percent from 3.25 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 1.125 percent bonds due September 2022 was
little changed at 1.162 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The  overnight interbank lending  rate was steady at 0.385
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  