-- Al Rajhi Fourth-Quarter Profit Increases 0.6%, Misses Estimates
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-16T15:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/al-rajhi-fourth-quarter-profit-increases-0-6-misses-estimates.html
Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the biggest Saudi
Arabian lender by market value, posted a 0.6 percent increase in
fourth-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates.  Net income advanced to 1.911 billion riyals ($510 million)
from 1.899 billion riyals a year earlier, the bank said in a
statement to the Saudi stock market today. The mean estimate of
11 analysts was for a profit of 1.97 billion riyals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabian lenders have benefited from demand for bank
credit amid an economic growth of 6.8 percent last year and
government spending plans of $500 billion. Lending growth of 15
percent in October, the highest in almost four years, helped
Saudi British Bank and  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR)  beat profit estimates
in the fourth quarter.  “We expected revenues to continue benefiting from strong
loan growth trends, which should feed into higher net interest
income as well as non-interest income,” Murad Ansari, an
analyst at EFG-Hermes  Saudi Arabia , said in an e-mailed response
to questions before the results were published. EFG-Hermes had
forecast earnings of 1.99 billion riyals.  Shares of Saudi banks underperformed the benchmark index
last year and third-quarter net missed estimates as rising
provisions against bad loans from construction companies
eclipsed the fastest loan growth in three years. The Tadawul All
Share Bank Index rose 0.4 percent in 2012, compared with a 6
percent gain for the Tadawul.  Al Rajhi  shares tumbled 6.5
percent in the period.  Mortgages  Al Rajhi plans to offer more mortgages this year and step
up loans to small and medium enterprises and project finance to
diversify its portfolio, Chief Executive Officer Sulaiman Al Zaben said in December. The bank expects growth in lending this
year similar to 2012, he said.  Saudi Arabia approved its first mortgage law last July
after more than a decade of debate. Home lending soared 83
percent to 48 billion riyals year on year in the second quarter,
the highest on record according to the latest central bank data.  Al Rajhi said operating income in the fourth quarter
increased 5 percent to 3.5 billion riyals, while lending rose 23
percent to 172 billion riyals. Deposits advanced 24 percent to
221 billion riyals as of Dec. 31, the bank said.  The shares closed 1.8 percent higher at 69.5 riyals in
Riyadh trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  