-- Alcatel-Lucent Wins $1 Billion Eight-Year Order in India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-16T09:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/alcatel-lucent-wins-1-billion-eight-year-order-in-india.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , the French phone-
equipment maker revamping its business to end losses, won a $1
billion services contract over eight years with  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  to improve service quality on the Indian
carrier’s fixed and wireless networks.  The contract, the Paris-based company’s first publicly
announced deal in  India  in seven months, is a sign that the
Indian market is picking up, Rajeev Singh-Molares, president of
the Asia Pacific region at Alcatel-Lucent, said during a press
conference in Mumbai. He forecast the market will grow in 2013.  “While the Indian market and the industry have had some
challenges over the last two years, I think we’re turning the
corner,” Singh-Molares said. “I think 2013 will be a year of
more stability and back to growth. Back to expanding the kinds
of services consumers will be getting.”  Alcatel-Lucent shares jumped as much as 2.9 percent in
Paris, and were up 1 percent at 1.27 euros as of 10:13 a.m.,
taking the advance to 26 percent this year. On Dec. 24, Alcatel
ended a 25-year presence on the CAC 40 by leaving France’s
leading stock index.  Alcatel-Lucent’s last publicized contract in India,
providing  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  with equipment to run a high-speed
fixed Internet network, was announced in  May .  The French company’s third-quarter sales in the Asia-
Pacific region declined 1.6 percent to 680 million euros, making
up about 19 percent of group revenue. Alcatel-Lucent doesn’t
disclose the financial performance of its Indian unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  