-- Algeria Surrounding Oil Facility Where Hostages Held
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-01-16T12:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/algeria-surrounding-oil-facility-where-hostages-held.html
Algerian security forces are
surrounding an oil facility in the country’s south after
attackers seized several workers, as French troops began a
ground offensive against insurgents in neighboring  Mali .  The gunmen earlier infiltrated the facility, according to
an official with the state-run oil company Sonatrach, who asked
not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak to
the media. The attack began at 4:30 a.m. local time, the state-
run Algerian Press Service reported. A security guard was killed
and seven people, including two foreigners, were wounded, the
agency said.  A “security incident” took place at the facility, a wet-
 gas field , operated by a joint venture of  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  of
Norway and Sonatrach that’s in the region of the In Amenas
field, about 1,300 kilometers (800 miles) from Algiers, BP said
in an e-mailed statement. It offered no further details. The
field, in  Algeria ’s southeast, is close to the Libyan border.  Algeria’s frontier with Mali was closed on Jan. 14, three
days after the first French air attacks against Islamist rebels.
While the insurgents include jihadists such as Ansar ud-Din and
al-Qaeda’s North African affiliate, there are also ethnic
Touareg fighters seeking greater autonomy in the region.  BP said it’s setting up a helpline for relatives, without
immediately providing further details. Statoil also confirmed
that an incident had taken place.  ‘Terrorist Incident’  At least eight foreigners have been kidnapped, an Algerian
security official told the  Associated Press , including British,
Norwegian and Japanese nationals.  The Irish government said in an e-mailed statement that one
of its citizens was among a group of oil workers taken by
unidentified kidnappers.  The British Foreign Office said that “a terrorist incident
is ongoing” at an oil installation and that British citizens
are working in the area. Statoil said on its  website  that it had
about 20 employees at the facility, including more than 10
Norwegians.  At least some of the people taken in Algeria were employed
by  JGC Corp. (1963) , the principal contractor of the field along
with Kellogg, Brown & Root LLC. JGC is investigating the
situation, NHK reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  