-- Accused White House Shooter Asks Judge to Bar Statements
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-16T23:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/alleged-white-house-shooter-asks-judge-to-exclude-statements.html
Oscar Ramiro Ortega-Hernandez, the
 Idaho  man accused of attempting to assassinate President  Barack Obama , asked a court to bar prosecutors from using statements he
made to investigators because they weren’t voluntary.  Robert Spelke, a lawyer for Ortega-Hernandez, said his
client was handcuffed and shackled, and wasn’t provided food,
water or a restroom break while being interrogated by three
federal agents after his arrest in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania ,
according to a filing today in U.S. court in  Washington .  No video or audio recording of the interrogation exists,
Spelke said in court papers, asking for a hearing before U.S.
District Judge Rosemary Collyer.  “These skilled law enforcement officers used the confined
space and their physical presence in an effort to extract a
confession from Ortega,” Spelke wrote.  Ortega-Hernandez is accused of firing a semi-automatic
rifle at the White House on Nov. 11 in an attempt to kill Obama.
He pleaded not guilty to 17 criminal charges including
assaulting federal officers with a deadly weapon.  Under advisory federal sentencing guidelines, the charges
carry a possible term of  life imprisonment , according to the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in Washington.  A six-week trial is scheduled to begin Sept. 30.  ‘Personal Issues’  In the statements at issue, Ortega-Hernandez denied that he
shot at the White House and said he travelled to Washington from
Idaho for a vacation “after some personal issues with his
girlfriend,” according to the filing.  “Ortega denied owning a weapon, denied animosity towards
President Obama, denied animosity toward the government, denied
drug usage or making disparaging remarks toward President
Obama,” Spelke said in the filing.  Ortega-Hernandez also talked about his personal history,
his feelings about the president and his religious beliefs, the
lawyer wrote.  Spelke said a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation report of the
interview claims his client signed a waiver to talk to the
government without an attorney. Spelke said he hasn’t been able
to locate that document among the evidence turned over by
prosecutors.  The interrogation, conducted by two FBI agents and one from
the Secret Service, ended after Ortega-Hernandez told the
investigators he wanted to speak to a lawyer, according to the
filing.  William Miller, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen, declined to comment on today’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Ortega-Hernandez, 12-cr-00014, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  