-- Lance Armstrong’s Confession Is Just the Start
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-01-16T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/lance-armstrong-s-confession-is-just-the-start.html
In case you haven’t heard,  Lance Armstrong  has confessed to doping during his cycling career. All
of the faux moral posturing can now officially stop.  I’m not talking about Lance. I’m talking about the steady
stream of former teammates, employees and  even journalists  who
as recently as this week were still apparently awakening to the
reality that a Stage 4-cancer survivor competing in the most
grueling, steroid-soaked sport in the world was powered by more
than just his God-given strength and will. I’m talking about
those who expressed offense at the (equally obvious) revelation
that Armstrong’s doping program was highly organized, as if it
would have somehow been better if he had shot himself up with
dirty needles in a dark alley of some medieval European town.  Now that our long era of shattered innocence is finally
over, it’s time to move past the sanctimony and outrage and
proceed with a more sensible conversation about drugs and
sports.  We might begin a century ago, when, having just completed a
long Alps climb, the French rider Octave Lapize called the
organizers of the Tour de  France  “damned murderers!” -- the
implication being that such a grueling competition would
basically kill you. Against this backdrop, it’s easy to see how
cycling became a laboratory for drugs that boosted riders’
ability to perform and (no less important) masked at least some
of the pain associated with spending three weeks furiously
pedaling a bike up a lot of big mountains.  Widespread Use  As the historian John Hoberman has  documented , medically
supervised drug use has been part of professional cycling since
the middle of the 20th century. Amateur riders were expected to
be clean; but pros, who rode for a living, could take whatever
they could get their hands on. Moral judgments weren’t made. The
only relevant questions were whether the drugs themselves were
safe -- or if they could dangerously desensitize the body to
overexhaustion. Also, whether they were equally available to all
riders.  Nothing fundamental has changed since then, and cycling’s
governing body, the UCI, is almost wholly to blame.  Like so many unaccountable international sports
organizations -- the  International Olympic Committee  and FIFA
come immediately to mind -- the UCI is little more than a catch
basin for hustlers and opportunists who know exactly what’s
going on inside their offshore enterprise zones and see no
reason to stop it. As Hein Verbruggen, the UCI’s longtime leader
and current “honorary president” (presumably for life, unless
Armstrong takes him down with him), is reported to have  said : If
the public were satisfied with the Tour de France riders going
25 kilometers an hour (15 miles per hour), there wouldn’t be a
doping problem. But it wants 42 kilometers an hour, and there’s
only one way to get there -- by doping.  This same Verbruggen has never missed the chance to label
individual riders who confess to doping as unworthy of respect.
He also routinely puts his organization’s autonomy and
profitability above the integrity of the sport it governs.  Of course, maybe we ought to rethink the very notion of
integrity when it comes to drugs and sports. Performance
enhancers of one form or another have been around forever, but
not until the rise of anabolic steroids was there a doping
crisis in sports.  There are many drugs doctors are legally permitted to
administer to  Tour de France  riders. Why are some approved and
others not? Why does cortisone -- which alleviates pain and
enhances performance -- represent an acceptable level of
pharmaceutical aid, but not, say, stanozolol? Then there’s this
absurd provision: Under the UCI’s rules, cyclists are allowed to
take hormone supplements if their health is in danger. In other
words, PEDs are fine if a doctor says they’re necessary.  Universal Truths  Doping isn’t a moral problem. It is a social, political and
economic problem “misrepresented,” in Hoberman’s words, “as a
function of the moral degeneracy of athletes.”  Doping is also inevitable. As long as athletes can earn
more money and glory by outperforming their competitors, we will
never eliminate PEDs from the world of sports. Which leads us to
a universal truth about drug use, one that applies equally to
elite athletes and homeless junkies: There’s no point in
vilifying the user without also asking why he became one.  As it is, Lance Armstrong is just another reminder that
we’re failing in the War on PEDs in much the same way that we
failed in the War on Drugs. After ignoring the widespread use of
PEDs for years -- in cycling’s case, for decades -- we started
an expensive, no-holds-barred crusade for their prohibition,
shaming users as moral degenerates and criminals.  Instead, let’s pause to consider -- if only for as long as
 Oprah Winfrey ’s two-night interview with Armstrong -- the
underlying reasons that steroids are so common in sports:
Because we value winning above all else, and pay winners
accordingly. Because we expect to see transcendent athletic
performances with casual frequency. Because of the unrealistic
physical demands of endurance sports. Because we have embraced
performance-enhancing pharmaceuticals in virtually every other
realm (the bedroom, the classroom, the battlefield, and so on).  The world’s most famous doper is finally on record and
presumably ready to cooperate with authorities. Let the outrage
end -- and the sensible conversation begin.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 