-- Anglo Platinum Says Workers Return After Strike
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-17T16:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/anglo-platinum-says-workers-return-after-strike.html
South Africa should nationalize
mines that  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  will idle in plans by
the biggest producer of the metal to return to profitability, a
union claiming the majority of workers at the company said.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union wants
Mines Minister Susan Shabangu to “reissue” mining permits that
aren’t being used by companies such as Anglo American Platinum,
known as Amplats, AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa told reporters
today in Johannesburg.  The ruling African National Congress in December rejected
proposals to nationalize mines in favor of higher taxes in the
world’s largest producer of platinum, ending uncertainty for
companies including London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , which owns
79.8 percent of Amplats. The platinum unit has proposed to
reduce output by 19 percent and may cut as many as 14,000 jobs
to stem losses spurred by a two-month strike last year.  “As long as this country is run by the foreigners, we are
far from any solution,” and the government should take
definitive action on resource ownership, Mathunjwa said. “Let’s
see how this works on a small scale,” he said, referring to
nationalizing the idled Amplats shafts.  Amplats shares declined for a fifth day, losing 2.4 percent
to 447 rand by the close in Johannesburg.  Employee Return  Mining companies in South  Africa  are struggling to cope
with higher production costs as a spate of strikes led to above-
inflation wage gains. Producers in the continent’s largest
economy shut nine platinum mine shafts and dismissed 3,332
workers in the second half of last year, according to the
Department of Mineral Resources.  The AMCU represents 26,000 workers at Amplats’ operations,
Mathunjwa said. The company had 51,200 employees in 2011,
according to the most recent annual report on its website.  Mining companies said union rivalry played a role in
disruptions that halted gold, chrome, platinum and iron-ore
mines in South Africa last year, with the AMCU recruiting
members at the expense of the National Union of Mineworkers, or
NUM, which has historically dominated the industry.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) , Africa’s third-biggest producer of
the metal, is considering closing its biggest mine after strikes
and violence led to the suspension of operations at Kusasalethu,
it said Jan. 7.  AMCU Majority  The AMCU represents the majority of workers at Kusasalethu,
where 6,000 employees could lose their jobs should the mine be
closed. Illegal meetings and marches by the AMCU, whose
representatives have been reluctant to negotiate with the
company, contributed to the unrest, Harmony Chief Executive Officer Graham Briggs said.  The AMCU represents 62 percent of employees at the mine,
while the NUM stands for 28 percent, he said, citing unverified
figures.  The situation at Kusasalethu had become uncontrollable,
with NUM shop stewards bringing guns into the mine, and
management denying mass meetings by workers who were locked out
in January, Mathunjwa said. Harmony and the union are holding
talks over possible job losses today, he said.  At  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , where police killed 34 people on Aug. 16
amid labor walkouts, AMCU represents 54 percent of workers,
Jimmy Gama, the union’s treasurer, said today. The union also
claims the majority of employees at  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP)  operations, which is disputed by the NUM.  Increased Representation  “Last year AMCU was 40,000 members and they wanted to ramp
up to 100,000,” Justin Froneman, an analyst at SBG Securities
Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg, citing discussions he’d
had with the union. “Their ambition was to really get this
thing going on and I think you’ve seen that play itself out.”  Employees returned to work today at Amplats operations in
Rustenburg and north of Pilanesberg in South Africa after a
strike over the restructuring plan.  There are “no walkouts” and everything is “normal” for
the morning shift, Mpumi Sithole, a spokeswoman for
Johannesburg-based Amplats, said in an e-mail.  Workers at the Khomanani, Thembelani and Tumela mines
refused to go underground on Jan. 16 in protest over the
company’s proposals.  Anglo American risks losing some mining rights because of
the plan, Shabangu said Jan. 15.  The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration,
an independent statutory dispute-resolution body, said today
Amplats asked it to facilitate discussions with the respective
labor unions about possible retrenchments.  NUM spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said nationalization of the
Amplats mines wouldn’t work.  “Where is the money to run these operations,” Seshoka
said. “The income is too little.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  