-- Arsenal to Make Move for West Ham’s Diame: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-01-16T11:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/arsenal-to-make-move-for-west-ham-s-diame-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Redknapp’s Chat  Queens Park Rangers manager Harry Redknapp convinced
midfielder Yann M’Vila to sign by telling him to treat the last-
placed Premier League team as a stepping stone toward a move to
a bigger club, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Redknapp expects the French national team player to
complete a 7 million-pound ($11.2 million) move from Rennes in
time for a match at West Ham in three days, the Mail said.  “I told him that he would come here and be a good player,
and if he does well, if we stay up, in 18 months he could get a
move to Manchester United, or Arsenal, or Chelsea, if that is
what he is looking for,” the newspaper quoted Redknapp as saying.  QPR is also poised to sign striker Loic Remy from
Marseille.  Graham’s Request  Swansea striker Danny Graham is seeking talks with manager
Michael Laudrup to force a move to Sunderland, the  Sun reported .  Graham, 27, comes from the north-east of  England  and is
“desperate” to complete a 4.5 million-pound move to the
Stadium of Light, according to the newspaper.  Swansea would only consider releasing Graham if it finds a
replacement, and is eyeing Stoke’s Kenwyne Jones, the Sun said.  Premier Pep  Former Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola wants his return to
soccer to be in England, according to  the Sun .  Guardiola, 41, has been on a year’s sabbatical in New York
but is now ready to work and is targeting a move to the Premier
League ahead of next season, the newspaper said.  “The support of the home team is amazing. In  Italy , Latin
people will support you when you are playing well and when you
lose, they kill you,” Guardiola said in a video message as part
of the English Football Association’s 150th birthday
celebrations. “In England, I’m always surprised that people
always support everything and that is nice. That’s why, maybe, I
hope to have the challenge or the opportunity to train there.”  Survivor Sepp  English Football Association Chairman David Bernstein said
FIFA President Sepp Blatter is a “very clever bloke” because
he has maintained unity among members of the world ruling body,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Bernstein, who’ll step down from his post later this year,
tried to postpone elections that saw Blatter securing a fourth
four-year term as head of world soccer’s governing body in 2011
when his only challenger stepped down amid corruption
allegations.  “In spite of everything, he has held together 208
countries,” Bernstein told the Telegraph. “You don’t get
breakaway countries, you don’t get schisms; if the rest of the
world worked so cohesively we’d be a lot better off.”  Referees’ Anger  Referees are angry after the Football Association
overturned the red card given to Manchester City captain Vincent
Kompany in a 2-0 win at Arsenal on Jan. 13, the  Daily Mail  said.  Kompany was sent off following a two-footed tackle on
 Jack Wilshere . Though they are banned from commenting on 
controversial decisions, referees believe overruling Mike Dean’s
decision sets a dangerous precedent and increases the chance of
players being seriously injured, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  