-- Asiacell Lures State Funds in Biggest Mideast IPO Since 2008
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-16T13:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/asiacell-lures-sovereign-funds-in-biggest-mideast-ipo-since-2008.html
Asiacell Communications PJSC, the
Iraqi telecom operator planning the  Middle East ’s biggest
initial share sale since 2008, has received commitments from
sovereign-backed funds, according to the deal’s organizer.  Institutional investors from the Persian Gulf,  Europe  and
the U.S. have registered orders, said Shwan Ibrahim Taha,
chairman of Rabee Securities in  Baghdad , the sole arranger of
the initial public offering. “Some of these funds are sovereign
backed,” he said in an e-mailed answer to questions yesterday
without naming any of the funds.  The company, which is majority-owned by Qatar Telecom QSC,
plans to raise 1.49 trillion dinars ($1.3 billion), the most for
an initial public offering in the Middle East and North Africa
since  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN) , or Maaden, received $2.5 billion
more than four years ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The IPO will help double the market value of the  Iraq 
Stock Exchange from $4.66 billion last year, Chief Executive
Officer Taha Ahmed Abdul Salam al-Rubaye said in a Jan. 7
interview. That compares with $383 billion for  Saudi Arabia ’s
stock exchange, the largest in the region, $62 billion for
Egypt’s gauge and $9 billion for Lebanon.  The sale will be the first in “a wave of listings” that
will boost activity on the Iraq Stock Exchange, Taha said. Like
Asiacell, Iraq’s two other main mobile companies --  Zain Iraq (ZAIN) , a
unit of Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co., and Korek
Telecom, part-owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  -- must sell 25 percent
of their shares on the bourse as part of their contract.  ‘Promising’ Market  “The Iraqi telecom market is promising as the country has
the required critical mass and strong economic growth,” said
Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.
The success of the IPO will “depend on the risk appetite of the
investors in relation to the turmoil in the political situation
there.”  Iraq, which overtook  Iran  in June as the largest producer
behind Saudi Arabia in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, is reviving its  energy industry  nine years after the
U.S.-led invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein . Bouts of violence
and sectarian tension, though, have hindered the recovery of the
non-oil industry.  The bourse opened in 2004 after shutting down during the
invasion, and prices were updated manually on a white board
before electronic trading was introduced in 2009. Banks have the
largest market value among 74 listed companies, according to the
latest data from the bourse received by e-mail Jan. 15.  15-Year License  Asiacell obtained a 15-year mobile telecom license in Iraq
in 2007 and had 43 percent market share by revenue at the end of
September with 9.9 million individual and corporate subscribers,
the Sulaymaniyah-based company said in a Dec. 25 statement.
Holders will offer 67.503 billion shares --equivalent to 25
percent of stock -- at a minimum of 22 dinars a share, it said.
The offer opened on Jan. 3 and will close on Feb. 2.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, a Cairo-based investment bank, is
offering international investors access to the Asiacell
placement through its equity-swap product linked to Iraqi
securities, according to  Julian Bruce , head of institutional
trading in Dubai.  “It’s really the first offering that should help to build
a deep equity culture in Iraq as we see in other big Middle
Eastern markets like Saudi Arabia and Egypt,” said Taha. “It’s
all about giving ordinary Iraqis the opportunity to share the
wealth of the country’s growing economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  