-- AstraZeneca Asks U.K. to Encourage Use of Blood-Thinner Brilique
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-01-16T14:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/astrazeneca-asks-u-k-to-encourage-use-of-blood-thinner-brilique.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  asked the British
government to encourage the  National Health Service  to increase
use of its blood-thinning medicine Brilique, whose sales growth
remains lackluster.  U.K. Science Minister David Willetts, a Conservative,
discussed Brilique with the state-run NHS on AstraZeneca’s
behalf, the government’s Department for Business, Innovation and
Skills confirmed in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The move
was first reported by The  Times newspaper .  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker aims to bolster sales
of Brilique, which is also known as ticagrelor and sold under
the brand name Brilinta in the U.S., after sluggish revenue
growth last year and amid competition from a generic form of
Plavix, the blood thinner sold by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
Sanofi. The drug won the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost
adviser as a treatment option to prevent heart attacks and
strokes in patients with unstable angina in October 2011.  “Despite this recommendation and the NHS target of
reducing the  mortality rate  from cardiovascular disease, it is
currently only routinely available to patients in some parts of
 England ,” Vanessa Rhodes, a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We share the NHS and the
government’s objective of broadening patient access to
innovative medicines.”  Jobs Cut  Willetts is the minister with “strategic relationship
management responsibility” for several pharmaceutical
companies, including AstraZeneca, the Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills said in the statement.  “He regularly meets with companies to discuss issues of
importance to them, and has a strong interest in making sure
that the environment for the life-sciences industry is conducive
to innovation and growth,” according to the release.  AstraZeneca is in the midst of a strategic review and new
chief executive Pascal Soriot is expected to present part of his
restructuring plan along with fourth-quarter earnings on Jan.
31. Last year, the company said it would cut 7,300 jobs
worldwide, including 2,200 in research and development, as drugs
that account for more than 40 percent of sales lose patent
protection by the end of 2014.  Soriot yesterday said the head of research and development
and the senior executive responsible for global commercial
operations would leave the company at the end of this month
after their jobs were cut in a management reorganization.  Lagging Estimates  The British government has been concerned about preserving
research jobs after Sanofi and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  shuttered
laboratories and reduced their U.K. workforce. Pfizer let go
2,000 workers in 2011 when it closed its biggest research lab in
Sandwich, where Viagra was discovered. The U.K. introduced a tax
incentive in March to encourage businesses to locate there.  It’s anti-competitive for a government to step in and lobby
for locally made products, according to Stefan Haefliger, a
lecturer in strategic management and innovation at  London ’s Cass
Business School.  “They are supposed to support the best drug for the
patient and not promote local jobs,” Haefliger said in an
interview.  Brilique generated sales of $51 million during the nine
months ended Sept. 30, 2012, lagging analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  