-- Auction House Phillips Expands as Chairman De Pury Quits
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-01-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/auction-house-phillips-expands-as-chairman-de-pury-quits.html
Auction house Phillips is expanding
in New York and  London  after changing its name and chairman.  The former Phillips de Pury & Co. announced the departure
of Simon de Pury, 61, a flamboyant auctioneer who has led the
company since 2000. The auction house has now reverted to its
original name, derived from its 18th-century British founder
Harry Phillips.  Phillips, which specializes in contemporary art, design,
photography and limited-edition prints, has been developing its
salerooms and offering guarantees to sellers to compete with its
bigger rivals Sotheby’s and Christie’s International.  “We’ll be making some dramatic changes that will increase
our visibility,” chief executive officer Michael McGinnis, 42,
said in an interview. Next month, the auction house will add
11,500 square feet (1,068 square meters) of offices and 10,000
square feet of gallery space to its headquarters at 450 Park
Avenue.  “Guarantees are a fact of the market,” McGinnis said.
“We have a pool of third-party guarantors happy to buy the
works they support. We just need to broaden the participation.”  Simon de Pury, together with his wife and senior director,
Michaela, stood down on Dec. 21. The couple left following the
sale of de Pury’s remaining interest in the company to the
Moscow-based Mercury Group, which acquired a controlling stake
in October 2008.  Remaining Equity  “I felt this was the perfect moment for us to step down,
having both spent 12 exciting years, and me having just
completed the sale of my remaining equity in the company,” de
Pury told Bloomberg News in an e-mail. De Pury wouldn’t divulge
the size and value of his final shareholding.  Mercury, a private Russian company that also owns the TSUM
department store and the Barvikha Luxury Village in Moscow,
doesn’t report or comment on its auction house.  De Pury’s theatrical style on the rostrum was one of the
most distinctive aspects of Phillips.  The Swiss-born former chairman, a keen amateur DJ, released
a Euro-pop version of the Pete Seeger and Lee Hays hit “If I
Had a Hammer” in 2009, complete with a video showing him in his
trademark double-breasted suit conducting flash-dancers in an
auction room.  “We haven’t quite allocated that person yet,” McGinnis
said of the auction role. “We’re going to continue to look for
talented auctioneers and business-getters.”  Golfing Handicap  McGinnis, who worked for Christie’s before founding
Phillips’s contemporary-art department in 1999, is a father of
three daughters and a talented 11-handicap golfer who has had
two holes-in-one.  McGinnis was appointed chief executive in September 2012,
replacing the former Stasi agent, and head of Conde Nast
 Germany , Bernd Runge. McGinnis said he wasn’t surprised by de
Pury’s departure.  “The finalization of selling his shares seemed a natural
point of change,” he said.  Evening and day sales of works by postwar and living
artists at the three auction houses raised a record $1.1 billion
in New York in November. Phillips’s share was $90 million.  Nine out of the 10 most expensive works in Phillips’s $80-
million sale of contemporary art on Nov. 15 2012 had been
guaranteed minimum prices.  Bernard Arnault ’s LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA group
sold Phillips to de Pury, then in partnership with the dealer
Daniela Luxembourg, in 2002 after unsuccessful guarantees on
Impressionist paintings racked up about $400 million of losses.  Guarantee Profit  Back then, the company itself provided the finance. Now
auction houses aim to transfer the risk by using “irrevocable
bids” from third parties to ensure sales. Typically, if the
guarantor is outbid, he or she is entitled to a percentage of
the sale fees.  “When an auction house uses guarantees it gives away a
large part of the upside of its business,” Todd Levin, director
of the New York-based Levin Art Group, said in an interview.
“The profit line is relatively narrow on these works. They
function as loss leaders that attract other lots into a sale.”  Phillips achieved a record $16.3 million for Jean-Michel Basquiat’s 1981 crucifixion painting, “Untitled,” in May 2012.
Entered by the collector  Robert Lehrman , it was one of 11
guaranteed works in the 44-lot sale.  McGinnis declined to confirm to Bloomberg News that the
auction house has acquired premises in the Mayfair district of
the U.K. capital, less than half a mile from  Sotheby’s (BID)  and
Christie’s.  Berkeley Square  Phillips has paid more than 100 million pounds for a 52,000
square-foot building at 30 Berkeley Square, the U.K.’s Estates
Gazette magazine reported on Oct. 6 last year.  The auction house acquired the seven-story block from
PRUPIM, part of the M&G Group. It plans to turn the basement,
ground and first floors into a London headquarters that echoes
its flagship premises in New York.  Tenants will be sought for the upper floors of the
building, the magazine said.  Phillips has been holding its London auctions in a former
Post Office sorting station at Howick Place, Victoria, since
2008. Though an elegant space, the location has proved too
inconvenient for some clients, dealers said.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Ryan
Sutton  on New York restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 