-- Aussie Drops Versus Peers as Payrolls Unexpectedly Fell
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-17T06:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/aussie-drops-versus-peers-on-prospects-jobless-rate-rose.html
Australia ’s dollar slid versus all
of its 16 major counterparts after a report today showed
employers in the country unexpectedly cut payrolls last month,
adding to concern the domestic economy is slowing.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus the greenback and
dropped for a third day against the yen after the jobless rate
rose. New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, fell as Asian
stocks reversed earlier gains, damping demand for higher-
yielding assets.  Today’s data “underscores much of the economic weakness
from last year,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist
at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore. “I wouldn’t be surprised
to see a bit more of a correction in the Aussie toward the $1.05
level, but I still think dips will be well-supported.”  Australia’s dollar lost 0.6 percent to $1.0513 at 5:17 p.m.
in Sydney. It dropped 0.3 percent to 93.19 yen, extending its
1.2 percent decline in the previous two days. New Zealand’s
currency slid 0.2 percent to 83.96 U.S. cents after rising 0.2
percent yesterday. It was little changed at 74.41 yen.  Ten-year yields in Australia dropped to as low as 3.28
percent, the least since Dec. 31. New Zealand’s two-year  swap
rate , a fixed payment made to receive floating rates which is
sensitive to rate expectations, was little changed at 2.78
percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.1 percent
gaining as much as 0.6 percent earlier today.  Australia’s statistics bureau said the number of people
employed in the country fell in December by 5,500 after a
revised 17,100 gain in the previous month. The  jobless rate  rose
to 5.4 percent from 5.3 percent in November.  Chinese Recovery  “In the very, very short term, there’s a risk to the
downside for the Aussie,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asia local
markets strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “That
said, I think the theme is still that we have a  China  recovery,
which is very important for Australia.”  Figures tomorrow may show  gross domestic product  in China,
Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
biggest export destination, expanded 7.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would be up from a
three-year low of 7.4 percent in the previous period.  Traders are the least bearish on the Australian dollar in
more than three years, according to three-month 25-delta option
risk reversal rates. The premium they are willing to pay for put
options, which give the right to sell the currency, over calls,
which allow for purchases, shrank to 0.6 percent on Jan. 14, the
least since October 2009.  The Aussie rose 1.6 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a set of
gauges that track developed-nation currencies. New Zealand’s
kiwi climbed 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  