-- Australian Open Heat Puts Weatherman, Chief Medic at Forefront
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-16T15:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/australian-open-heat-puts-weatherman-chief-medic-at-forefront.html
With temperatures at the Australian
Open forecast to get close to 40 degrees Celsius (104
Fahrenheit) today, the tennis players won’t be the only ones
sweating at the Grand Slam tournament.  The event’s meteorologist and chief medical officer need to
work together to ensure the safety of the players and fans at
the year’s first major. Sensitive to the vagaries of  Melbourne ’s
weather, described locally as “four seasons in one day,”
organizers have measures in place for when the mercury rises.
Knowing when extreme heat is coming helps them better prepare.  “Every summer you learn something different about the
Melbourne weather,” Bob Leighton, the tournament’s on-site
meteorologist, said in an interview at Melbourne Park. “You
have to, because it has to be precise. They want things to the
minute here so you really have to notice everything.”  After three days below 30 degrees Celsius, the high
temperatures that have engulfed  Australia  this month and caused
hundreds of bushfires are set to return to Melbourne, with the
forecast calling for a high of 39 Celsius. The continent
registered a national average of 40.33 on Jan. 7, the hottest
day in more than 100 years of records.  Five decades of working for the  Bureau of Meteorology  help
Leighton, 72, stay on top of the shifting weather patterns,
enabling him to update the tournament’s referee and director.
Melbourne gets hot when northerly winds blow down from the
country’s arid center, he said.  Heat Policy  Armed with a computer and charts in the bowels of Rod Laver
Arena, Leighton also monitors the Wet Bulb Globe Temperature,
which factors heat, humidity, the strength of the sun and wind
speed. Organizers use the measurement to determine when to apply
their  extreme heat policy  and suspend play. Matches at the two
main stadiums are able to continue under a roof once the set in
progress has been completed outdoors.  Relying on the absolute temperature to assess the level of
heat stress on players and public ignores the role humidity
plays in humans’ ability to get cool by evaporating sweat,
according to Tim Wood, the tournament’s chief medical officer.  “We can really take a commonsense approach,” Wood said in
an interview. “People are always taking temperatures near the
court surface and saying ‘It’s 54 degrees or something like
that,’ but it’s not the true reflection of what the players are
experiencing. As far as I’m aware, in professional tennis, we’ve
never had a confirmed case of heatstroke.”  Player Preparation  The Australian Open sends out a notice informing players
that Melbourne’s weather can be “quite fickle” and the onus is
on them to prepare as best they can, Wood said. While playing in
the heat may affect performance, there’s no significant medical
risk, he added.  The sport’s governing bodies will begin research into heat
illness once the project details are finished, according to
 Stuart Miller , the  International Tennis Federation ’s executive
director, science and technical.  “The hope is that data collection will begin later this
year,” Miller said in an e-mail. “The primary aim is to
develop an evidence base of the effects of playing tennis in
extreme weather conditions.”  Conditioning can help players cope better. Four-time
Australian Open champion  Andre Agassi  of the U.S. would run up
hills in the Nevada desert to get ready for the tournament,
while most competitors are now arriving well before the event
begins, said Darren Cahill, an Australian tennis coach and ESPN
analyst who guided Agassi to the No. 1 ranking.  Early Arrivals  “So many players get down here much earlier than they used
to,” Cahill said on a Jan. 8 conference call. “It’s to get
used to the climate. Most of the players are either doing their
preseason in Australia or they’re coming out before Christmas to
make sure they hit the ground running.”  At last week’s Sydney International tournament, some got a
taste of the heat-wave conditions when they played through
temperatures as high as 41.4 Celsius. Agnieszka Radwanska of
 Poland , the fourth-ranked women’s player and the tournament’s
eventual champion, said it was “too hot to play tennis” and  Li Na  of  China  said she could feel her feet burning through her
shoes after one set.  At Melbourne Park, sausage-shaped ice packs are available
on all courts, while organizers put out ice vests at a Wet Bulb
Globe reading of 26. Wood said he and the regular tour trainers
often use soaked towels to draw the heat out of players.  For Leighton, today will be one of about a half-dozen in
his 19 days at the tournament when he has to watch the
temperature and Wet Bulb Globe index “like a hawk.”  “I’m there for a point of contact,” he said. “They don’t
have to go ringing around and trying to get sense out of
somebody. I’ll be giving them a temperature on the hour so they
know how the day will progress and how perhaps they’ll run their
day on what I’ve given them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  