-- Australian REITs Set for Big Year of M&A in 2013, CLSA Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-16T01:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/australian-reits-set-for-big-year-of-m-a-in-2013-clsa-says.html
Australian  property trusts  are set
for a “big year” of mergers and acquisitions in 2013 after
divesting overseas assets, said CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  The  S&P/ASX 200 REIT Index (AS51PROP)  had a total return of 33 percent
last year, compared with 20 percent for the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index, the biggest outperformance relative to equities after
2002, according to CLSA. The REIT index will have total return
of 15 percent this year, according to CLSA’s forecast.  GPT Group (GPT) ,  Australia ’s second-largest diversified property
trust, last year made a bid for part of a smaller rival,
 Australand Property Group (ALZ) , while  Dexus Property Group (DXS)  is on the
hunt for commercial properties after saying it is exiting its
U.S. operations.  “After its second-best performing year on record, A-REITs
are poised for a strong 2013 with M&A and earnings growth key
drivers,” John Kim and Sholto Maconochie, real estate analysts
at CLSA, wrote in an e-mailed note. “A-REITs are now focused on
finding niches locally in the Australian market, with most
having divested offshore assets.”  GPT, which bid only for Australand’s commercial and
industrial divisions, will be successful in acquiring Australand
with a partner to take over the target’s residential division,
CLSA said. While Australand rejected the bid on Dec. 14, saying
it doesn’t offer a “compelling value proposition,” GPT said it
was committed to its takeover efforts.  Acquiring Assets  GPT, with the fourth-lowest borrowing costs among
Australian REITs, “is well-positioned to acquire assets, with a
low cost of debt, low gearing and a low cost of equity,” Kim
and Maconochie wrote. “As M&A changes the A-REIT landscape, we
may see rationale for the formation of GPT2 -- an Australia-
focused high-quality REIT owner and manager, similar to GPT.”  The most likely candidates are Colonial First State Global
Asset Management Pty, which may merge its two listed trusts
 Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA)  and  CFS Retail Property Trust (CFX) 
with its property arm; and  Charter Hall Group (CHC)  which could
combine with its listed retail property trust, CLSA said.  Colonial spokesman Mathew Chandler and Charter Hall
spokeswoman Rachel Mornington-West didn’t immediately respond to
e-mailed requests for comment.  Goodman Group (GMG) ,  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  and Charter Hall
Group are CLSA’s top picks, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  