-- Auto Safety Advances Sell at Prices Beyond Reach of Many
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-01-16T01:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/auto-safety-advances-sell-at-prices-beyond-reach-of-many.html
Customers of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
redesigned Lexus LS460 costing about $70,000 can add a safety
feature that emits an infrared beam to provide the driver the
equivalent of an extra set of eyes.  The system, part of a $6,500 safety-options package, uses
radar and two high-definition cameras to detect when it might
hit another car, object or animal. If the system detects an
imminent crash, it sends signals to apply some pressure to the
brakes and tighten the steering to give the driver a head start
on avoidance.  As they did with electronic stability control and air bags,
automakers are rolling out what they see as the cutting edge of
safety technology years before regulators require it or
standards are set. Toyota is among automakers finding that
safety sells -- if mostly to consumers willing to pay premiums
for their most expensive vehicles.  “We don’t want to be in a place where technology is only
for people who can afford it,” U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said in an interview at
the North American International Auto Show in Detroit.  Auto-safety technology has moved beyond surviving crashes
to avoiding them, with automakers promoting their so-called
active safety systems as parts of higher-level options packages
or trim lines.  Driver Attention  The Lexus that offers the pre-collision system also
features adaptive cruise control that slows a car when
approaching another in front, blind-spot detection including an
alert for rear cross traffic, a driver-attention monitor that
sounds an alert if it senses a driver isn’t watching the road
before a potential collision, and lane-keeping assist that warns
if a vehicle is drifting left or right.  “That technology is expensive to develop and produce, so
it’s not unusual that the technology gets introduced on a luxury
vehicle,” said Robert Carter, Toyota senior vice president of
automotive operations at Toyota Motor Sales USA Inc. “Anything,
over time, the price comes down.”  About a third of fatal crashes and a fifth of crashes
causing injury could be prevented or lessened in severity if all
passenger vehicles had forward collision warning, lane departure
warning, blind spot detection and adaptive headlights, according
to an Insurance Institute for Highway Safety analysis of 2004 to
2008 crash data.  Volvo Claims  The systems are working in the real world, too, said Russ
Rader, a spokesman for Arlington, Virginia-based group. The
affiliated Highway Loss Data Institute found that property
damage liability insurance claims for model year 2010 Volvo XC60
SUVs that automatically brake to prevent rear-end crashes were
27 percent lower than those for comparable vehicles.  The NTSB, which can’t make rules on its own, recommended in
November that regulators require crash-avoidance systems of some
sort and write standards for their performance. U.S. auto-safety
regulators are still in the phase of studying their
effectiveness, meaning no regulations or performance standards
are even in the earliest stages of being written.  Regulators say that, while the technology has great promise
for saving lives, they need data from the first systems in use
before they could write a rule requiring them.  Blind-spot warning, lane departure warning or both are
available on at least one trim line of 41 percent of model-year
2013 vehicles, up from 6.1 percent in 2011, according to data
compiled by auto researcher Edmunds.com, based in  Santa Monica ,
 California .  Consumers Ahead  “Consumers are a little bit ahead of the government on
this, and I don’t think that’s a bad thing,” Edmunds.com Vice
Chairman  Jeremy Anwyl  said in an interview.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is
researching crash-avoidance systems, including working with its
German counterpart on evaluating crash-imminent braking. It’s
building data to see how effective the systems are, NHTSA
Administrator  David Strickland  said in an interview.  “These technologies, while we’ve seen them being
introduced to the luxury market for a couple of years now,
there’s still very few vehicles out there on the road with them
as we are actually trying to get data and use cases on
effectiveness,” Strickland said.  Companies including  Robert Bosch GmbH ,  Continental AG (CON)  and
 Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH)  make components for crash-avoidance
systems. Other systems, such as Subaru’s EyeSight, are developed
in-house.  On more moderately priced models, backup cameras are
becoming more standard as they can be added with little expense
once a car already has an in-vehicle display screen, Toyota’s
Carter said.  ‘Lane Watch’  Honda in  Detroit  is displaying a new “lane watch” system
in the redesigned 2013 Accord that gives drivers a camera-based
view of what’s in the lane in which they want to merge. Honda
offers trim lines rather than options packages and expects the
technology to be on more than 75 percent of Accords sold, Vicki
Poponi, assistant vice president of product planning, said in an
interview.  Honda has also standardized backup cameras in its five top-
selling vehicles, the Accord, Civic, CR-V, Pilot and Odyssey,
she said. More expensive Acuras come with crash-mitigation
braking, and adaptive cruise-control is available on higher-end
Accords.  “We put our toe in the water to try it out and then we try
to migrate it down as soon as possible,” Poponi said.  Center Airbags  General Motors Co. (GM) , at the show, is promoting the first
front-center airbag to protect drivers and front-seat passengers
in side-impact or rollover crashes. Developed jointly with
supplier  Takata Corp. (7312) , the bag pops out of the driver’s seat in
GM’s crossover sport-utility vehicles.  Electronic stability control was introduced in the late
1990s on luxury vehicles including GM Cadillacs and Daimler-Benz
AG Mercedes, said Jake Fisher, director of auto testing at
Consumer Reports magazine. It wasn’t until the 2012 model year
that U.S. regulators required such systems to be standard on all
new vehicles.  Today’s crash-avoidance systems are a long way away from
being ready to be mandated in all vehicles, Fisher said in an
interview.  “It’s not clear right now how much it’s effective,” he
said. “There are a lot of systems right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  