-- Law Threatening Swartz Would be Scaled Back in House Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-01-16T19:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/law-threatening-swartz-would-be-scaled-back-in-house-bill.html
U.S. lawmakers want to scale back
statutes that could have led to a prison term of as long as 35
years for Aaron Swartz, the Internet activist who committed
suicide last week, 18 months after he was charged with stealing
articles from an academic database.  Representative Zoe Lofgren, a  California  Democrat, said
yesterday that she plans to introduce a bill to amend the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and wire fraud statutes. Justice
Department officials charged Swartz with violations that could
have led to as much as $1 million in fines. Representative Jared Polis, a Colorado Democrat, supports the Lofgren bill, according
to his chief of staff.  Swartz, who committed suicide Jan. 11, was charged with
downloading more than 4.8 million password-protected research
articles through the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s
network with the intent to distribute them for free. Swartz’s
family cited overzealous prosecution by the Justice Department
as a reason Swartz killed himself.  “There’s a lot of criticism in the legal community that
this act is overbroad and criminalizes a lot of conduct that, as
a society, we would not consider criminal,” said Jim Denaro, a
lawyer at  CipherLaw , Washington law firm. Through the act, “the
Justice Department can pursue criminal cases against individuals
who have done things using computers that don’t appear to be
criminal in nature.”  Inequitable Sentences  Under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, violators can face
years to decades in prison simply for violating the terms of use
of a database, Denaro said. An individual who has access to a
website or database can be prosecuted for exceeding their
authorized access, he said.  “There are murderers, violent criminals, who spend less
time in prison than you would spend for illegally downloading
journal articles,” Denaro said in a telephone interview.  The same act has been used to prosecute Bradley Manning,
the Army private charged with sending classified documents to
 WikiLeaks , a website known for exposing government secrets.
Freedom of information advocates like Swartz face an emotional
toll as their cases are pursued by the government, said Kristinn
Hrafnsson, a spokesman for WikiLeaks.  “Facing relentless attempts of persecution where
everything is tried to find whatever will support charges
against an individual, it has an effect,” Hrafnsson said in a
telephone interview.  Judicial ‘Travesty’  The death of Swartz, an Internet entrepreneur and advocate
of open access to research, has touched off online protests
worldwide among academics, hackers and Web pioneers. A group
called the  MIT Society for Open Science  is calling on the school
to apologize for its role in the case against Swartz. Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, said yesterday that
the prosecution of Swartz, was a “travesty of justice.”  Lofgren, whose district covers part of California’s Silicon
Valley, called Swartz’s death “tragic.” She said she met him
when they were both participating in an Internet protest over
antipiracy legislation in Congress a year ago.  The Swartz case “makes clear the overreach in this
prosecution was made possible by the computer fraud statute,”
Lofgren said today in a telephone interview. Under her bill,
violations of terms-of-use clauses would no longer be prosecuted
through the statute.  “I hope we can move this simple fix quickly,” Lofgren
said. “The public support for this could make the difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ; and
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  