-- Barratt Expects ‘Significant’ Rise in Full-Year Profitability
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-01-16T07:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/barratt-expects-significant-rise-in-full-year-profitability.html
     Jan. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s
largest homebuilder by volume, predicted a “significant”
increase in profitability this year prices rise and mortgage
lending improves.  The operating margin widened to about 8.4 percent in the
company’s fiscal first half through December from 6.4 percent a
year earlier, London-based Barratt said today in a statement.
The average selling price gained 2.1 percent to 185,000 pounds
($297,000).  “Mortgage lending should increase in 2013, supported by
the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark Clare said in the statement. “We expect
to deliver a significant improvement in profitability for the
full year 2013.”  Lending for homes been slow to pick up as Britain’s economy
continues to struggle and banks clean up their balance sheets
following the credit crisis. The Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme aids homebuilders by helping banks offer loans at
more affordable rates.  Barratt’s revenue was little changed at about 950 million
pounds in the fiscal first half. Home completions fell to 5,085
from 5,117.  U.K. homebuilders including Barratt have improved
profitability by building on land bought cheaply after the
financial crisis caused prices to tumble. The company said it
expects about half of its home completions to be made on the
less expensive land in the fiscal year through June.  Barratt has more than doubled in  London  trading in the last
12 months, making it the best performer on the Bloomberg EMEA
Homebuilders Index.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the U.K.’s second-largest
homebuilder by volume, was the second-best performer in the
index with an 84 percent gain. The index was up 74 percent in
the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 