-- Best Europe Equity Funds Disdain Banks: Riskless Return
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-16T03:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/best-europe-equity-funds-disdain-banks-riskless-return.html
Europe ’s top three equity-fund
managers since the post-financial crisis market bottom all agree
on one thing: banks are bad investments.  Allianz SE (ALV) ’s Europe Equity Growth Fund,  Comgest Growth
Europe Fund (COMGREA)  and  Montanaro European Smaller Companies Fund (MONESCF) 
produced the best risk-adjusted returns since March 2009 among
European stock funds with more than 500 million euros ($667
million), by bottom-up stock picking and staying away from
banks, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The
three managers -- Thorsten Winkelmann, Arnaud Cosserat and
Charles Montanaro -- are still not buying.  “I don’t see ourselves buying into any of the banks
anytime soon,” said Frankfurt-based Winkelmann, 39, whose 145
percent return over the period in his 3.5 billion-euro  fund  was
the best in both absolute and risk-adjusted terms. “You ask the
CEOs of the banks about their return-on-equity targets, and they
can’t tell you. How can a third-party fund manager know and put
his money there?”  The top-performing managers are unfazed by European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi’s moves to shore up the region’s
banks, which made financial stocks the  STOXX 600 Index (SXXP) ’s best
performers in the past year. Instead, they prefer stocks such as
Swedish radiation-surgery manufacturer  Elekta AB (EKTAB) , owned by all
three managers, that have simpler business models, predictable
cash flows and the biggest shares of niche markets. Banks don’t
fit the bill, they say.  ‘Highly Cyclical’  “These companies are opaque, making them hard to value
with any degree of confidence,” said London-based  Montanaro ,
57. “To make matters worse, their destiny is often outside
their control due to regulatory and political intervention.
Therefore, we see them more as highly cyclical trading stocks
and not for us.”  Montanaro, whose 1.1 billion-euro fund focuses on companies
with market values of less than 3 billion euros, has returned
113 percent since March 2009 and 6.87 percent after adjusting
for volatility. It was only beaten by Winkelmann and Cosserat’s
funds, which returned 7.59 percent and 6.92 percent
respectively, after taking into account price swings.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Cosserat, 48, returned 95 percent since the market low of
March 2009. His 2.1 billion-euro Comgest Growth Europe Fund had
the ranking’s lowest volatility, even though it only holds about
30 stocks.  ‘More Volatile’  “We focus on companies that deliver what we expect and
deliver on earnings expectations,” he said. “Earnings of other
companies tend to swing much more wildly. That means the market
is more volatile than the companies we invest in.”  Cosserat, who manages his fund in Paris with Laurent Dobler
and Franz Weis, has Arteixo, Spain-based  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s
largest clothing retailer, and Walldorf, Germany-based  SAP AG (SAP) ,
the biggest maker of business-management software, as his top
two holdings. The stocks are also in Winkelmann’s biggest three
positions.  “You should expect a company with its headquarters in
Spain related to consumers to do extremely poorly,” said
Winkelmann, who manages 8 billion euros across Allianz’s funds.
“They have mastered this fast-fashion business model. They are
expanding into new regions and in  emerging markets  like Asia or
South America.”  Inditex, SAP  Inditex has more than tripled and SAP has more than doubled
since March 2009 in spite of recession in Europe and slow global
growth. The STOXX 600 Index is up 87 percent in that period
while the  STOXX 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  returned 62 percent.  Their top market shares, pricing power and operational
effectiveness mean Inditex and SAP can still grow strongly in
tough economic conditions in developed markets and produce
predictable cash flows, according to Cosserat. That’s not the
case with banks, he said.  “Banks have always been extremely sensitive to the
cycle,” he said. “In the short term, they tend to bounce up
and down, but in the long term they don’t deliver any profit
growth, and they don’t deliver any performance. They are
accident prone.”  The financial crisis of 2008 required governments around
the world to use trillions of dollars of taxpayers’ money in
bailouts and guarantees to prevent their banks from collapsing.  Banks Sanctioned  Since then Zurich-based UBS AG had a $2.3 billion trading
loss,  Bankia SA (BKIA)  required a bailout by the Spanish government and
U.K. lenders paid out 11 billion pounds ($18 billion) to cover
insurance mis-selling.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  were fined last year for failing to prevent money
laundering. At least 16 banks are being investigated by
regulators for their involvement in fixing the London Interbank
Offered Rate, the biggest scandal in banking history.  The ECB’s decision to buy European sovereign debt, Draghi’s
pledge to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro and a
European Union plan for a bank union supported bank stocks last
year. They were the best-performing industry in the STOXX 600
Index in the past 12 months, rising 31 percent compared with the
index’s 14.6 percent increase.  That’s helped managers such as David Herro, who manages the
$11.8 billion  Oakmark International Fund (OAKIX) , and Sanjeev Shah, who
runs Fidelity Worldwide Investment Ltd.’s 2.4 billion-pound
Special Situations Fund, bounce back to the top 2 percent of
peers from the bottom third in 2011.  Undiscovered Tribes  “The recovery in financial shares last year was not
unexpected and may have a little further to run,” said
Montanaro, who compares his hobby of visiting previously
undiscovered tribes in the Amazon and Papua New Guinea to
discovering undervalued stocks. He completed a degree in
anthropology from the U.K.’s Durham University in 1976 and has
visited tribes such as the Korowai and Kombai in  Indonesia  and
the Yanomami in  Venezuela , according to his  website .  Montanaro plans to play the rebound in financial stocks
through  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , a U.K. money manager that
specializes in Asian funds and is raising its dividend after a
string of acquisitions during the financial crisis. Aberdeen is
up 82 percent in the last 12 months.  All three fund managers had below-average volatility,
according to the ranking, and they hold stocks for long periods.
Each fund trades less than 30 percent of its portfolio a year,
the managers said. That compares with 78 percent for the average
European equity fund that invests in large companies and 66
percent investing in small firms, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Managing Volatility  Winkelmann credits the “quality and stability” of the
stocks in his fund for its stable return profile, he said.
Montanaro, who has run his fund since 2000, said he monitors
volatility closely and reduces the number of companies in his
fund during difficult conditions. As the firms left in the fund
are those with the strongest balance sheets, price swings are
minimized, he said.  Winkelmann is betting SAP and Inditex will continue to
outperform the market over the next 12 months and has been
buying Danish brewer  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  for its profit margins and
market share in emerging economies such as Russia.  Cosserat likes  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the Cambridge, England-
based designer of the most popular chips for smartphones,
Italian luxury goods maker  Prada SpA (1913)  and Amsterdam-based  Gemalto
NV (GTO) , which makes smart-chips for mobile phone payments.  Montanaro’s biggest holding is U.K. industrial firm  Victrex
Plc (VCT) , which has a “virtual monopoly” on a type of metal-like
thermoplastic that is being used in cars, aircraft and the
medical profession, he said.  “I guarantee that there are tribes in remote jungles
blissfully unaware that white men even exist, just as there are
really good, fast-growing quoted small companies unknown to the
investing community,” Montanaro said. “You just have to leave
your office and go out and find them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  