-- Bin Laden Raid Success Tied to Iraq War, McChrystal Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/bin-laden-raid-success-tied-to-iraq-war-mcchrystal-says.html
The U.S. raid that killed Osama bin Laden had its roots in a secret counterterrorism unit that
killed a terrorist leader in  Iraq  five years earlier, according
to its former commander, retired Army General Stanley McChrystal.  The May 2011 assault in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , by commandos
from the U.S. Navy’s elite Seal Team Six used tactics honed in
hundreds of raids pursuing al-Qaeda in Iraq and its leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who was killed in 2006. U.S. forces also
refined their tactics during the American troop surge in
Afghanistan in 2010, McChrystal said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  McChrystal credited cooperation between the military and
the Central Intelligence Agency for the successful attack on bin
Laden’s compound.  “Five or six years earlier, I don’t think the Abbottabad
raid could have happened because I don’t think the relationship
between the agency and the military was close enough where they
would get the information and say. ‘I think we should do this
with a military force,’” he said.  McChrystal, 58, is chairman of  Siemens Government
Technologies Inc. , an Arlington, Virginia-based unit seeking
U.S. government contracts for  Siemens AG (SIE) , based in Munich,
 Europe ’s largest engineering company. He is co-founder of the
McChrystal Group, which advises businesses on leadership lessons
often derived from his military career.  ‘Special Mission’  From 2003 to 2008, he was commander of the U.S. Joint
Special Operations Command in Tampa,  Florida , which oversees
“special mission” commando units such as Seal Team Six and the
Army’s Delta Force. He was commander of U.S. and allied
operations in Afghanistan when he was forced to resign in 2010
after an article in “Rolling Stone” magazine.  The article, called “The Runaway General,” cited some of
McChrystal’s aides as making disparaging comments about Vice
President Joe Biden and other members of President  Barack Obama ’s national security team.  That episode gets less than two pages in a new book by
McChrystal, “My Share of the Task: A Memoir.” Most of the book
is devoted to the development of anti-terrorist capabilities,
including a unit, named Task Force 714, that was classified at
the time. The final third is devoted to his tour in  Afghanistan 
to execute the troop surge.  The CIA, the National Security Agency, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and other agencies joined the Navy Seals and
Delta Force in late 2003 to form Task Force 714.  Iraq Initiative  In Iraq, McChrystal organized the group into a “fusion
cell” that consolidated and analyzed real-time information from
informants, satellites and eavesdropping on top al-Qaeda
operatives.  The planning and execution “built the force, it built the
procedures, it built the tactics, it also built the
relationships between the CIA and military,” that contributed
to a successful bin Laden raid, McChrystal said during the Jan.
11 interview at Bloomberg headquarters.  In a chapter of McChrystal’s book entitled  “Entrepreneurs
of Battle,” he describes the creation of an information network
by then-Colonel Mike Flynn, who was Task Force 714’s
intelligence chief and is now director of the Defense
Intelligence Agency.  It allowed the storage at Balad Air Base in Iraq of
intelligence gathered in raids and dissemination of the material
to analysts in  Washington  within minutes.  ‘Zero Dark Thirty’  “We developed a ‘portal,’ essentially a Bloomberg-like
terminal that stored a library of information on al-Qaeda,”
McChrystal wrote in his book. “The number of people accessing
the information soon bloomed to thousands.”  McChrystal said in the interview that the fusion of
intelligence analysis with tactical military units is becoming
the American way of war: “Whoever understands the most first
wins.”  The depiction of the raid that killed bin Laden in the new
movie “Zero Dark Thirty” resembled “many I have been on,”
McChrystal said.  “When you go on these things, there is a certain sense of
how it is -- how operators act, what it’s like in helicopters,
how fast things operate on the ground,” he said.  Describing the movie’s portrayal of the raid, mistakes and
all, McChrystal said, “If on the ground in Abbottabad there had
been all these explosions and people diving through windows and
shooting between their legs like a Chuck Norris movie, then I
would have immediately discounted it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  