-- Blockbuster Administration Pushes U.K. Closures to a Record
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-16T17:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/blockbuster-adds-to-u-k-retail-gloom-as-administrator-appointed.html
Blockbuster Entertainment Ltd., a
British DVD rental chain, became the third major U.K. retailer
to enter administration this year after it appointed Deloitte
LLP to seek a buyer.  Deloitte is “working closely with suppliers and employees
to ensure the business has the best possible platform to secure
a sale, preserve jobs and generate as much value as possible for
all creditors,” the accounting firm said in a statement.  Blockbuster’s announcement comes a day after  HMV Group Plc (HMV) ,
Britain’s biggest seller of CDs and DVDs, sought insolvency
protection. Both retailers have been hurt by growing competition
from online retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and a shift by
consumers toward obtaining movies and music through digital
channels. The various collapses in the last two months have
pushed administrations and closures to an all-time high,
according to the Local Data Company, a real-estate researcher.  “The administration and potential closure of over 1,400
stores in less than a month far surpasses Woolworths 807 in
January 2009,” Matthew Hopkinson, director at the Local Data
Company said. “This has the potential to increase the national
shop vacancy rate by nearly 5 percent to an all-time high of
over 19 percent if all the stores close and are not
reoccupied.”  The Jessops camera chain last week became the first U.K.
failure of 2013 when administrators shut all 187 stores.  U.S. Equivalent  Blockbuster, based in Uxbridge,  England , has 528 U.K.
outlets that employ 4,190 people, Deloitte said. Its U.S.
equivalent filed for bankruptcy in 2010 and was acquired by  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  in 2011. Dish closed about half of its 1,700
stores.  “The core of the business is still profitable and we will
continue to trade as normal in both retail and rental whilst we
seek a buyer for all or parts of the business as a going
concern,” Deloitte partner Lee Manning said in the statement.  Blockbuster will continue to accept gift cards, unlike HMV,
which said yesterday it won’t redeem vouchers or accept returns.  “Its estate of 528 stores is far too large and not in
proportion to the current realities of the markets in which it
operates,” Joseph Robinson, a consultant at Conlumino said in
an e-mail. “It is inevitable that there will be further
casualties in 2013 which will add to vacancy rates and hasten
the decline of some high streets.”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman Jean-Christophe
Gray spoke out on the collapse today.  “It’s clearly very difficult indeed for those affected by
the job losses, of course,” Gray told reporters. The
government’s focus is “on supporting the conditions for a
private sector recovery.”  The  British Retail Consortium  has called on the government
to reduce the planned 2.6 percent increase in business rates in
April to ease pressure on retailers.  With assistance by Kitty Donaldson.--Editors: David Risser,
Robert Valpuesta  Sarah Shannon in  London  at +44-20-7073-3262 or
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  