-- BNY Mellon Profit Rises 23% as Stock Market Boosts Assets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-16T21:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/bny-mellon-profit-rises-23-as-stock-market-boosts-assets.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the
world’s largest custody bank, and  Northern Trust (NTRS)  Corp. relied on
rising stock markets and cost cuts to increase earnings as fees
were hurt by low interest rates.  BNY Mellon said  fourth-quarter net income  climbed 23
percent, and Northern Trust reported a 29 percent increase from
a year earlier. Revenue at both custody banks rose about 2
percent amid declining net interest income, sending the shares
down. Northern Trust fell by the most in more than a year, and
BNY Mellon’s decline was the biggest in two months.  BNY Mellon and Northern Trust have responded to near-zero
interest rates by reducing staff and expenses to protect profit
margins. While the banks benefited from rising stock prices,
which increase fees for overseeing and managing investor money,
low interest rates and declining trading volumes have hurt their
ability to expand earnings.  “We expected a difficult environment, but things have
turned out even worse than we anticipated,” Todd Gibbons, chief
financial officer at New York-based  BNY Mellon , said in a
telephone interview. “A number of the key drivers of our
business continue to do poorly,” he said, citing low interest
rates, a lack of volatility in foreign exchange and depressed
transaction volumes in financial markets around the world.  BNY Mellon fell 2.8 percent, the most since Nov. 7, to
close at $26.04 in New York. Northern Trust declined 5.7 percent
to $49.78, the biggest drop since Aug. 10, 2011.  Analyst Estimates  BNY Mellon’s net income rose to $622 million, or 53 cents
per share, from $505 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, when
earnings were reduced by expenses tied to job reductions.
Analysts had expected BNY Mellon to report a profit of 54 cents
a share, the average of 17 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  Net income at Northern Trust rose to $167.7 million, or 69
cents a share, from $130.2 million, or 53 cents a share, a year
earlier. Results at Northern Trust, the third-biggest
independent custody bank, missed the 75-cent average estimate of
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BNY Mellon’s foreign exchange revenue fell 42 percent from
a year earlier to $106 million, a decline the bank said
reflected a “sharp decline” in volatility and a decrease in
volumes.  Net interest revenue, closely tied to interest rates, fell
7 percent to $725 million from $780 million in the fourth
quarter of 2011. BNY Mellon’s Chief Executive Officer Gerald
Hassell said net interest margin was hurt in the quarter by a
surge in cash deposits toward the end of the year from investors
nervous about the fiscal cliff in the U.S. Lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget to avoid scheduled tax increases and spending
cuts.  Northern Trust  The net interest margin, the difference between what a bank
pays on deposits and receives on loans and investments expressed
as a percentage, fell to 1.09 percent from 1.27 in the same
quarter a year ago. Lower reinvestment yields and the
elimination of interest on European Central Bank deposits
contributed to the drop, the bank said.  Northern Trust’s revenue from foreign-exchange trading
declined 43 percent to $40.8 million. Net interest income fell
14 percent to $234.2 million, the Chicago-based firm said today
in a statement.  BNY Mellon is focusing on increasing the assets it oversees
and manages for customers as sustained low interest rates
worldwide erode yields, Chief Executive Officer Gerald L. Hassell said at a December investment conference.  Cutting Costs  The company attracted $190 billion in custody assets in the
quarter and $1.5 trillion during 2012, according to today’s
statement. Assets under custody rose 0.4 percent in the quarter
and 8.5 percent from a year ago, to $26.7 trillion, helped by
higher market values. Assets under management increased 2
percent and 10 percent, respectively, to $1.4 trillion.  In 2011, BNY Mellon trimmed jobs and set a target to save
as much as $700 million by 2015 through operational
improvements.  Northern Trust cut 700 jobs in the fourth quarter of 2011,
a move designed to lift annual pretax income by $250 million by
the end of 2013, the company said at the time.  Rising equity markets helped boost custody assets at
Northern Trust by 13 percent to $4.8 trillion and the amount of
money Northern Trust invests for clients by 14 percent to $758.9
billion. Revenue climbed 1.5 percent to $969.7 million. Net
income a year earlier was reduced by $39.8 million when the firm
booked costs related to 700 planned job cuts.  Stocks Rise  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, and they also manage
money for investors. The banks have been affected by competing
forces as gains in stock prices increase fees for overseeing and
managing money while low interest rates force them to waive fees
on money funds and reduce returns on securities lending.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 16 percent,
including reinvested dividends, in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Federal Reserve has maintained
interest rates near zero since 2008, and has indicated it will
keep rates there as long as joblessness is above 6.5 percent,
inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent and long-
term price expectations are well-anchored.  At a December investment conference, Hassell said the bank
faced headwinds including  Europe ’s debt crisis, fighting over
the U.S. budget and an investor aversion to taking risks.  “Let’s face it, we are in a challenging environment,” he
said. “And it has been one for quite some time.”  BNY Mellon has said a 1 percentage point increase in short-
term interest rates would lift pretax income by $600 million a
year.  Raising Prices  The bank has tried with mixed results to raise prices.
Timothy Keaney, CEO of investment services, said at an investor
conference in September that BNY Mellon had won higher prices
from some of its smaller customers.  “The bad news is on the strategic client base,” he said.
“We do not have any pricing power today. These are huge
clients.”  Keaney was given his current title in December when the
bank named Brian Shea president of investment services. Karen Peetz was named president of BNY Mellon, a title previously held
by Hassell.  The bank, whose shares trade at a lower price than they did
 15 years ago , has drawn the interest of value investors,
including billionaire  Warren Buffett . His Omaha-based  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   bought 914,000 shares  in the third quarter,
raising its stake to 19.6 million shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  