-- Bold New BOJ Steps Priced in as Five-Year Rallies: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-01-16T03:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/bold-new-boj-steps-priced-in-as-five-year-rallies-japan-credit.html
Bond investors are pricing in five
years of dovish monetary policy in  Japan  as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe calls for a “bold” new leader of the central bank.  Yields on the nation’s five-year notes slid to 0.155
percent yesterday, one basis point from a record low. That
caused the so-called  butterfly spread , formed by gaps between
the 3-, 5- and 30-year yields, to widen to negative 179 basis
points, the lowest on a closing basis in data going back to
December 2006 and reflecting a faster drop in the middle rate.
Similar spreads were negative 188 basis points in the U.S. and
negative 143 basis points in  Germany .  Abe said on Jan. 13 he wants a  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor “who
can push through bold monetary policy” after  Masaaki Shirakawa 
steps down in April. The yen has fallen to a more than two-year
low amid expectations the central bank will increase cash
infusions to jump-start growth and defeat deflation. Its asset
purchases have already driven yields on one- to three-year notes
to less than 0.1 percent, and the five-year rate is collapsing
on bets the BOJ will target longer-term notes next.  “The next BOJ governor must be dovish and a worshiper of
Abe’s economic policy,” said Shogo Fujita, chief Japanese bond
strategist in Tokyo at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “The
BOJ’s purchases will be a positive for maturities shorter than
10 years, while longer-dated debt will reflect the impact of a
weaker yen as well as expectations for inflation and growth.”  Shirakawa’s Teacher  The butterfly spread, used to show moves in yields relative
to higher and lower rates, is calculated by doubling the five-
year yield and subtracting the 3- and 30-year rates. The gap was
as high as negative 140 basis points in March, and has widened
36 basis points in the past year to negative 177 today.  The  spread  between five-year yields and the 10-year rate
reached a seven-month high of 63 basis points on Jan. 11, after
widening for five consecutive weeks.  Abe yesterday discussed monetary policy with academics
including Yale University Professor Emeritus Koichi Hamada, who
taught Shirakawa at  Tokyo  University. Hamada said in an
interview last month that Shirakawa’s policy of targeting short-
term government notes is “very weak.”  The central bank currently buys sovereign securities
maturing in one to three years through its asset fund that’s
swelled to 76 trillion-yen ($862 billion), about the size of the
Netherlands’ annual economic output in dollar terms. The program
also targets stock funds and corporate debt. About 40 trillion
yen had been  spent  as of Jan. 10 with the purchases scheduled to
complete by year-end.  Inflation Target  The central bank is set to adopt the 2 percent inflation
target advocated by Abe, doubling its existing goal of 1 percent
without setting a deadline for achieving it, according to people
familiar with BOJ officials’ discussions. The bank’s board next
meets on Jan. 21-22 and may choose to boost bond purchases then,
said Tomohiro Miyasaka, the director for fixed-income strategy
in Tokyo at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “A further increase in the BOJ’s asset-purchase program
will require the extension of maturities that it buys to four or
five years,” Miyasaki said.  The central bank may release a joint statement with the
government next week setting the 2 percent inflation goal and it
could also say it will consider more monetary easing, said
Satoshi Shimamura, Tokyo-based head of rates and markets at the
investment-strategy department of MassMutual Life Insurance Co.  A government auction of 2.3 trillion yen of five-year notes
today attracted bids valued at 3.44 times the amount available,
the weakest demand since September, according to Ministry of
Finance data.  Korean Samurai  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  KT Corp. (030200)  considered
pricing two-year Samurai notes at an extra yield of 30 to 40
basis points above the yen swap rate, a person familiar with the
matter said. The South Korean telecommunications company will
also consider a spread of 40 to 50 points for three-year debt
and 50 to 65 for five-year securities, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Samurai bonds, which are yen notes offered in Japan by
overseas borrowers, have returned 0.18 percent this year,
compared with the 0.17 percent gain for Japanese corporate
bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Company
debt worldwide returned 0.06 percent during the period.  Japan’s  machinery orders , an indicator of  capital spending ,
climbed 3.9 percent in November from the previous month, the
Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. That was more than the
median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  for
a 0.3 percent increase.  Yen Moves  The yen tumbled 11 percent last year, the biggest annual
slide since 2005, and touched 89.67 per dollar on Jan. 14, the
lowest since June 2010. It strengthened 0.8 percent to 88.09 at
12:55 p.m. in Tokyo. A weaker local currency makes Japanese-made
products cheaper overseas, helping domestic exporters compete
better against rivals.  Abe announced 10.3 trillion yen worth of extra spending on
Jan. 11 that he said will create about 600,000 jobs and boost
real gross domestic product by 2 percentage points. Japan will
issue an additional 7.8 trillion yen in bonds to finance the
supplementary budget for the fiscal year ending March 31, the
Ministry of Finance said yesterday.  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold 30-year debt
instead of 5-year notes climbed to 1.85 percentage points
yesterday, the most since March 2010 amid concern the government
will fail to curb its mounting debt. The nation’s budget deficit
is equivalent to 8.6 percent of its economic output, the worst
globally after India and  Egypt , estimates by the International
Monetary Fund show. IMF official Zhu Min said yesterday Japan’s
debt burden is becoming “more serious.”  “A failure of Abe’s economic policy will result in massive
budget deficits and dysfunctional industrial structures,
triggering substantial outflows of funds from Japan,” said
Merrill Lynch’s Fujita. “It’s a make-or-break measure. I’m very
worried as a bond strategist and also as a person who makes his
home in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  