-- Bombardier Seeking U.S. Jet Orders Amid New Labor Deals
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-01-16T21:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/bombardier-seeking-u-s-jet-orders-amid-new-labor-agreements.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is seeking regional-
jet orders from U.S. carriers such as  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines  as new labor agreements make its aircraft more
attractive.  Rewritten pilot contracts are allowing airlines to have
bigger, more-efficient regional planes flown by commuter
partners with lower labor costs, said Benjamin Boehm, vice
president for business development and strategy at Bombardier.  American,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)  may
together purchase as many as 500 regional jets this year,
according to an  RBC Capital Markets  forecast. Bombardier, winner
of a contract for 40 planes from  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  last
month, is jockeying for new sales with Brazil’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and
Japan’s Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.  “Right now the U.S. market is quickly growing into a very
fertile hunting ground,” Boehm said last week in a telephone
interview.  U.S. carriers have taken delivery of more than 1,000
Bombardier regional jets since 1992, when the company’s 50-seat
CRJ200, the first model in its CRJ series, entered service. That
represents more than 60 percent of the Montreal-based company’s
global shipments of CRJs.  American, which is weighing a merger with  US Airways  while
reorganizing in bankruptcy, may order 200 to 300 regional jets
this year,  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets
in Toronto, said yesterday. US Airways may buy 60 to 100 planes,
while SkyWest may order 100, he said.  Fleet Renewals  “This is the next wave of major fleet renewals for U.S.
regionals,”  Chris Murray , an analyst at PI Financial Corp. in
Toronto, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “There may be
fewer aircraft but they will be larger aircraft.”  The U.S. market “is the heart, the homeland, the
birthplace of regional aviation, the birthplace of hub-and-spoke
aviation and will continue to be,” Boehm said.  American declined to comment, said  Michael Trevino , a
spokesman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier. US Airways is
“currently evaluating our US Express fleet needs for the
future,” said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for the Tempe,
Arizona-based airline. He declined to comment further.  Michael Kraupp, chief financial officer at SkyWest, based
in  St. George ,  Utah , didn’t respond to an e-mail and a voicemail
message seeking comment.  Largest Operator  SkyWest, the world’s largest operator of CRJs, said in July
it was looking to replace most of its  fleet  -- which now
includes 710 planes -- over the next 10 to 12 years as leases
end and aircraft are returned to lessors. SkyWest last month
entered into an agreement to buy as many as 100 planes from
Mitsubishi Aircraft that includes an option for 100 more.  Atlanta-based Delta agreed last month to buy jets from
Bombardier under a new pilot contract that lets the company add
as many as 70 of the 76-seat CRJ900 planes as it retires older,
cramped 50-seat CRJ200 aircraft.  Pilot familiarity with the CRJ jets, which can seat 50 to
100 people, may help Bombardier, Boehm said.  “We have longstanding customers like Delta who can take a
pilot who has flown a CRJ200 and with little training, put him
on a CRJ700, a CRJ900 and a CRJ1000 and fly it,” he said. “We
are watching these airlines, most of which already have our
product, being allowed to fly bigger airplanes. That’s perfect
for the CRJ family.”  ‘New Orders’  A merger between American and US Airways wouldn’t affect
the combined airline’s appetite for new aircraft, Boehm said.  “We definitely see it as an opportunity for triggering new
orders,” he said about the possible combination. “Delta’s
order was the product of a previous merger between Delta and
Northwest. We see these events as opportunities.”  Bombardier also has hopes for an order from SkyWest, even
after the carrier decided to buy Mitsubishi planes. Deliveries
of the Mitsubishi regional jet, which is still in development,
will start in 2017.  SkyWest operates regional flights for carriers that include
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and Delta. SkyWest Airlines and
ExpressJet Airlines, the company’s two units, have a combined
fleet that now includes 277 Embraer jets and 433 Bombardier
planes, according to the company’s  website . Together, SkyWest
and ExpressJet fly 256 of Bombardier’s CRJ200s.  “We still believe there are opportunities for us, even at
SkyWest,” Boehm said. “Mitsubishi has the potential to be
something important. At the same time, they are not flying yet.
They’ve never developed an airplane before. We have a long
history at Bombardier, and we’re going to continue to emphasize
that.”  Bombardier’s Class B stock  rose  0.5 percent to C$4.04 at
the close in Toronto. The shares fell 7.4 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  