-- Boral Surges Most Since 2009 on Job Cuts: Sydney Mover
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-16T04:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/boral-shares-surge-most-since-2011-on-job-cuts-sydney-mover.html
(Corrects historical share move in headline, first
paragraph.)  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  surged the most in almost
four years as the Australian building materials company said it
would cut 1,000 jobs, or 7 percent of its workforce, to reduce
costs amid a slowdown in the construction industry.  Boral jumped 10.3 percent to A$4.81 at 2:09 p.m. in Sydney,
on course for the biggest increase since March 2009. The
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index gained 0.4 percent.  “The market is rewarding Boral today for streamlining the
business,” Ben Le Brun, market analyst at OptionsXpress in
Sydney, said in an e-mail. “It is hoped that 2012 will prove to
be the bottom of the cycle for the current downturn in
construction.”  Boral will cut about 700 jobs including managerial
positions in  Australia  to save about A$90 million ($95 million)
annually, the Sydney-based company said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange. The remaining reductions will come
from outsourcing some posts in Australia and the U.S. and
previously announced closures, it said.  Central bank efforts to stimulate Australia’s  construction
industry  by cutting the benchmark  interest rate  to match a half-
century low of 3 percent are having limited impact. The number
of construction jobs fell by 21,900 in the 12 months through
November, government figures show, while the sector has been
 shrinking  for the past 31 months.  ‘Overhead Costs’  The company “has become burdened with excessive overhead
costs,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Kane said in the
statement. The restructure “will transform the group into an
organization that is more responsive to the realities of a
cyclical marketplace and one that remains competitive not just
during the cycle highs but when conditions are challenging, as
they have been for the past few years.”  Boral reported  net  income of A$177 million in the 12 months
ended June 30, compared with A$168 million a year earlier. The
group’s cement and construction materials divisions were hit by
“very weak” building activity and disruption from rainfall on
the nation’s east coast, to which the company responded by
closing some operations and selling others.  “Boral’s business model was built on a reasonably healthy
housing construction industry, with some tolerance to cyclical
moves, but not to the extent of the downturn in construction we
have seen,” Peter Esho, chief market analyst at  City Index .
Ltd. in Sydney, said in an e-mail. “The big share price gains
are perhaps overdone and this isn’t a sector of the market we’re
getting too excited about.”  2012 Rally  Boral shares surged 21 percent in 2012, and about 10
percent this year. That compares with a 15 percent gain in the
benchmark last year and a 1.9 percent increase in 2013.  About 200 of the redundancies at Boral announced today
occurred in late 2012, and most of the rest will be completed by
March, the company said. The company will see about A$37 million
in savings in fiscal year 2013, it said.  Mike Beardsell, divisional managing director for Boral’s
cement division and Building Products Managing Director Bryan Tisher will leave at the end of January as part of the
restructure, Boral said.  Operations Manager Ross Harper will expand his duties to
take over Beardsell’s responsibilities, and Darren Schulz will
become executive general manager of a smaller building products
division, it said.  Australian job advertisements dropped for a 10th month in
December, capping the worst skid since the 2009 global
recession, and economists forecast that a government report
tomorrow will likely show the  unemployment rate  rose to 5.4
percent in December from 5.2 percent.  Bluescope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s largest steelmaker, said
this week it will cut about 110 employees and 60 contractors in
the next few months, as it shrinks production amid weaker demand
for steel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  