-- Brazil Ethanol Output Seen Jumping 14% on Fuel Blend
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-16T15:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/brazil-ethanol-output-seen-jumping-14-on-fuel-blend.html
Ethanol output in  Brazil ’s Center
South, the world’s largest sugar-cane producing region, will
rise 14 percent this year as the government is set to boost the
mandatory amount of biofuel blended into gasoline, a major
producer said.  Mills will likely make 25 billion liters (6.6 billion
gallons) of ethanol from the coming sugar-cane crop, up from 22
billion last year, said miller Grupo Maubisa’s founder and chief
executive officer, Maurilio Biagi Filho, the world’s second-
biggest individual sugar-cane grower. Brazil is considering
raising the amount of ethanol mixed with gasoline to 25 percent
as early as May from 20 percent now, a government official
familiar with the plan said last month.  “We’ll produce more ethanol because of the increase in the
blend,” Biagi said in a telephone interview from Ribeirao Preto
yesterday. “The mixture is returning to the level of two years
ago.”  Center South mills will process 570 million metric tons of
cane in the harvest that starts in March, about 11 percent up
from a year earlier, Biagi said. Sugar output will likely match
production in the current season as mills turn more cane into
ethanol to meet rising demand, he said.  The higher cane production “will have to be transformed
into ethanol,” Biagi said. “There’s a lot of sugar supply so
the tendency will be that prices fall.”  Brazil is the world’s largest ethanol producer after the
U.S. Brazilian mills make the fuel from sugar cane, while U.S.
producers make it from corn.  Brazil’s Center South, which produces about 90 percent of
Brazil’s sugar and ethanol, made 34.1 million tons of sugar this
harvest, up 8.8 percent from the previous season, industry
association Unica said Jan. 10. The region’s sugar-cane crop
rose 7.7 percent to 531.3 million tons and ethanol output
climbed 3.6 percent to 21.3 billion liters.  Harvesting in the region usually runs from March to
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  