-- Brazil to Hold Key Rate as Inflation Quickens Amid Slow Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-01-17T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/brazil-holds-rate-steady-as-inflation-rises-amid-slow-growth-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
will keep borrowing costs at a  record low  this year as it tries
to manage faster inflation amid a slower than expected recovery.  The central bank board, led by Alexandre Tombini, kept the
benchmark  interest rate  at 7.25 percent for the second straight
meeting yesterday, matching the forecast of all 56 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. In the statement accompanying the
unanimous decision, policy makers reiterated that the best
strategy is to keep  monetary policy  conditions unchanged for a
“prolonged period.”  While inflation is slowing in Mexico and  Chile , price
pressures are building in Brazil as the government pumps demand
by reducing taxes and expanding credit amid record low
unemployment. At the same time, a contraction in investment and
industrial output is complicating President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
efforts to revive the slowest growth in three years.  The Selic rate “will stay unchanged the whole year,”
 Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Gradual Investimentos,
said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “The bank doesn’t have much room
to maneuver between a slow economy and rising inflation.”  Inflation in December accelerated more than economists’
estimates for the sixth straight month and ended 2012 at 5.84
percent, higher than the bank’s 4.5 percent target for the third
straight year.  The central bank ended the steepest rate-cutting cycle
among Group of 20 nations in November after adverse climate in
the U.S. and Brazil led to a jump in food prices.  Stagflation?  Policy makers forecast the world’s biggest emerging market
after China expanded 1 percent in 2012 or about half the pace of
the U.S and  Japan , according to Bloomberg surveys.  The bank, in its statement, said that the balance of risks
for inflation worsened in the short term at the same time that a
domestic recovery was “less intense” than expected.  “We have stagflation,”  John Welch , a strategist at  CIBC
World Markets  in Toronto, said after the decision. “They dug
themselves into a deep hole. Monetary policy doesn’t work when
you have expansive credit and fiscal policy.”  While Welch forecasts Tombini will be forced to raise
interest rates later this year, Fernando Fix, chief economist at
Votorantim Asset Management in Sao Paulo, agrees with Perfeito
that the bank won’t lift borrowing costs this year.  “It’s important that they signaled that inflation is only
worsening in the near term,” said Fix in a phone interview.
“That means they have no intentions of moving interest rates.”  Other Tools  With Tombini focused on keeping rates stable, policy makers
may use other tools to ease price pressures, said  Gustavo Rangel , chief Latin America economist for ING Bank NV. One
option is to allow the real to appreciate, he said, to avoid a
repeat of what happened last year when a 9 percent drop against
the dollar fueled inflation by boosting the cost of imports.  The real is the best-performing major currency in the past
six weeks, gaining 4.6 percent since the start of December.  Officials last month announced a new round of stimulus
measures, including lower  reserve requirements  for banks that
provide credit for investment in capital goods and a payroll tax
cut extension to several labor-intensive industries. In an end-
of-the-year speech, Rousseff urged businesses to take advantage
of the measures and boost investment.  Still, government actions have not yet won over investors,
and the lack of momentum from 2012 will hamper growth this year.  One bright spot is consumer demand, underpinned by record
low unemployment, though that plank is showing signs of weakness
too.   Retail sales  in November expanded 8.4 percent on an annual
basis, slower than the previous month.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar , the
country’s biggest retailer, is among companies that have seen
sales falter. Its shares fell the most in two months on Jan. 11
after the company reported slower fourth quarter sales at
supermarkets open at least a year.  “The backdrop to all this is that the economy is still not
doing all that well,”  Neil Shearing , chief  emerging markets 
economist at Capital Economics Ltd, said in a telephone
interview from  London  before yesterday’s decision. “Brazil is
going to need relatively difficult reforms to rebalance the
economy rather than just a bit of fiscal stimulus here, a few
interest rate cuts there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  