-- Bundesbank to Repatriate 674 Tons of Gold to Germany by 2020
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-01-16T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/bundesbank-to-repatriate-674-tons-of-gold-to-germany-by-2020.html
The Bundesbank will repatriate 674
metric tons of gold from vaults in Paris and  New York  by 2020 to
restore public confidence in the safety of  Germany ’s reserves.  The phased relocation of the gold, currently worth about 27
billion euros ($36 billion), will begin this year and result in
half of Germany’s reserves being stored in Frankfurt by the end
of the decade, the Bundesbank said in a statement today. It will
bring home all 374 tons of its gold held at the Banque de  France 
and a further 300 tons from the New York Federal Reserve, it
said. Holdings at the  Bank of England  will remain unchanged.  “With this new storage plan, the Bundesbank is focusing on
the two primary functions of the  gold reserves : to build trust
and confidence domestically, and the ability to exchange gold
for foreign currencies at gold trading centers abroad within a
short space of time,” the Bundesbank said. It said the complete
withdrawal of reserves from Paris reflects the fact that Germany
no longer depends on France as a financial center to exchange
gold because both nations use the euro.  Germany’s Audit Court sparked a debate about the country’s
gold reserves last year when it called on the Bundesbank to take
stock of its holdings abroad, saying their existence had never
been verified. German gold reserves, the second-largest in the
world after the U.S., amounted to 3,391 tons as of Dec. 31 and
were valued at 137.5 billion euros.  ‘A Lot of Emotion’  “In Germany, a lot of emotion is attached to the topic of
gold reserves,” Bundesbank board member Carl-Ludwig Thiele said
at a press conference in  Frankfurt . “The Bundesbank has managed
the gold reserves with great caution and will continue to do
so.”  The Bundesbank is negotiating auditing rights with its
partner central banks. Thiele said he visited all storage
locations last year and the returning gold will be examined. He
declined to comment on the cost of the transfers, saying only it
is “economically tolerable for the Bundesbank.”  While German gold is stored for free in New York and Paris,
the Bank of England charges between 500,000 euros and 550,000
euros a year.  Thiele said the decision to repatriate all German gold from
Paris “won’t cause any diplomatic problems” and that
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and his French counterpart
 Christian Noyer  had discussed the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  