-- Can These Two Determined Forces Stop the NRA?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-16T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/can-these-two-determined-forces-stop-the-nra-.html
After the slaughter last month of 20
schoolchildren at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown,  Connecticut ,
cynics said the response wouldn’t be any different from those to
the many mass killings that came before. After the tiny caskets
disappeared, so would the shock, the grief and the resolve.
Emotion, after all, is no match for the  National Rifle
Association .  What the cynics didn’t take into account is that Sandy Hook
changed the one person who matters more than almost any other:
the president. And he can count on the support of the one group
that has more authority than almost any other: the parents of
the children who died.  If  Bill Clinton  found his voice after the  Oklahoma City
bombing ,  Barack Obama  found his after the Newtown shootings. The
day he delivered his remarks at a memorial service there, Obama
had  sat in an empty theater , working on his speech and watching
the dress rehearsal of his daughter Sasha’s Christmas pageant,
which he would miss.  He was a father, not a president. He took Newtown to heart.
After mentioning guns only rarely in four years, he announced on
Jan. 16 the biggest battle against gun violence in decades. That
which he could do on his own by executive order, he would. The
rest of the fight he would take to Congress.  Easier Now  Of course, taking on the gun lobby isn’t exactly
courageous. The public is on the side of more regulation:
 According to  a recent Washington Post-ABC News poll, 88 percent
of respondents favor background checks on people buying guns at
gun shows, 76 percent support checks on buyers of ammunition,
and 71 percent back a new federal database that would track all
gun sales. Some 65 percent also support banning high-capacity
magazines.  When will it dawn on the majority of the nonviolent
millions that just because our politicians do, we ourselves
don’t have to stand helpless at the savage slaying of
schoolchildren? Life doesn’t go on for them. It shouldn’t be the
same for us.  We’ve conceded so much to the NRA largely because cowardly
members of Congress have. If you’re a lobbying group and can
plausibly threaten a single member of Congress with defeat,
hordes of others will cower in fear -- and that includes
Democrats. The most intense emotion in Congress right now isn’t
remorse over the lost children but fear of losing your seat.  Maybe the president could garner some support among members
of Congress by showing them that support of reasonable
regulation may help them stay in office. He has a vaunted
political organization that is at least the equal of the NRA.
Promise to mobilize it to save those who vote for his proposal.
Split the NRA leadership from its members, the way workers were
separated from union bosses. Make the NRA even more Republican
and rural, and increasingly marginalized. Defeating a
congressman because he supported gun regulation should be like
defeating someone because he supported seatbelts or a smoking
ban on airplanes.  The Founders had gun laws so intrusive that, were they
running for office today, the NRA wouldn’t endorse them. Gun
ownership was denied to slaves, free blacks, and any white man
who refused to swear loyalty to the Revolution. Those given
ownership had to report for frequent musters of the citizen
militias, at which their guns were inspected.  And these were muskets, not Bushmaster rifles. Even Supreme
Court Justice  Antonin Scalia , in  affirming  the individual right
to bear arms under the Second Amendment, noted that there is
considerable room to regulate that right.  Too Cool  Before the president announced his actions, the NRA
released an ad that targeted his daughters, whose school has
armed guards -- the implication being that the president doesn’t
want your children to be as safe as his. This is one of those
moments to wish that the cool Obama could be more like hot-
tempered New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie . When a voter once
asked Christie where his children went to school, he shot back:
“None of your business.”  Fortunately, there are many more parents (about 149
million) than NRA members (about 4.3 million). Obama should pack
the gallery at next month’s  State of the Union  with parents who
have lost children to gun violence. He should keep their sons
and daughters vivid in our memories, as he did at this week’s
announcement, with stories about their passions for painting and
bike-riding. He should campaign for gun control the way he did
for health-care reform.  The bereaved parents of Sandy Hook have joined together as
a group called Sandy Hook Promise. At its founding, David
Wheeler asked, “What is it worth doing to keep a child safe?” On
Dec. 14, the Wheelers lost their 6-year-old son Benjamin. In the
immediate aftermath, Wheeler and his wife comforted their
surviving son, Nate, with the assurance they would do anything
to protect him -- and then realized they should make the same
promise to Ben.  Like other children that day at Sandy Hook, Ben probably
thought that Mom or Dad would be there any moment to rescue
him. The least the rest of us can do is be there now.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 