-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Questions Arise on Global Easing
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-16T22:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/canadian-dollar-falls-as-questions-arise-on-global-easing.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
most of its major peers as government officials in  Russia  and
 Japan  criticized monetary policies that have devalued major
currencies in an attempt to spark economic growth.  It dropped the most in a week against its U.S. counterpart
as a Russian central bank official warned the world is on the
brink of a “currency war” after the Japanese economy minister
said yesterday currency weakness sparked by central-bank policy
could hurt consumers. Stocks fluctuated while a government
report showed inflation in U.S. was unchanged last month.  Financial markets “are trading with a negative risk tone,
so that’s helping to weigh on the Canadian dollar,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities by phone from Toronto. “If we look at the last two
to three months, the correlation with the Canadian dollar and
risk assets has tightened and equities are pretty flat today.”  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, declined 0.2 percent to 98.59
cents per U.S. dollar at 5:05 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
$1.0143.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.9
percent to $94.16 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of stocks was little changed after falling as much as 0.3
percent.  Options Prices  Options traders are almost the least bearish on the
Canadian dollar as they’ve been in two years. The three-month
so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate, which measures the
premium charged for the right to buy the U.S. dollar against the
loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at 0.8 percent today,
close to the 0.7 percent level touched Dec. 12 that was the
lowest since November 2010.  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose, with yields falling
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.89 percent. The
2.75 percent note due in June 2022 rose 16 cents to $107.36.  The Bank of Canada sold C$3.3 billion ($3.4 billion) of
two-year notes at an average yield of 1.201 percent. The central
bank received bids totaling C$9.02 billion for the 1 percent
notes maturing in May 2015.  The Canadian dollar fell after Alexei Ulyukayev, first
deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank, said Japan’s policy of
weakening the yen may prompt other countries to do the same,
sparking a currency war. Jean-Claude Juncker, prime minister of
Luxembourg and chair of the Group of 20, complained the euro was
“dangerously high” yesterday and Norwegian Finance Minister
Sigbjoern Johnsen said a strong krone challenges the economy.  European Central Bank policy maker Ewald Nowotny said the
euro exchange rate is “not a major concern.”  Currency Views  “The volatility comes on the back of the rhetoric that’s
coming primarily from  Europe , but even before that from Asia,”
said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at the
 National Bank of Canada (NA)  by phone from Toronto. “Juncker’s
comments, Nowotny’s comments yesterday and overnight are
creating volatility in the intraday market from a euro
perspective and it’s affecting a number of currencies, not least
of which is the Canadian dollar.”  A reading of the cost of living in the U.S. was little
changed in December, indicating the U.S. economy is not growing
fast enough to spark fears of inflation.  The German government cut its growth forecast for Europe’s
biggest economy on cooling demand for exports. German  gross
domestic product  growth will slow to 0.4 percent this year from
0.7 percent in 2012, the  Economy Ministry  said in its annual
report, compared with a previous forecast for 1 percent
expansion.  “To some extent, there was a bit of intention to bring
down the strength of the euro,” TD’s Issa said. “Just looking
at the euro in general, it’s appreciated quite a bit and just
looking at the fundamentals in terms of the economy there it
doesn’t necessarily warrant such a strong currency.”  The loonie has fallen 1.3 percent during the past six
months versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has gained 4.5 percent
while the greenback has dropped 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  