-- Canada Said to Include External Candidates in Bank Head Search
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-01-16T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/canada-said-to-include-external-candidates-in-bank-head-search.html
Stephen Harper ’s government will
examine a broad pool of candidates to replace  Mark Carney  as
 Bank of Canada  Governor, and won’t let a tight timeframe deter
it from looking beyond internal candidates such as Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem, according to a person with knowledge of
the process.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  issued  a statement  today
saying he will be directly involved in the process to replace
Carney before his June 1 departure. A second person with
knowledge of the process said the comments were meant to
emphasize the government’s role in selecting a new Bank of
Canada chief. Both people declined to be identified because the
process is private.  The government should be “looking for a personality type
and a set of intellectual skills that are not necessarily
identified with a particular career path,” said Brian Lee Crowley, who runs the Macdonald-Laurier Institute, an Ottawa-
based independent research organization, and who helped lead a
private policy forum attended by Flaherty. “We are no longer
thinking who’s followed the right steps along their career
within an institution.”  The 12 outside directors on the bank’s board started the
official job search earlier this month, placing an  advertisement 
in newspapers. The directors “will then recommend a roster of
qualified candidates to the Minister for him to interview,”
Flaherty said in the statement. While Macklem, 51, has been the
unanimous choice of economists and analysts asked about the
appointment, the previous two selections passed over the senior
deputies who had been seen as favorites.  ‘Past Precedents’  “You can’t rule out the two past precedents that have been
set to bypass the second-in-charge,” said  Derek Holt , vice-
president of economics at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto. “If
they truly wished continuity, Tiff Macklem is the odds-on
favorite.”  Whoever takes over when Carney leaves June 1 to lead the
 Bank of England  must guide the world’s 11th largest economy
through a sluggish expansion threatened by weak exports and
record consumer debts. Carney and Macklem have kept the bank’s
 policy interest rate  at 1 percent since September 2010, the
longest pause since the 1950s, and have said since April that
borrowing costs may rise.  The job has a seven-year renewable term and the salary
range for last year was C$431,800 ($438,000) to C$507,900. The
advertisement called for “unquestioned technical competence”
in monetary policy, and the last three governors have had a
doctorate in economics. It also says the position requires “a
highly developed understanding of the financial sector, both
institutions and markets,” as well as “exceptional
communications skills” and ability in both English and French.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  