-- Canadian Crude Weakens as Pipelines Stretched by Rising Output
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-01-16T20:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/canadian-crude-weakens-as-pipelines-stretched-by-rising-output.html
Canadian crudes weakened as the
prospect of rising oil production from new projects threatened
to worsen congestion on the country’s oil-export pipelines.  Production from  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ’s 110,000-barrel-a-day
Kearl oil-sands mine is expected to start this winter, and
several other expansions in  Alberta  are expected this spring.  Syncrude, a synthetic light crude produced from bitumen,
fell $1.05 a barrel to 15-cents above U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.  Rising production from Alberta oil sands and Bakken shale
wells has filled pipelines from  Canada  to the Midwest. Last
week,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  cut space by 10 percent on two export
pipelines out of Alberta carrying as much as 1.25 million
barrels a day because of power outages and equipment failures.  Several Enbridge lines between the terminal in Superior,
Wisconsin, and refineries near Chicago and Sarnia, Ontario, are
filled to their limits this month, as rapidly increasing
production from the Bakken joined the cramped  system .  North Dakota ’s Bakken fields  produced  747,239 barrels a day
during October, up 37 percent from the start of last year,
according to the North Dakota Pipeline Authority.  Western Canada Select, a benchmark for heavy oil-sands
bitumen, declined 25 cents to a $37-a-barrel discount to WTI.  Pipeline congestion, plus the delay of a coker conversion
at BP Plc’s 420,000-barrel-a-day  refinery  in Whiting,  Indiana ,
pushed Western Canada Select down to a record discount of $42.50
a barrel below WTI on Dec. 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. During the fourth quarter, WCS sold at an average
discount of $26.87 below WTI, compared with $12.48 below a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  