-- Suncor Weighing Spending Cuts on Oil Discount: Corporate
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-16T21:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/canadian-energy-companies-weighing-cuts-on-oil-discount.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  is considering
making an C$11.6 billion ($11.8 billion) oil-sands project the
first major spending reduction among Alberta energy producers as
the region’s crude prices sink to the lowest in the world.  The oil-sands benchmark, West  Canada  Select, traded at a
 record  $42.50 a barrel less than U.S. crude on Dec. 14. Canadian
companies are forgoing about C$2.5 billion a month because of
the lower prices, according to an estimate by Houston-based
investment bank PPHB Securities LP. The discount has helped
erode Canadian oil profits and hurt companies’ shares.  Lowering production costs is one of the few options
available for producers facing shrinking commodity prices, said
Barry Munro, Canada oil and gas leader at Ernst & Young LLP in
Calgary.  “This year will challenge  oil-sands  companies,” Munro
said in a Jan. 3 telephone interview. “Most executives are
coming back to work focused on how to manage a margin that has
been severely depressed. That means better cost management.”  Canadian heavy oil is being discounted because of a lack of
pipeline capacity to ship increasing volumes of crude to higher-
paying markets. The decline has been exacerbated by surging U.S.
production from reserves such as the Bakken field in  North
Dakota  and falling demand as vehicles become more fuel
efficient.  Steam Tar  Companies have already begun to decrease investment.
Suncor, Canada’s largest energy producer by market value, last
month reduced its annual  capital spending  plan to C$7.3 billion
for 2013 from an estimate of C$7.5 billion on Nov. 1.  Cenovus
Energy Inc. (CVE)  said on Dec. 12 that  cash flow  this year will be as
low as C$3.1 billion, compared with 2012 guidance of C$3.7
billion, because of lower prices, while  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  expects to reduce spending on its thermal-sands
production, a process that warms up bitumen underground.  Canadian Natural, Suncor, Cenovus and  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  are
among the largest companies that scrape and steam tar-like
bitumen from the sub-Arctic reaches of northern Canada. The oil-
sands bitumen is then put through machines called upgraders to
separate out the sand.  Suncor has said it plans to decide the fate of the Voyageur
upgrader project, a joint venture with  France ’s Total SA that
would process  269,000 barrels  a day of bitumen, by the end of
March. The company is also reviewing its Fort Hills and Joslyn
oil-sands projects, Suncor Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said on a conference call on Nov. 1.  Suncor Options  “It is possible for them to go either together as part of
a sequence or for them to be split apart and for one to go and
one not to go. All of those options are possible,” Williams
said.  Sneh Seetal, a Suncor spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to calls seeking comment. Alishia Paradis, a spokeswoman
for Canadian Natural, declined to comment. Pius Rolheiser, an
Imperial Oil spokesman, declined to comment ahead of the
company’s 2012 earnings report.  Suncor’s adjusted per-share earnings fell 9.4 percent in
2012 to C$3.27 and will remain little changed this year,
according to the average of 19  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Canadian Natural may report adjusted profit of C$1.62
a share for 2012, a 30 percent decline from 2011, according to
the average of 20 estimates.  ‘Train Wreck’  “I can’t envision somebody shutting down existing
operations in the oil sands,” said Allen Brooks, managing
director at PPHB Securities LP. “Might the trucks go a little
slower? Maybe. Might they not complete a few wells, that’s the
kind of thing. It’s more at the margin.”  Shares of Canadian  oil producers shrank  last year. The
S&P/TSX Energy  Index (SPTSX)  fell 3.6 percent compared with a gain of 4
percent on the broader S&P/TSX Composite Index in 2012. Canadian
Natural fell 25 percent while Suncor bucked the trend, rising 11
percent last year.  Suncor  fell  0.3 percent to C$33.83 at the close in Toronto,
while Canadian Natural dropped 1.2 percent to C$28.74.  “The revolution in domestic production in the U.S. is
obviously a train wreck for most Canadian producers, compounded
by the gridlock in pipeline approval,” Chris Damas, an
 investment adviser  at BCMI Research in Barrie, Ontario, said in
an e-mail. “I don’t think this has sunk in for most retail, and
many institutional investors.”  Pipeline Opposition  Canadian producers are encouraging the construction of new
pipelines to reach coastal refineries and overseas markets and
relieve a glut of supply that has constrained prices.
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline to the the U.S. Gulf
Coast and  Enbridge Inc.’s (ENB)  Northern Gateway project to the
Pacific Coast have faced delays because of environmental
opposition.  The main U.S. oil grade is also trading lower than global
benchmark Brent, due to record production in the country and a
lack of pipeline capacity to the coasts. That discount is poised
to remain “for years,” keeping a lid on  oil prices  in Canada
that track New York-traded West Texas Intermediate, and
encouraging Calgary-based producers to lower spending, said
Robert Mark, director and equities analyst at MacDougall,
MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which has C$2.5 billion
under management.  Brent oil ended the session at $110.61 a barrel today, West
Texas Intermediate closed at $94.24, while West Canada Select
was at $57.36.  Capital Allocation  “The big companies, when they’re looking at their capital
spending for the next number of years, they’re realizing this
WTI-Brent discount is not going away and they have to be
conscientious with their investors about how they allocate their
capital,” Mark said.  Companies with international operations may shift spending
to operations that fetch global crude prices, such as Exxon
Mobil Corp.’s decision on Jan. 4 to proceed with developing the
$14 billion Hebron oil project off the coast of Newfoundland and
Labrador, Mark said.  Canadian heavy crude’s discount will affect some companies,
including Canadian Natural and  Baytex Energy Corp. (BTE) , “quite
substantially,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage C$2.7
billion at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  “The nitty-gritty is it’s going to impact quite a few
producers in the quarter and through the second quarter,”
Stephenson, who owns shares of both companies, said by phone.
“It’s a huge buying opportunity. These names are dirt cheap and
this is going to be one of those great themes for energy in 2013
is just how much that gap closes from its historically high
ratio.”  Narrowing Gap  Canada exported C$68.3 billion worth of oil products in
2011, more than the nation’s other main products including
vehicles, logs and metals.  Upgrades that will allow the biggest refinery in the U.S.
Midwest, BP Plc’s facility in Whiting,  Indiana , to take Canadian
heavy crude are soon scheduled to be complete and new pipeline
capacity to the U.S. Gulf Coast is being added, Stephenson said,
predicting the gap between Canadian crude and the U.S. benchmark
is set to start narrowing.  Canada’s heavy oil will probably face even steeper
discounts in the first half of the year before the differential
narrows, PPHB’s Brooks said.  “What you’ve got is this confluence of a weak economy here
in the U.S. and continued production growth putting a squeeze on
the U.S. market,” Brooks said. “Canada becomes, to some
degree, the odd man out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  