-- Carrara Marble Peaks as Russians Follow Etruscans: Commodities
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-01-16T17:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/carrara-marble-peaks-as-russians-follow-etruscans-commodities.html
Marble has been mined from the hills
near Carrara in Tuscany for more than 2,000 years. The local
stone, prized for its delicate veining pattern, was used to
build the Pantheon in ancient  Rome  and Florence’s cathedral.  Today, the richest Russians, Indians and Chinese are buying
the world’s most expensive marbles for gem-encrusted fireplaces
and kitchen worktops. Demand has tripled in five years and
prices, set for individual pieces of rock depending on hardness
and color, are rising about 7 percent a year and can be as high
as a record 2,300 euros ($2,970) a square meter, traders said.  “It’s more than just bathrooms,” said Alexander Kokorin,
commercial director of KAM, a supplier of marble and other
stones in Moscow’s suburbs. “People buy marble to decorate
rooms, wall, floors, fireplaces. Hammams have become popular,”
he said, describing a fashion for Turkish-style steam rooms.  Marble prices are outstripping the global commodities
market where the S&P GSCI Total Return Index, which includes
oil, wheat and copper, ended 2012 little changed after declining
more than 30 percent in the past five years. The divergence
illustrates growing spending by the wealthiest consumers even as
the world economy struggles to recover. The global luxury goods
industry, including home furnishings, grew 10 percent in 2012 to
$280 billion,  according to Bain & Co.   The GSCI Total Return Index has gained 0.9 percent so far
this year.  The Carrara region, located north of the Tuscan port of
Lucca, has been supplying the world’s aristocracy with top-notch
marble since the  Etruscan period  that preceded the Roman empire,
said Paola Blasi, a geologist at Carrara Marmotec, which
organizes  Italy ’s biggest marble trade fair. Michelangelo
sculpted his 5-meter-high (16-foot) David from a block of local
marble.  Small Quarries  “We are very lucky here in Carrara to be walking on these
beautiful stones,” Blasi said in a telephone interview. “They
are practically everywhere. We can go for a very long time.”  Still, only limited amounts of the stone are being mined --
the most prized type of Carrara marble, Calacatta, comes from
two small quarries -- so growing demand from the rich in places
like Russia and  India  has shielded the high-end marble industry
from the global financial crisis.  “Our main customers -- Brazilians, Indians, Chinese and
Russians -- want only the absolutely best stones,” said
Alessandra Budri, whose company makes luxury interiors for
clients including fashion house  Louis Vuitton (MC) , Russian
billionaires and five-star hotel chains. “There are so many
very rich people that, despite the economic crisis, demand for
high-end marble tripled in the past five years.”  Lapis Lazuli  Budri, who runs Budri SpA with her husband, said there’s a
particular fashion for using precious stones including onyx,
lapis lazuli or emerald to encrust marble features.  Bianco Statutario, a prized white marble from the Carrara
region, can cost as much as 635 euros a slab, according to Rudy
Altafini, export director at Marmi Corradini Group SpA. Nero
Portoro, the Italian granite with white and yellow veins, can
range from 435 euros to 2,300 euros. Marble typically trades in
polished 2 centimeter-thick slabs of one square meter, he said.  While high-end marble prices are rising, the opposite is
true for less prized varieties of rock used in interior design
such as granite. Countries like  Brazil ,  Turkey ,  China  and India
have started mining them in large quantities and flooded the
market, stone traders said. Granite and less exclusive marbles
are available in many countries in the world.  Price War  “You could say there’s a price war for these products
because the market is shrinking, especially in  Europe , but also
in the U.S.,” said Altafini. “Italy was traditionally the
strongest developer of stone, but now many countries are
producing the less noble varieties because they bought machinery
and learned the technology.”  Prices of the more precious marble varieties, on the other
hand, are unlikely to come down anytime soon, Budri said. As for
the semi-precious and precious stones her company uses for
inlays, demand for onyx, lapis lazuli or emerald has quadrupled
and prices of some of these commodities have doubled in the past
five years, she said.  Her customers include a co-owner of a major Russian airport
who renovated villas in  Israel  and Miami as well as an apartment
in New York. Budri has also been also commissioned to decorate
Louis Vuitton shops in Kuwait City,  Venice  and Rome.  “Arab and Russian customers are especially demanding,”
said Altafini. “If they like something they don’t even look at
the price, they just come and pay with hard cash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  