-- Chevron Subpoenas in Ecuador Suit Challenged in Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-17T01:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/chevron-subpoenas-in-ecuador-suit-challenged-in-california-1-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which faces a $19
billion damage award in an  Ecuador  environmental case, shouldn’t
be allowed to obtain information about the e-mail accounts of
lawyers, activists and scholars in contact with plaintiff
attorneys, a privacy rights group told a judge.  Marcia Hofmann, an attorney for the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, asked U.S. Magistrate Judge Nathanael Cousins in San
Francisco today to block Chevron subpoenas, saying that free
speech and privacy rights are at stake. She alleged that the
company is trying to harass and intimidate activists associated
with the legal effort to hold Chevron responsible for
environmental damage in the Amazon basin.  “These people feel intimidated by this,” said Hofmann,
who’s trying to shield the identity of people she refers to as
“John Does” from Chevron in records it seeks from Google Inc.
and Yahoo Inc. “They’re all engaged in political activity, and
it’s public criticism against Chevron.”  Chevron is seeking information about when and where people
logged into e-mail accounts, not the content of e-mails, to use
as evidence in its racketeering lawsuit against Steven Donziger,
the lead U.S. legal adviser for the Ecuador plaintiffs, said
 Theodore Boutrous , Chevron’s lawyer. The San Ramon, California-
based company alleges Donziger and others improperly influenced
a court expert in the case and committed fraud to win the
damages award.  ‘Innocent Bystanders’  The fight over the subpoenas isn’t a free-speech battle,
Boutrous said. Rather than “innocent bystanders,” the “John
Does” were part of the “pressure campaign” against Chevron
and their e-mail activity might provide proof of how the
plaintiff lawyers funneled information to the Ecuador judge and
ghost-wrote his decision against Chevron, Boutrous told Cousins.  “We know who every one of these people are,” Boutrous
said. “We allege some of them at least, many of them, were part
of the scheme, wittingly or unwittingly.”  Donziger denies wrongdoing and the oil company is attacking
him to avoid responsibility for the damages and trying to
intimidate people who it thinks don’t have the resources to
fight back, Karen Hinton, a spokeswoman for the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs, said in an e-mail today.  Cousins said the underlying case, which is being litigated
in several countries and is the subject of international
arbitration, involves political issues. He questioned whether
there should be heightened concern about free speech rights.  ‘Contract Dispute’  “This is not a run-of-the-mill contract dispute,” Cousins
told Boutrous. “I’m not sure I agree with your assessment”
that the case is about something “agnostic and commercial.
Isn’t this a political case?” He didn’t say when he would rule.  The damages against Chevron were awarded in 2011 by a
provincial judge in Ecuador in a lawsuit brought by villagers
who said the company was responsible for toxic pollution from
oil drilling by Texaco Inc., which Chevron acquired in 2001.
Chevron, the world’s fourth largest oil company, says it cleaned
up its portion of the region and was released by the Ecuadorean
government from future damage claims.  The company has no assets in Ecuador; the plaintiffs have
gone to court in  Canada ,  Brazil  and  Argentina  to seize Chevron
funds.  The case is Chevron v. Donziger, 12-80237, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  