-- Chicken Wing Demand to Hold After Super Bowl: Koch Foods
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-16T18:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/chicken-wing-demand-to-hold-after-super-bowl-koch-foods.html
Chicken wing prices will rise at
least 2 percent before the Super Bowl next month and demand will
hold steady after the U.S. football season ends, Koch Foods Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Joe Grendys said.  The price will top $2 a pound by the Feb. 3 game, and some
spot loads of wings are already trading at that level, said
Grendys, head of the fourth-largest U.S. chicken processor
number of birds processed in 2012.  The benchmark Urner-Barry price for regular wings today
reached a record $1.97 a pound, said Russell Whitman, vice
president of Urner-Barry Publications Inc.’s poultry division.  “Wing demand is off the charts,” Grendys said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The closely held Park Ridge,
Illinois-based company is not affiliated with Wichita, Kansas-
based Koch Industries. “I don’t see a big drop off in demand
after the Super Bowl.” In the months after the football season,
he said the price will be $1.75 to $2 a pound.  While wing consumption peaks during Super Bowl weekend, the
dish has become increasingly popular year-round, Grendys said.
Demand has been bolstered over the last decade by the rising
number of restaurants with menus dedicated to wings or including
them on the menu, he said.  Buffalo Wild Wings Inc. (BWLD)  anticipates increasing locations in
North America to 1,000 by the end of this year, up from 876
company-owned and franchise restaurants, the Minneapolis-based
chain said last month. Most recently,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the
world’s largest fast food chain, said it is testing them in
Chicago locations.  “It’s a finger food appetizer that is fun,” Grendys said.
“It’s the hip thing to do.”  ‘Affordable Luxuries’  After the Super Bowl, the delayed hockey season this year
and the NCAA’s March Madness games will provide a number of
occasions for sports fans to eat wings at home or at
restaurants, said William Roenigk, senior vice president of the
National Chicken Council.  “It’s one of those affordable luxuries,” he said. “There
is a more consistent level of demand for wings throughout the
year, but not taking anything away from the Super Bowl
weekend.”  While restaurants may reduce the number of wing items on
menus with prices close to a record, they won’t eliminate them
completely, Roenigk said.  The concept started in 1964 in Buffalo, New York, and has
become a staple on menus. About 3.2 percent of all dinner orders
in U.S. restaurants include wings, compared with 1.9 percent in
1995, according to Harry Balzer, vice president of the NPD
Group, a market research firm. Americans like finding new ways
to eat chicken and wings offer an opportunity to explore new
flavors through a familiar food, Balzer.  “It’s found a place in our lives,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  