-- Chilean Inflation-Linked Yields Fall; Peso Little Changed
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-16T21:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/chilean-peso-drops-in-longest-stretch-of-losses-since-november.html
Chilean inflation-linked bond yields
fell to the lowest in six weeks on speculation that rising
commodity prices would push up prices for imports.  Two-year inflation-linked bond yields fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.75 percent today, the
lowest since November. Two-year breakeven inflation rose to a
three-month high of 2.77 percent. Breakeven inflation, which is
derived from the yield gap between fixed-rate and inflation-
linked bonds, is an indication of traders’ expectations for the
future pace of price increases.  “We’re seeing a pick-up in inflation and demand for
deposits in unidades de fomento,”  Chile ’s inflation-linked
accounting unit, said Sebastian Ide, head of trading at Banco de
Chile in Santiago. “There is continued pressure from oil and
this year has been good for commodities like rice and cotton.”  Chile’s state-owned oil refiner, Empresa Nacional del
Petroleo, today announced that wholesale premium gasoline prices
for the seven days starting tomorrow will be 0.5 percent higher
than the current week. The price of premium gasoline has already
risen 6.3 percent since Dec. 26, according to the refiner.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil held near its highest
since September. Chile relies on imports for almost all its oil
and gas needs.  Chilean inflation slowed last month to 1.5 percent, the
lowest since June 2010.  The peso was little changed at 474.98 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Santiago.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
maintained their short peso position at $3 billion on Jan. 14,
close to the 16-month low reached Jan. 13. Local investors had a
$13.3 billion long peso position, the smallest since October
2011. A short is a bet an asset will decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  