-- China MediaExpress a Fraud, Hong Kong Arbitration Rules
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-01-16T01:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/china-mediaexpress-a-fraud-hong-kong-arbitration-rules.html
China MediaExpress Holdings Inc.,
which obtained a U.S. stock listing without an initial public
offering by buying a listed company, was a fraudulent
enterprise, a Hong Kong arbitration panel ruled, awarding Starr
International Co. as much as $77 million in damages.  Starr, a firm run by former  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, sued
China MediaExpress, or CME, and its auditor  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu  in  Delaware  in 2011, claiming Starr was fradulently
induced into investing in the Chinese company, whose shares have
been delisted.  CME’s founding shareholders were ordered by the three-
member panel to pay Starr the funds for not honoring an
agreement to buy back its stake, according to its Dec. 19
ruling, which was submitted as evidence yesterday in Starr’s
Delaware lawsuit. The panel rejected the Chinese company’s
claims that its video advertisement display business was
destroyed by short sellers.  “I think it’s a very major event in the larger landscape
because with all the controversy involving Chinese reverse-
merger companies, and their auditors, there’s been no finding of
liability” until now, Lee Wolosky, a partner at Boies, Schiller
& Flexner LLP in New York, who is representing Starr, said
yesterday.  SEC Investigations  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has
deregistered the securities of almost 50 companies and filed
fraud cases against more than 40 issuers and executives as part
of its investigation into the non-U.S. based firms. Many of them
entered U.S. capital markets through reverse mergers, in which a
closely held firm buys a shell company already public on an
exchange, allowing them to list shares without the scrutiny of a
public offering.  Wolosky said the  Hong Kong  award should assist Starr with
its lawsuit in Delaware against parties including Deloitte.  Wilfred Lee, a Deloitte spokesman in Hong Kong, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment. Deloitte resigned
as CME’s auditor in March 2011, saying it was no longer able to
rely on representations of management.  An e-mail to CME’s investor relations department was
returned as undelivered.  CME was among the Chinese companies accused by  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC of financial irregularities. CME shares
plunged 93 percent in five months after Block’s February 2011
report accused the company of manipulating its financial
statements.  Chinese Hollywood  CME had claimed in the arbitration proceedings that Starr’s
investment was used in a deal intended to create the biggest
television and film production center in southeast  China ,
according to the panel’s ruling.  Zheng Cheng, CME’s founder and chairman, had compared it to
a Chinese version of Hollywood, according to the ruling.  “Cheng was such an unreliable witness that no credence can
be given to this explanation,” the panel said in the ruling.  The Hong Kong arbitration case is Between Starr Investments
Cayman II Inc. and Zheng Cheng, Ou Wen Lin, Qingping Lin.
HKIAC/A11098. Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre. The
Delaware case is Starr Investments Cayman II Inc. v. China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. 11-233. U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in  New York  at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  