-- China Seen Boosting Purchases of Soybeans as Feed Demand Expands
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-16T10:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/china-seen-boosting-purchases-of-soybeans-as-feed-demand-expands.html
Crushers in  China , the world’s
biggest buyer of soybeans, boosted purchases last week as rising
demand for livestock feed increased profits from processing,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Companies ordered 30 cargoes from the U.S. or South
America, the equivalent of about 1.8 million metric tons,
according to the median of estimates from five crushers and one
researcher compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a usual
weekly average of 10 cargoes to 20 cargoes, respondents said.  China canceled 1.16 million tons of shipments since Dec.
18, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , which
increased concern consumption may be slowing. Fresh purchases by
China, which buys more than 60 percent of globally traded beans,
suggest demand is recovering as U.S. supplies decline.  “Traders are securing more shipments for the next two
months” because of the looming shortage in supplies and limited
loading capacity in South America, said Monica Tu, analyst at
 Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co., who took part in the survey.  Consumption of soybean meal in China is increasing as
farmers fatten hogs before the Lunar New Year festival in
February when pork demand rises, Tu said from Shanghai
yesterday. Stockpiles of soybeans in the U.S, the biggest
producer last year, were 1.966 billion bushels on Dec. 1, 17
percent less than a year earlier, according to the USDA.  Crush margins are improving as lower-priced shipments
bought in December arrived, said Tu. Crushers can lock in
profits of about 200  yuan  ($32) on each ton of soybeans they
process in the next two months, she said.  The cancellations reported by the USDA may have been done
to influence the market or shift the origin of supply to  South
America , Tu said, citing her conversations with traders.
“China’s soybean demand remains good,” she said.  China imported 5.89 million tons of soybeans in December,
the most since June 2010, according to  customs  data compiled by
Bloomberg. Imports in the year through Sept. 30 may gain 6.4
percent to 63 million tons, the USDA forecast Jan. 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  