-- Chipotle Falls After Preliminary Earnings Trail Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-16T21:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/chipotle-falls-after-preliminary-earnings-trail-estimates.html
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  fell the
most in almost three months after reporting preliminary fourth-
quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The shares  dropped  5.5 percent to $280.94 at the close in
 New York  for the biggest decline since Oct. 19. Chipotle
declined 12 percent last year, the fifth-worst performance in
the Russell 3000 Restaurants Index.  Food costs rose faster than the company expected, signaling
the need to raise prices, according to John Glass, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley in  Boston . The burrito seller is up against
increasing competition from rivals including  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s
Taco Bell, which is selling a more premium line of food called
Cantina Bell.  “Chipotle still has unused pricing power,” Glass wrote
today in a note. He rates the shares as equal weight, the
equivalent of a hold recommendation.  Profit in the quarter ended Dec. 31 may be $1.92 to $1.97 a
share, the Denver-based restaurant chain said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts projected $2.09, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Raising prices may be hampered by “the difficult external
consumer environment,” Andy Barish, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in  San Francisco , wrote today in a note. He rates Chipotle
as underperform, the equivalent of a sell recommendation.  High Valuation  Yesterday, the Chipotle also said it was planning to add
catering services to its stores in the U.S. to help boost
revenue.  David Einhorn , head of Greenlight Capital Inc., said in
October that Chipotle’s valuation is too high and the company
will face challenges from Taco Bell. He recommended selling the
stock short, referring to the practice of borrowing shares and
selling them, with the goal of profiting by repurchasing them
later at a lower price.  Chipotle, which has more than 1,400 locations, opened its
first Asian-themed restaurant in 2011 called ShopHouse in
 Washington  and is expanding the brand to the West Coast.
ShopHouse diners move along a service line and customize their
food when ordering, similar to Chipotle stores.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  