-- Citgo to Settle New Hampshire Gas-Additive Lawsuit
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/citgo-said-to-settle-new-hampshire-gas-additive-suit.html
Citgo Petroleum Corp. reached an
agreement with  New Hampshire  to be dismissed from an $816
million trial over groundwater contamination while a settlement
is completed, as a witness testified that 2 percent of the
state’s private wells are polluted with hazardous levels of the
chemical MTBE.  “The parties stipulate that Citgo Petroleum shall be
severed from the above captioned case until such time as a
consent agreement between Citgo and the state is filed with the
court,” the parties said in a court filing dated Jan. 15 and
signed by Nate Eimer, a lawyer for Citgo, and New Hampshire
Assistant Attorney General Mary E. Maloney.  Under the agreement, the parties have until Feb. 15 to
complete an accord before Citgo is reinstated to the case,
unless they agree to an extension. Yesterday, a person familiar
with the matter said Citgo and New Hampshire reached a deal over
claims the  oil company  polluted the state’s water with MTBE, a
gasoline additive. The person asked not to be identified because
the matter isn’t public. Citgo’s lawyers didn’t appear in court
yesterday as the trial resumed.  New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver approved
the motion yesterday to sever Citgo from the case.  A settlement would leave  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  as the last
defendant in the state’s lawsuit alleging  oil companies  knew the
chemical would contaminate groundwater. New Hampshire’s suit is
one of scores of cases involving MTBE, or methyl tertiary butyl
ether, filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers. A trial of the case began Jan. 14.  Market Share  The state is seeking damages from the companies based on
their market share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the
period covered by the lawsuit.  New Hampshire said Citgo’s market share during that time
ranged from 3.1 percent to 8.7 percent. Based on the state’s
estimated cost of $816 million to clean up the contamination, it
could be seeking between $25 million and $71 million from Citgo.  The New Hampshire attorney general’s office declined to
comment on specific terms of any proposed settlement.  Fernando Garay , a spokesman for Citgo, declined to comment on the matter.  Asked about a possible settlement of its case, ExxonMobil
spokeswoman Claire Hassett said, “Nothing has happened that
would change our approach to this litigation.”  Federal Regulations  The state contends that the oil companies knew MTBE
presented a risk of groundwater contamination when they decided
to use it. ExxonMobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the country’s state-owned oil
company, have argued that they were complying with federal
regulations that pre-empt state law, and that the additive,
meant to make gasoline burn more thoroughly and thus reduce air
pollution, never caused any New Hampshire resident to become
ill.  In 2003, New Hampshire sued ExxonMobil and Citgo along with
Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Vitol SA and Hess Corp. All had settled before this week’s trial
began, except Irving, Texas-based ExxonMobil and Citgo. Shell
and Sunoco agreed to pay New Hampshire $35 million in a
settlement announced in November.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in  New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay  New York City 
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  Wells Contaminated  The state’s first witness, Graham Fogg, testified yesterday
about how he calculated MTBE groundwater contamination in New
Hampshire. Fogg, a professor of hydrology at the  University of
California , Davis, estimated that about 40,000 wells are
contaminated with MTBE in the state, and an estimated 2 percent
are contaminated at levels determined to be unfit for drinking,
he said.  “We had a lot of input from experts on data analyses,”
Fogg said. In addition to analyzing random samplings of New
Hampshire wells, Fogg said he consulted U.S. Geological Survey
data. He said that his numbers are more conservative than those
cited in other studies.  Defense lawyers have questioned his numbers and
methodology.  Beginning his cross-examination of Fogg yesterday, David
Lender, a lawyer for ExxonMobil, asked how many New Hampshire
wells he had sampled.  “I didn’t make any field trips in connection with the
case,” Fogg replied. “I’m relying on the existing data others
have collected.”  Fogg’s cross-examination is set to continue today.  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-
C-0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County
(Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in state court Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net  and;
Don Jeffrey in New York at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  