-- Colombia Won’t Need Davos Cash as Cardenas Fights Peso Surge
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-16T13:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/colombia-doesn-t-need-davos-cash-as-cardenas-fights-peso-surge.html
Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  says that when he travels next week to  Switzerland  for
a meeting of the world’s richest capitalists, he won’t be
lobbying for investment. After spending his first four months on
the job trying to protect the economy from a currency rally, he
doesn’t need more dollar inflows.  “I’m just going to tell a good story,” Cardenas, who will
attend the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos, said
in an interview yesterday in Bogota.  Foreign direct investment this year should surpass last
year’s record $16 billion, Cardenas said, keeping pressure on
manufacturers struggling to compete with a currency that
outperformed all of  Latin America  in 2012. While the government
can boost dollar purchases and take other steps to weaken the
peso toward a “more natural” level of 1,800 per dollar,
 Colombia ’s track record for market-friendly policies will make
it attractive to investors for some time to come, he said.  “These things are proving to be more positive than they
were perceived three years ago,” said Cardenas, adding that he
doesn’t favor trying to curb the peso’s rally through taxes on
foreign portfolio investments and other  capital controls  used in
 Brazil . “What matters in the long run is that you have
consistent policies.”  The peso jumped 10 percent last year and over the past
decade soared 65 percent, more than any other emerging market
currency. Much of the rally has been fueled by investment in the
country’s oil and mining industry, which were off-limits until
U.S.-backed security forces began reclaiming large parts of the
countryside from Marxist guerrillas in the last decade.  Peso Floor  Cardenas said that he sees no fundamental reason for the
peso to have jumped in recent weeks -- it touched an 18-month
intraday high of 1,750.50 on Jan. 2 -- and that it should “go
back to 1,800 pesos very soon.”  The peso fell the most in five months yesterday after
Cardenas said the Treasury will boost dollar purchases this
month and buy about $1 billion this year for its oil stability
fund. The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 1,772.68 per dollar at
8:22 a.m. today in Bogota.  The central bank can also do more, and policy makers will
discuss potential measures when they meet Jan. 28, Cardenas said
in his office in Bogota. The bank in 2012 bought a record $4.8
billion, part of a program of daily dollar purchases of at least
$20 million.  Room to Cut  “Would I like to step up those interventions? Yes, of
course,” said the  University of California , Berkeley-educated
economist, adding that he doesn’t want to anticipate what
action, if any, the seven-member board he presides over will
take. “I don’t have a number in mind. I think we have to
understand better the causes of this appreciation, and discuss
potential measures.”  Another way to take pressure off the currency is to lower
 interest rates , which Cardenas says is likely as long as
 inflation  remains under control and the economy is forecast to
grow below its 4.8 percent potential.  If these conditions hold “then naturally there’s room for
further reductions” in borrowing costs, he said. In 2012, the
economy likely expanded less than 4 percent, the central bank
said last month.  The bank is forecast to cut its  overnight rate  by a quarter
point for a third consecutive meeting this month, according to
16 of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three expect the rate
to stay at 4.25 percent.  The 50-year-old Cardenas, who served as minister of mines
and energy before becoming finance chief last September, said
that at Davos he will explain to investors how Colombia plans to
take advantage of the current investment boom to reduce poverty
and reach the next stage of its development.  One of the reforms he said he’ll highlight as a lesson for
other  developing countries , especially in Latin America, is a
recently-passed tax overhaul that reduces payroll and corporate
taxes that he said discourage businesses from creating jobs.  “This government isn’t being passive,” said Cardenas.
“We’re not just enjoying the good times, we’re thinking about
reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 