-- Colombia Finance Chief Says Peso to Weaken Amid More Action
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-16T14:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/colombia-finance-chief-says-peso-to-weaken-amid-more-action-1-.html
Colombian Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said he expects the peso will soon weaken to 1,800 per
U.S. dollar as he sees no reason for the currency to have
appreciated so much over the past month.  “I think the dollar is going to go back to 1,800 pesos
very soon,” Cardenas said in an interview at his office in
Bogota last night. “I honestly don’t think that this economy is
any different today than it was three months ago.”  The peso declined for a second day, dropping 0.4 percent to
1,777.43 per dollar at 9:33 a.m. today in Bogota. The currency
fell 0.6 percent yesterday, the biggest decline since Aug. 15,
after Cardenas said the Treasury will boost dollar purchases
this month and buy about $1 billion this year for its oil
stability fund. The currency touched 1,750.50 on Jan. 2, the
strongest intraday level since July 2011.  Cardenas said he would like to see the central bank step up
dollar purchases after it bought a record $4.8 billion last
year. The seven-member policy board which he presides will
discuss potential measures to weaken the currency at its meeting
Jan. 28, he said.  Banco de la Republica said on Sept. 28 it was extending a
program of daily dollar purchases and will buy a minimum of $3
billion between Oct. 1 and March 29 in amounts of at least $20
million per day.  “Would I like to step up those interventions? Yes, of
course,” Cardenas said, adding that he doesn’t want to
anticipate what action, if any, the bank will take. “I don’t
have a number in mind. I think we have to understand better the
causes of this appreciation, and discuss potential measures.”  For the government’s part, if liquidity conditions permit
the Treasury will also be able to step up dollar purchases of
its own. State-run oil company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  can also seek out
more domestic instead of foreign sources of financing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  