-- Copper Declines for Fourth Day Before U.S. Production Figures
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-16T11:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/copper-declines-for-fourth-day-before-u-s-production-figures.html
Copper fell for a fourth session on
London before a report predicted to show weakening industrial
production in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest consumer of
the metal.  Output rose 0.3 percent in December after a 1.1 percent
gain the month before, according to a survey of economists.
Prices also declined after the  World Bank  lowered its forecast
for global economic growth in 2013 and copper stockpiles tracked
by the London Metal Exchange expanded to the highest level in
almost a year.  “Macro events continue to dominate headlines,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said in a
report today. “Fairly decent economic indicators for December
are being countered by persistent concerns over the U.S. debt
ceiling, while OECD growth rates remain painfully slow.”  Copper for delivery in three months slid 0.3 percent to
$7,973 a metric ton by 10:56 a.m. on the LME. Copper for
delivery in March fell 0.4 percent to $3.624 a pound on the
Comex in  New York .  The U.S. production figures are due at 2:15 p.m. London
time. The global economy will expand 2.4 percent this year,
below June’s 3 percent forecast, the World Bank said.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans appear
headed toward a confrontation over the $16.4 trillion debt
limit,  deficit reduction  and keeping the government running that
will come to a head over the next six to eight weeks.  “The market is anticipating some days and weeks of
nervousness as negotiations take place in the U.S. regarding the
debt ceiling and Republicans’ requests or demands for some kind
of cuts in spending,” Steve Hardcastle, head of client services
for industrial commodities at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London,
said by phone.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME rose 4.8 percent to
349,275 tons, the highest level since Jan. 19, daily exchange
figures showed. Metal totaling 18,650 tons was delivered into
New Orleans warehouses. Orders to remove copper from inventories
dropped for a seventh session in eight to 56,450 tons.  Lead, zinc, nickel, aluminum and tin fell in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  