-- Genworth Credit Swaps Plunge on Plan to Separate Mortgage Unit
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-16T23:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-world-bank-cuts-growth-forecasts.html
The cost of protecting  Genworth
Financial Inc. (GNW) ’s debt from losses plunged after the insurer said
it’s reorganizing to distance the mortgage guaranty unit from
the rest of the company.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the Richmond, Virginia-
based company’s debt dropped 87.5 basis points to 261 basis
points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Tom McInerney, who became chief executive officer this
month, is seeking to revamp the insurer after losses from the
mortgage unit drained capital and threatened the firm’s
investment-grade credit rating. The Richmond, Virginia-based
company also sells  life insurance  and long-term care coverage.
Genworth said today it will create a new parent and the
outstanding senior and subordinated notes will remain
obligations of the old one.  A benchmark credit-default swaps index in the U.S. was
little changed. The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.1 basis point to a
mid-price of 88.7 basis points, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has climbed from 84.9 on Jan. 7, the least
since Sept. 14.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in  New York  at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  