-- Credit Suisse Said to Offer Stake in Infrastructure Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-01-16T22:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/credit-suisse-said-to-offer-stake-in-infrastructure-fund.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, plans to sell its $500
million investment in the first fund raised by Global
Infrastructure Partners as the company strengthens its capital
base, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The stake was valued at about $590 million in net assets
plus uncalled capital commitments as of Sept. 30 and is in the
final bidding round, said two of the people asking not to be
named because the talks are private. Global Infrastructure
Partners, founded in 2006, raised $5.46 billion in 2008 with
commitments from Credit Suisse and General Electric.  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman in  New York  for Zurich-
based Credit Suisse, and Jack Cowell, a spokesman for New York-
based GIP, declined to comment on the potential sale. Credit
Suisse’s private fund unit is managing the process, according to
another person familiar with the talks.  Financial institutions face regulatory pressure to unload
riskier assets such as private equity, along with investments
that aren’t central to their businesses. Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and HSH
Nordbank AG are among firms that have turned to the secondary
market to sell private-equity fund stakes in recent years.  The Swiss bank decided against investing in the firm’s
subsequent fund, Global Infrastructure Partners II LP, which
closed at $8.25 billion in October, making it the largest pool
dedicated to infrastructure buyouts, according to two other
people briefed on the situation.  GIP Sale  Global Infrastructure Partners is led by Adebayo Ogunlesi,
who was previously head of  investment banking  at  Credit Suisse
First Boston , the bank’s securities unit. GIP’s first fund in
December agreed to sell an interest in  Access Midstream Partners
LP (ACMP) , which owns and operates natural gas assets, to Williams Cos.
for $1.82 billion.  The firm owns 42 percent of Gatwick Airport Ltd. in the
U.K. and 75 percent of London City Airport, according to its
 website . It also invested $1.3 billion in Scotland’s Edinburgh
Airport. Other holdings include East India Petroleum Ltd. and
Australia’s Port of Brisbane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  