-- Denison Mines to Buy Fission Assets for About $71 Million
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-16T21:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/denison-mines-to-buy-fission-assets-for-about-71-million.html
Denison Mines Corp. (DML)  agreed to buy
some uranium development and exploration properties from  Fission
Energy Corp. (FIS)  for about C$70 million ($71 million) in a bid to
expand its holdings in  Canada ’s Athabasca Basin.  Fission shareholders will get 0.355 of a Denison share for
each share of Fission based on yesterday’s closing price,
Toronto-based Denison said today in a statement. If completed,
the deal will leave Fission stockholders with 11 percent of
Denison and certain other assets that aren’t part of the
transaction. Fission rose to its highest in more than 10 months.  “This transaction further satisfies our corporate
objective to become the leading explorer in the Athabasca Basin
through continued growth and consolidation of strategically
located assets,” Ron Hochstein, Denison’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Denison is stepping up its exposure to Saskatchewan’s
Athabasca Basin, home to the world richest high-grade uranium
deposits, after last year selling its U.S. unit to Energy Fuels
Inc. Speculation at the time was that Denison was positioning
itself to be acquired.  Denison is buying Kelowna, British Columbia-based Fission’s
60 percent stake in the Waterbury Lake uranium project in
Saskatchewan, exploration interests in other properties in the
eastern part of the Athabasca Basin, stakes in two Namibian
joint ventures and assets in Quebec and Nunavut.  The deal also creates a separate company, or Newco, to hold
“certain other” Fission assets, including a 50 percent stake
in the Patterson Lake South uranium property on the basin’s
western flank.  Denison rose 1.4 percent to C$1.48 at the close in Toronto.
Fission gained 22 percent to 78 Canadian cents, its highest
since March 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  