-- Duff & Phelps Sued by Investor Over Carlyle Buyout Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-16T23:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/duff-phelps-sued-by-investor-over-carlyle-buyout-bid.html
Duff & Phelps Corp. (DUF)  was sued by a
shareholder over a proposed $665.5 million acquisition of the
investment bank by  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and investors including
Swiss bank Pictet & Cie.  The lawsuit was filed yesterday in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  by Thomas Rutkowski, who said he  holds  2,000
shares of Duff & Phelps. Rutkowski said in the complaint that
the proposed acquisition is “grossly inadequate” for
shareholders and asked the court to stop the purchase from
proceeding.  The buyers, which also include Stone Point Capital LLC and
Geneva-based Edmond de Rothschild Group, agreed to pay $15.55 a
share, 19 percent  more  than Duff & Phelps’s closing price on
Dec. 28. The transaction is expected to be completed in the
first half of the year, the companies said in a statement on
Dec. 30.  The buyers will help New York-based Duff & Phelps continue
its international expansion, according to the statement. Revenue
at the 80-year-old company, which also provides financial-
advisory services, was predicted to rise 17 percent by end of
2012 to $465.8 million, the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Alex Wolfe, a spokesman for New York-based Duff & Phelps,
and Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Washington-based Carlyle
Group, declined to comment on the lawsuit in telephone
interviews.  Merger Agreement  The merger agreement contains a provision that restricts
Duff & Phelps from initiating, soliciting or encouraging
inquiries or negotiations about alternative proposals and can
only consider unsolicited proposals if the board determines its
fiduciary duties require it to do so, according to the lawsuit.  The agreement also reduces the possibility of a better,
unsolicited offer because the defendants agreed to provide
information to the companies that proposed the acquisition that
allowed them to match any other offer, according to the suit.  The pact also contains a provision calling for Duff &
Phelps to pay a $6.7 million termination fee to the acquiring
companies, along with a $1.25 million expense reimbursement, if
the agreement is terminated under certain circumstances,
according to the lawsuit.  “The termination fee payable under this provision is an
amount that will make the company that much more expensive to
acquire for potential purchasers, while resulting in a
corresponding decline in the amount of consideration payable to
Duff & Phelps’s shareholders,” Rutowski alleged in the suit.  The case is Rutkowski v. Gottdiener, 650144/2013,  New York 
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  