-- Legg Mason Folds Miller Value Unit Into ClearBridge
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-01-16T16:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/legg-mason-folds-miller-value-unit-into-clearbridge.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the money manager
best known as home to stockpicker Bill Miller, is folding
Miller’s Legg Mason Capital Management division into its
ClearBridge Investments equity unit as assets have tumbled.  Sam Peters, who took over management of Miller’s flagship
Legg Mason Capital Management Value Trust in May, will continue
to lead the LMCM unit and report to ClearBridge’s co-chief
investment officers Scott Glasser and Hersh Cohen,  Mary Athridge , a spokeswoman for the Baltimore-based firm, said in an
e-mail. Miller will continue managing the Legg Mason Capital
Management Opportunity Trust and will not be joining
ClearBridge, Athridge said.  Legg Mason is reviewing its business and relationships with
affiliates as it tries to reverse  five years  of client
redemptions. The company is seeking a new chief executive
officer after Mark R. Fetting stepped down in October amid
pressure from activist investor Nelson Peltz. Interim CEO Joseph
A. Sullivan, the former head of distribution, has said the firm
is reviewing and evaluating its current business strategy and is
prepared to modify it as appropriate.  Assets at Legg Mason Capital Management have fallen to $7
billion from a peak of about $70 billion in 2007. Miller led the
 Value Trust (LMVTX)  fund to better returns than the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index for a record 15 years before the streak ended in 2006.
His performance worsened as he wagered heavily on financial
stocks during the credit crisis, prompting a 55 percent decline
in his fund in 2008.  Assets Plunge  The Value fund’s assets have plunged 90 percent from a $21
billion peak in 2007, to $2.2 billion as of Jan. 14, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year, Miller stepped down
from the Value Trust, while staying as manager of the $1.05
billion  Opportunity fund . The Opportunity fund has returned 35
percent in the past 12 months, beating 99 percent of similarly
managed funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Portfolios and investment teams at ClearBridge, Legg
Mason’s biggest stock-fund unit with about $60 billion in
assets, won’t be affected by the addition of the Legg Mason
Capital Management strategies, Athridge said. There will be
headcount reduction following the integration at the end of the
transition period later this year, said Athridge, who declined
to give a specific number. The ClearBridge unit is led by CEO
Terrence Murphy.  Multiple Strategies  Legg Mason, which managed $648 billion as of Dec. 31, owns
multiple investment units with different strategies, including
fixed-income manager Western Asset Management Co. and equity
managers such as ClearBridge and Royce & Associates. Each
affiliate operates independently and has revenue-sharing
agreements with the corporate parent.  ClearBridge said in October it was dropping the Legg Mason
name from its mutual funds as part of a push to make its brand
better known. Western Asset is seeking more control of its fund
sales by trying to negotiate a move away from the centralized
distribution model in which sales of retail products go through
Legg Mason, a person familiar with the matter said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  