-- Qatar Lifts Egypt Assistance by $2.5 Billion, Hegazi Says
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-16T22:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/egypt-s-hegazi-says-qatar-to-buy-2-5-billion-of-bonds.html
Qatar will increase its assistance
to  Egypt  by buying $2.5 billion of government bonds to help
shore up its economy after the 2011 revolution, Egyptian Finance
Minister El-Morsi Hegazi said.  Egypt’s Cabinet will discuss the debt offering and the
company that will handle it next week, Hegazi said in an
interview in Cairo yesterday. The gas-rich Persian Gulf emirate
has already provided $5 billion of grants and central bank
deposits to Egypt, and will continue to stand alongside the
nation, Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani
told reporters Jan. 15 in the capital Doha.  Qatar’s assistance has given the Arab world’s most populous
country a financial cushion as it seeks a $4.8 billion loan from
the International Monetary Fund. Egypt’s foreign reserves remain
almost 60 percent below their levels before the uprising that
ousted former leader  Hosni Mubarak  from power. President Mohamed Mursi’s government is seeking aid to bolster the economy as
protesters take to the streets over his leadership.  “Basically they are recognizing that Egypt is a very
important country in the region,” Steffen Reichold, an  emerging
markets  economist at Stone Harbor Investment Partners LP in New
York, said by phone. “Qatar is very much interested in keeping
things as stable as possible and using some of their large
resources to contribute to that.”  A phone call to Qatar’s  Finance Ministry  after hours
seeking to confirm the deal wasn’t answered.  Yields Drop  Yields on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated bonds due
April 2020 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
5.53 percent yesterday. Five-year  credit-default swaps  on
Egyptian sovereign debt declined 18 basis points to 447 basis
points, the lowest level since Dec. 5, according to London
prices. the contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The average yield on one-year local-currency Egyptian
Treasury bills climbed 18 basis points to 14.50 percent at the
last debt auction this month, according to central bank data
collated by Bloomberg. The government’s domestic borrowing costs
have been rising since Standard & Poor’s cut Egypt’s credit
rating to the same junk level as Greece Dec. 24 on the political
turmoil. The average yield on one-year debt is still almost 40
percent higher than before the 2011 overthrow.  The central bank introduced dollar auctions Dec. 30 aimed
at stemming the drop in reserves, stoking depreciation in the
pound, which has weakened 8.2 percent versus the dollar in the
past year to 6.5815 yesterday. It hit a record-low 6.5826 per
dollar Jan. 15.  The economic situation in Egypt is “very serious” and the
government needs to conclude a loan agreement with the IMF “as
soon as possible,” U.S. Senator John McCain said in an
interview yesterday in Cairo, where he is part of a delegation.  Egypt’s  real gross domestic product  rose 1.96 percent last
year, up from growth of 1.78 percent in 2011, the slowest pace
since at least 1998. Economic expansion has averaged 4.81
percent over the past 14 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  