-- Emerging Stocks at One-Week Low on Slower Growth Forecast
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-16T22:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/emerging-stocks-fall-to-two-week-low-on-slower-growth-forecast.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
one-week low and currencies weakened after the World Bank and
Germany cut economic growth forecasts and India’s central bank
chief tempered expectations for monetary stimulus.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  sank by the most since Oct. 30 after sales
of its Jaguar and Land Rover units dropped below estimates. OAO
Gazprom and OAO Novatek, Russian natural-gas producers, dropped
the most in at least a month, while Brazilian port operator LLX
Logistica SA tumbled.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , South
Africa’s largest producer of the metal, slumped as employees at
three of its mines refused to go to work. The Hungarian forint
and Brazilian real led currency losses among emerging markets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.2 percent to
1,071.21 in  New York , the lowest close in eight days. The World
Bank projected the global economy will expand 2.4 percent this
year, down from a June forecast of 3 percent, and Germany cut
its growth outlook to 0.4 percent from 1 percent. While India’s
inflation rate remains “quite high,” the scope for monetary
and fiscal stimulus is limited,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday.  “Risk assets in emerging markets are more vulnerable to
the swing in the global economy,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at
Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Slower growth will
hurt profitability in emerging-nation companies more than those
in developed countries given the proportion of exports in their
economies.”  World Bank  The Washington-based lender now sees developed economies
growing 1.3 percent this year, the same as last year, compared
with a 1.9 percent forecast in June.  Developing countries  are
projected to expand 5.5 percent, less than the 5.9 percent
forecast in June.  A government report today showed U.S. consumer prices were
unchanged in December from November. U.S. industrial production
rose 0.3 percent, climbing for a second month in December as
demand picked up for business equipment. Manufacturing grew 0.8
percent, more than forecast. The  U.S. economy  picked up across
much of the country in December, boosted by auto and home sales,
the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book business survey,
which is based on reports from the Fed’s district banks.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 26 percent to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  LLX Slumps  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, slipped 0.1
percent to $44.43. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, was little changed at
17.24.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index rose 0.1 percent, reversing earlier
declines. Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  jumped 4
percent to lead gains by companies that depend on domestic
demand after data from the central bank signaled the Brazilian
economy expanded at a faster pace than analysts had forecast in
November. LLX, headed by billionaire  Eike Batista , fell 4.3
percent to the lowest price since Dec. 28 after it was
downgraded to neutral from overweight at JPMorgan.  Russia’s Micex Index was little changed as Novatek fell 2.7
percent in Moscow to the lowest since Nov. 29. Gazprom, the
world’s largest natural gas producer, retreated 1.1 percent.
South Africa’s  benchmark gauge  slid 0.1 percent.  India Retreats  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  declined 0.8 percent, the
most in more than three weeks, as ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s
third-biggest lender, sank 2 percent. India’s financial system
has been made vulnerable by a deterioration in bank assets and a
lack of capital as the economy slowed, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a statement yesterday. Tata Motors fell
3.5 percent in Mumbai.  “I’m bearish in absolute and relative terms for 2013 as a
whole” about emerging markets, John-Paul Smith, a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, said by e-mail.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
lost 0.7 percent after a report showed foreign direct investment
dropped last month. Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  Index slid 0.8 percent, the
most since Dec. 21.  Chinese equities  fell for a second day in New York, led by
Trina Solar Ltd., after the  World Bank  cut the nation’s 2013
economic growth forecast to 8.4 percent from a June estimate of
8.6 percent. The Bloomberg  China-US Equity index (CH55BN)  of the most-
traded Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.6 percent to the
lowest price in a week.  Currencies Weaken  The Hungarian forint weakened 0.2 percent versus the euro,
while Brazil’s real depreciated 0.3 percent against the dollar.
South Korea’s won fell a third day on concern authorities will
take steps to stem the currency’s recent gains. China’s  yuan 
slid from a 19-year high after the central bank cut the
currency’s reference rate by the most in four months.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 266 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The  emerging-markets  gauge has risen 1.5 percent this year,
trailing a 3 percent gain by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-
country stocks. The measure trades at 10.9 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.3, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI Emerging Markets/Information Technology Index was
the worst performer among 10 industry groups in the benchmark
gauge, falling 0.7 percent to the lowest level in a week.
Utilities companies gained, adding 0.5 percent.  La Guardia Airport  Anglo American Platinum sank 5.9 percent, the most since
Sept. 26. Workers at three mines refused to go to work after the
company said jobs may be cut as part of a restructuring.  Anglo
American Plc (AGL)  dropped 2 percent in Johannesburg as the  African
National Congress  said South Africa’s government should withdraw
the firm’s platinum licenses.  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , Turkey’s biggest airport
operator that runs the country’s Ataturk airport, rose 2.6
percent in Istanbul, the highest close since July 2007. TAV’s
Chief Executive Officer Sani Sener said the company will bid for
operating rights at New York City’s La Guardia airport,
according to a CNBC-e report. The nation’s ISE National 100
benchmark index rallied 2 percent to the highest level on
record.  Franshion Properties China Ltd. (817)  dropped 1.7 percent, the
most in a week in  Hong Kong , while the Shanghai Stock Exchange
Property Index declined 2 percent. China should “gradually”
establish a property taxation system that covers trading and
ownership, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday.  Pakistan’s global bonds fell for a fourth day after the
 Supreme Court  ordered the arrest of Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf over corruption allegations, while protesters in
Islamabad called for the administration to quit.  Venezuela’s credit outlook was cut to negative yesterday
from stable by Moody’s Investors Service as President  Hugo Chavez ’s struggle to recover from cancer in Cuba heightens
political and economic risks. Yields on Venezuela’s bonds
expiring in September 2027 rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 9.34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  