-- Enbridge Losing Bakken Oil Business to Railroads, Refiner Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-01-16T23:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/enbridge-losing-bakken-oil-business-to-railroads-refiner-says.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s  North Dakota 
pipeline system has been underused for the past three months as
railroads move more oil out of the Bakken shale play, a refining
company told U.S. regulators.  Enbridge’s plans to expand its pipeline network out of the
Bakken won’t stop railroads from taking business, Flint Hills
Resources LLC, a unit of Koch Industries Inc., said in a  filing 
with the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  “This trend is not temporary,” Flint Hills said. “Rail
transportation is becoming more competitive and will continue to
take barrels away from the Enbridge North Dakota system.”  Railways have emerged as a competitor to pipelines as
production from shale fields has grown faster than pipeline
space. While rail is typically more expensive than pipelines,
railcars can reach markets that pipelines don’t, yielding higher
prices for producers.  Flint Hills, which operates the 330,000-barrel-a-day Pine
Bend  refinery  in Minnesota, filed the document with FERC as part
of its opposition to a surcharge on the North Dakota system
proposed by Enbridge.  “We are seeing reduced volumes on our North Dakota system
as some producers seek alternate transportation options to take
advantage of favorable oil pricing in other markets,”  Graham White , an Enbridge spokesman in Calgary, said in an e-mail.
Volumes will increase as new regional market access projects are
finished later this year, he said.  North Dakota  produced  747,000 barrels a day in October, up
50 percent from a year earlier, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. An estimated 52 percent of the crude
moved by rail, versus 38 percent by pipeline, according to the
North Dakota Pipeline Authority.  Top Shipper  The largest oil rail-car shipper in the Bakken is
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC, owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  The company plans to boost its crude-oil
shipments by 40 percent to 700,000 barrels a day by the end of
this year, Chief Executive  Matt Rose  told Bloomberg in a phone
interview this month.  Enbridge’s North Dakota system can transport 210,000
barrels a day from Minot to Clearbrook, Minnesota, according to
the company’s  website .  The company plans to expand its Bakken pipelines and to
connect them with other parts of the Enbridge network, including
construction of a new 225,000 barrel-a-day pipeline called
“Sandpiper” that will link with Enbridge’s Mainline system in
Superior, Wisconsin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  