-- Lend Lease Wins Approval for $2.4 Billion London Project
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-16T09:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/lend-lease-wins-approval-for-2-4-billion-london-project-plan.html
Lend Lease Group (LLC) ,  Australia ’s
 biggest property developer , received approval for its 1.5
billion pound ($2.4 billion) masterplan to redevelop a
residential and commercial project in  London ’s Elephant &
Castle.  Lend Lease will work with Southwark Council, the local
government where Elephant & Castle is located, to develop
detailed designs for buildings and public space, the Sydney-
based company said today in a statement to the Australian
exchange.  The 15-year regeneration of the failed housing estate close
to London’s city center will include about 2,500 new homes as
well as shops, restaurants and community facilities, according
to Lend Lease. London’s housing market is outperforming the rest
of the U.K., with values rising to the highest in 2 1/2 years in
December, according to data compiled by the Royal Institute of
Chartered Surveyors.  “The regeneration of Elephant & Castle is now under way,”
Steve McCann, Lend Lease’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “The approval of our masterplan sets in motion our
long-term plans and our commitment to the region.”  Lend Lease was unchanged at A$9.77 at the close of trading
in Sydney. The shares closed at a three-year high yesterday and
have added 28 percent in the past six months. That compares with
a 15 percent increase in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The approval follows the planning permission received in
November for One The Elephant, a 37-story residential
development of 284 homes, also part of the regeneration. That
project will be completed in 2016, Lend Lease said.  The redevelopment may help Elephant & Castle to shed its
image as an area best-known for having  Europe ’s first covered
retail complex. The Strata, a lipstick-shaped building that
opened in this part of south London in 2010, has some of the
highest apartments in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 