-- Epocrates Investor Suit Calls Athenahealth’s Bid Too Low
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-17T00:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/epocrates-sued-by-shareholders-over-athenahealth-bid.html
Epocrates Inc. (EPOC) , the maker of mobile
software for calling up drug summaries, was sued by shareholders
for accepting  Athenahealth Inc. (ATHN) ’s takeover offer of about $293
million.  Athenahealth, a provider of online services to doctors and
hospitals, said Jan. 7 that it will pay $11.75 a share for  San
Mateo , California-based Epocrates to gain an iPhone app and
expand in electronic records. Athenahealth said the cash offer,
which exceeded Epocrates’s Jan. 4 closing  price  by 22 percent,
was approved by both companies’ boards.  The shareholder complaint, filed Jan. 11 in state court in
Redwood City,  California , alleged that Epocrates and its
 directors  breached their fiduciary duties by agreeing to a
merger price that “inadequately compensates Epocrates’ public
shareholders,” according to the complaint.  The  investors  said Epocrates traded as high as $11.97 in
the months preceding the takeover announcement and that the
agreed-upon merger price represents “practically no actual
premium” over the company’s $11.74 closing price on Sept. 27.
Epocrates surged 21 percent the day of the announcement, closing
at $11.68.  Expanding Business  Athenahealth, based in Watertown,  Massachusetts , said the
 acquisition  will help it expand a newer business for software
used to prescribe drugs and keep patient records. It also may
benefit from name recognition for the Epocrates app, which as of
August was used by 338,000 U.S. physicians to call up summaries
on drugs, including their side effects and interactions.
Athenahealth estimates about 90 percent of doctors had heard of
Epocrates, three times the recognition of Athenahealth itself.  Erica Sniad Morgenstern, an Epocrates spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail that the company declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Bushansky v. Epocrates Inc., civ519078,
California Superior Court, San Mateo County (Redwood City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  