-- Esca’s $26 Linguine With Clams is New York’s Best: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-01-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/esca-s-26-linguine-with-clams-is-new-york-s-best-review.html
Esca’s easy: Go for the linguine
with clams. The $26 dish isn’t just great, it is as iconic as
Peter Luger’s steak.  The clams are absurdly briny and that’s precisely the way
it should be (waiters make this explicitly clear upon ordering).
The salt hits your tongue first, followed by chili pepper the
way lightning follows thunder. The pasta is firm, no overcooking
here.  And there you have it. Esca, which David Pasternack opened
with  Mario Batali  in 2000, is still one of  New York ’s better
Southern Italian seafood spots.  Theatergoers know it as one of the few high-end restaurants
around Times Square. Some Italophiles even prefer it to the
vaunted Marea on Central Park South, for the simple reason that
Pasternack’s food is lighter.  There are no park views, just yellow walls, white
tablecloths, a 6-seat bar and excellent fish, provided that it’s
cooked. Therein lies a very important caveat.  Pasternack is the chef who made a  Manhattan  hit out of
crudi: Italian sashimi with olive oil and sea salt subbing for
soy sauce.  Too Big  These days, however, Esca’s crudi isn’t what it should be
-- the portions are too big. Does anyone want a whole bowl of
raw scallops or salmon roe? A chef’s selection of six small
tastes ($30) addresses that problem, but it doesn’t solve the
second one, which is temperature. The fish, already too cold, is
often served on plates of ice.  That chill knocked the soft, fruity flavors out of coho
salmon during one summer dinner. Later in October, king salmon
crudi was mealy, with none of the luscious, unctuous oils that
this fish is known for. And in January, bluefish with caper
berries and sea bass with pine nuts tasted as if they’d come
right out the refrigerator.  So order sea urchin, served just a few ticks below room
temperature, a heavy dose of extra-virgin olive oil leavening
the maritime musk. Or blood clams, which look like chum and are
vaguely sweet and milder than many cherrystones or little necks.  Oyster Pomp  Oysters are perfectly shucked and brilliantly dressed. Your
wait captain leans over the bivalves, and, with truffle-worthy
pomp, shaves raw horseradish over them. The flavor is vegetal,
gently spicy, exhilarating.  Follow up with restorative Almafi seafood soup, whose good
tomatoes and olive oil intensify the assertive kick of mackerel.  More daring is seared monkfish liver -- foie gras in a
fishy tuxedo. Then there’s tuna bacon. The belly of a locally
caught Bluefin, cured in salt, brown sugar and wild fennel, is
seared on the skillet. The result is as meaty as pork yet silken
as a mouthful of roe.  Pasternack’s overstuffed menu inevitably fields the
occasional miss, like gritty razor clams and underseasoned
sardines. Beware also-sandy baked clams and Peconic bay
scallops.  If the salty linguine is not your thing, try the milder
spaghetti with lobster, a perfectly cooked crustacean mingling
with mint, tomatoes and chili.  Order that floral Gavi ($21) or Henriot Champagne ($25)
long before the dish arrives, as on a recent visit a forgetful
waiter left us drink-less for as long as a full course.  Still, such offenses are forgotten with the arrival of
branzino for two ($72). The salt-baked fish melts in the mouth
like pastry cream; fruity olive oil practically turns it into
dessert.  White Bluefish  Bluefish is atypically white and firm here, with a steak-
like texture and a neutral flavor reminiscent of Dover Sole. And
flaky whiting, the top burnt to a toasty, brown-butter crisp. It
works.  Affogato? Sure. Not the usual gelato with espresso but a
decadent brownie and toffee sundae with a little bit of coffee
on top.  If Marea and Le Bernardin is where you go for special
occasions, Esca, with some rough edges and fixable flaws, is
where you go for dinner.  Rating: **1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Easily $100 per person or more.  Sound Level: Never too loud. About 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Make sure they like fish.  Special Feature: Excellent whole wheat focaccia.  Inside Tip: Esca gets quiet after 7:45 p.m.  Back on My Own Dime: Often, for the oysters and pasta.  Esca is at 402 West 43rd Street. Information: +1-212-564-
7272 or  http://www.esca-nyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 