-- Tesco’s U.K. Revival Hit as Horse DNA Found in Burgers
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-16T18:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/tesco-s-u-k-revival-suffers-blow-as-horse-dna-found-in-burgers.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s efforts to win back U.K.
shoppers were dealt a blow after the discovery of horse DNA in
some beef products caused the U.K.’s largest grocer to remove
them from stores and prompted a barrage of negative publicity.  The Daily Mail and Daily Mirror newspapers both ran front-
page headlines on the story, contributing to a decline in
Tesco’s share price less than a week after it reported its
strongest sales growth in about three years. The affected meat
was also sold elsewhere, including Iceland Foods Ltd. and Lidl.  “The news is likely to, at least temporarily, reduce
consumers’ trust in the quality of Tesco’s products, which is
unhelpful at a time when Tesco is trying to rebuild customers’
trust in the quality underpinning Tesco own-label and Everyday
Value products,” Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Espirito
Santo, said in a note received by e-mail.  The burgers that were withdrawn from stores in the U.K. and
Ireland were own-brand products, an area that Tesco has been
focusing on as cash-strapped shoppers seek cheaper alternatives
to big brands. Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  last year
rebooted the company’s cheapest own-label range, dubbing it
Everyday Value, and promising a focus on quality. That’s part of
his 1 billion-pound ($1.6 billion) investment program aimed at
regaining customers as discounters such as Aldi and upscale
chains like Waitrose erode its still-dominant market share.  Stock Drop  Tesco  dropped  as much as 1.7 percent in  London  trading and
closed 0.7 percent lower, trimming the stock’s gain this year to
3.3 percent.  The U.K.’s Food Standard Agency said it was investigating
the contamination, including tracing the source of the horse and
pig DNA and considering legal action. The agency will also start
a U.K.-wide study of food authentiticity in processed meat
products like burgers, according to the statement on its
website.  The negative publicity brought about by the discovery of
horse DNA in some products “is damaging because people don’t
want to think they’re eating horse and it brings into question
the whole trust issue,” said Matt Piner, research director at
Conlumino. “Retail trust is harder to build than throw away.”  Tesco withdrew two frozen beef burger products from stores
following tests by the Food Safety Authority of Ireland. The
Irish body said yesterday that about 37 percent of the beef
burger products it examined tested positive for horse DNA, while
85 percent showed pig DNA. They listed Tesco as one of the
retailers that sold the products, along with Aldi, Lidl, Iceland
Foods and Dublin-based Dunnes Stores.  ’Very Low’  One Tesco product contained 29 percent horsemeat relative
to the beef content, according to the Irish safety authority,
which said the levels in most samples it tested were “very
low.”  Alan Reilly, chief executive of the Irish agency, said the
beef doesn’t pose any public health concerns. There is no clear
explanation for the presence of the horse DNA, he said.  Aldi said in a statement on its website today that it has
withdrawn three burger products from sale in the U.K. “as a
purely precautionary measure.” The discounter pulled eight-
packs of its Oakhurst burgers from stores in Ireland yesterday.  Iceland said it withdrew two quarter-pound burger lines
implicated in the Irish study. Lidl said it has removed the
affected products from sale and will offer refunds. Dunnes
Stores didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  ’Affected Products’  The affected products -- the Everyday Value frozen beef
burger and a frozen quarter-pound burger from Tesco’s mid-tier
range -- were supplied to the grocer by Silvercrest Foods, a
unit of ABP Food Group, a Tesco spokeswoman said.  The recall could “harm Tesco’s re-launched Everyday Value
brand,” Jon Copestake, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence
Unit. “The pork DNA also raises questions for religious
purposes.”  In addition to Silvercrest, the Irish food safety
authorities said horse DNA was found in burger products produced
by Ireland’s Liffey Meats and Dalepak Hambleton in the U.K.  Silvercrest and Dalepak said today they are investigating
two suppliers in continental  Europe  “who are the suspected
source of the product in question.” The companies said in
statements that they have taken “immediate action to isolate,
withdraw and replace all suspect product.” Liffey also said it
withdrew all products identified by tests.  J Sainsbury Plc said it removed all food sourced from
Dalepak as a precautionary measure, though its products hadn’t
been implicated.  For Tesco, the news represents “unwelcome publicity,”
said Gulliver at Espirito Santo. Domestic same-store sales at
the Cheshunt, England-based grocer just began rising again after
declining for six of the previous seven quarters.  “Tesco and the discounters have had a strong run recently
and part of that is because they have been very successful
painting an image of value lines as being cheaper, but not
necessarily lacking in quality, so a story like this is really
quite damaging,” said Piner at Conlumino.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  