-- Tesco Withdraws Some Beef Products as Horse DNA Found
-- B y   A n j a l i   C o r d e i r o   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-16T11:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/tesco-withdraws-some-beef-products-as-tests-find-horse-dna.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
grocer, said it withdrew some beef products after tests by the
Food Safety Authority of Ireland found some contained horse DNA.  Two frozen beef burger products sold by Tesco in both the
U.K. and Ireland had horse DNA, the company  said  in a Jan. 15
statement on its web site. “We immediately withdrew from sale
all products from the supplier in question,” the retailer said.  Irish food safety authorities on Jan. 15 said about 37
percent of the beef burger products it examined in a broad
survey tested positive for horse DNA, while 85 percent showed
pig DNA. Those with the horse cells were produced by processing
plants in Ireland and the U.K., the food safety agency  said . It
listed Tesco as one of the retailers that sold the products.  Alan Reilly, chief executive of the Irish agency, said the
beef doesn’t pose any public health concerns. There is no clear
explanation for the presence of the horse DNA, he said.  “In Ireland, it is not in our culture to eat horse meat
and therefore, we do not expect to find it in a burger,” Reilly
said.  Tesco shares fell as much as 1.7 percent in London trading.
They were down 1.1 percent at 345.85 pence at 11:50 a.m.  “It’s damaging because people don’t want to think they’re
eating horse and it brings into question the whole trust
issue,” said Matt Piner, research director at Conlumino.
“Retail trust is harder to build than throw away.”  Food Offering  The affected products were supplied to Tesco in Ireland by
Silvercrest Foods, a unit of Irish company ABP Food Group, a
Tesco spokeswoman said. Dalepak Foods produced affected meat in
the U.K. while Liffey Meats also produced affected meat in
Ireland, according to the FSAI.  “Although the products pose no risk to public health,
Silvercrest has taken immediate action to isolate, withdraw and
replace all suspect product,” Silvercrest said in a statement,
adding that it has never purchased or traded in equine products
and has launched an investigation into its European suppliers.
Dalepak issued a similar release.  Tesco this month reported the strongest sales  growth  since
2010 as money-off coupons and an enhanced food offering helped
spark a revival. U.K. sales at stores open at least a year rose
1.8 percent in the six weeks ended Jan. 5, excluding gasoline
and value-added taxes, the Cheshunt, England-based grocer said.
That was only the second quarter of growth in eight.  Iceland Foods said it has also withdrawn two Iceland-
branded
quarter pounder burger lines, after being alerted by the Food
Safety Authority of Ireland, according to an e-mailed statement.  Aldi also said it had taken three of its frozen burgers
from
shelves and is conducting further investigations, the discount
grocer said on its Web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  