-- Metro Gets German Sales Boost, Plans Media-Saturn China Exit
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-16T10:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/metro-gets-german-sales-boost-plans-media-saturn-china-exit-2-.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest
retailer, reported little changed fourth-quarter revenue as
increased sales at the Media-Saturn consumer electronics
business in Germany offset weakness in western Europe.  Sales rose 0.5 percent to 19.4 billion euros ($25.8
billion), the Dusseldorf-based company said today in a
statement. That compared with the 19.6 billion-euro  average
estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Metro also
announced that Media-Saturn will leave  China .  Same-store sales in the consumer-electronics unit rose more
than 3 percent in Germany, while falling “considerably” in
western Europe, the company said. Metro reiterated its forecast
for 2012 earnings before interest, tax and special items of
about 2 billion euros. The retailer, which also owns Real
grocery stores and the Kaufhof department-store chain, cut the
prediction in October because of the weakening economic climate
in southern  Europe  and parts of eastern Europe.  “Germany was the bright spot amid relatively weak
numbers,” said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus
Metzler in Frankfurt. “Nobody expected sales growth of 3
percent” at Media-Saturn.  Metro rose as much as 3.5 percent in  Frankfurt trading  and
was up 2.3 percent at 23.46 euros at 11:02 a.m. The stock has
gained 12 percent in 2013 after falling 26 percent last year.  ‘Subdued Start’  Sales momentum increased “significantly” at the end of
the year after a “subdued” start to the holiday, the retailer
said, describing overall Christmas business as “satisfactory.”  Media-Saturn’s exit from China was expected and will
eliminate about 40 million euros of losses for 2013, according
to John Kershaw, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  The retailer entered the country in November 2010 and has
seven Media Markt stores in the Shanghai area.  “We’d expect minimal incremental cash costs to unwind the
entity,” Kershaw said.  Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch is focusing on the Cash &
Carry wholesale business and Media-Saturn, while cutting
investment in Kaufhof and Real grocery outlets. Metro agreed in
November to sell its Real grocery stores in eastern Europe to
Groupe Auchan SA. The retailer gets almost half its revenue from
Cash & Carry and about a third from electronics.  Real Hypermarkets  Fourth-quarter sales at Media-Saturn rose 1.3 percent, led
by growth in Russia and  Turkey , while revenue at Cash & Carry,
the retailer’s biggest unit, increased 0.4 percent.  Sales at Real hypermarkets gained 0.6 percent as “the non-
food business was difficult and prevented a better sales
development” in eastern Europe, Metro said.  Full-year revenue  rose 1.2 percent to 66.7 billion euros
from 65.9 billion euros in 2011. That compared with the 66.9
billion-euro average estimate of 31 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Metro is due to report full-year earnings March 20.  “I’m sure people will be satisfied that they are
reiterating the profit guidance,” Charles Allen, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst, said by phone. “There’s nothing
spectacular” about the sales numbers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  