-- Leu Climbs to One-Year High on Romanian Entry to JPMorgan Index
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-16T11:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/leu-climbs-to-one-year-high-on-romanian-entry-to-jpmorgan-index.html
Romania ’s leu strengthened to its
highest level in a year after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said the
country’s domestic bonds are eligible for its emerging-market
government bond index.  The currency advanced 0.1 percent to 4.3355 per euro by
11:30 a.m. in Bucharest, after adding as much as 0.4 percent to
the highest intraday level since Jan. 30 last year. The yield on
Romania’s June 2019 euro-denominated bonds slid one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.78 percent.  The  exchange rate  soared 1 percent yesterday, the most
since Aug. 6, after JPMorgan said Romania’s domestic bonds would
be added to its GBI-EM Index series from March 1, spurring
expectations of orders from fund managers seeking to replicate
the benchmark gauge.  “Since yesterday’s announcement was made after the home
market closed, the central bank had no chance to react to the
rapid appreciation,” Dan Bucsa, a London-based economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a note today.  Inclusion in the index would be phased over a three-month
period ending May 1, JPMorgan said in a note to clients
yesterday. Romania’s weighting on completion is estimated at
0.54 percent of the GBI-EM Global Diversified index. Its entry
is “subject to final determination,” JPMorgan said.  The central bank, which has restricted its supply of leu at
its weekly repurchase auctions since October to help prop up the
currency, increased the limit to 6 billion lei ($1.8 billion) on
Jan. 14 from 4 billion lei a week earlier.  While the central bank is unlikely to “hint at any desired
euro/leu level nor to strongly intervene to force the leu to
depreciate significantly,” it prefers a more stable currency
closer to 4.4 per euro, Bucsa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  