-- EU Commission’s Carbon Disclosure Draws Fire as Prices Fall
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-16T17:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/eu-carbon-market-disclosure-draws-fire-as-permit-prices-slump.html
A lobby group representing traders
from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to BNP Paribas criticized the quality
of disclosure by the European Commission in Brussels when
proposing rule changes to its carbon market.  A draft plan from October that would have banned traders
from holding Russian Emission Reduction Units issued after 2012
was revised Jan. 10 after market participants showed the
regulator the proposal wasn’t workable, Sarah Deblock, European
Union policy director at the Geneva-based International
Emissions Trading Association, said today in an interview.  “The messages that came out were inconsistent,” Deblock
said by phone. “Stakeholders have had a good chance to express
their concerns.”  The European Commission is seeking to tighten the market’s
supply glut as a new phase begins this year. This month’s
revision, which is scheduled for a vote by  member states  on Jan.
23, allows the credits to be held through March 2015, as long as
they represent greenhouse gas cuts made before 2013. ERUs for
December plunged 90 percent to 15 euro cents ($0.20) a metric
ton since the initial proposal was discussed by policy makers on
Oct. 17. EU permits dropped 35 percent in the same period.  The lobby group today published a letter sent to Yvon
Slingenberg and Peter Zapfel, two officials in the climate-
action unit of the commission who help oversee the market.  Kyoto Extension  “The EU needs to restore confidence in the emissions
trading system, and any changes to existing rules need to be
presented in a transparent and predictable manner,” Deblock
wrote in the letter.  A commission official, who asked not to be named, citing
policy, declined to comment.  The regulator is seeking to adjust the rules of its own
program after United Nations envoys decided Dec. 11 to extend
the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  through 2020, including the Joint
Implementation program that generates ERUs. Kyoto’s emission-
reduction targets would otherwise have finished last year.
Russia has decided not to participate in the agreement’s second
phase.  The commission sometimes publishes draft plans in an
understandable effort to prevent leaks during consultation
periods, Deblock said.  EU carbon permits for December dropped 6.9 percent today to
a record 5.65 euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London.  Aviation Rules  Deblock criticized the commission’s plan to stop traders
converting aviation carbon allowances from the phase ending last
year to permits that can be used by utilities and factories in
the current phase.  “It’s true there has been no consultation and no impact
statement,” she said in the interview. The rule changes were
“particularly concerning” because they will apply with no
period of transition, she said in the letter.  The commission wants EU governments and the European
Parliament to adopt by early this year its plan to freeze for a
year carbon curbs on flights into and out of EU airports.
International flights will now be exempted from EU emissions-
trading rules for 2012 under the draft decision published Nov.
20 on the EU website.  The commission should have better explained why it needed
to make such late changes to the aviation-allowances conversion
rules, which previously were “well established,” Deblock said.  Original Intention  The U.K. said Oct. 22 it may seek to adjust the rule that
allowed buyers of EU aviation-only carbon allowances for
conversion.  “We are aware that the registry regulation appears to
permit Phase 2 EU aviation allowances to be converted into
ordinary Phase 3 allowances,” the Department of Energy and
Climate Change said at the time. That wasn’t the original
intention, the department said.  EU carbon traders are worried they are exposed to further
“discretionary regulatory changes,” Deblock said.  “IETA urges the commission to be as open as possible to
explain the policy intention and the legal meaning behind the
amendments as well as the expected consequences for market
operators,” she said in her letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  