-- EU Extends Levy on China Building Material to Thailand
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-16T14:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/eu-extends-levy-on-china-building-material-to-thailand.html
The European Union extended to
 Taiwan  and  Thailand  a tariff on a construction material from
China, saying Chinese exporters used the two nations to evade
the levy meant to aid EU producers such as  France ’s  Cie. de
Saint-Gobain SA .  The EU said Chinese exporters of open-mesh fabrics of glass
fibers, used mainly as a reinforcement material in construction,
shipped them to  Europe  via Taiwan and Thailand to dodge the 62.9
percent duty. This is the second extension of the levy to
prevent Chinese circumvention after the EU applied the measure
last July to Malaysia.  The import tax “was circumvented by trans-shipment via
Taiwan and Thailand,” the 27-nation EU said in a decision
published today in the  Official Journal . The extension, approved
by EU governments in Brussels on Jan. 10, will take effect
tomorrow.  The EU imposed the trade protection in August 2011 for five
years to help producers including Saint-Gobain Vertex sro -- now
called  Saint-Gobain Adfors CZ sro  -- of the  Czech Republic  and
 Valmieras Stikla Skiedra AS (VSS1R)  of Latvia counter below-cost, or
“dumped,” imports from China. The 62.9 percent levy is the
maximum of several rates, which depend on the Chinese exporter.
The lowest levy is 48.4 percent.  Chinese exporters including Yuyao Mingda Fiberglass Co. and
Grand Composite Group expanded their combined share of the EU
market for open-mesh fabrics of glass fibers to 51 percent in
the 12 months through March 2010 from 38.6 percent in 2006, the
bloc said in 2011.  The extension of the maximum levy to Taiwan and Thailand is
the outcome of a circumvention probe the EU began in May 2012
and will apply retroactively to imports as of that time, when
the bloc also began to register shipments of open-mesh fabrics
of glass fibers from the two nations. The circumvention inquiry 
was requested by European producers, which also include  Vitrulan 
Technical Textiles GmbH  and  Hungary ’s  Tolnatex Fonalfeldolgozo 
es Muszakiszovet-gyarto Bt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  