-- Leu Hits Year-High on Index as Central Bank Calls ‘Fair Value’
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-16T15:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/leu-hits-year-high-on-index-as-central-bank-calls-fair-value-.html
The leu reached its highest level in
a year, prompting the central bank to say the currency is
trading near “fair value,” after  Romania  became eligible for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s emerging-market government bond index.  The currency advanced 0.3 percent to 4.3285 per euro by
5:35 p.m. in Bucharest, after adding as much as 0.4 percent to
the highest intraday level since Jan. 30 last year. The yield on
Romania’s June 2019 euro-denominated bonds slid 10 basis points,
or 0.1 percentage point, to 3.693 percent.  The leu jumped 1 percent yesterday, the most in five
months, after JPMorgan said Romania’s domestic bonds would be
added to its GBI-EM Index series from March 1, spurring
expectations of orders from fund managers seeking to replicate
the benchmark gauge. Central Bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa
said today the currency is “not distant from fair value.”  “Since yesterday’s announcement was made after the home
market closed, the central bank had no chance to react to the
rapid appreciation,” Dan Bucsa, a London-based economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a note earlier today.  Inclusion in the index would be phased over a three-month
period ending May 1, JPMorgan said in a note to clients
yesterday. Romania’s weighting on completion is estimated at
0.54 percent of the GBI-EM Global Diversified index. Its entry
is “subject to final determination,” JPMorgan said.  Romania’s October 2015, January 2016 and July 2017 bonds
currently meet the criteria for index entry as they demonstrate
the highest degree of liquidity, according to JPMorgan. This
list is subject to change as market conditions may alter between
now and the initial inclusion date.  Repo Auctions  The central bank, which has restricted its supply of leu at
its weekly repurchase auctions since October to help prop up the
currency, increased the limit to 6 billion lei ($1.8 billion) on
Jan. 14 from 4 billion lei a week earlier.  While the central bank is unlikely to “hint at any desired
euro/leu level nor to strongly intervene to force the leu to
depreciate significantly,” it prefers a more stable currency
closer to 4.4 per euro, Bucsa said.  “We are not distant from fair value of the leu at this
point of time,” Central Bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said
today at the sidelines of a Euromoney conference in Vienna. The
central bank looks at the pace of the leu move to see whether
it’s supported by a change in fundamentals, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  