-- EU Lawmakers Back Sovereign-Debt Curbs for Ratings Companies
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-16T13:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/eu-lawmakers-back-sovereign-debt-curbs-for-ratings-companies.html
Credit-ratings companies will face
European Union curbs on how they update markets about the
quality of government debt under plans approved by the bloc’s
lawmakers today.  The measures, intended to make it less likely that ratings
decisions roil markets, will also give investors the right to
sue if they lose money because of poor quality or deliberately
distorted credit assessments. European Parliament legislators,
voting in Strasbourg,  France , backed the plans in a compromise
deal with the EU’s 27 governments, which must now rubber stamp
the accord before it can take effect.  “The part of the new regulation that will affect us the
most is the controls and constraints on sovereign ratings,” Ian Linnell, group analytical head at  Fitch Ratings  Ltd., said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 11. Under the draft law, “both
unsolicited and solicited ratings must be constrained by a
calendar put in place the previous year,” he said.  French bonds  and U.S. Treasuries both made gains after the
countries were stripped of their AAA credit ratings, in a signal
that downgrades may have little bearing on a nation’s borrowing
costs. Still, some governments in the EU, including France and
 Germany , have called for tougher rules on ratings companies,
saying their decisions risk harming the bloc’s fight against its
fiscal crisis.  Unsolicited Assessments  Under the EU plan, each credit ratings company would pick a
maximum of three days a year when they would be allowed to
publish so-called unsolicited assessments of governments’
creditworthiness.  “If the  ratings agencies  hadn’t made glaring errors and
covered up for rather doubtful market practices, we wouldn’t
have needed this initiative,” said  Leonardo Domenici , an
Italian member who steered the law through the EU’s Parliament
in Strasbourg, France, and who held out the prospect of yet more
European legislation in the field.  “This is just a stage,” Domenici said. “We do need to
follow up and continue looking at other options.”  Unsolicited ratings are those that haven’t been requested
and paid for by a client. Ratings companies will be able to
issue such ratings outside of their three dates if they can
justify it to regulators.  Publishing ‘Freedom’  “The law does leave some freedom for us to publish ratings
outside of the timetable, and, where appropriate, we will do
just that,” Linnell said. “Quite rightly, investors expect our
ratings to reflect all relevant information and we will not wait
for our slot in the calendar when a significant  credit event 
occurs.”  The draft law requires ratings companies to submit a 12-
month calendar to regulators showing when they plan to publish
solicited and unsolicited sovereign ratings. It also requires
that such ratings are published on a Friday.  “Credit-rating agencies will have to be more transparent
when rating sovereign states and will have to follow stricter
rules, which will make them more accountable for mistakes in
case of negligence or intent,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, said in a statement after the vote.  On legal liability, the draft law foresees that investors
and credit issuers will be able to claim damages from a ratings
company if they suffer losses because of malpractice or gross
negligence in the drawing up of assessments.  Liability Rule  France already has a similar liability rule targeted
specifically at ratings companies, while other nations address
the issue through general civil liability regimes.  Ratings companies “must be accountable,” Wolf Klinz, a
lawmaker from the parliament’s Liberal group, said in an e-
mailed statement.  At present, they “are able to escape from their
responsibility by claiming that they just express opinions --
this is too easy,” Klinz said.  Parliament lawmakers voted to largely scrap proposals from
Barnier to force businesses to rotate the ratings company they
use to assess their debt, on concerns that the measure could
raise companies’ funding costs.  Barnier had said that the measure was needed to boost
competition for the so-called big three ratings companies, Fitch
Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and  Standard & Poor’s .  The new rules should take effect by March, following final
approval by governments, Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for
Barnier, said in an e-mail.  ‘Untested’ Measures  “Moody’s will now focus on implementation of the
regulation, however concerns remain about a number of untested
policy measures that have been included” in the draft law,
Daniel Piels, a spokesman for Moody’s in London, said in an
interview.  The legislation is the EU’s third round of rule-making for
ratings companies since the 2008 financial crisis.  “We intend to comply fully with the new rules,” Martin Winn, a spokesman for Standard & Poor’s in London, said in an e-
mail. The company will “be working closely” with the European
Securities and Markets Authority to implement the standards,
Winn said.  Under the draft law, the EU plans to block any investor
from owning stakes above 5 percent in more than one rating
company. The law would also stop companies from giving rankings
for debt issued by their shareholders, if the investors hold a
stake of 10 percent or more in the ratings firm.  The parliament vote is in line with a political deal on the
law reached in November by legislators and officials.  Credit ratings companies are “playing a prominent role in
the current sovereign-debt crisis,” Sven Giegold, a lawmaker
from the assembly’s Green group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lawmakers would have liked the rules to be “more ambitious
in terms of addressing the market power of the ‘big three’
agencies and potential conflicts of interest,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in  London  via 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  