-- EU Without U.K. Would Be ‘Fish Without Chips,’ Finn Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-16T14:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/eu-without-u-k-would-be-fish-without-chips-katainen-says.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  betrayed his taste for fast food in an appeal for the
U.K. to remain part of the European Union, while Ireland’s
leader said a British exit would be “catastrophic.”  “The EU without Britain is pretty much the same as fish
without chips,” Katainen told reporters in Brussels today.
“It’s not a meal anymore.”  He made the plea -- to British and European decision-makers
alike -- two days before Prime Minister  David Cameron  lays out
terms for a possible referendum that may lead to Britain’s exit
from the EU.  Katainen said it is hard to think of powers and policies
that Britain could pull back from EU authorities in Brussels,
hinting at the difficulties of renegotiating the U.K.’s place in
the 27-nation bloc.  Britain’s rebate from the EU budget appears secure, he
said. While Finland backs a reshuffling of the budget that would
make refunds unnecessary, such a revamp isn’t currently
realistic, he said.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  of Ireland, which along with
Britain joined the EU in 1973, echoed Katainen in signaling the
chances of amending European treaties to address British demands
are unrealistic.  “I cannot see renegotiations for any country in the time
ahead,” Kenny told reporters in Strasbourg, France.  Saying he is “a close-working political friend” of
Cameron, Kenny urged the British leader to focus on the
commercial benefits offered by the EU, especially as it seeks
more free-trade agreements with nations outside Europe including
the U.S.,  Canada  and  Japan . He also sounded alarm at the idea of
a U.K. exit.  “It would simply be catastrophic for Europe if Britain
were to leave,” Kenny said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  