-- Euro at 10-Month High Poses Economic Threat, Juncker Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-16T11:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/euro-exchange-rate-is-dangerously-high-juncker-says.html
The euro’s 8 percent gain against
the  U.S. dollar  in the past six months is posing a fresh threat
to the European economy just as it shows signs of escaping the
debt crisis, said  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers.  Echoing policy makers from  Switzerland  to  Japan  in
bemoaning strong exchange rates, Juncker late yesterday called
the euro’s value “dangerously high” after the 17-nation
currency this week traded above $1.34 against the dollar for the
first time since February last year.  The euro has rallied amid growing signs in financial
markets that the three-year debt turmoil is fading and after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week signaled
no immediate plan to ease monetary policy further.  “It was said last year that the euro zone was at risk of
breaking and I said last year that this won’t happen,” Juncker,
who steps down this month as head of the so-called eurogroup,
told an annual gathering of business leaders in Luxembourg.
“The euro zone has become more stable after lots of efforts,
some from me,” Juncker said, adding that now “the euro
foreign-exchange rate is dangerously high.”  The European currency dropped as much as 0.9 percent after
Juncker’s comments and reached an intraday low of $1.3262. It
reversed declines after ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said the euro-dollar rate is not a concern and traded at
$1.3322 at 11:13 a.m. London time, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Longer-Term Trend  “One shouldn’t overvalue short-term fluctuations of
exchange rates,” Nowotny said today in Vienna. “I don’t see a
perspective of a longer-term trend, therefore it is from my
point of view not a matter of major concern.”  Juncker’s remarks reflect European Union policy makers’
confidence that they have tamed the fiscal crisis. EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  said on Jan. 9 that “the worst is behind us,
particularly the existential threat to the euro.” The ECB’s
Draghi on Jan. 10 cited “positive contagion” in European
markets and said “a gradual recovery should start” in the
euro-area economy in late 2013.  Harvard University professor  Martin Feldstein , long a
critic of the euro, said on Jan. 5 that European policy makers
should consider a coordinated approach to weaken the euro as a
way to rally growth via exports.  “A lower euro would make each of the euro-zone countries
more competitive relative to the countries outside the euro
zone,” Feldstein said.  Weaker Currencies  Policy makers from many of the world’s leading economies
have entered the new year advocating weaker currencies as an
impulse for stronger economic growth with monetary and fiscal
policies running out of room. Switzerland is already blocking
the franc’s appreciation against the euro, while newly elected
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to spur growth and
seek a more aggressive central bank has driven down the yen.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said on Nov. 14 that
while he never called for changes in exchange rates, sterling’s
increase over the previous year was “not a welcome
development.” The  Bank of Canada  said on Dec. 4 that
“persistent strength” in its dollar was hobbling exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at   jhayden1@bloomberg.net  