-- European Dividends Tumble to Four-Year Low as CEOs Hoard
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-16T17:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/european-dividends-tumble-to-four-year-low.html
Companies in the euro area are
poised to cut  dividends  to the lowest level in four years as
chief executive officers stockpile cash to weather the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Payouts to shareholders in the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  will
fall by 3.3 percent to a combined 115.48 euros a share this
year, according to more than 500 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Reducing them by that much would cut the dividend
yield to 4.3 percent from 6.3 percent in September 2011, even
after cash on balance sheets climbed to the highest since 2008,
the data show.  The forecasts suggest more companies will follow Royal KPN
NV and  Enel SpA (ENEL)  in reducing payouts as the debt crisis pushes
unemployment in Spain and  Greece  to more than 25 percent and
China’s economy cools. Analysts are cutting estimates amid a
rally that has sent the Euro Stoxx 50 to a 17-month high as
central-bank measures hold down bond yields.  “Within  Europe , it’s excess cash on balance sheets” that
attracts investors, said Bank of America Corp.’s John Bilton,
European investment strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill
Lynch unit in London. “The current levels of dividend yield are
not sustainable.”  Holdings of cash  and equivalents at companies in the Euro
Stoxx 50 climbed 9.3 percent to a combined 1,834.44 euros a
share in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While
the gauge’s estimated dividend yield fell over the past year,
projections for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased to 2.3
percent from 2.2 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Economy Shrinks  The euro-area economy will shrink 0.1 percent in 2013 after
a 0.4 percent contraction last year, according to the median
projection of 49 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  China  is
forecast to report 2012 growth of 7.7 percent, the slowest rate
since at least 1999, the data show. Those hurdles will help
shrink revenue for European companies by 1 percent this year,
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg indicate.  “The headwinds coming from slow economic growth are
driving weak consumer demand, undermining corporate
profitability,” said Abi Oladimeji, who helps oversee $4.3
billion as head of investment strategy at Thomas Miller
Investment Ltd. in London. “Will companies be able to make
enough in earnings to pay those dividends? In an environment
where the economic and political outlook is highly uncertain, it
is hard for executives to make investment decisions.”  2012 Gains  The Euro Stoxx 50 climbed 14 percent last year, the first
gain since 2009, as the European Central Bank announced an
unlimited bond-buying plan to hold down borrowing costs in the
region’s weakest economies and the Federal Reserve began a third
round of asset purchases. The index, which advanced to the
highest level since July 2011 last week, rose less than 0.1
percent to 2,702.54 the close of trading today today.  Investors have had little choice but to buy stocks as the
central-bank action helps force down returns from other assets,
said Didier Duret, who helps manage 146 billion euros as chief
investment officer at ABN Amro Private Banking in Amsterdam. The
4.3 percent estimated dividend yield of Euro Stoxx 50 members
compares with the 1.5 percent yield on 10-year German bunds.
Euro-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds yield 2.06
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “Dividends of quality companies are offering better
returns than even high-yielding corporate bonds,” Duret said.
“Investors will have to turn to equities to capture those kind
of returns.”  Gap Narrows  The gap between returns from dividends and bond coupons is
narrowing as industries such as telecommunications and utilities
reduce payouts to conserve cash. The spread between dividend
yields on the Euro Stoxx 50 and 10-year bund yields narrowed to
2.77 percentage points on Jan. 11 from as much as 4.67 on June
1, Bloomberg data show.  European telecommunication operators  will pay 6.6 percent
of their share prices as dividends in 2013, down from 8.5
percent in 2011, Bloomberg estimates show. KPN, the Dutch phone
company partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, plunged
the most in 11 years on Dec. 17 after the Hague-based company
said it wouldn’t pay a final dividend in 2012 and this year’s
payout will fall to 3 euro cents a share.  France Telecom  France  Telecom was the worst performer in France’s CAC 40
Index last year, with a 31 percent drop. The Paris-based former
phone monopoly will declare a final dividend of 22 euro cents in
February, down from 80 cents a year earlier, as it seeks to
control debt amid growing competition, according to Bloomberg
forecasts that account for earnings and options prices.  Utilities including Enel,  Italy ’s biggest, are also
lowering payouts to shareholders, with companies in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Utilities Index  forecast  to pay an average yield of
6.3 percent in 2013 compared with 6.7 percent last year and 7.8
percent in 2011.  “Telecommunication and utility companies, which used to
offer sustainable dividend yields, massively underperformed”
last year, said Robert Quinn, European equity strategist at
Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ in  London . “Dividends from banks,
a rich source before the financial crisis, have also practically
disappeared.”  Telecommunication companies in the benchmark Stoxx Europe
600 Index posted the  worst performance  among 19  industry groups 
last year, sliding 11 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
A measure of utilities had the third-largest losses, with a 0.7
percent retreat.  Bank Yields  Euro-area banks are estimated to distribute 4.2 percent of
their share price as dividends, a yield that has fallen from
10.7 percent in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “On average, European equities look like they have great
dividend yields, but investors are well aware that this is not
sustainable,” said Jacob de Tusch-Lec, who helps oversee $20
billion at Artemis Investment Management LLP in London. “You
see cuts almost like a reset exercise. European stocks look
cheap on a dividend yield level, but for a lot of them, we do
not care about the dividend yield anymore; we are more worried
about the business model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  