-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; TUI Travel Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-16T16:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/european-futures-little-changed-euro-dangerously-high-.html
European stocks  were little changed,
erasing an earlier retreat for the region’s benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, as U.S. industrial production climbed and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s earnings topped estimates.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  gained 3.9 percent after Europe’s largest
tour operator said it received an approach from its German
majority owner.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  dropped 3.1 percent as the
 African National Congress  said  South Africa ’s government should
withdraw the company’s platinum licenses.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
lost 2.8 percent as CA Cheuvreux downgraded the French lender.  The Stoxx 600 rose less than 0.1 percent to 286.03 at the
close of trading, after earlier falling as much as 0.4 percent.
The gauge has advanced 2.3 percent since the start of the year
after U.S. lawmakers agreed on a budget, avoiding tax increases
and spending cuts.  “Things have improved, compared to last year the world
looks better,” Sebastian Paris-Horvitz, chief market strategist
at  HSBC Private Bank , told Francine Lacqua in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “I do believe in the rotation
towards equities, it looks better value for the future and is
the reason we have been advocating the move toward riskier
assets.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
Europe’s  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  was 20 percent higher than the 30-day average
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Economy  Economic data today showed U.S. industrial production
climbed 0.3 percent in December, for a second month of gains, as
demand picked up for capital equipment. That matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised 1 percent
November gain, the Federal Reserve report showed.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders held at the highest
level in more than six years in January, adding to evidence that
residential real estate will help spur economic growth. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index remained
at 47.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank, rallied in  New
York  trading after fourth-quarter net income almost tripled.
Earnings for common shareholders, which include the cost of
preferred stock dividends, rose to $5.60 a share, exceeding the
$3.66 average estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Of the 39 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
have released fourth-quarter earnings, 74 percent have exceeded
analysts’ profit projections, according to Bloomberg data.  Investor Expectations  “We would expect some modest consolidation in the next
month or two as investors digest earnings and deal with the
fiscal disagreement in the U.S.,” said Terry Ewing, a  fund
manager  at Ignis Asset Management Ltd. in Glasgow, Scotland,
which oversees about $110 billion. “There has already been a
marked reduction in investors’ expectations going into the
fourth quarter, which is a good set up.”  Stocks fell earlier as the  World Bank  cut its global growth
forecast for this year to 2.4 percent as austerity measures,
high unemployment and low business confidence weigh on economies
in developed nations. That’s down from a June forecast of 3
percent, after growth of 2.3 percent in 2012.  TUI Travel rallied 3.9 percent to 292.5 pence after the
company said its in early stage talks with  TUI AG (TUI1)  that “may or
may not result in a combination of the two companies.” Shares
of TUI AG surged 8.8 percent to 8.05 euros in Frankfurt.  Anglo American  Anglo American, the world’s largest platinum producer,
dropped 3.1 percent to 1,901 pence after the ANC called on the
South African government to withdraw mining licenses from
Anglo’s Amplats unit.  The business, also known as Anglo American Platinum Ltd.,
said yesterday that it will idle four shafts in South Africa,
cutting production of the precious metal by 400,000 ounces a
year and firing as many as 14,000 workers.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest platinum producer, tumbled
5.7 percent to 326.3 pence.  KappAhl AB (KAHL)  jumped 17 percent to 5.10 kronor after Sweden’s
second-biggest publicly traded clothing retailer reported first-
quarter net profit of 115 million kronor ($17.7 million),
exceeding analyst estimates of 70.4 million kronor. Sales also
topped forecasts.  Societe Generale  slid 2.8 percent to 32.54 euros, a second
day of losses. Cheuvreux downgraded the French bank to
underperform, the equivalent of sell, from outperform.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  