-- Even Bayern Munich’s Rivals May Gain From Guardiola’s Arrival
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-01-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/even-bayern-munich-s-rivals-may-gain-from-guardiola-s-arrival.html
Sporting rivals rarely congratulate
one another when a team makes a big signing. Yet that’s what
happened yesterday when  Bayern Munich  announced it hired Pep Guardiola as coach from next season.  Moments after the news broke that the much-coveted ex-
Barcelona coach had chosen Munich as his next destination, Hans- Joachim Watzke, chief executive officer of German champion
 Borussia Dortmund , offered words of praise.  “I think it’s fabulous, compliments to Bayern on this
coup,” Watzke said. “It’s extremely good for the whole league
because the world can see that it has got such a coach.”  Bayern,  Germany ’s richest team, signed Guardiola to a
three-year contract through 2016 in a move that came soon after
he said he’d like to coach in England’s high-profile Premier
League. He’d been linked with some of the top clubs there
including  Manchester United ,  Manchester City  and Chelsea, as
well as  Italy ’s AC Milan.  Bayern said the arrival of Guardiola would benefit not just
itself but the whole of German soccer.  “We are very pleased that we have managed to sign someone
like Pep Guardiola, who has been courted by so many famous
clubs,” Bayern Chief Executive Officer Karl-Heinz Rummenigge
said in a club statement. “Pep Guardiola is one of the most
successful coaches in the world and we are certain that he can
make not just Bayern, but all of German football, shine.”  While German teams play in front of the biggest attendances
in world soccer, the Bundesliga’s global appeal lags that of
 Spain ’s La Liga and the Premier League. The English league’s
overseas television rights generate more than 10 times the
amount the  Bundesliga  gets from selling its matches outside
Germany. Guardiola could help raise that profile.  ‘Increase Awareness’  “Any big signing like this has the potential to increase
awareness,” Nigel Currie, managing director of brandRapport, a
marketing consultant, said in telephone interview. “The
Bundesliga is a long way behind the Premier League in terms of
international appeal.”  Guardiola, who turns 42 tomorrow, will join Bayern in July,
the club said. He’ll succeed Jupp Heynckes, who’ll retire when
his contract expires after the season.  The Spaniard left Barcelona after the 2011-12 season
following a four-year stint in which he won two Champions
Leagues and three Spanish league titles. He’s been on a
sabbatical from the game since.  His choice of Munich is the latest boost for German club
soccer. All three Bundesliga teams that qualified for the group
stages of the  Champions League  made it through to the knockout
round, with Dortmund helping eliminate English champion
Manchester City.  Leads Bundesliga  Bayern, which had sales of 332 million euros ($441 million)
last year, holds a nine-point lead over  Bayer Leverkusen  in the
German standings as it seeks to extend its record of 22 league
titles. Dortmund is three points further back in third.  Although it was beaten out in the league by Dortmund the
past two years, Bayern did reach the final of the Champions
League last season where it lost in its home ground to Chelsea
in a penalty shootout. It’s won the elite European competition
four times, the last in 2001.  Heynckes, 67, stayed on after the Chelsea defeat, but told
club officials before Christmas of his plan to retire at the end
of the season. He was in his third stint as coach, taking over
for the fired Louis van Gaal after the 2010-11 season.  “In a very personal discussion with Jupp Heynckes, we
assured each other that we will do everything we can to bring
the 2012-13 campaign to a successful conclusion, and bring the
title back to Munich,” Rummenigge said.  Heynckes previously led Bayern from 1987 to 1991 -- winning
two leagues and two German Cup titles -- and then again in 2009
after Juergen Klinsmann was fired. He also won the Champions
League title in 1998 as coach of Real Madrid.  Top Club Team  “As an adequate successor for Jupp Heynckes, only a coach
of Pep Guardiola’s stature was going to work for us,” Bayern
Chairman Uli Hoeness said.  A former Barcelona captain and 1992 European Cup-winner,
Guardiola went on to coach the club’s reserve team. He was
promoted to replace  Frank Rijkaard  in 2008 and established
Barcelona as the top club team in the world.  Featuring players such as  Lionel Messi ,  Xavi Hernandez  and
 Andres Iniesta , Barcelona captured each of the six competitions
it took part in in Guardiola’s first season --  including
Spain’s La Liga and Copa del Rey, the Club  World Cup  and the
Champions League -- and would win  14 trophies  during his tenure.  Not that he’ll find the going easy at Bayern.  “The pressure on Bayern to succeed will certainly not be
any less as a result of this,” Dortmund’s Watzke warned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 