-- Bayern Munich Hires Former Barcelona Coach Pep Guardiola
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-16T18:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ex-barcelona-coach-guardiola-joins-bayern-munich-on-3-year-deal.html
Former Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola
signed a three-year contract to take over at  Bayern Munich , the
record 22-time German champion soccer club said.  Guardiola, who turns 42 in two days, will join Bayern in
July, the club said on its website. He’ll replace Jupp Heynckes,
who’ll retire when his contract expires after the season.  Guardiola left Barcelona after the 2012 season following a
four-year stint in which he won two Champions Leagues and three
Spanish league titles. Though he’d been on a sabbatical from the
game since, Guardiola had been linked with return to some of the
world’s biggest clubs including  Manchester United , Manchester
City, Chelsea and AC Milan.  “We are very pleased that we have managed to sign someone
like Pep Guardiola, who has been courted by so many famous
clubs,” Bayern Chief Executive Officer Karl-Heinz Rummenigge
said in the club’s  statement . “Pep Guardiola is one of the most
successful coaches in the world and we are certain that he can
make not just Bayern, but all of German football, shine.”  Bayern holds a nine-point lead over Bayer Leverkusen in the
German standings as it seeks to extend its record of league
wins. Though it was beaten out in the league by  Borussia
Dortmund  the past two years, it did reach the final of the
Champions League last season where it lost to Chelsea in a
penalty shootout.  Heynckes Retires  Bayern said Heynckes told club officials before Christmas
of his plan to retire at the end of the season. The 67-year-old
was in his third stint as coach, taking over for the fired Louis van Gaal after the 2010-11 season.  “In a very personal discussion with Jupp Heynckes, we
assured each other that we will do everything we can to bring
the 2012-13 campaign to a successful conclusion, and bring the
title back to Munich,” Rummenigge said.  Heynckes previously led Bayern from 1987 to 1991 -- winning
two leagues and two German Cup titles -- and then again in 2009
after Jurgen Klinsmann was fired. He also won the  Champions
League  title in 1998 as coach of Real Madrid.  “As an adequate successor for Jupp Heynckes, only a coach
of Pep Guardiola’s stature was going to work for us,” Bayern
Chairman Uli Hoeness said.  A former Barcelona captain who won the 1992 European Cup,
Guardiola went on to coach the club’s reserve team. He was
promoted to replace  Frank Rijkaard  in 2008 and established
Barcelona as the top club team in the world.  Featuring players such as  Lionel Messi ,  Xavi Hernandez  and
 Andres Iniesta , Barcelona captured each of the six competitions
it took part in in Guardiola’s first season --  including
Spain’s La Liga and Copa del Rey, the Club World Cup and the
Champions League -- and would win  14 trophies  during his tenure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 