-- Ex-Legal & General Trader Pleads Guilty for Insider Trades
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-01-16T16:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ex-legal-general-trader-pleads-guilty-for-insider-trades-1-.html
Paul Milsom, the former Legal &
General equities trader, pleaded guilty to one count of passing
inside information to an independent stockbroker, giving the
U.K. finance regulator its first conviction in its highest-
profile  insider trading  case.  Graeme Shelley, the independent broker who previously
worked at Novum Securities Ltd., was charged with 28 counts of
insider trading for share transactions from October 2008 to
March 2010 in companies including broadcaster ITV Plc, according
to the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which is prosecuting
the case. The lone charge against Milsom includes 28 instances
of leaking insider tips.  Shelley didn’t enter a plea and both men were released on
unconditional bail at a London court hearing today. The
regulator charged five other individuals last year as part of
the investigation into the front-running of block trades, known
as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little tavern.  The FSA arrested seven people and raided 16 addresses in
 London  and southeast  England  in March 2010 as part of the probe.
Milsom was arrested in February last year. The first five
defendants who have been charged haven’t entered pleas.  Legal & General “assisted the FSA” following Milsom’s
arrest, the company said in an e-mailed statement. Milsom “had
been suspended since his arrest, and now that he has pleaded
guilty, will be subject to our disciplinary procedures.”  He wasn’t in control of any client funds, the firm said.  Milsom’s case was transferred to a higher criminal court.
Shelley is scheduled for a second appearance at Westminster
Magistrates Court on Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  