-- MTBE Still a Water Risk, Witness Says at ExxonMobil Trial
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   S a r a h   E a r l e
-- 2013-01-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/exxonmobil-knew-in-1984-mtbe-would-contaminate-ground.html
A chemical additive to gasoline
meant to make it burn more thoroughly poses a long-term threat
of contamination in New Hampshire, a witness testified at the
trial of  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)   Dr. Graham Fogg, a professor of hydrology at the University
of  California , Davis, took the stand yesterday in state court in
Concord as the first witness in the state’s $816 million
lawsuit. New Hampshire sued oil companies for allegedly using
the additive, MTBE, while knowing its potential for groundwater
pollution as long as 29 years ago.  “A problem like this is not going to disappear in a mere 6
years or 16 years or, I would say, 26 years,” Fogg testified.  ExxonMobil and Citgo Petroleum Corp. said the additive,
meant to reduce air pollution, never caused illness to any
resident of New Hampshire. The trial, which began Jan. 14, pits
state environmental claims against assertions by companies that
they were complying with federal pollution rules.  Fogg testified the additive can zigzag through fractured
bedrock in unpredictable patterns and remain in groundwater
longer than other compounds. Fogg said the additive poses unique
risks to drinking water when leaked from underground storage
tanks, based on its chemical properties and the state’s geology.  “The contaminant will tend to move along fractures that
are open and connected,” he told jurors. “Those fractures can
be quite complex.”  Creates Hazard  As a result, MTBE creates a hazard that is difficult to
detect and equally difficult to clean up, Fogg said, showing
jurors slides that demonstrated the way MTBE can bleed into
water supplies. The state sought to counter claims by the oil
companies that MTBE has largely disappeared from the water
supply, as well as claims that the additive is safer than some
of the chemicals it displaces when mixed with gasoline.  Chemicals such as benzene “don’t move very fast or very
far, Fogg said. ‘‘They tend to stabilize because of
biodegradation.’’  The state claimed in opening arguments that the oil
companies knew that if they added MTBE to gasoline it would
increase the risk and costs associated with contamination.  ‘‘Exxon decided to disregard the recommendation of its own
employees and put MTBE in gasoline,’’ Jessica Grant, a lawyer
for the state, told jurors Jan. 14. ‘‘In 1984, Exxon anticipated
that if it added MTBE to its gasoline, the number of
contamination incidents would triple. These incidents would take
longer to clean up and cost five times as much.’’  Each cleanup at that time would have cost as much as $7
million, she said.  Clean Air  The companies said the federal  Clean Air Act  pre-empts the
state claims, and that by adding MTBE to gasoline, they were
complying with a U.S. mandate to supply cleaner-burning fuel.  Oil refiners began adding MTBE to gasoline in the 1970s to
replace lead. From 1995 to 2006, they increased the use of MTBE,
which boosts the fuel’s oxygen level.  ‘‘We had no choice but to put oxygenates in our gasoline,’’
Nate Eimer, a lawyer for Citgo, said yesterday in his opening
statement.  The lawsuit is one of scores of cases involving the
additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, filed since 2000
against oil refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  The defendants sought to emphasize to jurors that no one
has been injured.  ‘‘This is not a personal-injury case,’’ David Lender, a
lawyer for ExxonMobil, said in his opening statement. ‘‘There’s
not any evidence that anyone ever got sick or got cancer from
MTBE.’’  No Gasoline  Lender contended that there has been no gasoline sold in
New Hampshire containing MTBE for more than six years.  MTBE is produced by combining methanol, which is derived
from natural gas, and isobutylene, a byproduct of gasoline
refining. It can leak into the ground from gas stations, storage
tanks and auto junkyards.  It dissolves in water and doesn’t biodegrade, so it can be
carried with the water great distances from the site of a leak
or spill, according to court papers. The chemical is difficult
and expensive to find, treat and remove, according to filings.  According to New Hampshire case filings, MTBE can render
drinking water ‘‘foul, putrid and unfit for human consumption.’’
The state said it petitioned the U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  in 2001 to get out of its reformulated-gasoline program
because of awareness of MTBE’s harmful effects. The additive has
been banned in the state since January 2007.  No Warning  ‘‘Despite knowing that MTBE posed a greater threat to
drinking water, they never posted a single warning,’’ Grant
said.  New Hampshire sued ExxonMobil and Citgo in 2003 along with
Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Vitol SA and Hess Corp. All settled but Irving, Texas-based
ExxonMobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of  Venezuela ’s
state-owned oil company,  Petroleos de Venezuela SA . Shell and
Sunoco agreed to pay $35 million in an accord announced in
November.  New Hampshire said it has identified 228 sites that will
require cleanup from contamination by MTBE, which according to
court filings can cause cancer in animals. Tests in 2005 and
2006 found MTBE in 9.1 percent of private wells throughout the
state, it said.  New Hampshire is seeking $816 million to cover cleanup and
monitoring costs, Grant said, and it will ask for damages from
ExxonMobil and Citgo based on their market shares of gasoline
sold in the state during the period covered by the lawsuit.  Market Shares  ExxonMobil’s market share was about 30 percent, she said.
That means the state will seek $245 million in damages from the
company. Citgo’s market share ranged from 3 percent to 8.7
percent.  Lender said yesterday that ExxonMobil’s market share in New
Hampshire was only 6.1 percent during that time.  ‘‘The majority of the state’s damage claims are based on
computer models and projections, not on actual testing or
data,” Claire Hassett, an ExxonMobil spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  The state said the oil companies could have used safer
additives, such as ethanol, and chose not to because MTBE is
inexpensive to produce.  “If they had an alternative product to use and the
alternative is just as good and avoids serious risk to
consumers, there’s a strong argument the defendants have failed
the risk-utility standard and can be held liable,” said Keith
Hylton, who teaches law and economics at Boston University
School of Law.  Short Supply  The oil companies said ethanol wasn’t in large enough
supply when an additive was being sought, and that it presents
its own environmental hazards.  ExxonMobil’s Hassett said the fault lies with whoever
spilled the chemically treated fuel.  “MTBE contamination has been found in New Hampshire
because someone spilled gasoline in New Hampshire, not because
it was added to gasoline in a refinery in another state,” she
said. “The state should be suing parties responsible for
spilling gasoline.”  The oil companies also said in court filings that a statute
of limitations should prevent the litigation from proceeding.
The state waited three years from the time it detected MTBE in
sites until it sued, they said.  New Hampshire  Superior Court  Judge Peter Fauver in August
rejected oil company motions seeking judgment without a trial
based on the arguments they raised. Those issues can be brought
up again for the jury’s consideration.  Water Sources  In January 2011, the New Hampshire Supreme Court denied a
motion by the companies to decide the case in their favor and
sent it back to the Superior Court. The state’s highest court
said New Hampshire could seek damages for contamination of
nonpublic sources of water, such as wells, and public sources.  The New Hampshire case had been moved to federal court in
New York, where other lawsuits have been consolidated for
pretrial evidence-gathering and motions before U.S. District
Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan . In 2007, the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New York sent New Hampshire’s case back to the state
court there.  Scheindlin presided over the trial of New York City’s case
against ExxonMobil. In 2009, the jury in that case ordered
ExxonMobil to pay $104.7 million after finding it liable for
polluting wells in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  The cases consolidated in New York may be tried separately
in courts around the U.S. if settlements aren’t reached. In the
New York litigation, the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection filed its fourth amended complaint in June. No date
has been set for a trial, which would probably take place in
federal court in New Jersey.  The New Hampshire trial may take more than four months,
lawyers said.  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-
C-0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County
(Concord). The federal cases are consolidated as In re MTBE
Products Liability Litigation, 00-11898, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in state court in
Concord, New Hampshire at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Earle in state court Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 