-- Fed Sees Economy Picking Up Across U.S. in Beige Book Survey
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-16T20:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/fed-s-beige-book-sees-economic-expansion-as-modest-or-moderate-.html
The U.S. economy picked up across
much of the country last month, boosted by auto and home sales,
even as the outlook for unemployment showed few signs of
improvement, the Federal Reserve said.  “Economic activity has expanded since the previous Beige
Book report, with all 12 districts characterizing the pace of
growth as either modest or moderate,” the central bank said
today in its Beige Book business survey, which is based on
reports from the Fed’s district banks.  The report, prepared for discussion at the Federal Open
Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30 meeting, may strengthen the
resolve of policy makers who want to press on with the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases until the labor market
improves substantially.  “There’s still plenty of potential headwinds” for the
economy, said Terry Sheehan, an economic analyst at Stone &
McCarthy Research in Princeton, New Jersey. Policy makers “have
not seen the recovery in labor markets that they had hoped for
yet.”  The New York and Philadelphia districts “rebounded from
the immediate impact of  Hurricane Sandy ,” while Boston,
Richmond and Atlanta reported that growth increased slightly in
their districts. Still, the report said that “labor market
conditions remained mostly unchanged in all districts.”  The Beige Book provides anecdotal evidence on the health of
the economy. In the previous report on Nov. 28, the Fed said the
economy expanded at a “measured pace” and “consumer spending
grew at a moderate pace in most districts, while manufacturing
weakened.”  ‘Generally Optimistic’  By contrast, today’s report said manufacturing was
“mixed” and that the outlook of manufacturers was “generally
optimistic.”  The anecdotal accounts were collected on or before Jan. 4
and compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 2:53
p.m. in New York at 1,473.35, while the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell 0.01 percentage point to 1.82 percent.  The Beige Book found that all 12 districts reported “some
growth in consumer spending” and that “auto sales were
reported as steady or stronger” in most districts. Tourism
increased due to strong business and international travel and
early snowfall in some ski areas.  Growth in residential real estate was “described as
moderate or strong” in nine districts, as prices rose in all
reports received. New construction was reported higher in 11 of
12 districts.  Continuing Gains  The S&P Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities rose
4.3 percent in October from a year earlier, gains that the Beige
Book suggests will continue.  Contacts in  Boston , Richmond, Atlanta,  Chicago , Kansas City
and San Francisco all reported delayed hiring “often in defense
manufacturing, due to fiscal cliff uncertainties,” referring to
a legislative dispute over spending cuts and tax increases that
went unresolved until Jan. 1.  The Beige Book said that wage pressures have been
“stable,” with the San Francisco Fed specifically citing “an
abundance of workers” holding down wages.  Minutes from the Dec. 11-12 FOMC meeting showed that even
as they were preparing new Treasury purchases, “several” FOMC
members said it would “probably be appropriate to slow or stop
buying well before the end of 2013.” A “few” others were
willing to let the program run to the end of the year, while “a
few others” didn’t give a time frame.  Economy’s Progress  Policy makers from St. Louis Fed President James Bullard to
 Eric Rosengren  of Boston have said the duration of the program
will depend on the economy’s progress and won’t be tied to a
calendar date.  Recent data reports have highlighted an economy that, while
growing at a moderate pace, made steady gains even as U.S.
lawmakers wrangled over fiscal policy. Gross domestic product
may expand at a 2 percent pace in 2013 after a 2.3 percent gain
last year, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News this month.  Industrial production climbed for a second month in
December as demand picked up for business equipment, according
to a separate report released by the Fed today.  Payrolls increased by 155,000 workers in December, keeping
the unemployment rate at 7.8 percent, a Labor Department report
showed Jan. 4.  Retail spending  climbed 0.5 percent in December
after a revised 0.4 percent increase in November.  Annual Gain  Another report today showed the cost of living was little
changed in December, capping the smallest annual gain in the
past decade. The unchanged reading in the consumer price index
followed a 0.3 percent decrease in November, according to Labor
Department figures.  At the same time, a report today showed that confidence
among homebuilders held in January at the highest level in more
than six years, a sign the housing market will probably spur
growth in the larger economy. The number of building permit
applications issued in November rose to a four-year high, a
rebound that bodes well for companies including Los Angeles-
based  KB Home. (KBH)   “Housing is becoming a bright spot for the economy,”
 Jeffrey Mezger , chief executive officer of the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder, said on an earnings call Dec. 20. “The industry is
once again positioned to play its historical role of being a job
creator and leading the national economy into a full recovery.”  Spending Cuts  Earlier this month Congress sidestepped a showdown over
spending cuts and tax increases by raising payroll taxes and
postponing a decision on automatic spending reductions for
defense and health care.  The improving outlook for jobs and wages may help cushion
the harm to consumer spending from the higher payroll tax used
to pay for Social Security benefits. Starting this month, that
tax rate returned to the 2010 level of 6.2 percent, from 4.2
percent, as part of the Jan. 1 fiscal pact passed by Congress.  Politicians are debating raising the nation’s legal
borrowing limit, currently set at $16.4 trillion. The Treasury
Department has been using emergency measures since the end of
December to prevent a breach. The U.S. government makes about 80
million payments each month, including for Social Security,
veterans’ benefits, defense contractors, law enforcement and
income-tax refunds.  Never Defaulted  The debt limit has been periodically raised since its
creation in 1917, when Congress and President Woodrow Wilson
authorized the Treasury to issue long-term securities to help
finance entry into World War I. Since 1960, Congress has raised
or revised the limit 79 times, including 49 times under
Republican presidents, according to the Treasury Department,
noting the U.S. never has defaulted on its obligations.  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
President  Barack Obama  signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the
day that Treasury warned U.S. borrowing authority would expire.
Standard & Poor’s cut the nation’s credit rating.  Still, U.S. Treasury bond investors -- who most directly
bear the risk of any government default -- haven’t shown alarm
over political fights ultimately resolved in Washington. Yields
on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.56 percent on Aug.
5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade, and continued to fall.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate borrowing costs, have fallen from
more than 5 percent in 2007, before the financial crisis of
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  