-- Fidelity to Close Small-Cap Stock Fund to New Investors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-16T16:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/fidelity-to-close-small-cap-stock-fund-to-new-investors.html
Fidelity Investments , the second-
biggest mutual-fund manager in the U.S., said it will close its
 Small Cap Discovery Fund (FSCRX)  to new investors after assets almost
doubled in the past year to $3.9 billion.  The fund will accept new purchases only from existing
investors or through some retirement accounts and financial
advisers after Jan. 31, the Boston-based company said today in a
statement. Small Cap Discovery, managed by Chuck Myers, has
beaten 99 percent of rivals over the past five years, returning
an annual average of 15 percent.  “We believe that closing Small Cap Discovery Fund at this
time is in the best interests of the fund’s shareholders, and
stabilizing cash flows will help Chuck in seeking to maintain
the fund’s consistent performance,” Brian B. Hogan, head of
Fidelity’s equity group, said in the statement.  Asset managers sometimes close funds to new investors after
large deposits, which can make it difficult to invest new money
as effectively as existing assets. Small Cap Discovery had the
highest return in the past five years, adjusted for price
swings, among 89 U.S. funds with assets of more than $1 billion
that buy small-capitalization stocks, according to the BLOOMBERG
RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. Myers, 37, generated the best total
return at 80 percent over the period.  Fidelity, known for its actively-managed stock offerings,
oversaw $1.7 trillion in client assets as of Nov. 30. The
company last closed an equity mutual fund because of client
deposits in June 2006, Sophie Launay, a spokeswoman, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  