-- Fitschen Received Support After Raids on Deutsche Bank
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-16T19:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/fitschen-received-support-after-raids-on-deutsche-bank.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer  Juergen Fitschen , who is under investigation as part of
a probe into tax evasion in the carbon market, said he received
expressions of support after German police raided the lender
last month.  “A lot of you wrote me letters, I’ve never received so
much mail,” Fitschen said in a speech to an audience of
Deutsche Bank employees, clients and German lawmakers including
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  at the bank’s offices in
Berlin today. “I’d like to thank you for your support.”  The co-CEO and Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  are
among Deutsche Bank’s employees under investigation because they
signed tax declaration forms for the lender that later needed to
be corrected. Fitschen came under fire from German politicians
after calling the prime minister of the state where the bank is
located because he felt the raids were “disproportionate.”  “I expressed how I felt in that call,” he said, referring
to the conversation with Hesse Prime Minister Volker Bouffier
after the Dec. 12 raids. “I’d never have thought a phone call
could have such an effect.”  Fitschen cited the presence of 500 police and tax
investigators, “some of them masked, some of them armed with
machine guns” in Deutsche Bank offices as elements that made
the authorities’s actions seem disproportionate.  “I was very annoyed about being accused of putting power
ahead of the law,” he said. “That was never my intention.”  ‘Incredible’  It would be “incredible” if Fitschen had complained to
Bouffier about the Frankfurt General Prosecutor, Hesse Deputy
Premier and Justice Minister Joerg-Uwe Hahn said Dec. 18 in
Bild-Zeitung,  Germany ’s best-selling newspaper.  Deutsche Bank said Dec. 16 that it will investigate
prosecutors’ allegations that employees deleted e-mails
requested as part of the  tax-evasion  probe.  Six men who worked at small trading companies were found
guilty in December 2011 of evading a total of 260 million euros
($346 million) in taxes on carbon emission trades. They bought
certificates from suppliers overseas and resold them. Each sale
generated a  sales tax , which the buyer could reclaim from the
tax authorities as a refund. Deutsche Bank bought the
allowances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  