-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Assets Rises on Global Slowdown
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-01-16T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/foreign-buying-of-u-s-financial-assets-rises-on-global-slowdown.html
International purchases of U.S.
stocks, bonds and other  financial assets  were more than twice as
much as forecast in November as investors sought shelter from a
global economic slowdown.  Net buying of long-term financial assets totaled $52.3
billion during the month, swinging from net sales of $1 billion
in October, the Treasury Department said today in Washington.
 Economists surveyed  by Bloomberg projected net buying of $25
billion of long-term assets, according to the median estimate.  “The global economic slowdown and renewed uncertainty in
the U.S. about the impact of the fiscal cliff following the
general election motivated the flight to safety,”  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist for TD Securities Inc. in New
York, said after the report was released. “With intensification
of these concerns in December we are likely to see further
increase in flows.”  President  Barack Obama  vowed he won’t negotiate over
raising the government’s debt ceiling even as he offered to deal
on a separate track with the  deficit reduction  demanded by
Republicans. Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky said the debt-ceiling debate is the “perfect time” to
address spending, while House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , brushed off Obama’s insistence on keeping the two
separate.  Bond Purchases  The Fed said last month it will buy $45 billion a month of
 Treasury securities  starting in January, expanding its asset-
purchase program to $85 billion monthly. The central bank may
end bond purchases sometime in 2013, some policy makers said,
according to minutes of the Dec. 11- Dec. 12 meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  released Jan. 3.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecasts in October, saying the world economy would grow 3.3
percent last year, the slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6
percent in 2013. That compared with July predictions of 3.5
percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.  The World Bank yesterday cut its global growth forecast for
this year. The Washington-based bank projects the world economy
will expand 2.4 percent, down from a June forecast of 3 percent.  U.K., France  The U.K., France and Germany all increased their holdings
of U.S. Treasuries in November.  Euro-area leaders have wrestled with a Cyprus rescue since
it became the fifth euro state to seek aid last June. Aid for
Cyprus will test policy makers’ commitments to hold the 17-
nation currency bloc together and avoid more sovereign-debt
writedowns after they said  Greece ’s restructuring wouldn’t be
repeated.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $27.8 billion in November, as opposed to
net sales of $58.9 billion the previous month.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in November after its holdings rose $200 million to $1.17
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Japan , the second-largest holder, saw its Treasury holdings
rise $900 million to $1.13 trillion.  Foreigners bought a net $26.4 billion of Treasuries in
November, according to today’s report, up from $12 billion the
month before.  Estimates of foreign transactions in long-term U.S. assets
in November ranged from net selling of $10 billion to net buying
of $35 billion, according to five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the report.  Debt Limit  The debt limit has been periodically raised since its
creation in 1917, when Congress and President  Woodrow Wilson 
authorized the Treasury to issue long-term securities to help
finance entry into World War I. Since 1960, Congress has raised
or revised the limit 79 times, including 49 times under
Republican presidents, according to the Treasury Department,
noting the  U.S. never has defaulted on its obligations .  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
Obama signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day that Treasury
warned U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the nation’s credit rating.  Still, U.S. Treasury bond investors -- who most directly
bear the risk of any government default -- haven’t shown alarm
over political fights ultimately resolved in Washington. Yields
on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.56 percent on Aug.
5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade, and continued to fall.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate borrowing costs, are down from more
than 5 percent in 2007, before the financial crisis of 2008.  Amid the debate over raising the debt limit again, the 10-
year yield was down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 1.81 percent at 10:49 a.m. today in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  