-- Founding Father of the Quants Was Revolutionary Marxist
-- B y   C o l i n   R e a d
-- 2013-01-16T16:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/founding-father-of-the-quants-was-revolutionary-marxist-echoes.html
One of the more interesting ironies
of history is that the man who laid the foundation for modern
quantitative finance began his career as a Marxist
revolutionary.  Jacob Marschak  may not be a household name today, but he
inspired a number of financial practitioners and thinkers, from
Milton Friedman to Harry Markowitz, and his insights are now the
backbone of trading strategies and computer algorithms
worldwide.  Marschak was born to a Jewish family in  Kiev , Ukraine, in
1898. He played a part in the Russian Revolution as a teenager,
working as a Menshevik activist. The liberation of Ukraine from
the czar’s Russian Empire vaunted Marschak into the position of
labor minister of the short-lived independent state of Terek.  Within months, the state was absorbed by another region and
then subsumed into the Soviet Union. A disillusioned Marschak
fled to Germany, where he received training in the Austrian
School of free-market economics. He hoped to make a permanent
home in Germany, but when the Nazis came to power, the Jewish-
radical-turned-Marxist-turned-Austrian-School-economist wisely
left the country, moving first to  England  and then to the U.S.,
where he joined the New School in New York as part of an anti-
fascist University in Exile.  The Quants  Marschak was but one of a tide of theoretical financiers
and economists who flowed into the U.S. as the Nazis came to
power in  Germany . Some of them gravitated toward the University
of Chicago, including Marschak, who became director of the
Cowles Commission, an innovative research institute founded by
Alfred Cowles III. While there, Marschak inspired a generation
of financial theorists who would become known as the “quants.”  Before the rise of the quantitative approach, finance was
more an art than a science. Practitioners relied on instinct and
experience, and theoreticians used rudimentary tools based on
expected discounted net income to price securities. Yet there
was a recognition that these approaches didn’t properly price
uncertainty. And there was an appreciation that one shouldn’t
put all eggs in a single basket.  In 1935, the British economist John Hicks (subsequently a
Nobel Prize winner) noted that a prudent investor ought to place
some assets in risky enterprises and the remainder in safer
investments. Doing so could calibrate a portfolio to better
match the investor’s tolerance of risk.  This observation was intuitively helpful, but it lacked
theoretical guidance. Before an investor can hedge risk, a
measure of risk must be created.  Marschak proposed a way to do so in his 1938 paper “ Money
and the Theory of Assets .” He observed that investors, by their
nature, anticipate future production and prices. Yet while they
try to assess the expected mean of future prices, they must also
assess the probability of a range of possible future values and
how they may be interrelated.  Marschak proposed that such expectations could be defined
by two parameters: the mean and the coefficient of variation. He
deemed the latter to be a measure of risk, which we continue to
use today.  Physicists had for a century used this same methodology to
describe means and probabilities. They had developed a way to
calculate a mean (or expected) value based on the probabilities
of the various possible future outcomes. This was called the
first-moment calculation. They also developed a measure of
variability by weighting the probability of the square of
various outcomes compared with the mean. This second moment is
our now-familiar calculation of variance.  An Insight  Marschak reasoned that this same mean-variance technique
could be applied to asset prices. But he took this natural
extension still further: He recognized that there may be a
statistical relationship between how one asset varies relative
to another. This covariance would eventually act as the basis
for the insight of one of Marschak’s best-known students, Harry Markowitz.  Markowitz had been intrigued with the Great Depression-era
research of John Burr Williams, who developed the first
systematic theory of discounted corporate cash flows. Under
Marschak’s guidance, Markowitz realized that although the mean
present value of future cash flows is important, so are their
variances.  This mentor-mentee collaboration soon resulted in
Markowitz’s thesis and seminal 1952 paper on modern portfolio
theory in the Journal of Finance, titled “Portfolio Selection.”
From that point, modern finance theory was born.  Marschak’s paper on money and the theory of assets -- and
his other work on market rationality published while he was
inspiring the thesis for a young Markowitz -- isn’t well-read
among financial theorists or professionals today. However, a
reader would easily recognize his analyses. The two-parameter
mean-variance approach is now baked into every financial
calculator, and into formulas ranging from Markowitz’s market-
security line to William Sharpe’s capital-asset pricing model to
the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing formula. Each of these
fundamental formulas in finance assumes that the reward-risk
trade-off can be described by only two parameters, just as
Marschak proposed in 1938. Marschak’s academic descendants were
later awarded Nobel Prizes for work that would have been
impossible without him.  Marschak, the onetime radical, did indeed end up launching
a revolution -- just not the one that Karl Marx had in mind.  (Colin Read is chairman of the finance department at the
State University of New York, Plattsburgh. He is the author of
the “Great Minds in Finance” series and other finance titles
published by Palgrave MacMillan. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Colin Read at
 readcl@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 