-- French Action in Mali Gives U.S. Breathing Space
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-16T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/french-action-in-mali-gives-u-s-breathing-space.html
It took the fear that  Mali ’s capital
would fall to Islamic militants for the U.S. and  France  to part
agreeably on the question of intervention. France has sent
troops; the U.S.  won’t , though it will help in other ways.  That’s an appropriate division of labor, given the
different stakes the countries have in Mali. It’s a welcome one,
too. The U.S. can’t spearhead every battle against jihadists
with global ambitions. If U.S. campaigns in  Afghanistan ,
 Pakistan  and Yemen created that impression, the Mali model ought
to put the notion to rest.  For months, the  U.S. and France  had  disagreed  about how
best to time and sequence measures to confront the jihadists who
have taken control of northern Mali. The U.S. ambassador to the
 United Nations ,  Susan Rice , went so far  as to use a four-letter
obscenity to deride  a French proposal in December for swift
intervention by an African force.  Originally, the French had no plan to send in their own
military, but the jihadists’ move toward Bamako changed that.
French fighters and helicopter gunships began attacking rebel
positions on Jan. 11.  France is particularly concerned by the fall of Mali’s
northern half to Islamic radicals. Thousands of French citizens
live in Mali, a former French colony. A handful are held hostage
by militant groups. Intelligence reports suggest terrorists have
trained in Mali for attacks in France. Moreover, with  business
interests  in former colonies surrounding Mali, France has a
stake in containing the spread of extremism.  French Enthusiasm  Mali’s radicals pose less of a danger to U.S. interests,
although U.S. citizens appear to be among hostages taken by
militants in Algeria Jan. 16, in retaliation for Algeria’s
allowing France to use its airspace for Mali operations.  Whereas the war-weary U.S. public probably wouldn’t have
supported sending U.S. forces to Mali, the French have been
enthusiastic about President  Francois Hollande ’s Malian action,
to which he has committed 2,500 troops.  The U.S., which is sharing intelligence with France, may
also lend logistical support. Even that could prove unnecessary.
 Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. have already pledged to assist
France’s effort.  As four of the world’s  10 largest economies , these
countries can afford to  take on more  of the burden of tackling
global jihadists. The U.S. devotes 4.8 percent of its gross
domestic product to defense, while  Europe  spends 1.6 percent.
What’s more, defense spending is decreasing in Europe.  The French say they won’t stay in Mali long. They hope to
turn security matters over to a coalition of Mali’s army and a
promised 3,300-strong force drawn from the militaries of
 Nigeria ,  Burkina Faso , Niger and Senegal, members of the
 Economic Community of West African States .  The Malian and Ecowas troops will need significant training
to become field-ready. The European Union has promised to take
that on. This is helpful given that U.S. law forbids assistance
to Mali’s government, because it remains dominated by the makers
of a coup last March.  Of greater and more immediate help would be
counterterrorism forces from Mali’s larger neighbors --
Mauritania, Algeria and Niger. Their role would not be to take
and hold territory but to conduct quick raids against the few
thousand hardened fighters in northern Mali. The U.S., which has
close security relations with all three countries, could help
facilitate their engagement.  In doing so, the U.S. would be supporting its allies in
their pursuit of security without having to act as  first
responder . With jihadist threats apt to pop up in many places at
almost any time, even the world’s so-called  indispensable nation 
needs that option.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 