-- HFT Rules Will Hurt German Liquidity, Exchanges Say
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-16T10:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/hft-rules-will-hurt-german-liquidity-exchanges-say.html
Restrictions on the minimum time
orders must be held in German equity markets would do little to
increase safety, the nation’s exchanges said as lawmakers
debated proposed legislation.  “The political, easily understandable argument that the
introduction of a speed limit leads to more safety on the road
is not applicable one-to-one to the  capital markets ,” Stefan
Mai, head of market policy and European public affairs at
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , said in a phone interview yesterday. “It
will just introduce more complexity. Imagine an Autobahn with
traffic lights every 2 kilometers. Will it slow traffic down?
No. Because when the lights are green, traffic will race anew.”  Lawmakers are scheduled to hold a public meeting at 2 p.m.
today in Berlin to discuss curbs on high-frequency trading, with
remedies up for debate including one that orders must be kept in
the market for at least half a second before they are canceled.
HFT has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in Europe and
the U.S. after the so-called flash crash in May 2010, when the
Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000 points.  “Minimum resting times for orders will increase
volatility,” Artur Fischer, co-chief executive officer of
Boerse Berlin AG who will attend the meeting at the Bundestag,
 Germany ’s lower house of Parliament, wrote in an e-mail. “At
times of high volatility, no trading will take place and prices
will have to be estimated rather than be based upon real
volume.”  Circuit Breakers  The proposed measures include the use of circuit breakers
to halt trading in affected stocks during periods of high
volatility. An excessive usage fee may be introduced to impose
financial penalties on firms that bombard an exchange or trading
platform with orders, which can move prices to the detriment of
other market participants.  Deutsche Boerse , the operator of the Frankfurt exchange, is
in favor of most of the proposals because “it brings more
transparency to the markets,” according to  Frank Herkenhoff , a
spokesman for the company.  The German measures will be in addition to proposed EU
regulation of the industry. Restrictions on HFT are needed to
make markets safer, according to Dorothea Schaefer, research
director financial markets at the German Institute for  Economic
Research  in Berlin.  “A high level of systemic risk is embedded in HFT,”
Schaefer said. “While a human trader can withdraw in times of
high levels of market stress, events such as the flash crash
prove that computer trading systems do not, which can be very
dangerous.”  Increased Competition  Incumbent exchanges in Europe, such as Deutsche Boerse and
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , have come under increasing
competitive pressure from alternative trading platforms which
have sought to attract technologically advanced, high-speed
trading firms. Bats Chi-X  Europe , the largest pan-European
trading system, said it took 24.6 percent of the market for the
region’s equities in 2012.  High-frequency trading accounts for 40 percent of share
trading volume on Deutsche Boerse’s Xetra platform and 30
percent of volume on its Eurex derivatives exchange, the
Frankfurt-based company said.  “What has hindered market participants shifting liquidity
from the incumbent exchanges is that they know that these are
the reliable exchanges with strong supervision and safety
provisions in place and nobody will run the risk of doing
unregulated, unstable things,” Mai of Deutsche Boerse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  