-- Gates Gives Big to Make People Like Him, Jobs Didn’t: Review
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-01-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/gates-gives-big-to-make-people-like-him-jobs-didn-t-review.html
Can the rich buy our love?  That’s the question at the heart of Robert F. Dalzell Jr.’s
“ The Good Rich and What They Cost Us ,’’ which offers a useful
historical perspective on wealth and philanthropy.  Dalzell presents portraits of earlier Americans -- one from
each of the past four centuries -- who got rich, made people mad
along the way and tried to restore themselves to the public’s
graces through good works. Modern concerns -- about taxation,
crony capitalism and social entrepreneurship, to name just three
-- echo throughout.  Each of Dalzell’s protagonists was in some way morally
compromised:  The Puritan merchant Robert Keayne was found to have
overcharged for nails, a precious commodity in the Boston of his
day, in an early example of public unease with profit.  Allowing for inflation, George Washington was the richest
president ever, yet his wealth was built on the backs of slaves.  The Lawrence brothers, a pair of New England textile
makers, depended on cotton picked by Southern slaves and on
increasingly harsh conditions in Northern mills.  John D. Rockefeller earned a reputation for utter
ruthlessness in assembling his Standard Oil empire.  Making Amends  All made fortunes and all gave away wealth, if not in life
then at least in death. Redemption wasn’t their explicit aim,
but Dalzell certainly thinks the desire for it played a role.  In his view, this may explain why Bill Gates has given away
so much money while Steve Jobs hardly donated any. Jobs was
practically deified by Apple’s many fans, who regarded his
products as gifts, while Microsoft, the business Gates founded,
grew “big enough to be perceived as a profiteering monopoly,”
Dalzell writes. “And it was in the face of that development that
Gates embarked on large-scale philanthropy.’’  The author notes that Oprah Winfrey, like Jobs also quite
popular, was notably absent from the list of tycoons who have
pledged to donate half their wealth. (On the other hand,  Warren Buffett  is a ringleader in the movement despite his near
beatification in popular culture.)  Judging from “The Good Rich,” the author is no doubt a
fine teacher. He’s learned, articulate and subtle, and he raises
an important question. Is the generosity of the rich -- and
“wealthy Americans are less generous than we think,” Dalzell
reminds us -- adequate to sustain a democracy in which
inequality has increased to such epic proportions?  Unequal Society  Dalzell takes the trouble to sketch just how unequal our
society has become, noting that inequality in this country is
worse than in  Egypt , India or  Pakistan .  He cites studies showing that the richest 20 percent
control 84 percent of U.S. wealth, and that the average real
after-tax income of the top 1 percent grew by 275 percent from
1979 to 2007. The bottom fifth gained only 18 percent.  Unfortunately, Dalzell never fully engages with the
questions at the heart of his book. There is no evidence
presented on whether having a class of mostly self-made
plutocrats results in a net benefit to society, perhaps through
greater innovation or faster economic growth.  Nor does he grapple with whether we’d be better off if the
functions now performed by philanthropy were filled by the state
(which underwrites them, to some extent, through the tax
deductibility of charitable gifts).  Should we maintain this deduction? Would we be better off
with higher marginal tax rates on the rich? Is it even possible
to change our economy in ways that deliver greater income growth
to the 99 percent? Dalzell doesn’t address these concrete
questions, which flow naturally from any discussion of the costs
and benefits of philanthropy.  Yet the book is valuable nonetheless, if only for the
historical context it provides. The author’s leanings aren’t
hard to detect -- he clearly has real concerns about inequality,
and doubts about the compensating value of philanthropy. So
should the rest of us. Thanks to Dalzell, our thinking on the
subject will at least be enriched by history.  “The Good Rich and What They Cost Us” is published by
Yale University Press (199 pages, $28). To buy this book in
North America, click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on dining and Jeremy
Gerard on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in New York at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 