-- Gecamines of Congo Plans to Raise $1 Billion for Copper Plant
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-01-16T10:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/gecamines-of-congo-plans-to-raise-1-billion-for-copper-plant.html
Gecamines,  Democratic Republic  of
Congo’s state-owned mining company, said it’s seeking as much as
$1 billion to build a copper plant after taking ownership of two
mining sites that contain 5 million metric tons of the metal.  The company, based in Lubumbashi, completed its takeover of
the Deziwa and Ecaille C copper-cobalt projects on Jan. 11 after
buying out Copperbelt Minerals Ltd.’s indirect 68 percent stakes
in the projects, according to a  statement  on its website. The
sites may eventually produce 200,000 tons of copper a year
combined, making it one of the biggest producers in the country,
Gecamines said.  “The construction of a first phase of 100,000 tons could
cost between $800 million and $1 billion,” Gecamines Chairman
Albert Yuma said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.
The company plans to develop the project alone and is already in
discussion with banks for financing, offering the reserves as a
guarantee, he said.  Gecamines is trying to increase production after decades of
dictatorship and war left its infrastructure destroyed and cash
reserves depleted. The company produced about 18,500 tons of
copper in the 11 months through November, according to data from
Congo’s  Central Bank . That compares with production of almost
500,000 tons at its peak in the 1980s. The company was targeting
35,000 metric tons of copper production for 2012, Yuma said in
July.  Congo is the world’s largest source of cobalt and produces
about 3 percent of the world’s copper.  Power Plant  Gecamines is also trying to secure about $650 million for
the development of a 500-megawatt coal-fired power plant in the
southeastern Katanga province and about $1 billion for a
corporate reorganization. It’s also been working to restructure
about $1.6 billion of debt since 2011.  The terms of a three-year International Monetary Fund loan
agreement signed in 2009 with Congo forbade the state-owned
miner from taking on new external debt at non-concessional
rates. The IMF prematurely canceled the loan program in December
after the country failed to disclose the full details of one of
Gecamines’ asset sales to Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler.  The company is also nearing the end of an audit of its
joint ventures with partners including  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN)  and  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , Yuma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  