-- Genworth Surges on Plan to Isolate Mortage Insurance Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-16T18:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/genworth-surges-on-plan-to-isolate-mortage-insurance-unit.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  posted the
biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on Chief
Executive Officer Tom McInerney’s plan to distance the mortgage-
guaranty unit from the rest of the company.  The insurer rallied 9.4 percent to $8.89 at 12:32 p.m. in
New York trading, the biggest advance since October. Moody’s
Investors Service affirmed Genworth’s credit score today after
concluding a review in which the ratings firm considered a
downgrade to junk status.  McInerney, who became CEO this month, is working to revamp
the insurer after losses from the mortgage unit drained capital
and threatened the firm’s investment-grade  credit rating . The
Richmond, Virginia-based company also sells life insurance and
long-term care coverage. Genworth said today it will create a
new parent company and the outstanding senior and subordinated
notes will remain obligations of the old parent.  “The transaction validates our thesis that Genworth could
unlock value” and avert a ratings downgrade, said Mark Palmer
an analyst at BTIG LLC, in a note to investors today. “We
believe it should provide a significant boost to the company’s
shares.”  Moody’s maintained Genworth’s credit rating at Baa3, one
level above junk, ending a downgrade review that began in June
over concerns that mortgage-guaranty losses could weigh on the
rest of the firm.  The ratings company cut the insurance financial strength
grade of the U.S. mortgage guaranty units to Ba2 from Ba1 with a
negative outlook, citing weaker parental support.  Five year credit-default swaps protecting the debt of the
company dropped about 84 basis points to 264 basis points as of
12:10 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  