-- German Government Cuts 2013 Growth Forecast on Euro Woes
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-01-16T12:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/german-government-cuts-2013-growth-forecast-on-euro-woes.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government cut its growth forecast for  Europe ’s biggest economy
as austerity policies in cash-strapped euro-region countries and
cooling world trade damp exports.  German  gross domestic product  growth will slow to 0.4
percent this year from 0.7 percent in 2012, the Economy Ministry
said in its annual report today. That compares with a previous
forecast for 1 percent expansion. Growth will accelerate as the
year progresses and average 1.6 percent in 2014, it said.  “We assume that the phase of weakness this winter will be
overcome in the course of the year and that our economy gains
traction again,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told
reporters in Berlin.  The euro area, Germany’s largest export market, fell into
recession last year as countries from  Greece  to Spain cut
spending to rein in deficits and weaker growth in the U.S. and
 China  curbed global trade. Slowing growth may make it harder for
the German government to adhere to a constitutional debt rule.  Merkel’s government borrowed 22.5 billion euros ($30
billion) last year, less than the 28.1 billion euros estimated
in the latest supplementary budget. Adjusted for swings in the
economy and one-time effects, the federal shortfall narrowed to
0.32 percent of GDP last year, beating a target of 0.35 percent
set for 2016. The government expects the so-called structural
deficit to widen to 0.34 percent of GDP this year.  Stock Drop  German stocks fell for a second day after the government
cut its forecast and as Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said the strength of the euro poses a threat to the
region’s economy.  The DAX Index (DAX)  slid more than 0.3 percent to
7,648.93 at 1:05 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The euro was little changed
at $1.3309.  Today’s forecast follows a report yesterday from the
Federal Statistics Office showing economic growth slowed last
year to less than a quarter of its 3 percent pace in 2011. It
estimated that gross domestic product may have fallen as much as
0.5 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three
months, suggesting Germany is on the brink of a recession.  The Bundesbank predicts Germany will avoid that slump,
saying on Dec. 7 that the economy should stabilize in the
current quarter after shrinking in the final three months of
2012. Still, the Frankfurt-based central bank lowered its
outlook and forecast growth of just 0.4 percent this year before
an acceleration to 1.9 percent in 2014.  Factory Orders  German factory  orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, dropped 1.8 percent in November amid weak demand from
outside the euro area, the  Economy Ministry  said Jan. 8. Exports
plunged 3.4 percent that month, marking the steepest decline in
more than a year, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said the same day.  Export growth will slow to 2.8 percent this year from 4.1
percent in 2012 while the expansion of imports will speed to 3.5
percent from 2.3 percent, the ministry said. Foreign trade will
subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth in 2013 after
contributing 1.1 percentage point last year.  Revenue figures published by the Finance Ministry reflect
the slowdown in the economy, which may have contracted as much
as 0.5 percent in the final quarter of last year. Tax intake
rose 0.5 percent from a year earlier in November, compared with
11-month revenue that was 5 percent higher than in the same
period the previous year.  Domestic Demand  The economy’s expansion will be driven mainly by domestic
demand this year even while the unemployment rate is expected to
rise to 7 percent from 6.8 percent in 2012, the ministry said.
Gross wage growth will hold at 2.6 percent this year, it said.  Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, today reported little
changed fourth-quarter revenue as increased sales at the Media-
Saturn consumer-electronics business in Germany offset weakness
in western Europe. Sales climbed 0.5 percent to 19.4 billion
euros, the Dusseldorf-based company said.  Elsewhere in Europe today, data showed the euro region
inflation rate stayed unchanged at 2.2 percent in December,
matching a prior estimate released on Jan. 4. Prices rose 0.4
percent from November.  Inflation data will also be released in the U.S., where a
report may show consumer prices were unchanged in December from
the previous month. Industrial production increased 0.3 percent
in December after a 1.1 percent gain the previous month, the
best back-to-back readings in a year, according to a Bloomberg
News survey.  In Asia,  Japan ’s machinery orders rose more than expected
in November, suggesting that companies are optimistic about the
economic outlook. China’s foreign direct investment declined for
the first full year since 2009 as economic growth slowed and
manufacturers relocated to markets with cheaper labor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  