-- Go-Go Market Beating U.S. Treasuries Most Since ’10: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-01-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/go-go-market-beating-u-s-treasuries-most-since-10-muni-credit.html
Investors are pouring the most money
since 2009 into U.S. municipal debt, putting the $3.7 trillion
market on a pace for its longest rally versus Treasuries in
three years.  Demand from individuals, who own about 70 percent of U.S.
local debt, rose last week after Congress’s Jan. 1 deal to avert
more than $600 billion in federal tax increases and spending
cuts spared munis’ tax-exempt status. Investors added $1.6
billion to muni mutual funds in the week ended Jan. 9, the most
since October 2009 and the first gain in four weeks, Lipper US
Fund Flows data show.  The renewed appetite has propelled city and state debt to a
0.7 percent gain this month, beating a 0.4 percent loss for
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Local bonds outpaced their federal counterparts the previous two
quarters, and a third period would mark the longest winning
streak since the first three months of 2010, the data show.  “The market has started the year with a decidedly solid
tone,” said Jamie Iselin, head of municipal fixed income at New
York-based Neuberger Berman, which manages about $11 billion of
the bonds. Rising demand and a “reprieve” from threats to the
tax-exemption have caused the market to “pick up from where it
left off most of last year,” he said.  2012 Haven  State and local debt earned 7.3 percent in 2012, compared
with 2.2 percent for Treasuries, as investors sought a haven
from potential tax boosts. Muni mutual funds last year added the
most cash since 2009, helping push yields to a 47-year  low .  Munis maintained their full tax-exempt benefit after the
fiscal pact passed Jan. 1. President  Barack Obama  has proposed
limiting the value of the muni tax break for higher earners to
28 percent. Citigroup Inc. has said such a step would reduce the
muni market’s value by $200 billion.  The Jan. 1 agreement raised taxes on individuals making
more than $400,000 a year and households making more than
$450,000, while letting the payroll tax used to pay for Social
Security benefits return to the 2010 level of 6.2 percent, from
4.2 percent.  “Everybody is opening up their paychecks and they’re
paying higher taxes,” Peter Hayes, who oversees $105 billion as
head of muni bonds at New York-based BlackRock Inc., said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “We’re seeing this huge
demand.”  Supply Lag  The wave of cash has overwhelmed supply this month. State
and local issuance totaled about $4.3 billion in the two weeks
through Jan. 11,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Municipalities
nationwide issued $6.8 billion weekly on average in 2012.  The interest rate on benchmark 10-year munis has declined
for seven straight days, the longest stretch in two months,
according to Bloomberg Valuation data.  The yield fell to  1.73 percent  yesterday, the lowest since
Dec. 31. That’s equivalent to a 2.86 percent taxable yield for
earners under the new 39.6 percent top rate. Similar-maturity
Treasuries yielded 1.83 percent yesterday in New York.  The rally is also poised to get a boost as investors face
so-called “net negative supply” of munis, according to data
from Citigroup. Local-debt sales are poised to trail bond calls
and redemptions by $2.8 billion in January and by $2.5 billion
in February, the data show.  “We’re at a point in the year -- for at least the first
couple months -- where the market tends to do well,” Iselin
said. “Those factors are in place to allow that to happen.”  Following is a pending sale:  ARIZONA  TRANSPORTATION BOARD plans to sell $706 million of
taxable and tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will help finance a five-
year highway capital program and refund debt, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. (Updated Jan. 15)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  