-- Goldman Bonuses, Appraisal Rules, U.K. Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-16T13:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/goldman-bonuses-appraisal-rules-u-k-banks-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won’t delay
distribution of U.K. bonuses to help minimize employees’ tax
rates, a person with direct knowledge of the decision said.  The firm had considered postponing incentive compensation
due to employees from 2009, 2010 and 2011 until after top
income-tax rates drop in April.  In remarks to lawmakers in  London  yesterday, Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King criticized the plan as “lacking in
care and attention to how others might react.” He said it’s
“depressing” that banks may be willing to shift bonus payments
to minimize workers’ tax burden.  Goldman Sachs accelerated delivery of $65 million in stock
awards last month to 10 executives, including Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, in a move that helped them avoid
higher U.S. taxes that take effect this year. That change, which
didn’t affect compensation for 2012, was made public by company
filings at about 8 p.m. New York time on New Year’s Eve.  This week, the Financial Times and other media reported
that Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
reviewing whether to delay U.K. bonus payments due from prior
years to help employees pay lower rates. The reports were met
with criticism from U.K. politicians as well as King.  Management decided against proceeding with the plan, a
decision that was ratified yesterday in a regular meeting of the
board’s compensation committee, according to the person, who
asked to not be identified because deliberations were private.  The decision by New York-based Goldman Sachs was reported
earlier yesterday by British Broadcasting Corp. editor Robert
Peston on Twitter.com.  Compliance Policy  Appraisal Standards for Higher-Risk Mortgages Approved by FDIC  U.S. mortgage lenders will get an additional year to
implement new appraisal standards for higher-risk loans after
regulators revised the Dodd-Frank Act measure to address
concerns raised by financial firms.  Creditors issuing loans at above-average interest rates
that don’t meet the “qualified mortgage” standard will need to
get written reports by certified appraisers who physically
inspect homes under rules approved yesterday by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., one of six regulators that must sign
off.  Lenders will get the full 12-month implementation period
permitted under the statute, according to John Fairbanks, a
spokesman for the National Credit Union Administration.  In addition to the initial physical inspection, the rule
requires a second appraisal when a home is being turned around
for a quick, higher resale. Fairbanks said the final rule
doesn’t require the second appraisal if the new sale price is
only slightly higher.  The six U.S. regulators involved in the joint rule include
the FDIC, NCUA, the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency,  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  BBA Proposes Independent Board to Monitor Banking Standards  The  British Bankers’ Association , a financial lobby group,
proposed creating an independent council to promote a new code
of conduct for bankers after scandals eroded trust in the
industry.  The code would guide banks on pay, what’s expected of
boards and controls to prevent unethical behavior, the London-
based BBA said in a submission to parliament  published 
yesterday.  The plan comes after banks set aside about 11 billion
pounds ($17.7 billion) to compensate customers mis-sold loan
insurance and for the Libor scandal.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, may pay as
much as 500 million pounds in fines next week to settle
allegations traders tried to rig interest rates, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million
pounds in June for manipulating Libor.  The proposed Banking Standards Review Council “would need
to be independent of the industry” with a non-banking chairman
and a majority of non-banking members, including customers, the
lobby group said in its submission to the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards.  U.K.’s Biggest Companies Lower Tax Rate With Overseas Business  The biggest U.K. companies paid taxes at a lower rate for
the fourth consecutive year, partly by garnering more profit
overseas, and caused public outcry by avoiding levies in
Britain.  The effective tax rate for FTSE 100 companies, the largest
traded on the London Stock Exchange, fell to 24.5 percent from
35.8 percent in 2009, according to UHY Hacker Young, a London-
based accounting company. The firm said in an e-mailed statement
that reductions in corporate taxes around the world, including
in the U.K., have helped multinational companies reduce their
tax payments.  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable said in December that
governments should coordinate across borders to make companies
pay more tax. More than 20 companies left the U.K. for tax
reasons from 2007 to 2011, according to the accounting firm.  The government will be encouraged by tax-law changes that
prompted a few to return, the firm said. An “anti-abuse” rule
that may be considered by the U.K. government to limit tax
avoidance could drive more companies away, the accountants said.  The averages used in the study are taken from effective tax
rates reported by FTSE 100 companies in their latest annual
reports or by their investor relations teams in the 12 months
ended Oct. 31.  EU Lawmakers Back Sovereign-Debt Curbs for Ratings Companies  Credit-ratings companies will face European Union curbs on
how they update markets about the quality of government debt
under plans approved by the bloc’s lawmakers today.  The measures, intended to make it less likely that ratings
decisions roil markets, will also give investors the right to
sue if they lose money because of poor quality or deliberately
distorted credit assessments.  European Parliament  legislators,
voting in Strasbourg,  France , backed the plans in a compromise
deal with the EU’s 27 governments, which must now rubber-stamp
the accord before it can take effect.  Under the EU plan, each credit ratings company would pick a
maximum of three days a year when they would be allowed to
publish so-called unsolicited assessments of governments’
creditworthiness.  Unsolicited ratings are those that haven’t been requested
and paid for by a client. Ratings companies will be able to
issue such ratings outside of their three dates if they can
justify it to regulators.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Siemens Agrees to Pay $10 Million to Settle New York Fraud Case  A  Siemens AG (SIE)  unit agreed to pay $10 million to settle
allegations made by New York prosecutors that the company lied
about its qualifications to win more than $200 million in
infrastructure contracts.  Schlesinger-Siemens Electrical violated New York state law
by filing false documents with two city departments, the New
York District Attorney’s Office said in a statement on its
website Jan. 14. Siemens takes responsibility for misconduct
committed by its former business partner Schlesinger Electrical
Contractors Inc., Munich-based Siemens said in an e-mailed
statement.  New York’s Department of Environmental Protection awarded
five contracts to Schlesinger-Siemens Electrical with a total
value of $234.8 million between Aug. 31, 2005, and Jan. 19,
2007, New York District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said a
statement.  U.K. Will Widen Review of Financial Firm Sales Incentives  The U.K.’s financial watchdog is widening a probe into
sales incentives at retail financial companies.  The Financial Services Authority will investigate practices
at “high street banks and other firms in addition to the 22
firms that were originally assessed,” the agency said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Separately, the regulator is in talks with banks to set a
cut-off date for claims arising from alleged improper selling of
payment protection insurance, the London-based Times reported,
citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.  The  British Bankers Association  has suggested a summer
deadline in return for agreement by banks to finance an
advertising campaign making the public aware, the newspaper
said. The FSA is sympathetic to banks’ concern that without a
cut-off date, there may otherwise be no end to mis-selling
claims, the Times said.  The British Bankers Association declined to comment, the
Times said.  Courts  Broadband Research’s Kinnucan Gets 4 Years in Insider Case  Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan, the expert-
networker who refused to cooperate in a U.S. probe of insider
trading before admitting to passing tips to hedge-fund clients,
was sentenced to four years and three months in prison.  U.S. District Judge Deborah Batts yesterday in  Manhattan 
federal court also ordered him to forfeit $164,000 he made in
illegal profit. Kinnucan, who was indicted in February, pleaded
guilty in July to one count of conspiracy and two counts of
securities fraud.  In his plea, Kinnucan said he both obtained and gave tips
to clients of his expert-networking firm, including two in New
York. Prosecutors said he got inside information about  SanDisk
Corp. (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  and  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI) ,
including quarterly revenue numbers, after befriending employees
of technology companies.  Kinnucan was arrested Feb. 16 at his home in  Portland ,
 Oregon . Prosecutors said that in the two months leading up to
his arrest, he engaged in a “campaign” of threats and anti-
Semitic rants.  In a submission by his lawyer, which hasn’t been made
public and was referred to by the government in their court
papers, Kinnucan sought a 24-month prison term, saying his
conduct was “caused by stress, depression and alcohol abuse”
after he learned he was the subject of an insider-trading
investigation.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Apple Sued by Belgian Consumer Group Over Product Warranties  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is being sued by a Belgian consumer group over
its product-warranty practices, more than a year after the iPad
maker was fined by an Italian regulator over the same issue.  Test-Aankoop/ Test-Achats  filed a lawsuit at the commercial
court in Brussels claiming Apple violates laws on consumer
guarantees, it said in a  statement  yesterday. It cited customer
complaints about information provided by Apple and authorized
distributors about the company’s legal warranty, its one-year
warranty and a warranty extension of as much as three years
through the AppleCare Protection Plan.  Italy’s competition agency fined Apple 900,000 euros ($1.2
million) in 2011, saying the Cupertino, California-based company
misled consumers by “prominently advertising” that its
products had a one-year manufacturer warranty and selling an
extension when consumers have the right to an automatic two-year
warranty. European Union Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding
last year asked state governments to check whether Apple
retailers failed to advertise buyers’ right to the two-year
warranty for products such as the iPhone and the iPad tablet.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in London, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  United Airlines Skirted Jet-Fuel Taxes, Illinois Agency Says  United Airlines Inc. (UAL)  used a “sham” site outside  Chicago 
to avoid paying the full tax on jet fuel, the  Illinois  Regional
Transportation Authority said in a lawsuit.  The airline’s United Aviation Fuels Corp. unit, which
purchases jet fuel for United and its regional carriers, used an
office in Sycamore, Illinois, that has no true sales activity,
the agency said in the complaint filed Jan. 14 in state court in
Chicago. The office has one staff member, who doesn’t work daily
and doesn’t have a computer, according to the complaint.  United Airlines and its unit have been engaging in the
sales since 2001, diverting tax money owed to the agency and
other municipalities, according to the lawsuit. The RTA asked
for a court order barring the practice, as well as recovery for
unpaid taxes.  The lawsuit is “without merit,” said Jennifer Dohm, a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based United Continental Holdings Inc.,
United Airlines’ parent company.  “The operation of our fuel subsidiary in Sycamore has been
examined by tax authorities in the past and has been determined
to comply with all applicable laws,” Dohm said in an e-mail.
She said the company will fight the claims.  The case is Regional Transportation Authority v. United
Aviation Fuels Corp., 2013CH01023, Circuit Court of Cook County,
Chancery Division (Chicago).  Interviews/Hearings  EU’s Barroso Expects Bank-Supervisor Regulations Within Weeks  European Commission  President Jose Barroso said regulations
to create a single bank supervisor at the European Central Bank
are proceeding quickly.  “I hope making the final step for formal adoption is a
matter of weeks, not months,” he said in the text of a speech
to the  European Parliament  in Strasbourg, France. Parliament
members have worked “very efficiently” with the council of
European nations to speed up work on the issue, he said
yesterday.  The European Central Bank is slated to become the single
supervisor for euro-area banks around March 1, 2014, a year
after regulations are set to establish oversight operations. The
new supervisor is one condition for allowing the 500 billion-
euro ($667 billion) European Stability Mechanism to lend
directly to banks.  The Brussels-based commission will move swiftly on other
banking measures such as capital requirements, deposit-insurance
standards and how to handle failing lenders, Barroso said.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  JPMorgan Halves Dimon Pay, Says CEO Responsible for Lapses  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon
had his pay cut by half after a review of losses at the bank’s
chief investment office found he bears responsibility for the
blunders.  The CEO’s compensation for 2012 is $11.5 million, the New
York-based bank said today on its website, compared with $23
million a year earlier. The 2012 sum includes a $1.5 million
salary and $10 million of incentive compensation.  “Mr. Dimon bears ultimate responsibility for the failures
that led to the losses in CIO and has accepted responsibility
for such failures,” the New York-based company said today on
its website after spending about eight months reviewing what
Dimon, 56, has called “egregious mistakes” at the CIO.  JPMorgan is working to rebuild investors’ trust after
losing more than $6.2 billion in last year’s first nine months
on derivatives bets by U.K. trader Bruno Iksil, nicknamed the
London Whale because his positions were so big. The debacle
fueled legal claims against the company and its executives, and
regulatory probes.  The bank said its review of Dimon took into account his
decisions to replace senior managers, efforts to claw back their
pay and the formation of a team to examine what went wrong.  Dijsselbloem a ‘Good’ Possible Next Eurogroup Head, Faymann Says  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann praised  Dutch Finance 
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem’s qualifications as the possible
next head of the group of euro-area finance chiefs, saying he is
a “good candidate.”  Faymann made the remarks to reporters yesterday in
Strasbourg, France.  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who has led
the group of euro-area finance ministers since 2005, is
preparing to step down. His successor is due to be designated on
Jan. 21. Faymann said the 17-nation euro area has yet to reach
an agreement on Juncker’s successor.  Dijsselbloem, a member of the Labor Party in the
Netherlands, was appointed Dutch finance minister in November as
part of Liberal Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s coalition government
following elections in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  