-- Greece Taxes Foreign-Flagged Ships for First Time Amid Crisis
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-16T14:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/greece-taxes-foreign-flagged-ships-for-first-time-amid-crisis.html
Greece  will tax merchant ships
managed by companies based in the country and sailing under
foreign flags for the first time ever as the nation’s debt
crisis spurs the government to raise revenue.  Amendments to a bill passed by lawmakers at the weekend
imposed a so-called tonnage tax on the vessels, the Ministry of
Finance in Athens said today by e-mail. The government aims to
raise 80 million euros ($106 million) this year and 60 million
euros in 2014 from the levy, the state-run Athens News Agency
reported Jan. 9.  Greek shipowners control the largest portion of the world
merchant fleet. The state is targeting an estimated 762 owners,
who pay no tax on international earnings brought into the
country under rules incorporated in the constitution since 1967.
Lobbying by owners barred the imposition of any further taxes,
Theodore Veniamis, president of the Union of Greek Shipowners,
said by e-mail Jan. 14.  “Shipowners and the management companies have been
excluded, as I had to convince the government to do so,” he
said.  The e-mail didn’t show when the tax would take effect. The
measure “imposes the levy for the first time,” the ministry
said. The tax applies only to tonnage of foreign-flagged
vessels, rather than their earnings, Veniamis said. A tonnage
tax is charged by a country where a ship is registered and
flagged and is based on the vessel’s size and capacity.  3,848 Vessels  Ships controlled by Greek companies and flagged elsewhere
came to 3,848 totaling 153.1 million gross tons as of March
2011, according to figures on the Hellenic Chamber of Shipping
 website . That compared with 2,014 vessels totaling 43.4 million
tons sailing under Greece’s flag as of the end of the year. The
data were the latest available.  Greek shipowners remitted more than $175 billion in untaxed
earnings in 10 years until 2011, according to Bank of Greece
figures cited in the union’s annual report.  Companies from cargo handlers to travel agents that benefit
from Greece’s position as a leading vessel-owning nation might
be vulnerable to sudden changes in taxes on the shipping
industry, the Foundation for Economic & Industrial Research, a
private non-profit researcher, said in a study last week.  Navios
Maritime Holdings Inc. (NM) , a Piraeus, Greece-based vessel owner,
contributed to the study, it showed.  Job Losses?  “An abrupt, and without due care, change of the taxation
regime in the shipping sector may lead to reduction of the
economic activity in the sector and across the economy,
significant job losses and even lower net tax revenues,” the
foundation said.  Greeks controlled 16.2 percent of the world merchant fleet
by early 2011, giving them the largest share of capacity,
according to the latest figures from the Geneva-based United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development.  Contributions from providing marine-transport services
indirectly and directly accounted for 6.1 percent of Greek gross
domestic product in 2009, generating 2.7 billion euros to
support 192,000 jobs, the foundation said. The industry’s
contribution may have since “increased substantially” given
the country’s economic contraction, it said.  Greece’s economy may have shrunk as much as 6.5 percent in
2012, the fifth year of recession, according to forecasts in the
2013 budget. The country had a 15.9 billion-euro budget deficit
last year, excluding spending by state-controlled enterprises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  