-- GreenOak to Raise $500 Million for U.S. Property Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-01-16T18:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/greenoak-to-raise-500-million-for-u-s-property-fund.html
GreenOak Real Estate LP , an
investment firm founded by three former Morgan Stanley
executives, is preparing to raise about $500 million for its
second U.S. fund to acquire properties in large coastal cities.  The firm’s first pool is about 70 percent invested, mostly
in  New York   office , retail and residential properties, said
Sonny Kalsi, a founder and partner.  GreenOak, which started in 2010, acquired almost $1 billion
of commercial real estate as of December, using its $350 million
Fund I and co-investor capital, money from operating partners
and mortgage debt, said Chris Niehaus, a partner who heads the
New York-based firm’s U.S. business. GreenOak finished raising
the first fund in August 2012.  “Our investment strategy has focused on the high-barrier-
to-entry, core gateway markets,” Niehaus said in a telephone
interview. “New York remains a major opportunity. It’s a big,
deep market with the ability to buy below replacement cost if
you are patient and have the right relationships. There’s a lot
of liquidity to sell.”  Last month, GreenOak teamed with Aby Rosen’s RFR Holding
LLC to buy 285 Madison Ave., an office building near Grand
Central Terminal, for about $189 million. Young & Rubicam Inc.
plans to vacate the building this year, after which the new
owners plan a renovation, Kalsi said.  Also in late December, GreenOak bought 321 W. 44th St., the
255,000-square-foot (24,000-square-meter) office building near
Times Square that houses the New York Observer newspaper.
GreenOak and its partner in the $92.5 million purchase, East End
Capital, plan to update the lobby, corridors and some building
systems and increase occupancy.  Gateway Cities  GreenOak seeks to invest in so-called gateway cities --
coastal metropolitan areas such as New York,  Washington ,  Boston ,
Miami and Los Angeles. Its strategy is to buy underperforming
assets below replacement cost in areas with strong leasing
demand, Kalsi said.  The firm struck its first hotel deal in the fourth quarter,
in Miami, and plans to buy more commercial property in the south
Florida city, Niehaus said. GreenOak and partner Geolo Capital,
founded by  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  heir John Pritzker, bought the
Crown at  Miami Beach , a three-tower apartment complex, for $100
million. They plan to spend $67 million to convert the
beachfront property into a boutique hotel that will be managed
by Pritzker’s Commune Hotels & Resorts.  A unit of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  provided a $125 million
loan to the partnership.  Miami Push  Its weather, location and favorable tax and business laws
make Miami a favorite destination for groups including
professional athletes, New York retirees and wealthy Latin
Americans, according to Kalsi.  “We’re very bullish on Miami -- office, residential,
retail,” he said. “When we look back 10 years from now, I
think Miami will be in the top five gateway cities” in the
U.S., along with New York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco  and
Boston.  GreenOak also has begun selling earlier acquisitions to
return money to investors. Yesterday, American Realty Capital
New York Recovery REIT Inc. said it agreed to buy 218 W. 18th
St. in Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood from a joint venture of
Atlas Capital Group and GreenOak for $112 million.  Atlas and GreenOak had purchased the defaulted loan on the
building last year and subsequently took ownership of the
property through a prepackaged bankruptcy reorganization. They
signed lease agreements with Red Bull North America Inc., SAE
Institute of Technology Corp. and Yammer Inc., a unit of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , increasing the occupancy to 84 percent. The
building has 166,000 square feet of rentable space.  Investor Returns  In December, GreenOak sold 256 W. 38th St. in  Manhattan  for
$48.6 million, 18 months after buying it for $30 million in
conjunction with East End Capital and investing additional money
to refurbish it, according to Kalsi.  GreenOak aims for returns before fees in the high teens to
low-20-percent range, Kalsi said.  “We are aggressively seeking dispositions” once the
renovations and leasing plans have been accomplished, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  