-- Gross’s Peso Bond Bet Lures Japanese Housewives: Mexico Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-01-16T17:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/gross-s-peso-bond-bet-lures-japanese-housewives-mexico-credit.html
Japanese individuals are following
 Bill Gross ’s lead, boosting their holdings of Mexican debt
fivefold to profit from the Latin American country’s higher
interest rates and the peso’s record rally.  Mexican peso bonds sold to individual investors in Japan,
known as uridashi, surged 443 percent last year, the most among
 emerging markets , to $552.1 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s more than the 72 percent increase for
Turkish lira-denominated securities and compares with a 27
percent plunge for debt in Brazilian reais.  Faced with yields on 10-year bonds of less than 1 percent,
Japanese investors are turning to  Mexico , where interest on
comparable securities is 4.58 percentage points higher and the
peso’s 8.4 percent gain was the biggest among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Mexico’s 10-year  bond yields  fell 1.13
percentage points last year as foreigners led by Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Gross poured a record $8.78 billion
into the country’s debt, according to EPFR Global.  “Investing in Mexico makes sense for Japanese retail
investors,” Yujiro Goto, a currency strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said by phone from  New York . “Diversification
will continue this year from the Brazilian real or  Turkey .”  Pimco spokesman  Mark Porterfield  said company officials
weren’t available to comment on demand from his company and from
Japanese investors for peso-denominated bonds.  Biggest Holder  Overseas funds bought $238 million of Mexican peso bonds
from Jan. 3 to Jan. 9, the biggest weekly increase ever for the
Latin American country and the most in emerging markets tracked
by EPFR Global over the period.  Gross, Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, said on Dec. 13
that Mexico’s bonds are “attractive” because they offer higher
yields. Pimco is the biggest individual holder of fixed-rate
government debt due in 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2024, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm’s holdings helped push
foreign investment in Mexico’s $144 billion fixed-rate peso bond
market to 54.4 percent on Jan. 4, the highest proportion since
February 2000, regulatory filings and central bank data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Gross said today that Mexico’s peso and  Brazil ’s real are
better buys for investors than high-yield debt.  “ Mexican Peso  ‘yields’ 4.5%; Brazilian Real ‘yields’
7.25%,” Gross said in comments posted on Pimco’s Twitter
account.  “Better use of cash than high yield bonds.”  Lira Bonds  While Mexican peso-denominated uridashis posted a bigger
increase, lira bonds sold to individual investors in Japan
exceeded those for all other emerging markets last year as
 Turkish inflation  slowed and Brazil fell out of favor amid tax
increases and a weakening currency. Those investors are
sometimes called “Mrs. Watanabe,” a reference to housewives
who control family budgets.  The real sank 9 percent against the dollar last year, the
biggest decline among major currencies after the yen.  While Turkish policy makers cut benchmark borrowing costs
by a quarter-percentage point to a record 5.5 percent last
month, Mexico’s central bank has kept its key rate unchanged at
4.5 percent since July 2009.  Brazil has lowered its overnight lending rate 3.75
percentage points to 7.25 percent in the past year, the most
among Group of 20 nations.  Japan ’s main rate is 0.1 percent.  ‘Predictable’ Bank  Mexico’s central bank “has been very predictable” while
“Brazil is the opposite,” Pablo Cisilino, who helps oversee
about $50 billion of emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor
Investment Partners, said in a telephone interview from New
York. Brazil’s “economic policies have been very erratic.”  Declines in the Japanese currency have accelerated since
the election last month of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has
pledged to increase monetary stimulus to weaken the yen and end
deflation. It slid to 89.67 per dollar on Jan. 14, the weakest
since June 25, 2010.  This year, the peso will rally 4.3 percent against the yen,
the most in emerging markets after the South African rand and
the  Singapore ’s dollar, according to the median forecast of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The depreciation of the yen is basically pushing
investors away from the yen and to currencies that have much
better technicals and fundamentals,” Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who
helps manage $1.5 billion in emerging-market debt as vice
president of Federated Investment Management Co., said in a
telephone interview from Pittsburgh. “The Mexican peso would be
one of them.”  U.S. Outlook  While Mexico’s “intervention-free” strategy makes the
peso attractive to Japanese investors, it also poses a risk if
the outlook worsens for the  U.S. economy , Mexico’s biggest
trading partner, according to Claudio Irigoyen, the head of
Latin America fixed-income and foreign-exchange strategy at Bank
of America Corp.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this week that
the U.S. faces severe economic hardship if Congress fails to
raise the debt ceiling.  “Those guys are basically selling the yen and buying the
Mexican peso,” Irigoyen said in a telephone interview from New
York. “So you have a natural exposure also to global risk.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 158 basis
points at 11:20 a.m. in Mexico City, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 96
basis points. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the
issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 12.6340 per dollar. Yields on
Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in December, known
as TIIE, dropped four basis points to 4.87 percent yesterday.  Nomura’s Goto said that more than half of the peso-
denominated uridashi sales last year took place in the final two
months. The about 29 billion yen ($327 million) in issuance
during November and December was the biggest amount since at
least 2005 for a two-month span, according to Goto.  Issuance for peso-denominated uridashi is outpacing sales
in reais in 2013 and lags behind only debt in Russia rubles and
Turkish lira among emerging-market currencies this year with
$121 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Japanese retail investors need to enhance their income
from financial products,” Goto said by telephone from New York.
“The Mexican peso’s fundamentals look better than other
currencies at this moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  