-- IAEA Focus on Iran’s Parchin Site May Undermine Monitors
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-01-16T11:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/iaea-focus-on-iran-s-parchin-site-may-undermine-monitors.html
United Nations nuclear inspectors,
negotiating today in Tehran over wider access to suspected
atomic sites, risk undermining their work by focusing too
narrowly on winning access to an Iranian military base,
according to analysts including a former monitor.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors have sought
access to the Parchin base for more than a year after receiving
intelligence that  Iran  built a blast chamber at the sprawling
complex that could be used to test nuclear-weapons components.
The IAEA may be relying too heavily on outside analysis, said
Robert Kelley, the agency’s former lead inspector in Iraq.  “The IAEA’s authority is supposed to derive from its
ability to independently analyze information,” said Kelley, who
helped uncover forged documents passed on to the agency before
the 2003 Iraq war. “At Parchin, they appear to be merely
echoing the intelligence and analysis of a few member states.”  The IAEA published a report in November 2011 citing what it
called “credible” intelligence that Iran had researched
nuclear-weapons components. While the Persian Gulf nation denies
it sought atomic bombs, it has refused to answer the accusations
because the IAEA won’t give the officials full access to the
evidence being used against it.  Whether Iran will be permitted to see the evidence, itself
provided to the IAEA by unidentified intelligence agencies, “is
part of the negotiation,” Herman Nackaerts, who leads the
agency’s Iran inspections, told reporters yesterday in Vienna.  Hurting Credibility  Not sharing evidence “simply isn’t a method through which
to generate a perception of credibility and legitimacy in the
process or the substance of your allegations,” Dan Joyner, a
lawyer and author of Interpreting the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty ( Oxford University Press ), said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “The throwback to the  Iraq  war is just so striking
here.”  The concerns of Kelley and Joyner echo those expressed by
former IAEA director generals Hans Blix and Mohammed ElBaradei.  The agency must be more skeptical with the information it
receives from outside sources, Blix said in a September
interview. ElBaradei, who didn’t respond to e-mailed requests
for comment, wrote in his 2011 biography “The Age of
Deception” (Metropolitan Books) that the IAEA doesn’t make
intelligence information public when it can’t be authenticated.  Bad Analysis  According to Kelley, a nuclear engineer who worked at the
Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, the IAEA has
published faulty satellite analysis of the Parchin site. He
contests  IAEA assertions  that Iran has been trying to hide
clean-up and demolition at the facility.  “The IAEA stands to undermine its technical credibility by
making statements that cannot be supported,” he wrote. “They
refer to shrouding of buildings with tarps that turn out to be
simply Styrofoam insulation panels in a remodeling effort.”  Kelley also questioned IAEA assertions that the bulldozing
of 25 acres of land in the neighborhood would interfere with its
ability to carry out an inspection should one take place. “They
fail to mention that the vast majority of this activity is on a
construction site over 0.5 kilometers away and that land
immediately adjacent to the targeted building is untouched and
is available for sampling and inspection,” he said.  The IAEA declined to comment. Other independent analysts,
including Institute for Science and and International Security
Director David Albright, agree with the agency’s conclusions.
ISIS called the Parchin changes “significant” in a November
report.  Iran’s Rights  “Parchin is a military area and so activities are ongoing,
and these have nothing to do with nuclear activities,” Iran’s
Foreign Ministry spokesman,  Ramin Mehmanparast , told journalists
in Tehran yesterday. “Any issue that may exist can be overcome
in meetings between representatives of Iran and the IAEA” after
“Iran’s nuclear rights are fully recognized and a specific
agreement is reached.”  The IAEA, which is seeking access to dozens of sites and
individuals beyond Parchin, wants to conclude an agreement with
Iran today, Nackaerts said. The agency will submit its next
public report on the Islamic Republic’s nuclear work at its
March 4 Board of Governors meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  