-- Liberian War-Crimes Convict Taylor Wants Pension Paid
-- B y   E l i s e   Z o k e r
-- 2013-01-16T13:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/liberian-war-crimes-convict-taylor-wants-pension-paid.html
Charles Taylor, the former Liberian
president convicted of war crimes in neighboring Sierra Leone,
wants the West African nation to pay pension benefits he said
he’s owed for service to the country.  According to a letter read on the floor of the Senate
yesterday by the body’s secretary, Taylor requested nine years
of entitlements dating from August 2003, when he left office as
part of a deal to end a bloody civil war in his country.
Legislators will discuss the demand next week.  “I am without notice as to why finance ministers of the
republic have failed and/or refused to comply with the law of
the land as regards my annuities,” Taylor wrote in the letter.  He became the first former head of state to be convicted by
an international court for war crimes since the Nuremberg trials
after World War II. He was charged with 11 counts, including
terrorizing civilians, murder, rape and kidnapping children to
use as soldiers, according to the Special Court for Sierra
Leone, which was set up by the West African nation and the
United Nations in 2002.  In May he was sentenced to 50 years in prison. Sierra
Leone’s civil war left 50,000 people dead and displaced 2
million before the government and rebels agreed to a cease-fire
in 2000. The Revolutionary United Front guerrillas, backed by
Taylor, gained notoriety for amputating the limbs of their
victims.  In Liberia, Taylor supported rebels who led the country to
a civil war that ended when he resigned and went into exile in
Nigeria. Before leaving office, he signed into law the policy
that gives former presidents a pension equal to half the salary
of the sitting leader, as well as personal staff and facilities.  Taylor requested that his pension money be made available
to his wife, Victoria, three of his daughters and other family
members living in his Monrovia home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Zoker in Monrovia at 
 ezoker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  