-- Icahn’s Stake Pushes Transocean Closer to Partnership
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-16T15:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/icahn-s-stake-pushes-transocean-closer-to-partnership-spi.html
Carl Icahn ’s new stake in  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG)  may raise pressure on the world’s largest offshore driller
to put some of its rigs into a tax-advantaged partnership as the
billionaire seeks to boost his investment’s value.  Transocean’s announcement this week that Icahn bought 1.56
percent of its shares and sought regulators’ permission to own
more than 3 percent stirred a debate in the investment community
as the activist investor known for shaking up companies remained
silent about his intentions. He’s jumping in less than two weeks
after Transocean agreed to pay the U.S. $1.4 billion to settle
its liability in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  With the company already in turnaround mode -- the shares
have  led peers  with a 34 percent gain over the past year -- some
investors and analysts said they expect the 76-year-old to push
for Transocean to create a master limited partnership, or MLP,
to raise cash for the parent company and spur growth with its
tax-free structure. It would be the second drilling-rig
partnership after Stavanger, Norway-based  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  spun off
assets to create  Seadrill Partners LLC (SDLP)  in October.  “I would guess he’s going after an MLP because there
aren’t a whole lot of other levers to pull,”  Joe Hill , an
analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston said in a
telephone interview.  Icahn didn’t return repeated calls and e-mails to his
office requesting comment on his investment in Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean.  MLP Considered  Transocean said it was studying the possibility of forming
an MLP when asked about it after Seadrill’s spinoff.  “It’s certainly interesting,” Greg Cauthen, the company’s
former interim chief financial officer, told analysts and
investors Nov. 6. “It’s something we have and will continue to
look at, but we’ve not come to any conclusions at this time.”
Cauthen was succeeded a week later by Esa Ikaeheimonen,
previously the chief financial officer at Seadrill, a move that
was announced in September.  Transocean isn’t saying much about the Icahn investment,
other than an e-mailed statement Jan. 14 that it “looks
forward” to talking with him. Icahn notified the company that
he’s seeking regulatory approval to potentially acquire shares
worth more than $682.1 million, Transocean said in a statement
on its website the day before.  Shares in Transocean gained 1.6 percent to $54.76 in  New
York  at 10:36 a.m. local time, headed for their biggest gain in
four days.  Creditors’ Concern  The move by an activist investor known for pushing
companies for change added enough uncertainty to concern
creditors, with Transocean bonds reversing gains posted after
its oil spill settlement was announced Jan. 3. The company’s $1
billion of 6.8 percent notes due March 2038 fell 2 cents to 121
cents on the dollar, yielding 5.27 percent at 4:31 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The rig contractor has made progress in shoring up its
balance sheet after losing more than half its market value
following the April 2010 oil spill, Collin Gerry, an analyst at
 Raymond James  said in a telephone interview.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are expected to almost double in 2012 to $3.39
billion from $1.85 billion a year earlier, according to 39
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The Ebitda is
expected to climb another 39 percent over the next two years,
and for the first time since 2008, the company is expected to
increase revenue in 2012 to $9.7 billion.  Transocean also is improving its fleet, having sold most of
its standardized shallow-water drilling rigs for $1.05 billion,
and started building nine new rigs, most of which should be able
to command some of the highest day rates in the industry and
work in waters as deep as 12,000 feet.  Macondo Settlement  The settlement with the U.S. Justice Department over
Transocean’s role in the explosion of the Macondo well and
subsequent oil spill calls for the company to pay $1.4 billion
over five years, a payment schedule that Argus Research analyst
Phil Weiss said in a Jan. 9 note to investors was “certainly
manageable.”  After turning in the best performance among peers on the
Philadelphia  Oil Service Sector Index (OSX)  over the past year, the
company still has room to grow. The stock is trading at about 85
percent of the company’s net-asset value, compared with the 10-
year average of more than 100 percent for the industry group,
West said.  “It’s extremely undervalued, which is a classic Icahn
trade,” said Laurence Balter, who helps manage $100 million,
including Transocean shares, at Oracle Investment Research in
Fox Island,  Washington .  CVR Partnership  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , an oil refiner Icahn took control of last
year after winning a proxy fight with management, is scheduled
to hold a $520 million initial public offering today to create
an MLP with the company’s two oil refineries. Icahn is poised to
double his $2 billion investment in CVR thanks to the
restructuring and cheaper U.S. oil that has widened profit
margins for refiners.  CVR  reached $53.19  at the close of New York trading
yesterday, the highest since the company was taken public in
2007 at $19 a share by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  MLPs pay no U.S. corporate income tax and distribute cash
to holders of partnership units, which are traded like shares in
a public corporation. MLPs are usually controlled by a general
partner that retains a share of the units and receives a portion
of the income. Retail investors have favored the MLP model in
the pipeline industry because they tend to pay steady dividends
tied to long-term contracts that are often akin to rent.  MLP Expansion  In the past year, more oil and natural gas producers and
refiners have been attracted to the model. Now, with most major
rig owners mulling the idea,  Scott Gruber , an analyst at  Sanford
Bernstein  dubbed the topic “MLP Mania?” in a note just after
Seadrill announced the IPO of Seadrill Partners.  MLPs don’t create value for foreign-domiciled drilling
companies such as Transocean and Seadrill because there’s no
tax-efficiency gain, Gruber said in a telephone interview.
That’s why Seadrill ultimately went with a limited-
partnership structure instead of an MLP, he said.  The reason why Seadrill Partners trades at a premium is
because of its payout to unit-holders. That same effect could be
accomplished at Transocean by bringing back the dividend, he
said.  Seadrill gave its partnership a partial interest in four
drilling rigs with long-term contracts operating in  North
America  and West Africa. Since it began trading Oct. 18, the
parent company has fallen 10 percent while Seadrill Partners has
climbed 26 percent.  Transocean is viewed as under-valued compared to Seadrill
at the time of its spinoff, James West, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  said in a telephone interview. So shares may gain with
the cash from an MLP’s unit distributions and improved
forecasting for cash-flow from long-term rig contracts, he said.  Still, the arguments for a Transocean MLP are less
convincing, according to Tudor Pickering’s Hill.  Value Questions  “It’s fine to do one as an experiment, but I’m a little
skeptical they’re going to get a big value uplift from doing
one,” Hill said.  Balter sees an MLP structure as a quick boost to shares of
the parent company in the beginning, though ultimately a “cop
out” because the structure may take away some of the best
assets from the larger company, he said.  “I would not be surprised to see them go the MLP route,”
Balter said. “But I would be disappointed that the industry is
trending this way, just for the sake of raising the share
price.”  Alternatively, Icahn may just focus on pushing the company
to cut costs,  reduce debt , sell older vessels and reinstitute
the dividend, Gruber said.  “A year ago, you could see some incremental pockets of
value in squeezing some stuff out, but now some of those have
been resolved and you’re left wondering, ’What’s left for him to
really change?” Gerry said. “Maybe it’s the MLP structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  