-- Highmark to Buy West Penn Allegheny Junk Debt at 12.5% Discount
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-16T23:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/highmark-to-buy-west-penn-allegheny-junk-debt-at-12-5-discount.html
Highmark Inc. said it plans to buy
West Penn Allegheny Health System’s debt sold in 2007 at 87.5
cents on the dollar, an agreement that steers the Pittsburgh-
based hospital system away from seeking  bankruptcy protection .  The plan will allow West Penn to restructure its debt
outside of court and pushes forward a potential affiliation
agreement with Highmark, one of the nation’s 10 biggest health-
insurance companies.  “Throughout this process we all worked hard to develop a
financial plan for the short and long-term financial stability
of the health system,” William Winkenwerder, president of
Pittsburgh-based Highmark, said in a press release today.  Bondholders representing about 76 percent of the 2007A
bonds agreed to the restructuring, according to a material event
filing on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’s website.
The debt totals about $710 million, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was the biggest tax-exempt junk issue since at least
1990.  The restructuring price is higher than where the West Penn
debt has been trading in the secondary market. Tax-exempt bonds
due in November 2040 traded Jan. 14 with an average price of
65.94 cents on the dollar, Bloomberg data show.  The company’s revenue deal was initially rated Ba2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, two levels below investment grade.
The debt, which doesn’t have bond insurance, is now eight steps
lower at Ca.  UMB Bank NA, trustee for the debt, will hold a conference
call with bondholders Jan. 17, according to a separate filing
with the MSRB.  Aaron Billger, a Highmark spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment. West Penn
referred media inquiries to Highmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  