-- India Growth Rebound Faces Inflation Crimping Rate Cuts: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-16T06:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/india-growth-rebound-faces-inflation-crimping-rate-cuts-economy.html
Indian economic growth may rebound
in 2013 while falling short of the government’s 8 percent target,
as inflation risks limit the extent interest rates can be
lowered to spur consumption and investment.  Gross domestic product  in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy will rise
6.5 percent in the year through March 2014, according to the
median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares
with a 10-year average of 7.8 percent and the Finance Ministry’s
projection of 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent in 2012-2013.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  revived stalled policy
overhauls in September to stem a slowdown in expansion, steps
that helped send stocks to a two-year high this week on bets
that a recovery has begun. While  inflation  eased to a three-year
low of 7.18 percent in December, it remains the fastest among
the biggest  emerging markets . A record current-account gap is
threatening to damp the rupee, adding to price pressures.  “The recovery is going to be a bit slow,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai, who has covered the Indian economy
for a decade. “Sentiment has picked up in the financial markets,
but things have yet to pick up in the real economy.”  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.2 percent as of 11:34
a.m. in Mumbai, after reaching the highest level since January
2011 yesterday. The rupee, down 6.2 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months, weakened 0.3 percent to 54.805. The yield
on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 climbed to 7.87 percent
from 7.83 percent yesterday.  Ratings Risk  India ’s current-account  deficit  swelled to $22.31 billion
in the quarter ended Sept. 30, and the rupee’s decline against
the dollar in the past three months makes it the worst performer
after the yen among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank of India will probably limit its rate cut
at the Jan. 29 review to a 25 basis-point reduction in the
 repurchase rate  to 7.75 percent, 13 of 16 analysts said in a
Bloomberg News survey. The rest expect a cut to 7.5 percent.
Fifteen of 21 economists in another survey see the rate ending
the second quarter at 7.5 percent or higher.  Inflation remains “quite high” even after easing from a
peak and economic growth remains a concern,  Reserve Bank of
India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday. The scope for
both monetary and fiscal stimulus is limited, he said.  Singh has opened industries including retail and aviation
to more overseas investment since September, set up a panel to
speed up infrastructure projects and delayed tax changes that
threatened to deter inflows.  BRIC’s Widest  His government last month set a target of 8 percent annual
expansion in the five fiscal years through March 2017, lowering
an earlier goal of 8.2 percent.  The Finance Ministry has pledged to reduce India’s budget
shortfall, the widest in the BRIC group of major emerging
nations that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings warned last year that
they may strip India of its investment-grade  credit rating ,
which would hurt the country’s ability to raise funds.  “There are emerging signs that growth has bottomed out in
India, though the cyclical upturn will lack momentum in the
absence of structural improvements,” said Radhika Rao, a
Singapore-based economist at Forecast Pte. There is an “urgent
need to address the fiscal and current-account deficits, which
pose substantial risks to long-term growth and macroeconomic
stability,” she said.  Renewed Pressures  India’s financial system has been made vulnerable by a
deterioration in bank assets and a lack of capital as the
economy slowed, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
The main near-term risks to the financial system are a worsening
of bank asset quality and renewed pressures on systemic
liquidity, even as stress tests have shown the risks are
“manageable” for now, it said in a statement this week.  India’s potential growth rate may have fallen to about 7
percent, the  Reserve Bank  said last month, compared with 8.5
percent before the onset of the global financial crisis. China’s
GDP has climbed an average annual 10.6 percent in the past 10
years.  “The realization over the past two years is that India is
probably not going to be the next China,” said Glenn Levine, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, who has covered the
Indian economy for four years. “It does require a concerted and
sustained reform and pro-business policy from the government,
and there is little evidence based on the past five years that
they are able to implement such a policy.”  Decade Low  Foreign-direct investment  fell 42 percent to $14.8 billion
in the seven months through October compared with a year earlier.
Still, offshore funds poured a net $24.5 billion into domestic
shares last year, as the policy push since September encouraged
bets that the worst of India’s slowdown has passed.  The  Finance Ministry ’s projected expansion of as little as
5.7 percent in the 12 months to March 31 would be the weakest in
a decade. More than two-thirds of India’s 1.2 billion people
live on less than  $2 per day , according to the  World Bank ,
adding pressure for faster growth.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan ’s  machinery orders  rose more than
expected in November, suggesting that companies are optimistic
about the economic outlook. China’s foreign direct investment
declined for the first full year since 2009 as economic growth
slowed and manufacturers relocated to markets with cheaper labor.  A release on euro-area inflation today may show that
consumer-price growth held at 2.2 percent in December, the same
level as in November.  In the U.S., a report may show consumer prices were
unchanged in December from the previous month. Industrial
production rose 0.3 percent in December after a 1.1 percent gain
the previous month, the best back-to-back readings in a year,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  