-- Miners May Pay U.S. More in Royalties Under 1872 Overhaul
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-01-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/miners-may-pay-u-s-more-in-royalties-under-1872-overhaul.html
The U.S. government could reap
hundreds of millions of dollars in the next decade by collecting
royalties from gold, silver and other mines exempt under an 1872
law President  Ulysses S. Grant  signed to promote the frontier.  “It’s astounding in this time of trillion-dollar deficits
that we aren’t looking more closely at revenue off of public
lands,” Senator Tom Udall, a New Mexico Democrat, said in an
interview. “This would be a very good place to do it.”  He and other lawmakers are seeking to overhaul the General
Mining Law of 1872, which was signed by Grant to help populate
the West. With that mission long accomplished --  California  is
the most populous state -- charging royalties from mining on
U.S. lands could generate hundreds of millions of dollars in
federal revenue over the next decade, Udall said.  Miners say they don’t oppose paying royalties, though a
proposal to charge a 12.5 percent royalty, the same that’s now
applied for oil and gas development on federal lands, is too
costly, according to Carol Raulston, a spokeswoman for the
National Mining Association in  Washington , whose members include
 Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)   “It’s always been something that we’ve been open to
discussion on,” Raulston said in an interview. She declined to
say what would be an acceptable rate. Wages and environmental
rules already make it relatively expensive to do business in the
U.S., she said.  Past Efforts  Oil, gas and coal resources mined on federal land incur
royalties on the theory that they are the public’s assets. Those
royalties aren’t applied to so-called hardrock minerals such as
gold and silver under the 1872 law, though mining companies pay
fees to secure a claim and an annual maintenance charge.
Companies paid fees of $64 million in the 2011 fiscal year, the
mining association said.  Lawmakers have attempted to overhaul the law in the past,
only to be blocked by resistance from mining companies that
argue the industry has been an economic bright spot in places
like  Nevada .  The state is home to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Democrat, and several  gold mines , including ones operated by
Newmont, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , and  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) , which is based in Toronto.  The  House of Representatives  passed a royalty bill in 2007.
The effort died in the Senate after companies said charging too
much could discourage investment and cost jobs.  Revenue Sharing  “Senator Reid is willing to consider any proposal for
mining reform that protects the  mining industry , doesn’t kill
jobs and shares revenues with the state,” Kristen Orthman, a
spokeswoman for Reid, said in an e-mailed statement.  This year, the issue of mining royalties could be wrapped
up in a broader push to update laws that relate to royalties for
energy development.  With U.S. oil and gas production on the rise, states that
are energy-resource rich or lie adjacent to offshore development
areas are seeking a greater slice of the pie, arguing they’re
shouldering a greater risk of environmental harm.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and new chairman of
the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, plans to
write a bill that could increase money from federal royalties to
Gulf Coast states and Alaska, Keith Chu, a Wyden spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  The subject of revenue sharing with states -- they get a
percent of the energy royalties the federal government collects
within their borders and off their shores -- has divided members
on the panel for more than a year, creating an impasse on other
energy issues.  Wyden Legislation  Wyden is still writing the bill and may seek to expand
royalties to some types of renewable energy development on
public land and on hardrock mining, said Joshua Sheinkman,
Democratic staff director on the energy committee, in an
interview.  “The goal would be to broaden the base of resources to
build support for reform and stabilize revenues so resource-
dependent communities would have more of a cushion during
downturns,” Chu said.  By expanding royalties to new types of developmental
activities, Wyden may be able to give states more without adding
to the federal deficit.  Newmont backs “reasonable and responsible legislation”
that doesn’t “hinder domestic mineral production,”  Omar
Jabara , a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  ‘National Interest’  “Maintaining mineral production in the U.S. is not just an
economic issue, it is also in the national interest given the
increasing global competition for mined products, which are used
in everything from electronics to military hardware,” he said.  The push for an overhaul may be undercut by uncertainty
over how much potential revenue is available. Estimates vary
widely. The Government Accountability Office said in a December
report that the U.S. doesn’t break out how much hardrock mining
takes place on public versus private land.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
estimated the U.S. could generate about $3 billion over 10 years
with a 12.5 percent royalty and other fees on hardrock mining.  “It’s a lot of money that’s on the table, and it’s money
that we should have been getting a long time ago,” Udall said.  In his 2013 budget, President  Barack Obama  included a
royalty rate of 5 percent for new mining operations. The
Interior Department estimated would generate only about $80
million over the next decade.  Claims Increase  The Interior Department, which oversees mining on federal
land, noted in budget documents that strong prices for gold and
copper had increased active claims by 10 percent in 2011
compared with 2010. New claims in Nevada had increased by 58
percent in 2011, according to the department.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated the 2007 House
bill would generate $310 million over 10 years. That applied an
8 percent royalty to new mines and a 4 percent rate to existing
operations.  Velma Smith, a government relations officer at the  Pew
Environment Group , part of Pew Charitable Trusts, said the CBO
estimate doesn’t account for the rising price of gold, which has
more than doubled since the House passed its bill. Gold prices
in futures trading have exceeded $1,640 an ounce this month.  Groups like Pew also want environmental regulations
governing mining production updated, along with the imposition
of a royalty.  “The way the law works is you’re making it lucrative and
easy for mining to happen often in the wrong place and often
without adequate environmental controls,” Smith said in an
interview.  Seeking Agreement  Senator Udall said he would talk to Senators Wyden and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, the top Republican on the energy committee,
to try to find agreement on a mining royalty bill.  Besides generating more revenue for deficit reduction, some
of the proceeds could be used to reclaim abandoned mines, of
which there are more than 600 in Udall’s home state, according
to the Bureau of Land Management, a division of the Interior
Department.  Udall said his father, Stewart, also had sought to overhaul
the 1872 mining act while serving as Interior Department
secretary in the 1960s.  “’After 8 years in this office I have come to the
conclusion that the most important piece of unfinished business
on the nation’s resource agenda is the complete replacement of
the mining law of 1872,’” Udall said, quoting his father’s
statement upon his retirement.  “Here we are more than 40 years later, it still hasn’t
been done,” the younger Udall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  