-- Inpex Venture to Sell 10% Stake in Indonesian Abadi LNG Project
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-16T04:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/inpex-venture-to-sell-10-stake-in-indonesian-abadi-lng-project.html
Inpex Corp. (1605) , the Japanese operator
of an Indonesian liquefied natural gas project, and its partners
plan to sell at least 10 percent of their Abadi venture.  Naoki Kuroda, chairman of Japan’s biggest energy explorer,
said in an interview last week that its contract with the
Indonesian government contains a provision to sell a 10 percent
stake to a company designated by local governments. Inpex,
holding a 60 percent controlling share, is also considering
selling smaller stakes to potential buyers of the fuel from the
LNG project, said Masahiro Murayama, a company director.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company, holds
a 30 percent stake in Abadi stake. The company and Inpex plan to
build a floating LNG plant in  Indonesia , which would be its
second LNG project. Inpex, working with  Total SA (FP) , borrowed $20
billion last month for the Japanese company’s first LNG venture
in Australia to tap growing demand from Asian power utilities.  The Abadi project will produce about 2.5 million metric
tons of LNG a year in the first stage, taking in gas from the
Arafura Sea’s Masela block. Inpex selected  John Wood Group Plc (WG/) 
to design subsea-production facilities for the project, it said
Nov. 26. The timetable of commercial production and project
costs are not yet determined.  Hadi Prasetyo, a spokesman for Indonesia oil and gas
regulator SKKMigas, confirmed the proposed sale. Contractors are
required to offer 10 percent interests to a company selected by
local or regional governments under regulations issued in 2004,
he said.  PT Energi Mega Persada Tbk. (ENRG)  owns a 10 percent stake in
Abadi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  