-- Lippmann’s LibreMax Said to Gain 20.8% as Mortgages Outperform
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-16T16:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/lippmann-s-libremax-said-to-gain-20-8-as-mortgages-outperform.html
Greg Lippmann’s LibreMax Capital LLC
gained 20.8 percent last year as  hedge funds  focused on mortgage
debt outperformed rivals.  LibreMax’s main fund rose 0.94 percent last month,
according to a person familiar with its returns, who declined to
be identified because the information is private. The firm had
about half of its bullish bets on U.S.  home-loan bonds  without
government backing as of Sept. 30 and also began wagering on
commercial-mortgage securities in 2012, according to a November
letter to investors.  Hedge funds concentrating on mortgages gained 20.3 percent
last year, beating all other categories, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Firms led by Metacapital Management LP
and Pine River Capital Management LP, which also bet on
government-backed securities, capitalized on a rally in housing
debt as the real-estate market recovered and investors sought
higher-yielding assets as rates on benchmark Treasuries reached
record lows.  The gains also boosted assets at the managers. Lippmann
oversees about $2.4 billion, up from less than $1 billion at the
end of 2011, the person said. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman
for New York-based LibreMax, declined to comment on the firm’s
returns.  Senior-ranked subprime-mortgage bonds issued before the
market collapsed in 2007, among the top-performing assets last
year, have extended their rally into 2013, returning about 4.6
percent through last week, Barclays Plc index data show.  The notes gained more than 40 percent last year, following
a 5.5 percent loss in 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled
markets and dealers shrunk inventories. The fund run by
Lippmann, the former Deutsche Bank AG trader who bet against the
debt before the housing slump, returned about 2 percent in 2011.  Hedge funds that invest in asset-backed securities, which
can include mortgage bonds, were the second-ranked last year in
data compiled by Bloomberg, returning more than 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  