-- Israel Revealed by Poll to Netanyahu as Be Careful What You Wish
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-16T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/israel-revealed-by-poll-to-netanyahu-as-be-careful-what-you-wish.html
When he called for a national
election a year before he was required by law last October,
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  was determined to obtain wider
support for key decisions on talks with Palestinians and budget
cuts. Israelis now are signaling that his options have narrowed.  While Netanyahu is set to win re-election on Jan. 22, polls
show falling support for his Likud-Beitenu parliamentary list,
which would emerge with fewer seats than it currently holds.
Such an outcome would increase his dependence on smaller groups
with other priorities, making it harder to form a coalition.  Potential partners, including the ascendant Jewish Home
party, oppose concessions to Palestinians. That will make it
difficult for a re-elected Netanyahu to respond to pressure from
the U.S., Israel’s main ally, for negotiations to resume after
more than two years. Bringing the opposition  Labor party  into an
alliance, another option for the premier, may spell trouble for
his plan to cut 14 billion shekels ($3.8 billion) of spending.  “Netanyahu is going to find it very hard to put together a
coalition to move both his economic and political agenda
forward, and is going to have to make some hard choices,” said
Tamir Sheafer, a political science professor at the  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem . One result may be more friction with
allies over the lack of progress on a peace accord, he said.  Israel’s equity market rally has stalled since Netanyahu,
63, called the vote on Oct. 9, suggesting investors are waiting
for the outcome. The  benchmark TA-25 index  rose 0.1 percent
since then, after gaining 17 percent in the previous year. The
MSCI World Index of developed-market stocks advanced 5 percent
in the past three months.  Election Poll  Likud’s alliance with former foreign minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu would win 33 seats in the  120-member
Knesset , according to a Jan. 11 Dahaf poll in the  Yediot Ahronot 
daily, down from the 42 seats they currently hold. Polls in
October had shown them adding to that total.  Netanyahu has been attacked from both sides on the question
of peace talks with the Palestinians as candidates avoid
discussing what he says is the biggest threat confronting
 Israel , the prospect of  Iran  obtaining nuclear weapons. Wary of
appearing partisan on an issue widely seen as above party
politics, his rivals haven’t challenged his willingness to order
military strikes to stop that from happening.  Instead some parties have condemned the failure to resume
negotiations that broke down in 2010, while Jewish Home is
poised to win seats at the expense of the premier by making
opposition to a Palestinian state the center of its platform. It
supports building more settlements in the  West Bank  and east
 Jerusalem , a policy opposed by the U.S.  Settlement Building  Netanyahu has said he supports construction in areas with
large settlements, while Jewish Home and others in his own party
support such construction throughout the West Bank. Keeping them
as partners would leave Netanyahu caught between domestic allies
who want to abandon peace talks, and international allies
pressing for their resumption.  “Jewish Home is picking up votes from many Likud
supporters,” said Yehuda Ben-Meir, a fellow at the Institute of
National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University. A coalition
with Jewish Home along with other religious parties would put
Netanyahu in a straitjacket on Palestinian issues, he said.  Jewish Home may win 14 seats, up from three in the outgoing
Knesset, according to Yediot Ahronot’s poll. Its leader Naftali Bennett, a former aide to Netanyahu, said in an interview last
month that he’s against attempts to “impose an untenable or
impossible peace.”  Bush Administration  Netanyahu favors a two-state solution if Palestinians are
demilitarized, Israel keeps full control of Jerusalem and major
settlements, and Palestinians renounce the right of return and
formally recognize Israel as a Jewish state. His views, like
those of  George W. Bush  on  Iraq  when he was president, are the
subject of debate both abroad and  at home . During Bush’s second
term, half of Americans strongly opposed his administration’s
plan to send more troops to Iraq, according to a Washington
Post-ABC News poll published in January 2007.  While 53 percent of Israelis back a two-state solution,
only 41 percent said it’s currently feasible, and 55 percent
said Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  isn’t a partner with
whom an accord can be reached, according to a Jan. 4 poll in the
Israel Hayom daily.  The fragmented Israeli electorate --- there are 17  parties 
in the Knesset -- is such that even though the survey found
Netanyahu to be the “best suited” for prime minister, he still
earned only 43 percent of public support.  Ultra-Orthodox  With his own party’s share in the governing coalition
reduced, Netanyahu may also struggle to push through plans to
limit draft deferments for ultra-Orthodox Jews, who continue
religious studies full-time while living on government grants.  The premier, backed by Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , says getting more of the ultra-Orthodox into the
workforce is crucial for long-term economic growth.  While Jewish Home has expressed support for the plan, two
other parties in the government, Shas and United Torah Judaism,
have opposed changes to that subsidy. They are set to win a
combined 15 seats, according to Yediot Ahronot.  Netanyahu’s alternative is an alliance with at least two of
the three parties that support Palestinian statehood, Labor,
Hatenuah and Yesh Atid, according to Ben-Meir. That may alienate
parts of Likud, where primary elections saw gains for supporters
of Jewish settlements at the expense of ministers closer to
Netanyahu on the issue.  Thinking Legacy  The premier may take the risk, Ben-Meir said. “This is
probably Netanyahu’s last term as prime minister, and he has to
be thinking now about his legacy,” he said.  Bringing those parties into a coalition may endanger
another of Netanyahu’s goals: reducing the deficit. The premier
cited his inability to get partners to agree on spending cuts
for 2013 as a reason for calling early elections.  Since coming to power in 2009 at the end of an Israeli
recession that followed the global crisis, Netanyahu has
presided over growth of 14.7 percent, compared with 10.7 percent
in  Australia  and 3.2 percent in the U.S., according to the
Israel Finance Ministry. Still, last year’s growth of 3.3
percent was the slowest since 2009.  To keep the recovery going, the government exceeded its
budget deficit target last year, and Netanyahu now plans to
reduce it to 3 percent of output from 4.2 percent.  The government says growth will pick up this year as
companies, including  Delek Drilling LP (DEDRL)  and  Avner Oil Exploration
LLP (AVNRL) , start extracting natural gas from Mediterranean fields, and
budget cuts are needed for the economy’s longer-term prospects.  Labor Campaign  That agenda won’t be easy to maintain in an alignment with
Labor. While Jewish Home and other right-wing parties have
expressed support for much of Netanyahu’s economic program,
Labor’s Shelly Yachimovich has focused her campaign on welfare
issues and opposes cuts in social spending.  Knesset speaker Reuven Rivlin, a Netanyahu ally, cites the
Palestinian talks, budget cuts and the ultra-Orthodox draft as
key challenges, and says the electoral math won’t add up to a
government capable of tackling them all.  To do that, he told reporters last week, would take “three
different coalitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  