-- Italy’s Bersani Pushes for Payroll Tax Cut Financed by Wealthy
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-16T23:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/italy-s-bersani-pushes-for-payroll-tax-cut-financed-by-wealthy.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, the front-runner
in next month’s Italian election, is pushing for a payroll-tax
cut and would finance it by raising taxes on the rich and
cracking down on fiscal evasion.  “There is room to finance a reduction of these burdens,”
Bersani said late yesterday in an interview televised on Canale
5’s “Italy Asks” program. “A redistribution within the fiscal
system is possible; something progressive can be done.”  The 61-year-old former communist is appealing to his base
of supporters in organized labor after his lead in opinion polls
was reduced amid a comeback by three-time former Premier  Silvio
Berlusconi . The push for tax cuts has grown since Berlusconi
entered the parliamentary race in December with an anti-
austerity platform that includes a call for the abolition of
property levies on primary residences.  Bersani said in a Sky TG24 interview last week he planned
to cut income taxes for low and middle earners and raise rates
for the wealthiest. Each of the three major candidates,
including Prime Minster  Mario Monti , has said they will push to
boost recoveries from tax evaders.  “It’s absolutely possible to get something more” from tax
enforcement, Bersani said.  Public support for Bersani’s coalition slipped to 37.4
percent from 40.3 percent in December, according to an EMG poll
on Jan. 14. The group led by Berlusconi, 76, rose to 27.9
percent from 25.3 percent, while Monti and his allies gained to
14.8 percent. Monti, 69, polled at 9.9 percent a month ago,
prior to declaring his candidacy.  Focus on Berlusconi  The top candidates are challenging each other indirectly
through TV interviews ahead of a planned debate next month and
the Feb. 24-25 ballot. Berlusconi, a billionaire media magnate,
has garnered the biggest headlines with a series of contentious
interviews, while also drawing the most criticism from his
rivals. Monti said yesterday he voted for Berlusconi in 1994 and
was subsequently disappointed.  “I saw the promise of a liberal revolution that
unfortunately didn’t go ahead,” Monti said in an interview on
Sky TG24’s “Lo Spoglio” program.  Italian voters are going to the polls a year after Monti,
with the parliamentary support of both Berlusconi and Bersani,
passed emergency tax increases that helped the country sidestep
the worst of the  European debt crisis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  