-- Mitie Declines After Second Downgrade in Two Days: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-16T12:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/mitie-declines-after-second-downgrade-in-two-days-london-mover.html
Mitie Group Plc (MTO) , the services
company that provides guards for law courts in England and
 Wales , fell the most in more than eight weeks after a second
analyst downgrade in two days.  The  shares  fell 3.8 percent, the biggest intraday decline
since Nov. 19, to 268.3 pence at 11:01 a.m. in  London . The stock
is close to unchanged over the past year, making it the fifth-
worst performer among the 31 companies in the  FTSE 350 Support
Services Index (F3SUPP) , which rose 22 percent in the period. The volume
of shares traded was 73 percent of the three-month daily
average.  Mitie’s rating was cut to reduce from hold today by Howard Seymour, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., who said that a
number of the Bristol, England-based company’s competitors are
relatively cheaper and have better growth prospects.  “Mitie is well placed to continue to exploit outsourcing
and bundling trends in the context of its facilities management
and technical facilities management businesses,” Seymour said
in a note to clients. Numis does “see other divisions
continuing to face difficult conditions.”  Seymour also cut his 12-month price target to 245 pence
from 285 pence. He left his underlying earnings estimates
unchanged.  Mitie offers customers a number of services, from catering
to pest control, and specializes in energy-performance
management and “strategic” outsourcing, according to its
website.  More Optimistic  Credit Suisse cut the stock to  underperform  from neutral
yesterday. Eugene Klerk, an analyst at the Swiss investment
bank, also lowered his 12-month price target to 250 pence from
290 pence.  Andy Brown , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., is more
optimistic about Mitie’s prospects. He raised his rating to buy
from hold on Jan. 11 and lifted his price target to 310 pence
from 265 pence.  Support services companies are currently a “stock
picker’s paradise,” with good prospects in 2013 and beyond,
Panmure analysts said in a note two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .
MTO LN <Equity>
NI SVC
NI STK
NI MOV
NI SMALLCAP
NI UK
NI ANACUT
NI ANARAISE
NI BMOVE 