-- Livestrong Name Is Removed From Kansas City’s Soccer Stadium
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-17T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/livestrong-name-is-stripped-from-kansas-city-s-soccer-stadium.html
Kansas City’s Major League Soccer
stadium will no longer display the Livestrong name following a
disagreement between the team and the cancer charity founded by
Lance Armstrong.  Robb Heineman, the chief executive of Sporting KC, said in
a  statement  two days ago that Livestrong was “utilizing
aggressive tactics designed to force us into an unsatisfactory
arrangement.” Sporting KC’s 18,467-seat soccer stadium had been
named Livestrong Sporting Park since 2011 and will now be
referred to as Sporting Park.  Armstrong said in an interview with Oprah Winfrey that he
had used performance-enhancing drugs during a cycling career in
which he won seven Tour de France titles, reversing 13 years of
denials, according to the talk-show host.  “We were not expecting the foundation to treat a partner
in this manner,” Heineman said in the statement, without
elaborating. “Even more surprising is that Livestrong would
take this action in the midst of a significant transitional
phase for their organization.”  Livestrong Chief Financial Officer Greg Lee said Sporting
KC failed to meet financial terms of the six-year agreement.  “If a partner is struggling to meet the terms of an
agreement, we do everything possible to reach a fair and
reasonable compromise,” Lee said in an e-mailed statement. “If
no compromise can be reached, as good stewards of our brand,
mission and donors’ dollars, we have no choice but to bring that
agreement to an end.”  Sporting Paid  The Kansas City Star reported that under the agreement,
Sporting KC gave Livestrong as much as $7.5 million over six
years, donating a portion of ticket, concession and souvenir
sales.  The largest athlete-founded charity, Livestrong has raised
more than $470 million for the fight against cancer since 1997,
according to its website.  Heineman said Sporting KC had staunchly defended the
Livestrong mission even though there were “several instances”
in the past 22 months when the partnership was questioned by the
media and general public.  “Over the course of the past year, it became clear that
Livestrong no longer shared the same spirit of partnership,
despite our perseverance to the contrary,” Heineman said.  Kansas City is scheduled to host the 2013 MLS All-Star Game
at Sporting Park in July.  Armstrong, 41, had severed ties with Livestrong in
November, a month after the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency said he was
part of what it termed “the most sophisticated,
professionalized and successful doping program that sport has
ever seen.” Armstrong was also stripped of his seven Tour de
France titles and banned from Olympic sports for life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  