-- Cheung Kong Offers Debt in Busiest Month for China Developers
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-16T09:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/japan-bond-risk-decreases-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  and  KWG
Property Holding Ltd. (1813)  are marketing dollar-denominated bonds
with no maturity date in the busiest month for U.S. currency
offerings from Hong Kong and Chinese developers on record.  Cheung Kong, the conglomerate controlled by Asia’s richest
manLi Ka-shing, plans to sell perpetual notes at 5.375 percent
to 5.5 percent, according to a person familiar with the matter
who asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set. KWG
Property is marketing notes, which can be brought back by the
company after 5 1/2 years, to yield 10.25 percent, another
person said yesterday.  Real-estate companies from Hong Kong and China have sold $5
billion of securities in the U.S. currency this month after home
prices in the world’s second-largest economy rose for the
seventh-straight month in December.  Emerging markets  and high-
yield bond funds both attracted more than $1.6 billion of
inflows in the week to Jan. 9, according to EPFR Global.  “Prices and volumes have been going up and so we think in
terms of the cash flows and other credit metrics we monitor,
they’ll continue to improve,” Stephen Chang, head of Asian
fixed-income at JF Asset Management Ltd., part of JPMorgan Asset
Management Asia Inc., said yesterday in reference to the
property sector. “There are more funds that are targeted to
emerging-market high-yield or Asian high-yield and we still see
very strong flows into that.”  Cheung Kong and KWG are selling perpetual bonds after Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. raised $700 million from a sale of
undated notes priced to yield 8.25 percent on Jan. 11, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Agile’s bonds were yielding 8.565
percent as of 4:18 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to BNP Paribas
SA prices quoted on Bloomberg.  Agile Property  The cost of insuring sovereign and corporate bonds from
non-payment in Asia outside  Japan  rose 2.9 basis points
yesterday, the biggest one-day increase since Dec. 4, according
to credit-default swap traders.  “The market is soft at present but investors are
increasingly confident in the China macroeconomic story and on
the back of a resolute performance by the property names in
2012,” said Owen Gallimore, head credit analyst at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore .  The coupon on Cheung Kong’s bonds will be fixed for life
even if the notes, which can be bought back by the company after
five years, aren’t called, the person familiar said.  Yuexiu Plans  Yuexiu Property Co. plans to sell five-year notes at 255
basis points to 260 basis points more than Treasuries and 10-
year debt at a spread of 275 basis points to 280 basis points, a
person familiar with the matter said today. Guangzhou R&F
Properties Co. is offering seven-year bonds at about 8.75
percent through its unit Caifu Holdings Ltd., a person with
knowledge of that sale said.  China  should “gradually” establish a property taxation
system which covers trading and ownership, Premier Wen Jiabao
said during a visit to the finance ministry yesterday. Hong Kong
meanwhile will have to curb demand for housing if people’s needs
aren’t met, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying told the city’s
Legislative Council in his first policy address today.  Junk-rated borrowers, including developers, will probably
boost issuance to as much as 25 percent of total dollar bond
offerings in Asia outside of Japan this year, from 15 percent in
2012, Gallimore said.  Investor Meetings  PT Indika Energy Tbk, which is rated B+ by Fitch Ratings,
is offering 10-year notes at a yield about 7 percent, another
person with knowledge of the matter said. JG Summit Holdings
Inc. is marketing 10-year notes at 4.375 percent to 4.5 percent,
a separate person said.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. plans to meet investors in Asia from
tomorrow about a possible dollar bond sale, while Hana Bank has
scheduled meetings for next week to discuss a potential debt
offering. PT Gajah Tunggal also hired banks to arrange a series
of bond investor meetings from tomorrow and may consider a U.S.
dollar bond thereafter, another person said.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps on 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose 2 basis points to
110 basis points as of 2:46 p.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 3.5 basis points to
145.5 as of 3:22 p.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
benchmark has ranged from 138.3 basis points to 148.1 basis
points this year, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at 115
basis points as of 11:13 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The gauge has declined 12.5 since Dec. 31,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  