-- Japan Opposition Party Won’t Back BOJ Officials for Governor
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-01-17T02:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/japan-opposition-party-won-t-back-boj-officials-for-governor.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
must not pick a  Bank of Japan (8301)  bureaucrat to be the next central
bank governor and should consider former economy minister Heizo Takenaka for the post, an opposition party leader said.  Yoshimi Watanabe said his Your Party won’t support a BOJ
insider to succeed Masaaki Shirakawa when his term ends in April
or for two deputy governors who will step down in March. Abe has
said he is seeking candidates who support his 2 percent
inflation target and will enact “bold” monetary easing to
overcome more than a decade of falling prices.  “If someone is chosen from within the BOJ, there will be
no change in thinking,” Watanabe, 60, said yesterday in an
interview. “It’s in the BOJ’s DNA to combat inflation but not
deflation, so to change that we need to pick someone from
outside.”  Abe needs votes from smaller opposition groups to win
backing for his central bank chief in the upper house of
parliament, where his  Liberal Democratic Party  and coalition
ally New Komeito hold 102 of 242 seats. Watanabe’s party has 11
lawmakers in the chamber.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga yesterday said the
ruling coalition “must show consideration to opposition
parties” in regards to BOJ appointments.  “We can’t do this without their cooperation,” he told
reporters in Tokyo. “It’s a very delicate issue.”  The next governor should be an economics PhD with fluent
English and management skills, and while Takenaka “isn’t our
only recommendation,” the former Cabinet minister would be a
good fit, Watanabe said.  JPMorgan’s View  Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda is “the
No. 1 candidate” to head the central bank, JPMorgan Securities
 Japan  Co. chief economist Masaaki Kanno wrote in a research note
today. Kuroda fits the profile stipulated by Finance Minister
Taro Aso of having experience in managing a large organization
and having an international background, Kanno wrote.  During Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi ’s administration,
Takenaka pushed Japan’s debt-ridden banks to write off 19
trillion yen ($214 billion) in bad loans. He also oversaw plans
to privatize Japan Post Holding Co., the country’s biggest
deposit holder, in an effort to spur financial industry
competition.  A professor at Tokyo’s  Keio University , Takenaka was tapped
to serve on a new economic advisory panel for Abe, who led the
LDP to a landslide victory last month. Takenaka criticized the
BOJ’s response to the March 2011 record earthquake and tsunami,
saying in an interview a month after the disaster that the
bank’s offer of credit to businesses was a “micro policy,”
when “macro monetary policy” was called for.  Yen’s Decline  The yen has fallen about 5.5 percent against the dollar and
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average has risen 9.2 percent since Abe’s
LDP was elected on Dec. 16, pledging to weaken the yen and ease
monetary policy to defeat deflation and revive the economy.  Potential candidates to succeed Shirakawa at the BOJ
include Kuroda, Toshiro Muto, Kazumasa Iwata and Takatoshi Ito,
the Nikkei newspaper said on Jan. 14, without citing anyone.
Muto and Iwata were both previously deputy governors of the BOJ,
while Kuroda and Ito worked at the Ministry of Finance.  The government is set to present its nominations for the
governorship and two BOJ board positions on Feb. 15, the Nikkei
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  