-- Treasuries Rise, Oil Gains as Stocks End Little Changed
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-01-16T21:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/japanese-stocks-retreat-from-32-month-high-as-kiwi-advances.html
Treasuries gained for a fourth
straight day amid concern about the U.S. debt ceiling and a
reduction in the World Bank’s growth forecasts. Oil rallied
following an unexpected drop in inventories, while the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed little changed at a five-year high.  Ten-year Treasury yields lost two basis points to 1.82
percent, the lowest closing level of the year. Oil jumped 1
percent to $94.24 a barrel, its highest price since September.
The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,472.63, erasing an
early drop as Apple Inc. rebounded 4.2 percent from an 11-month
low. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  sank 2.6 percent while the yen
rallied for a second day. A gauge of the Group of Seven nations’
 currency volatility  reached the highest since September as
policy makers stepped up warnings on swings in exchange rates.  The World Bank late yesterday cut its 2013 global growth
forecast as austerity measures, high unemployment and low
business confidence weighed on economies in developed nations.
With as little as a month until the U.S. runs out of money to
pay its bills, President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in
Congress remain at odds on raising the debt ceiling. Many
Republicans say a boost in borrowing authority must be linked to
spending cuts.  “We’re continuing to trade the obvious -- uncertainty and
risk,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’re in a bit of
a holding pattern, consolidation with a slight bullish drift.”  Debt Ceiling   Thirty-year yields  also decreased for a fourth day,
slipping two basis points to 3.01 percent. U.S. government debt
remained higher after a report showed inflation remains at bay,
allowing the Federal Reserve to add monetary stimulus without
triggering a surge in prices.  The Treasury Department has been using emergency measures
since the end of December to prevent a breach of the $16.4
trillion  debt limit . The U.S. government makes about 80 million
payments each month, including for Social Security, veterans’
benefits, defense contractors, law enforcement and income-tax
refunds. Since 1960, Congress has raised or revised the limit 79
times.  The Chicago Board of Options Exchange  Volatility Index , the
benchmark gauge of U.S. stock-option prices known as the  VIX (VIX) ,
slid 1 percent to close at 13.42. The gauge fell as low as 13.2
during the session, the lowest level since June 2007.  Earnings Season  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs were among 11
companies in the S&P 500 reporting results today. Earnings
topped estimates at 74 percent of the 39 companies that  posted
results  so far and 69 percent beat sales projections, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, rallied 1
percent after reporting a 53 percent increase in fourth-quarter
earnings, beating  analyst estimates . Net interest margin, which
measures the profitability of lending, narrowed to 2.4 percent
from 2.7 percent a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by  assets ,
climbed 4.1 percent after quarterly profit almost tripled as
gains in the firm’s own investments contributed to the first
year of revenue growth since 2009.  Boeing Co. (BA)  sank 3.4 percent. All Nippon Airways Co. and
Japan Airlines Co., the world’s largest users of Boeing 787
jets, grounded their fleets of Dreamliners in the biggest blow
yet to the troubled passenger jet’s image.  Industrial Production  U.S. industrial production climbed for a second month in
December as demand picked up for business equipment, showing
factories expanded even as lawmakers battled over the federal
budget. Output rose 0.3 percent, matching the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey, data from the  Federal Reserve  showed. The
December figure was restrained by the biggest plunge in utility
output in almost six years, reflecting warmer weather.
Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total production,
grew 0.8 percent, more than forecast.  The  U.S. economy  picked up across much of the country last
month, boosted by auto and home sales, even as the outlook for
unemployment showed few signs of improvement, the Federal
Reserve said.  “Economic activity has expanded since the previous Beige
Book report, with all 12 districts characterizing the pace of
growth as either modest or moderate,” the central bank said
today in its Beige Book business survey, which is based on
reports from the Fed’s district banks.  The  Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  closed up less than 0.1 percent,
halting a four-day slump that dragged it down from the highest
level since February 2011. Anglo American Plc dropped 3.1
percent, leading mining companies lower, as the African National
Congress said South Africa’s government should withdraw the
firm’s platinum licenses. Tesco Plc slipped 0.7 percent as the
U.K.’s largest grocer withdrew beef products after tests found
some contained horse DNA.  Yen Rallies  The  yen  advanced against all 16 of its major peers,
extending yesterday’s 0.8 percent gain versus the dollar. It
weakened to 89.67 on Jan. 14, the lowest level since June 2010,
amid bets  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his
fellow board members will raise their 1 percent inflation goal,
signaling increased stimulus, at a policy meeting on Jan. 21-22.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for the target to be
doubled.  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
the yen’s recent declines are insufficient for the company to
reconsider plans to scale back on its reliance on Japan.  Euro Slipped  The euro slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3287 after rising above
$1.34 against the dollar this week for the first time since
February amid signs the region’s debt crisis is subsiding.  Policy makers stepped up their warnings on swings in
exchange rates. Russian central bank First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said the world is on the brink of a “currency
war.” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday the euro is trading at “dangerously high” levels.  Implied volatility for currencies climbed. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s G7 Volatility Index, based on three-month options on Group
of Seven nations’ currencies, reached 8.53 percent, the most
since Sept. 6. It fell to 7.06 on Dec. 18, the lowest since
August 2007.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government cut its growth
forecast for Europe’s biggest economy as austerity policies in
cash-strapped euro-region countries and cooling world trade damp
exports. Gross domestic product growth will slow to 0.4 percent
this year from 0.7 percent in 2012, the Economy Ministry said
today. That compares with a previous forecast for 1 percent
expansion. Growth will accelerate as the year progresses and
average 1.6 percent in 2014, it said.  Oil Inventories  Oil gained as much as 1.2 percent in New York after the
Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm, said  stockpiles  fell 951,000 barrels last week.
They were expected to climb 2.2 million barrels, according to
the median of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Consumption rebounded from the lowest level since March.  Soybeans and cotton also climbed at least 1.5 percent,
helping lead the S&P GSCI Index up 0.2 percent even as 14 of its
24 commodities declined.  Lead dropped 1.1 percent and aluminum slipped 0.3 percent,
while gold lost 0.2 percent $1,678 an ounce. Platinum, used in
car catalysts to reduce harmful exhausts, added 0.4 percent to
$1,689.50 an ounce after rising yesterday to the highest since
the most since August following a decision by Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. to cut production. Platinum was more expensive
than gold yesterday for the first time since April.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell for a second day,
losing 0.2 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.7
percent after Chinese foreign direct investment dropped last
month. The  yuan  retreated from a 19-year high after the central
bank cut its reference rate by the most in four months.  India’s Sensex snapped a three-day rally, sliding 0.9
percent, as the central bank chief said there’s no room for
stimulus. Russia’s Micex Index added 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  