-- Jarir CEO Sees 20% Climb in Sales as Saudis Buy More Smartphones
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-01-16T10:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/jarir-ceo-sees-20-climb-in-sales-as-saudis-buy-more-smartphones.html
Jarir Marketing Co., (JARIR)   Saudi Arabia ’s
largest office supplies and electronics retailer, expects sales
to increase 20 percent this year as Middle Eastern consumers buy
more smartphone products, its chief executive officer said.  “Saudi Arabia has a fantastic potential for our business
and we are trying to accelerate our expenditure,” Abdulkarim Al-Agil said in an interview on Jan. 10 in  Riyadh . “We had a
big increase in earnings last year due to smartphone sales.”  Demand for retail products has increased in the Arab
world’s biggest economy after King Abdullah boosted spending to
ensure the population gets a bigger share of state energy wealth
as unrest spread across the  Middle East .  Consumer spending 
reached a high of 177 billion riyals ($47 billion) last May,
according to data from the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency .  Jarir estimated profit increased 11 percent to 570 million
riyals last year, driven by demand for smartphones, according to
a  company statement . Sales increased 12 percent to 4.6 billion
riyals as the company increased the number of its showrooms by
two to 32.  The  shares  gained 11 percent last year compared with a 6
percent increase for the benchmark Tadawul All Share Index.
Three investors say buy the stock, while 10 recommend hold,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Expansion  Jarir, with a market value of 9.6 billion riyals, plans to
expand its operations in Saudi Arabia and across the Persian
Gulf, Al-Agil said at the interview held at his office. The
company will increase the number of stores to 37 this year and
is considering an entry into Egypt, he said.  The company is also planning to hire more Saudi citizens as
part of the kingdom’s efforts to provide work opportunities for
its citizens, Al-Agil said.  King Abdullah  pledged more than $500
billion on social welfare and to build projects to counter
unemployment -- about a quarter of Saudis between 20 and 30 are
unemployed -- and to build schools and hospitals.  “We have provided jobs for over 2,600 employees, 35
percent of them are Saudis,” Al-Agil said. “This is a high
percentage in the retail business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  