-- Jordan Takes Chemical-Weapon Precautions Along Syrian Border
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-01-16T08:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/jordan-takes-chemical-weapon-precautions-along-syrian-border.html
Jordan  has taken precautions along
its border against the possibility that Syrian authorities may
use chemical weapons in their fight against rebel groups,
Jordan’s Prime Minister Abdullah Ensour said.  “Of course we have to be worried,” Ensour said in an
interview today at his office in the Jordanian capital Amman.
“We cannot take for granted the assertions that Syrian
officials are making,” he said, referring to Syrian pledges not
to use such weapons to crush the insurgency against President
Bashar al-Assad.  Ensour said the measures include provisions for medical
aid, without giving further details. He said they “could
lessen the casualties but they would not safeguard the whole
society.” Asked whether the U.S., an ally and financial
supporter of Jordan, had helped with the preparations, Ensour
said that America and other “friendly governments” carried out
a training exercise a few months ago that was “wholly
technical” and had nothing to do with warfare.  Jordan, a mostly Sunni Muslim monarchy, is one of the main
destinations along with Lebanon and  Turkey  for refugees fleeing
the Syrian civil war that began in March 2011. Like allies
including the U.S. and Sunni Arab nations such as  Saudi Arabia ,
Jordan has recognized the main Syrian opposition that’s fighting
to oust Assad, whose core support is among Syrians from the
Alawite community affiliated to Shiite Islam.  Ensour said there are 293,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan,
including 63,000 staying in camps.  Price Protests  The premier said he expects growth in Jordan’s economy to
exceed 4 percent. The government’s decision to remove fuel
subsidies in November sparked demonstrations against rising
prices, the latest in a sporadic series of protests in Jordan
since the start of the wave of Arab unrest two years ago. Jordan
is due to hold parliamentary elections on Jan. 23.  Jordan is preparing to sell Eurobonds early this year,
Ensour said, without giving details. The government plans to
increase capital expenditure this year by 76 percent this year,
including projects to combat unemployment and poverty, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  