-- Kenny Says Ireland Is Winning Back Investors’ Confidence
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-16T10:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/kenny-says-ireland-is-winning-back-investors-confidence.html
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said
Ireland has begun to win back bond investors after cutting the
 budget deficit  and maintaining economic growth, boosting his
government’s goal to exit its financial-aid program this year.  “Internationally, investors are showing a new confidence
in Ireland,” Kenny told the European Parliament today in
Strasbourg, France. “The result has been seen in lower yields
on Irish  government bonds .”  Ireland, which took over the 27-nation European Union’s
rotating six-month presidency on Jan. 1, wants to be a symbol of
economic recovery after following Greece in 2010 in needing a
financial rescue from the euro area and the  International
Monetary Fund . Since then, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus have also
sought international bailouts.  The Irish economy probably grew for the second consecutive
year in 2012, while the government in Dublin narrowed the budget
deficit to almost 8 percent of gross domestic product last year
from more than 13 percent of GDP in 2011, according to the
European Commission.  “We are bringing  government spending  under control,”
Kenny said. “We are determined to exit the EU-IMF program
before the end of this year.”  Last year, as Greece’s economic collapse forced the
government in Athens into a second rescue, doubts rose about
Portugal’s ability to stick to deficit-cutting targets,
speculation grew about a possible Spanish request for further
aid and negotiations bogged down over the Cypriot bailout,
European leaders held out Ireland as a model for recovery.  Jose Barroso , president of the European Commission, the
EU’s executive arm, painted that image again today.  “The Irish people have had to make great sacrifices to
ensure the recovery of the country,” Barroso said in a speech
to the EU Parliament after Kenny’s remarks. “The Irish case
shows that, provided there is the political will to accompany
the sacrifices, programs can and do work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  