-- Kentucky Sues Sullivan University System Over Job Numbers
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-16T18:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/kentucky-sues-sullivan-university-system-over-job-numbers.html
Spencerian College, a unit of the
for-profit Sullivan University System Inc., was sued by  Kentucky 
for allegedly misrepresenting job placement rates, state
Attorney General Jack Conway said.  In its publications and on its website, the school made
statements about the rate at which students could get jobs in
their fields of study that differed from those provided to its
accreditor, the attorney general said today in a statement
announcing the filing of a state court complaint in Louisville.
The complaint was filed yesterday.  “Spencerian College provided students with information
that it knew was false,” Conway said. “The numbers
substantially contradict data that it proved to its
accreditors.”  Closely held Sullivan is based in Louisville. Its
Spencerian College has one campus there and one campus in
Lexington, Kentucky, according to its  website . It offers
programs in allied health science and business administration as
well as medical and technical programs.  Thom Whittinghill, a spokesman for Sullivan, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
allegations.  The attorney general said he’s seeking a court order
barring the school from “further deceptive trade practices,”
and penalties of $2,000 a violation. The alleged misconduct
began in 2007, Conway said.  Published job placement figures varied by as much as
40 percent from those reported to the Washington-based
Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges & Schools, he said.  The case is Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Sullivan University
System Inc., 13CI00220, Jefferson County Circuit Court, Division
Seven (Louisville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  