-- Knicks London Sellout Is NBA Record as Division Lead Lures Fans
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/knicks-london-sellout-is-nba-record-as-division-lead-lures-fans.html
The  New York Knicks  are bringing a
reason for optimism to their fans in London.  The team, powered by forward Carmelo Anthony to a division-
leading 24-13 record, meets the Detroit Pistons tomorrow at the
O2 Arena in the U.K. capital. Fans bought all the tickets within
four days, the fastest sellout for the  National Basketball
Association  in seven games in London, said Ben Morel, who
oversees the league’s business in Europe.  Todd Rothman remembers the good times of 1994, when center
 Patrick Ewing  led the Knicks to the NBA finals, and the  New York
Rangers  won the National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup. The
Manhattan native moved to London three years ago with JPMorgan
Chase & Co., where he’s an  executive director  in the leveraged
finance business. With the Knicks off to their best start in 12
seasons, expatriates and locals in London are starting to think
about the playoffs again.  “Nothing beats ’94, with the Knicks and Rangers in the
finals for a couple straight weeks,” said the 35-year-old
graduate of Binghamton University in central New York. “The
Ewing era is definitely my favorite. There have been some lean
years since then. But it’s exciting to see them back on top and
playing some exciting hoops again.”  The Knicks arrived in England yesterday with a two-game
Atlantic Division lead over the Brooklyn Nets. Detroit, which is
the home team, is nine games behind the  Indiana Pacers  in the
Central Division.  Tomorrow’s game at 3 p.m. eastern will be the 16th 
regular-season NBA contest outside the U.S. or Canada, 
and Commissioner  David Stern  said this month there may be 
league franchises in Europe within the next two decades.  International Games  The NBA has held international exhibition games since 1988
including contests in Turkey, Italy, Germany and China in the
2012 preseason. The 15 previous regular-season games were played
in Japan, Mexico and the U.K.  “The opportunities for growth outside the U.S. are
phenomenal,” Morel said in an interview. “Basketball is a
truly global sport, and an Olympic sport that everyone can
relate to.”  Liam Smith, a Knicks’ fan from Islip, New York, now living
in London, said Americans get excited to see U.S. sports in
person even with ESPN and  Sky Sports  offering live broadcasts of
NBA and National Football League games.  “It’s just the luck of the draw that this year the Knicks
are going to play over here but even if it was two teams that I
wasn’t too enthusiastic with I’d probably still go,” said the
28-year-old, who works in business-development and sales for CME
Group, focusing on  hedge funds  and asset managers.  Smith said local fans are learning the ins and outs of
American sports, and he expects to see shirts supporting many
different players and franchises, such as  Michael Jordan  and the
 Washington Wizards .  Marbury Jerseys?  “You see the most random jerseys,” he said. “I don’t
even know where they can buy these jerseys. I’ll probably see
somebody who has a Stephon Marbury Knicks jersey. It’s not like
they were good when he was on there. It was brutal.”  Marbury last played for the Knicks in the 2007-08 season,
when they finished 23-59, last in the division.  Smith may be the guy wearing the Larry Johnson jersey, to
honor the retired Knicks’ forward.  “That would be my guy,” he said. “If I can fit into it.
The last couple of years, I don’t know. It’s been awhile and
it’s getting tougher and tougher to put on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  