-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Should Ease Policy More to Spur Hiring
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-01-16T17:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/kocherlakota-says-fed-should-ease-policy-further-to-spur-hiring.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the Fed should do more to
spur economic growth and hiring by pledging to hold the main
interest rate near zero until unemployment falls to 5.5 percent.  “ Monetary policy  is currently not accommodative enough,”
Kocherlakota  said  today in Eden Prairie,  Minnesota , delivering a
text he gave yesterday. “Historical evidence suggests that, as
long as the  unemployment rate  remains above 5.5 percent, the
medium-term inflation outlook will stay close to 2 percent.”  The Fed can increase stimulus by cutting the jobless-rate
threshold to 5.5 percent from 6.5 percent, Kocherlakota said.
Growth will be “moderate” and inflation will probably be below
the Fed’s 2 percent target for the next two years under current
policy, he said. Unemployment will likely remain above 7
percent, he said.  Policy makers are turning to communication policies to
combat unemployment, which was 7.8 percent in December. The
Fed’s Open Market Committee said last month it will keep rates
near zero as long as the jobless rate is above 6.5 percent and
inflation is forecast to be 2.5 percent or less. They said
previously that rates would stay low until at least mid-2015.  Interest rates  would remain low even after the Fed slows or
halts its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases because it will
continue holding those securities, Kocherlakota said in response
to questions at an event sponsored by Score, a nonprofit
organization that advises small-business owners.  ‘Downward Pressure’  “We could stop buying and we would still be putting
downward pressure on interest rates because we are still holding
such a large stock of assets,” Kocherlakota said. “It’s really
being driven by the stock that we hold, not by the flow.”  When investors begin to anticipate that the Fed will begin
selling assets it will push interest rates higher, “but
obviously the rapidity of that increase would be shaped by how
rapidly we would sell off,” Kocherlakota said. “And we would
do it in a responsible, sensible fashion that will not lead to
those effects.”  The FOMC last month decided to add $45 billion in monthly
purchases of U.S. Treasury notes to its program buying $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month. The policy-
setting panel set no limit on the size or duration of the bond
purchases.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note headed for
its eighth retreat in the past nine sessions, dropping 0.01
percentage point to 1.82 percent at 11:45 a.m. in  New York . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,472.26.  Kocherlakota, 49, said in the text of his speech that gross
domestic product probably will expand by about 2.5 percent this
year and 3 percent in 2014. Inflation as measured by the
personal consumption expenditures index will probably be 1.6
percent this year and 1.9 percent next year, below the Fed’s 2
percent goal, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Eden Prairie , Minnesota at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  