-- N.J. Urges Post-Sandy Investment in Shore Towns on State Backing
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-01-16T18:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/n-j-urges-post-sandy-investment-in-shore-towns-on-state-backing.html
New Jersey  is urging investors to
buy debt of municipalities hardest-hit by  Hurricane Sandy ,
saying they remain a “sound investment option” because of
strong state oversight.  As many as 15 towns may lose 10 percent or more of their
tax base, and another 10 could see a 5 percent to 10 percent
decline, the state’s Local Government Services division said in
a finance  notice . Even so, it said those losses are mostly
temporary as New Jersey rebuilds from the Oct. 29 storm that
left parts of the coast uninhabitable and without power.  Because of New Jersey’s regulation of local budget and debt
policies, every general-obligation issuer has made its payments
for more than 80 years and not one has filed for Chapter 9
bankruptcy protection, the division said.  “The state can and does use its authority to ensure that
all debt obligations are paid timely and in accordance with
their terms, even in times of financial crisis,” Richard Constable, commissioner of the Community Affairs Department,
which oversees the muni division, said in a  statement . “This
makes New Jersey local government debt a stable investment, as
it has been for nearly a century.”  The biggest Atlantic storm on record cost New Jersey an
estimated $36.9 billion after sweeping ashore, killing 38 people
in the state and blacking out 2.7 million. While states and
localities expect the federal government to reimburse at least
75 percent of their response and cleanup expenses, some towns
are borrowing to cover bills before those payments arrive.  The division encouraged all local government officials
seeking to sell debt to share the notice “to obtain the best
possible  interest rates .”  “The state is committed to assuring timely and full local-
government debt repayments,” Constable said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  