-- New Purpose of Government Is Better Government
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-01-16T23:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/new-purpose-of-government-is-better-government.html
For all the bitterness in  Washington 
these days, it’s easy to miss the broad consensus that
undergirds our contentious politics. Republicans swear to
protect Medicare and Social Security, and most recognize they
can no longer hope to repeal  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act.
Democrats voted to make the George W. Bush tax rates permanent
for almost all Americans.  This is not a stable peace. The Democrats have mostly won
the debate over what the government should do, while the
Republicans have mostly won the debate over how much the
government should tax. Sadly, the two sides of that equation
don’t come anywhere near to adding up. The war currently raging
from cliff to cliff is about bringing taxation and commitments
closer to alignment.  Still, it seems probable that the conflict will,
eventually, resolve largely in the Democrats’ favor.  Paul Ryan ’s
budget and  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign both proved the
difficulty Republicans have in advocating fewer government
benefits. For all the sound, fury and impassioned promises of
huge  deficit  reduction, in the end both Republican leaders swore
that everyone would get their benefits. The savings, we were
told, would come from painless mechanisms such as competition or
more flexibility for the states. It is difficult to imagine such
rhetoric uprooting treasured programs -- all the more so after
the Republicans lost the election.  Democrats aren’t much better on taxes, but they don’t need
to be. Historically, it is much easier to raise taxes by a half
percentage point of gross domestic product than to kick tens of
millions off public health insurance.  Next Battleground  As Slate columnist Matthew Yglesias  has written , we are
experiencing an epochal change in our politics, which he calls
the “end of big government liberalism.” The progressive project
of building a decent welfare state is giving way to the more
technocratic work of financing and managing it. How government
is run, more than what exactly it does, seems set to be the main
battleground of American politics in coming years.  Recently, that debate has been dominated by budget
politics. It won’t always be. If the basic services provided by
the federal government are unlikely to change significantly in
coming years, their delivery and design promise to be more
contested turfs. The Republican dream of transitioning Medicare
to a “premium support” voucher system is one example of the new
battleground. The Democratic desire to add a public option to
Obamacare is another.  Some of the best thinking on these issues is being done at
Washington’s New America Foundation, which has produced three
recent papers that deserve attention. In “ Kludgeocracy : The
American Way of Policy,” Steven Teles, a political scientist at
 Johns Hopkins University , takes aim at the political system’s
tendency to address problems with “the most gerry-rigged, opaque
and complicated response.” Think clunky Obamacare versus
streamlined single-payer health care, or government’s tendency
to deliver benefits via the  tax code , through deductions,
credits and exclusions, rather than by direct payments.  Our drift toward kludgeocracy has many causes, Teles
argues. They range from the irresolvable tension between the
public’s desire for a small, inexpensive government and
generous, expansive public services, to the realization by
special interests that they can commandeer more of the public
purse through programs that are too opaque for the public to
notice and too complex for even members of Congress to
understand. The result is an inefficient state that citizens
find unaccountable, expensive, untrustworthy and impervious to
reform efforts.  Policy Dilemma  The paper “ No Discount : Comparing the Public Option to the
Coupon Welfare State,” by Roosevelt Institute fellow Mike
Konczal, is a useful companion to Teles’ tale of kludgeocracy.
While Teles surveys a broad trend in governance, Konczal drills
deep into a single policy dilemma that we confront repeatedly:
Whether to provision public services directly, through
government-run programs, or to use government as “a giant coupon
machine, whose primary responsibility is passing out coupons to
discount and subsidize private education, health-care, old-age
pensions and a wide variety of other primary goods.”  In recent years, the “coupon machine” theory of American
governance -- exemplified by vouchers and tax subsidies -- has
been ascendant. That’s how most of Obamacare works. It’s also
the foundation of Republican efforts to reform Medicare and
education.  As Konczal argues, “The advantages associated with vouchers
are ones of choice, efficiency, competition, budget control and
incentive management.” But there are disadvantages, too. For
instance, because a privatized welfare state is more opaque and
complex than a public one, it creates “new coalitions of
business interests, providers, middlemen” who profit from it.
The result is not only less democratic control and
accountability, but also less efficiency. Understanding when to
choose a direct public provision and when to opt for coupons is
a crucial task. Konczal’s paper provides an excellent basis for
devising a general theory.  The third paper is “Congress’  Wicked Problem : Seeking
Knowledge Inside the Information Tsunami.” Author Lorelei Kelly
argues that “Congress is not so much venal and corrupt as it is
incapacitated and obsolete.” Kelly’s argument -- that Congress
simply lacks the informational and staff resources to make wise
judgments on a vast range of issues -- is convincing. In the
absence of staff members to whom members of Congress can
confidently turn for expert advice, they end up seeking, and
following, the advice of party organizations, lobbyists and
other special interests.  Better Resources  To build a better government, Kelly suggests, we first need
a better Congress. Yet Congress is trapped in a negative
feedback loop in which congressional failure leads to public
dissatisfaction, which leads to smaller congressional budgets
and a diminished talent pool of staff members (and maybe
representatives, too) seeking positions in the Capitol. That
leads, in turn, to an even worse Congress, producing still more
dissatisfaction. Arguably, the most cost-effective investment we
could make in government would be spending more on congressional
staff and institutional resources such as the  Congressional
Research Service , enabling Congress to make smarter decisions
that cost less.  The broad lesson of all three papers is that the complexity
of the problems government faces, and of the solutions it
devises, is a growing problem. So while the debate over the size
of the welfare state is mostly concluded, the debate over its
increasing sprawl is more necessary than ever. If we’re going to
do so much -- and we are -- we should learn to do it well. At
the very least, we should have confidence that the people in
charge of governing have the resources to understand their
options, and to justify their actions.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
 Ezra Klein  in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 