-- Nissan to Use U.S. Battery Plant for Hybrid Vehicles
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-01-16T00:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/nissan-to-use-u-s-battery-plant-for-hybrid-vehicles.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  plans to better
utilize a  Tennessee  battery plant making components for the
slow-selling Leaf electric car by having it also supply parts
for the company’s hybrid vehicles, an executive said.  The Smyrna, Tennessee, factory, funded with a $1.4 billion
Energy Department loan, opened late last year to make Leaf’s
lithium-ion batteries, motors and other components. U.S. sales
of the rechargeable car have missed Nissan’s target for the past
two years, staying below 10,000 units. The factory, next to
Nissan’s largest U.S. auto-assembly plant, was intended to
eventually supply packs and parts for 200,000 vehicles annually.  “It’s a damned expensive plant, so we want to use it as
much as possible,”  Andy Palmer , Nissan’s executive vice
president, said in an interview in Detroit yesterday. “You’ll
start to see front-wheel drive hybridized vehicles coming in the
next one to two years.”  The push by Nissan,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and other carmakers
to spur a big market for rechargeable vehicles has been hampered
by the higher costs of such models and, in the case of the
battery-only Leaf, the need for more public chargers. Nissan
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said this week at the North
American International Auto Show his ambitious sales goal for
Leaf reflected “passion” for the product, not “arrogance.”  Leaf sales in the U.S. rose 1.5 percent last year to 9,819,
less than half of Ghosn’s 20,000-unit target. He previously
estimated electric vehicles would account for at least 10
percent of global auto sales by 2020, a view not shared by other
large carmakers.  U.S. Loans  The loans to Nissan,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and
Fisker Automotive Inc. in 2009 from the Energy Department’s
Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing program, were intended
to increase production of more fuel-efficient cars and trucks in
the U.S.  Nissan was awarded $1.6 billion in loans, and eventually
used only $1.4 billion for its Tennessee project. The Yokohama,
Japan-based company was second only to Ford, which got a $5.9
billion loan. Nissan has emphasized the fact that Smyrna would
make parts for all-electric cars.  William Gibbons, an Energy Department spokesman, said the
agency doesn’t comment on specific loan agreement provisions.  Nissan, the world’s top seller of electric cars, this week
cut the U.S. base price of Leaf to $28,800 with the new S grade
of the hatchback, $6,000 below the previous entry level model.
Prices were also lowered for SV and SL grade Leafs. Production
of the car, which qualifies for a $7,500 federal tax credit,
began in Tennessee this month.  ‘The Vanguard’  Batteries and parts made in Smyrna are to be used in the
electric Nissan NV200 model, a small commercial vehicle,
starting this year, and for the Infiniti LE electric sedan that
goes into production in 2014, Palmer said.  Hybrid versions of the Pathfinder crossover and Altima
midsize sedan, also built at the Smyrna vehicle-assembly plant,
are “in the vanguard” of being supplied by the battery
factory, he said. The company hasn’t yet announced production
plans for those projects, Palmer said.  Ghosn said this week in  Detroit  that global Leaf sales will
grow in 2013, aided by the lower prices.  “You can expect them to be up,” Ghosn told reporters Jan.
14 in Detroit. “It would be fair to say” that Leaf should post
at least a 20 percent increase, he said.  Nissan’s U.S. headquarters are in Franklin, Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Detroit at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  