-- Nomura U.K. Bank Head and Xstrata Adviser Barter Leaves
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-16T16:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/nomura-u-k-bank-head-and-xstrata-adviser-barter-leaves.html
William Barter, the head of U.K.
investment banking at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  who worked on 2012’s
biggest takeover, has left the Japanese firm after a
reorganization of the investment bank,  according  to the
Financial Services Authority register.  Barter, who was named head of U.K. investment banking at
Nomura in November 2009 after joining from Citigroup Inc., spent
his last day at the firm on Dec. 31, according to the FSA
register. Now 46, he worked on a team advising  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  on
its purchase by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  for $33 billion,
creating the world’s fourth-biggest mining company in the
biggest deal last year.  Nomura is scaling back its overseas ambitions after buying
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian operations in
2008 -- a purchase intended to underpin a global investment
bank. Since then, the Japanese brokerage has seen the exodus of
former Lehman bankers amid losses posted by Nomura’s foreign
operations.  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai has promised to cut $1
billion in costs, almost half of which will come from Europe and
the  Middle East . Last year, Nomura named Adrian Fisk to be head
of M&A in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, as well as of U.K.
investment banking as part of the reorganization.  A Nomura spokeswoman declined to comment.  Piero Novelli, former global co-head of mergers and
acquisitions, left Nomura late last year and is rejoining  UBS AG (UBSN) 
as chairman of global M&A, Switzerland’s biggest bank announced
in an internal memo earlier this week.  Shares of Nomura fell 2.8 percent to 480 yen in  Tokyo 
today. The stock has gained 80 percent in the last six months,
valuing the company at 1.83 trillion yen ($21 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  