-- North Korea’s Bid to Reopen Embassy Welcomed by Australia
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-16T04:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/north-korea-bid-to-reopen-canberra-embassy-welcomed-by-australia.html
Australian Foreign Minister Bob Carr
welcomed  North Korea ’s bid to reopen its embassy in Canberra,
saying the move would allow for talks on human rights abuses in
the Asian nation.  “It would enable us to express our deep concerns about
what we see as a catastrophic position on human rights,” Carr
said in an e-mailed statement.  Australia  received a request for
re-opening the embassy and a time-frame for doing so hasn’t been
determined, his ministry said.  The diplomatic overture comes as North Korean leader Kim Jong Un seeks to improve an economy battered by international
sanctions imposed over his regime’s nuclear weapons program and
ballistic missile tests. Australia suspended development aid to
the totalitarian state in 2002 and trade is “negligible,”
according to the Department of  Foreign Affairs  and Trade.  North Korea closed its embassy in Canberra in 2008 for
financial reasons, while Australia’s ambassador to  South Korea 
is also accredited to the North. The country has about 50
embassies, consulates or missions in  Asia , Europe,  Africa  and
North and South America, according to South Korea’s Foreign
Ministry.  “The world should be open to any overtures from North
Korea but it should be cautious,” said Bruce Jacobs, professor
of Asian languages and studies at Melbourne’s  Monash University .
“Expectations shouldn’t be too high due to North Korea’s track
record of breaking promises.”  Gulags, Camps  Carr said today North Korean gulags and concentration camps
have an estimated 200,000 political prisoners “in conditions
dominated by starvation and execution,” echoing United Nations
figures. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay this
week called for an independent inquiry into North Korean abuses.  North Korea has an economy about one-fortieth the size of
South Korea’s. Kim said in a New Year speech that improving the
economy and better relations with South Korea were top policy
goals for his second year as leader.  The previous embassy in the Canberra suburb of O’Malley
wasn’t a permanent diplomatic site with a lease under the
Commonwealth. It was a commercial property that will only be
available if the owner agrees to rent again, according to Gary
Rake, the chief executive of the National Capital Authority,
which oversees the placing of embassies.  The authority is yet to receive an application to open a
new embassy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  