-- Norway Sees Deeper European Job Pain as Default Fears Recede
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-01-16T08:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/norway-sees-deeper-european-job-pain-as-default-fears-recede-1-.html
Norway ’s Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said Europe’s success in calming debt markets
doesn’t alter the fact that the continent is sinking into a
deepening labor market crisis.  While Europe’s leaders have persuaded bond investors
they’re unlikely to suffer defaults, the region now faces
deteriorating economic prospects, Stoltenberg said in an
interview in Oslo yesterday.  Norway is “very glad for the efforts being made by the
European Union and the European governments to manage the acute
financial crisis they faced,” Stoltenberg said. “But the
fundamental problems are still there: they have low economic
growth and high unemployment, and unemployment is still
increasing, and that’s a big economic problem and a big social
problem.”  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area reached a record
11.8 percent in November, with  Spain  topping the jobless
rankings at 26.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics office
said on Jan. 8. The region’s economy contracted in the second
and third quarters of last year, while German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned Dec. 31 that the economic environment this year
will be even more difficult than it was in 2012.  Contracting Economy  The euro area will contract 0.1 percent in 2013, the
Washington-based  World Bank  projected yesterday, cutting its
previous prediction for 0.7 percent growth. The single currency
bloc probably shrank 0.4 percent in 2012, it said.  Still, yields on bonds sold by some of Europe’s most
indebted nations have eased since European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged in July to do whatever it takes
to protect the euro.  “When market pressure is receding, as right now, the risk
of complacency is quite large,”  Moritz Kraemer , managing
director of  Standard & Poor’s , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Mark Barton  today.  The yield on Spain’s 5.85 percent bond due January 2022
eased to 5 percent yesterday, from as high as 7.6 percent before
Draghi’s comments last year. The yield on  Italy ’s 5.5 percent
bond due November 2022 traded at about 4.2 percent yesterday,
compared with almost 6 percent in August.  Spain’s 10-year yield traded about two basis points higher
today at 5.03 percent, while Italy’s similar-maturity bond yield
gained three basis points to about 4.24 percent. The yield on
Norway’s benchmark 10-year bond eased two basis points to 2.36
percent as of 9:54 a.m. in Oslo.  “The character of the financial crisis has changed from a
crisis in the financial markets risking bank defaults and
sovereign defaults to problems in the labor market and high
unemployment,” Stoltenberg said.  Outside EU  Norway, which like  Switzerland  isn’t a member of the
European Union, has managed to steer clear of the region’s
crisis thanks to its $700 billion sovereign wealth fund. Norway
boasts the biggest budget surplus of any AAA nation and credit
default swaps suggest it’s the world’s safest credit.
Unemployment in western  Europe ’s largest oil exporter was 2.4
percent in December, according to non-seasonally adjusted
figures provided by the Labor Ministry.  Norway’s wealth fund, which absorbs much of the country’s
oil and gas income to avoid overheating the domestic economy, is
shifting investment away from Europe to capture more global
growth. The fund increased its holdings of debt denominated in
emerging market currencies to 8 percent of its fixed-income
portfolio in the third quarter, from 1.5 percent at the end of
last year, it said Nov. 2.  Bond Returns  Still, investors who bought bonds sold by the euro area’s
most indebted nations reaped the highest returns last year,
according to Bloomberg/EFFAS Indexes. So far this year, Italian,
Spanish and Irish bonds are the best performers of the 144 bond
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Europe’s efforts to end its crisis
have stabilized debt markets, Stoltenberg said.  “Hopefully we have seen the worst and the danger of states
not being able to pay their interest on public debt, or
sovereign risk, is very much reduced,” he said.  To contact the reports responsible for this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  