-- NYC School Bus Drivers Strike Over Job Security Issue
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-16T21:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/nyc-school-bus-drivers-to-strike-over-job-security-issue.html
New York  school bus drivers and
matrons went on strike for the first time in 34 years, forcing
tens of thousands of the city’s 1.35 million public and
parochial students to find other ways to get to class.  The largest U.S. school system offered free MetroCards to
pay subway and bus fares for affected students as well as for
parents of preschoolers and those with special needs. Parents
also will be reimbursed if they need to drive or hire a car,
officials said. Most New York students walk or use mass transit
to get to class.  About 39 percent, or 3,000, of the city’s 7,700 yellow
school bus routes remained covered by operators whose drivers
and matrons aren’t represented by Local 1181 of the  Amalgamated
Transit Union , which called the strike, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
said. Officials said they couldn’t provide a precise of number
of students affected. About 152,000 public and private school
students receive bus service.  “The union is striking against our children,” Schools
Chancellor Schools Chancellor Dennis Walcott said today in an
interview on Fox 5 television. “It’s going to be traumatic.”  The drivers and matrons, who are employed by companies,
stopped working to protest the city’s refusal to guarantee jobs
based on seniority as it seeks bids on new contracts for 1,100
routes serving 22,500 special-needs children. Matrons are women
who escort students from buses to schools.  The current agreements expire June 30. About 54,000 of the
students affected by the walkout are disabled, while 41,000
attend parochial schools.  ‘Chaotic’ Scene  Winnie da Silva, 42, a self-employed business consultant,
said she had no problem taking the subway with her daughters 30
blocks from their home in Harlem to P.S. 166, their elementary
school at 89th Street near Columbus Avenue.  “We made our subway connections right away, and it went
smoothly,” she said in an interview. “Tomorrow it will be more
difficult because my husband and I each have early morning
meetings, so we will drop the kids off early with a friend who
will walk them to school.”  Melody Woolford, 38, an executive with a nonprofit who
lives on the Upper West Side, said her 6-year-old son made it to
his first-grade class at Hunter College Elementary School with
help from a neighbor whose child attends the same school.  ‘Really Tough’  “The rainy day added a little more drama,” she said in an
e-mail. “It’s really tough for those parents who have demanding
or nonflexible jobs. I hope it gets resolved soon.”  In the morning, picketers supporting the strike blocked
gates at four garages to prevent buses operated by nonunion
drivers from leaving, Bloomberg said at a City Hall news
conference. Police were called to stop the tactics without
making arrests, the mayor said.  Union attorney Richard Gilberg and its spokeswoman, Maggie
McKeon, didn’t answer e-mailed requests for comment about the
incident.  New York’s busing costs have skyrocketed to $1.1 billion a
year from $100 million in 1979, with the city spending an
average of $6,900 per bused child, more than any district in the
country, Bloomberg said at a news briefing.  Drivers earn about $14 an hour, rising to $29 an hour after
six years, and average about $38,000 a year, said Michael
Cordiello, president of Local 1181. Changes in school locations
and rules have increased the number of routes to about 7,700
from 2,000 in 1979, he said.  Court Decision  Bloomberg has cited a 2011 decision by the Court of
Appeals, the state’s highest tribunal, that he said prohibits
the city from offering  job security  to bus drivers who aren’t
city employees. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “The union wants us to guarantee that anybody that comes
in and gets those contracts gives them the same jobs at the same
salary with the same seniority,” Bloomberg said on Fox 5 today.
“We’ve had 12 different judges rule that is illegal. So what
they are asking, we couldn’t do.”  Gilberg, the union’s lawyer, has countered that the high
court limited its decision to circumstances where there was no
evidence that the city could save money or benefit from
retaining experienced drivers. Such job protections have been in
place for almost 50 years, union officials say.  To make its point to the public the union began
broadcasting television and radio ads today. “ Mayor Bloomberg 
wants to scrap the 47-year agreement that’s kept New York City
school bus kids safe, and let for-profit companies hire
inexperienced drivers and bus matrons to take our young and
special-needs kids to school,” one of the commercials says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  