-- Obama Joins the Gun Fight
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-16T18:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/obama-joins-the-gun-fight.html
Is it real this time? President
 Barack Obama ’s  announcement today  that he will support a range
of legislative and executive actions on gun safety will be
dismissed as just one more tilt at the gun lobby windmill, bound
to end in political failure for Obama, and personal tragedy for
countless Americans.  But the White House agenda, and the presidential commitment
behind it, is a genuine milestone on the long, twisted road
toward sensible U.S. gun laws. This time the cynics are wrong.  Will the White House achieve everything it wants? Surely
not. But in acknowledging the “complicated challenge” he has
embraced, Obama also recognizes that the Newtown,  Connecticut ,
massacre has created space for a meaningful discussion on gun
laws.  We realize the House of Representatives has been hostile
terrain for initiatives linked to the president, and that
Republican opposition to gun safety measures will probably be
intense. Meanwhile, the Democrats’ point man in the Senate,
Majority Leader Harry Reid, has courted the gun lobby in the
past and appears at best ambivalent about the president’s plans.  Nevertheless, there is enough substance in the president’s
agenda -- and enough nascent public support for its particulars
-- to make a difference. Congress is a vital arena in the fight
for gun safety; it is not the only one.  Although most of the focus will be on Obama’s proposals to
ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, along with his
call for universal background checks, we believe the president’s
willingness to take executive action is also vital. Not all 23
items on his list may prove productive. But some will.
Especially promising are initiatives to promote gun safety
technology, to improve gun tracing and data collection for the
 federal background check system , and to promote gun violence
research under the auspices of the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  It is impossible to overstate the importance of efficient
records maintenance and scholarly research on gun violence. As
we have written before, the  gun lobby  has successfully
constrained the collection of such information in order to
inhibit public debate. The lobby has reason to be wary of
research, much of which suggests that guns are far more
dangerous to law-abiding owners than many realize. As Obama said
in his remarks today, “We don’t benefit from ignorance.”  Likewise, the current haphazard approach to records -- from
the background checks that are never done to mental health
records that go missing -- ensures maximum chaos while placing
minimal limits on gun purchases. It is an excellent system to
promote gun sales, a very poor one if the aim is to protect
life.  “This will not happen unless the American people demand
it,” Obama said of his push for gun safety. He’s right, of
course. But rallying the people to a cause that is both moral
and pragmatic is the president’s job. He has accepted the
challenge. He knows it will not be easy. He also knows it must
be tried.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 