-- Obamacare Opens Outsourcing Window for Infosys: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-01-17T13:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/obamacare-opens-outsourcing-window-for-infosys-corporate-india.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, is tapping demand from U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s push to overhaul the nation’s health-care system to
include an additional 30 million Americans.  The Bangalore-based company has won four state contracts,
one valued at more than $100 million, and is vying for business
in four more before a 2014 deadline to build online exchanges
that will link customers to insurance plans, said Ashok Vemuri,
the head of the company’s unit in the Americas. Obama plans to
expand medical coverage through the  Affordable Care Act , which
includes setting up marketplaces where consumers can evaluate
and select service providers.  Obama’s demand to build the exchanges and maintain
electronic health records may help Infosys and rivals including
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  counter slowing business from banks and factories.
Spending on health care may exceed that for defense and social
security by 2015, according to Christopher Flavelle, an analyst
at Bloomberg Government. U.S. states governed by Obama’s
 Democratic Party  could lead the change, Vemuri said.  “The U.S. government is cutting defense spending and
increasing health care expenditures, which is of great benefit
to us,” Vemuri said in an interview. Governors of Democratic
states, such as  Illinois , may “take some initiative,” he said.  The exchanges are designed to allow consumers who don’t
have medical coverage from their employers to easily compare
health plans and then buy insurance online and through telephone
services. The marketplace will help the federal government
subsidize the cost for those who can’t afford coverage while
increasing the number of Americans who qualify for health
insurance.  ‘Biggest Challenge’  “The biggest challenge facing the states in 2013 is
 information technology ,” PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a
 report  this month. “Many are overhauling their existing
Medicaid eligibility systems and designing an exchange
infrastructure to create a single, seamless entry point.”  Infosys is following  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) 
and  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , founded by billionaire Shiv Nadar, in
seeking customers in the segment as the  European debt crisis  and
a sputtering economy in the U.S. prompt banks to slow spending
on information technology. The World Bank yesterday cut its
global growth forecast for this year as austerity measures, high
unemployment and low business confidence weigh on economies in
developed nations.  Cognizant earned 25 percent of its revenue from writing
code for drugmakers and state agencies in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, while the industry accounted for 11.9 percent of HCL’s
 revenue  in the three months ended Dec. 31. Banks and finance
companies made up 35 percent of Infosys’ sales in the three
months ended Dec. 31, while health care was 1.5 percent.  Not ‘Fast Enough’  “Infosys just haven’t been fast enough to tap the health-
care industry, which is why their share of revenue is so low,”
said Harit Shah, an analyst with Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang
Institutional Equities. Banking, financial services and
insurance “has become a mature vertical, posting just
incremental growth. The IT firms will fill that void with energy
utilities, retail and, of course, health care contracts,” he
said.  Infosys on Jan. 11 said  net income  was 23.7 billion rupees
($432 million) in the third quarter, little changed from a year
earlier. That surpassed the 22.4 billion-rupee median of 42
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s  shares  surged by a record 17 percent on Jan.
11 after it raised its full-year sales forecast. They gained 1.1
percent to 2,797.95.2 rupees in Mumbai after declining 16
percent last year. The benchmark BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose
26 percent in 2012.  Obama’s Stand  Obama’s stand against outsourcing, promising a ban on tax
breaks for American companies that move jobs overseas, may
prompt states to find software providers based in the U.S. In
2010, former Ohio Governor  Ted Strickland  banned state agencies
from purchasing outsourced services.  After Governor  John Kasich  took office in 2011, he
continued the policy while allowing for a waiver application if
the only way to obtain the services is from outside the U.S.,
Kasich spokesman  Rob Nichols  said in a telephone interview.  “From a policy standpoint, you want a quality product
that’s easy to use,” said Ezekiel Emanuel, a former White House
health-care policy adviser and one of the architects of the
Affordable Care Act. “An issue as important as health care is
no place to get caught up in the politics of outsourcing.”  The president’s rhetoric on outsourcing may not deter
companies seeking to tap insurers and states for business that
Technology Holdings forecasts will expand 9 percent a year to
$15 billion by 2016.  Illinois Exchange  Infosys, started by seven people including Chief Executive
Officer S.D. Shibulal with $250 borrowed from their wives in
1981, is vying with Cognizant,  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and two rivals to
help the state of Illinois, the country’s fifth-biggest, build
an exchange that Governor  Pat Quinn  predicts will serve 1
million people by 2016, spokesman Mike Claffey said in an e-
mail. The marketplace would commence operation in 2015, pending
legislative approval, he said.  States will also need help to run and maintain the
exchanges, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. The marketplaces
may become “self sustaining” only after two to three years,
Infosys  wrote  in a 2010 request for comment from Illinois.  “Health care is absolutely going to be a huge growth area
for Indian outsourcers including Infosys,”  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , said Vivek Subramanyam, managing
director of Mumbai-based Technology Holdings, which advises
companies on mergers & acquisitions. While Infosys trails behind
companies like Cognizant, “the industry is going to have a lot
of money to go around in the near future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  