-- OGX Goes From Worst to First on Output Gains: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-01-16T20:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ogx-goes-from-worst-to-first-on-output-gains-corporate-brazil.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
 Brazil ’s worst-performing stock last year, is posting the best
rally among global peers as the oil producer controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista  boosts output.  OGX, which lost 68 percent in 2012, gained 19 percent this
year before today, the most among 126 stocks in the FTSE All-
World Oil & Gas Producers  Index. (AWOGPU)  The company is also leading
gains on Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa  index , which rose 1.3
percent in the period.  A steady flow of positive news from OGX -- from the startup
of a well on Dec. 31 to a nearby oil discovery -- is showing
investors that Batista can deliver on long-delayed output
promises, said Lucas Brendler, who helps manage about 5 billion
reais ($2.5 billion) at Geracao Futuro Corretora. OGX, which
Batista vowed would end 2012 with daily output of at least
40,000 barrels, is producing about a quarter of that.  “These are points in OGX’s favor after opening a gap with
investors by not reaching the proposed targets,” Brendler said
by telephone from Porto Alegre, Brazil. “It’s starting to show
signs that the recovery of investors’ confidence can be
something closer to reality.”  Delays last year triggered a stock selloff that wiped out
10.8 billion reais in the oil startup’s market value in one
month. OGX declined to comment on its stock performance in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Last year, OGX had initial output of more than 15,000
barrels a day at its first well before production slid, then
stabilized at about 10,000 combined barrels at the first two
wells.  Output Disappointments  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX’s 2012 output disappointment
coincided with lower-than-expected results at state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s biggest producer in deep waters.
Petrobras, as the producer is known, has been unable to tap so-
called pre-salt fields fast enough to compensate for declining
output in the Campos Basin, where OGX’s main deposits are
located. Petrobras’s output fell last year for the first time
since 2007 and the government delayed an auction for offshore
licenses, the first in six years, until May.  OGX  said  Jan. 4 that it started output at a third well at
Tubarao Azul, its first field in Campos, without disclosing
potential productivity targets. Speculation output will be
better than expected this year is encouraging investors to buy
the stock, said Rogerio Freitas, who helps manage about $50
million including OGX shares at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos.  “If the well has good production numbers, the share price
will rise,” he said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janiero, adding that he bought OGX shares late last year. “We
like it at 4.50 reais; it makes sense for us. When it was at
these levels we increased our position.”  January Output  The stock  closed  little changed at 5.20 reais in Sao Paulo.
Petrobras, Brazil’s largest oil producer, gained 0.1 percent.
 QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3) , another private oil explorer based in
Rio,  also  was little changed.  OGX said in a statement yesterday that production at its
third well is overcoming adjustments before being stabilized.
The company plans to release the average production for January
early next month, it said.  The company, which started oil production in January 2012,
this year is expected to post its first earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization since its
founding in 2007. Ebitda in 2013 is forecast to be 572.2 million
reais, compared with an estimated loss of 675.6 million reais
last year, according to the median of six analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg in the past four weeks.  Analysts Ratings  Of 18 analysts who rate OGX, 13 recommend buying the stock
and two say sell, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras said Jan. 9 it found high quality oil in the
Espirito Santo basin near four of OGX’s exploration blocks,
prompting speculation that OGX will make similar discoveries.
QGEP, OGX’s partner at the Atlanta and Oliva fields in the
Santos Basin, also said Jan. 11 that production may start
earlier than expected in late 2014. The news helped justify
OGX’s purchase of a 40 percent stake in the concession last year
that was initially criticized by investors, Geracao’s Brendler
said.  Still, OGX’s rebound is most likely due to the fact that it
fell so much last year, said  Arthur Byrnes , who manages almost
$1 billion at Deltec Asset Management LLC in New York. The stock
is benefiting from stronger oil prices as well as investors who
may have sold Petrobras after recent disappointments, he said.  ‘Bouncing’  “A lot of times worst performers become good performers
early the next year,” Byrnes said, adding that he holds OGX
bonds after selling his stock when the oil producer restated
targets. “I wouldn’t necessarily say that something great is
happening in OGX other than bouncing from the bottom.”  Investors are waiting for OGX to release data in early
February on how the third well performs during its first month
of production, Teorica’s Freitas said. Last year, OGX reported
initial output of more than 15,000 barrels a day at its first
well. Production then declined and stabilized at about 5,000
barrels at each of the first two wells, causing the stock to
drop more than 40 percent in two days in June.  “With good production numbers, new fields coming on line,
increasing volumes, it will go to 7 reais and not 5,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  