-- Bronson Trust, Filmmakers Sue Studios for Royalties
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/hollywood-studios-sued-over-royalties-from-home-video-sales.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s  Sony Pictures
Entertainment  and three other Hollywood studios were sued by
filmmakers and the estate of the late actor Charles Bronson over
claims they underpaid royalties on home video sales.  Larry Martindale, the trustee of the Bronson Survivors’
Trust, said in a complaint filed yesterday in California state
court in  Los Angeles  that Sony Pictures calculates the share of
its profit from home videos it pays the trust based on only 20
percent of its revenue from home video sales rather than the
full 100 percent.  The Bronson trustee accuses the studio of breach of
contract and seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages. He also seeks to represent other so-called profit
participants nationwide in a class-action lawsuit.  When home video distribution started, the studios used
independent distributors that paid the studios a 20 percent
royalty from their sales from which profit participants were
paid, according to the Bronson trustee’s complaint. The studios
have since set up their own in-house home video distribution
operations, according to the complaint.  “After the studios established their own home video
divisions, they continued the practice of only reporting 20
percent of actual receipts to profit participants, as if the
profits earned by these divisions were not their own and not
subject to eventual disbursement to the profit participants as
well,” the trust said.  Bronson, who died in 2003, starred in movies including
“The Dirty Dozen,” “Death Wish” and “The Magnificent
Seven.”  ‘Foul Play’  Similar complaints were filed today by Colin Higgins
Productions Ltd., the business entity of the late “Best Little
Whorehouse in Texas” and “Foul Play” writer and director
Colin Higgins, against  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures  and
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Studios .  “Singin’ in the Rain” and “Funny Face” director Stanley
Donen filed a lawsuit against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox. His 1974 profit participation contract with Fox for “Lucky
Lady” provides that he should get 5 percent of the “adjusted
gross receipts” of the movie after the break-even point based
on 100 percent of the gross receipts, according to Donen’s
complaint.  Erica Netzley, a Sony Pictures spokeswoman, said in an  
e-mailed statement, ``We have not been served and do not have 
any comment at this time.''  Kori Bernards, a spokeswoman for Universal, and Paramount
spokesman Robert Lawson declined to comment on the lawsuits.
 Chris Petrikin , a Twentieth Century Fox spokesman, also  
declined to comment.                       The cases are Colin Higgins Productions v. Paramount
Pictures, BC499179; Colin Higgins Productions v. Universal City
Studios, 499180; Stanley Donen Films v. Twentieth Century Fox,
BC499181; Martindale v. Sony Pictures Entertainment, BC499182,
Los Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 