-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Held in January at Six-Year High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-held-in-january-at-six-year-high.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
held in January at the highest level in more than six years,
offering the latest evidence that residential real estate will
help spur economic growth.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence was 47, matching December’s reading as the
highest since April 2006, the Washington-based group reported
today. The median forecast of 50 economists projected a reading
of 48.  Stronger sales and affordable borrowing costs are driving
traffic for lenders such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Climbing property
values and household formation may continue to underpin progress
in returning residential real estate to pre-recession levels.  “Fundamentals indicate continued momentum in housing this
year,” NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe  said in a statement.
“However, persistently tight mortgage credit conditions,
difficulties in obtaining accurate appraisals and the ongoing
stalemate in  Washington  over critical economic concerns continue
to impede the housing recovery.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 46 to 50. The
index, first published in January 1985, averaged 54 in the five
years leading to the recession that began in December 2007. It
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009.  The builders group’s index of present single-family home
sales held at 51 in January. A measure of sales expectations for
the next six months fell to 49 from 50. A gauge of buyer traffic
climbed to 37, the highest since April 2006, from 36.  Survey Methodology  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants about the outlook for
the next six months. A reading below 50 means more respondents
reported poor conditions. The main index hasn’t been above that
line since April 2006.  Confidence among builders rose in two of four regions, led
by the surge in the West, which reached the highest level since
June 2006. The South reached the break-even 50 level, while
sentiment fell in the Northeast and Midwest.  Cheaper borrowing costs are attracting home buyers who have
adequate credit. The average rate on a 30-year fixed purchase
loan was 3.40 percent in the week ended Jan. 10, compared to
3.89 percent a year ago, according to McLean, Virginia-based
 Freddie Mac .  Lenders such as San Francisco-based Wells Fargo are
benefitting from an increase in homebuyer traffic as the housing
market that triggered the recession is showing further signs of
healing.  ‘Steady Rebound’  “The housing market began a steady rebound during 2012,”
Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said on a Jan. 11 conference
call. “While many measures of activity and prices remain low by
historical standards and a complete recovery will still take
some time, there is no doubt that a corner was turned.”  A Commerce Department report tomorrow might show that
housing starts climbed in December to the highest since July
2008 after easing in the prior month. Builders broke ground on
houses at an annual rate of 890,000 last month, up from 861,000
in November, according to the Bloomberg  survey  median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  