-- London Finance Hub Threatened by EU Exit, Sweden’s Borg Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/london-finance-hub-threatened-by-eu-exit-sweden-s-borg-says.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said he is “deeply worried” about Britain’s position in the
European Union and that a U.K. exit could threaten  London ’s
status as the world’s top financial center.  “It would be very difficult to see London remain a
financial center” if the U.K. quit the EU, Borg said in London
yesterday. “If you are not participating in discussions, it’s
difficult to be believable.”  Prime Minister David Cameron will tomorrow deliver his most
important speech to date on Britain’s position in the 27-nation
bloc, as he faces increasing pressure from some of his
Conservative party for a referendum on whether the U.K. should
remain in the union. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said the
move could damage jobs and growth, while opposition leader Ed Miliband said Cameron was “sleepwalking us towards the exit
door” earlier this week.  “We are deeply worried about how the debate on the EU has
shifted in the U.K,” Borg said. “The Brits must be at the
table.”  London ranked number one ahead of New York and Hong Kong in
a  September study  by consultancy Z/Yen Group Ltd. looking at the
world’s most competitive financial centers. It is the world’s
biggest center for foreign-exchange trading, cross-border bank
lending and has more international firms than any other
financial center, according to TheCityUK, a London-based bank
lobby group.  ‘Crucial’ Position  “London’s position as  Europe ’s financial capital is
crucial to sustaining jobs and growth, not just in the U.K. but
across the continent,” said Mark Boleat, policy chairman at the
 City of London Corp.  “Uncertainty over this relationship with
Europe risks making the U.K. less attractive as an international
center across many industries -- not just financial and
professional services.”  Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt is one of
Cameron’s closest allies within the EU and the two spoke about
the U.K. leader’s speech on Europe on Jan. 14.  Cameron said this week while he’s in favor of remaining in
the EU, he’s “not happy” with aspects of the relationship and
wants to claw back as yet unspecified powers.  Labour Party leader Miliband said that Cameron’s strategy
is “incredibly dangerous.” Business Secretary Vince Cable,
whose Liberal Democrat party governs with Cameron’s
Conservatives, described talk of a referendum as “deeply
unhelpful” at a time when the government is trying to persuade
companies to invest in the U.K.  U.S. Opinion  The U.S. has also weighed in, with Philip Gordon, assistant
secretary of state for European Affairs in President  Barack
Obama ’s administration, warning against a referendum, saying the
U.K. staying in the EU is important to U.S. interests.  “We need the U.K. at the table, taking part,” Borg said
at a separate event at the London School of Economics. “The key
asset that the U.K. is providing for  Sweden  and for Europe is
the fact that London is our leading financial center, but the
financial sector can never be separated from the political
structures. I cannot see how it can be sustainable that London
is the financial center of Europe and at the same time stepping
out of political discussion.”  Commenting on the euro-area economy, Borg said people
shouldn’t be “overly optimistic about 2013.”  “It would be dangerous to say the crisis is over,” he
said. “We may come back to a situation where uncertainties
about some member countries come back to the forefront of the
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  