-- Ong’s RRJ Capital Said to Invest in Olam Bonds and Shares
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-01-16T09:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ong-s-rrj-capital-said-to-plan-investing-in-olam-bonds-stock.html
RRJ Capital Ltd. plans to buy bonds
and shares issued by  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the commodity
supplier targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  RRJ, the fund run by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker
Richard Ong, yesterday acquired rights to $90 million of Olam
bonds, the person said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. Along with the bonds, RRJ will receive
warrants for Olam shares which it plans to exercise after three
years at a cost of $60 million, the person said.  Olam’s bonds and shares are down since Block questioned the
company’s  accounting methods  and expansion strategy in November.
The world’s second-largest rice trader said on Dec. 3 that it
will offer $750 million in bonds and as much as $500 million in
warrants to address “lingering doubts” raised by Block.  Alan Ngo, a managing director at RRJ, and Aditya Renjen,
Olam’s general manager of  investor relations , both declined to
comment on the trade.  RRJ, based in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , bought the rights to
the bonds yesterday at around 7 U.S. cents each on their last
trading day, the person said. The rights traded at about 12 U.S.
cents on Jan. 7, the first day of trade, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Prices  Olam shares, down 8.6 percent since Block first questioned
its finances, closed at S$1.59 in Singapore today. Olam’s  5.75
percent bonds  due September 2017 were quoted at 92.9 cents on
the dollar, according to Bloomberg prices.  The notes were quoted at 97 cents on Nov. 19, the day Block
first said he was short Olam, and fell to a record low of 83.2
cents on Nov. 30, Bloomberg prices show.  The warrants that will be issued with Olam’s five-year,
6.75 percent-coupon bonds can be exercised at $1.291 a share in
three years, the company has said.  RRJ’s team includes Ong’s brother, Charles Ong, who left
his post last January as senior managing director of special
projects at Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned
investment company and Olam’s second-biggest shareholder. RRJ
teamed up with a group including Temasek in 2011 to purchase
Frac Tech Holdings LLC, a Fort Worth-based hydraulic-fracturing
services company.  When Richard Ong ran Hopu Investment Management Co., the
Chinese private-equity fund bought a 20 percent stake in  China
Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319)  with Cofco (Hong Kong) Ltd. in 2009. That
investment came just 10 months after tainted milk killed six
children in  China  and sickened 300,000. Hopu sold its 6 percent
stake in Mengniu in June last year to  Denmark ’s Arla Foods amba.  Block’s Attack  Olam International was cut to sell from buy by UBS AG this
month on concerns that its financial health may be
deteriorating. Block had rated the company a “strong sell” in
a  report  by his research firm Muddy Waters LLC and said the
company may fail.  Olam has refuted Block’s claims and said earlier this month
that it’s in the best financial health since its 2005 initial
share sale.  Temasek has said it would back the bond offering and will
buy any rights not taken up by other investors. Kewalram
Singapore Ltd., the commodity trader’s biggest shareholder, also
said last month it will subscribe to the bonds.  Kewalram will take up $151.3 million of bonds and 78.3
million warrants in the offering, according to an Olam filing
yesterday. Olam’s Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese
subscribed to $34.9 million of bonds and 18 million warrants, a
separate filing yesterday shows.  The offering is “extremely expensive debt and equity
capital,” Michael Dee, a former Temasek senior managing
director, said in an article published in Singapore’s Business
Times newspaper last month. Olam’s priority should be to reduce
debt, Dee later told  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  