-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall Most in a Week as Developers Slide
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-01-16T07:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/hong-kong-stocks-fall-most-in-a-week-head-for-2-day-drop.html
Hong Kong  stocks fell, with the
city’s benchmark index retreating the most in a week, as
developers dropped after the city’s chief executive said the
government may curb overseas real estate demand and Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said China should establish a property tax.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd., a developer that gets about 55
percent of its revenue in Hong Kong, fell 2 percent. China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., a state-controlled mainland
developer, sank 1.2 percent.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , an  internet
company , headed to its highest level in two months as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. reiterated a buy rating. Golden Wheel Tiandi
Holdings Co. jumped 21 percent on its trading debut.  The Hang Seng Index lost 0.4 percent to 23,289.15 as of
3:32 p.m. in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of
mainland companies dropped 1.2 percent to 11,859.19 as a report
showed China’s foreign direct investment declined for the first
full year since 2009 as manufacturers relocated in search of
cheaper labor.  “Hong Kong property prices are pushing into bubble
territory which can cause trouble later down the track,” said
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic asset allocation at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $126 billion.
“The Chinese are getting very sensitive to big rises in
property prices because it’s not a healthy development. The
property curbs will be an ongoing development.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent
today. The gauge yesterday added 0.1 percent as a rally in
retail and transportation companies overshadowed concern about
discussions on raising the U.S. government’s debt ceiling.  Share Valuations  Hong Kong’s benchmark index surged 23 percent last year as
 China’s economy  showed signs of improvement and as central banks
around the globe added stimulus. Shares on the measure traded at
11.3 times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 13.3 for
the S&P 500 and 12 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong will have to damp external demand for housing if
natives’ needs aren’t met, city Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying
told the Legislative Council today in his first policy address.
The city will convert more sites for residential use and build
up an abundant land reserve that can more than meet short-term
needs, he said.  China President  Hu Jintao  expressed support for Leung’s
measures to temper rising housing prices, the Ming Pao Daily
reported earlier, citing unidentified people with knowledge of a
meeting between the two officials.  Also in China, Premier Wen said the country should
“gradually” establish a property taxation system that covers
trading and ownership, according to a statement published on the
central government’s website.  The Hang Seng Volatility Index rose 3.2 percent to 15,
indicating options traders expect a swing of 4.3 percent in the
next 30 days. Futures on the  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.4 percent to
23,281. Volume on the measure was 10 percent below its 30-day
average today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  