-- Moody’s Cuts 2013 Higher Education Outlook to Negative
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-01-16T18:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/moody-s-cuts-2013-higher-education-outlook-to-negative.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut its
2013 outlook for all of U.S. higher education to negative,
citing mounting pressure on revenue sources.  “Most universities will have to lower their cost
structures to achieve long-term financial sustainability and
fund future initiatives,” Moody’s said today in a report, led
by analyst Eva Bogaty.  The ratings company previously had a stable rating for
market-leading research institutions and a negative rating for
other U.S. universities and colleges since 2009. The cost to
attend college has increased faster than the rate of inflation
over the past four decades, with some private institutions
topping $60,000 a year.  Price sensitivity is having a greater impact on student
demand because of a “prolonged period of depressed family
income and household net worth,” and because the number of high
school graduates has been declining since the 2007-2008 academic
year, Moody’s said.  Public universities, which have seen state funding decline
in recent years, can expect more of the same, Moody’s said. It
said research funding is also vulnerable to  federal budget  cuts.  Colleges Downgraded  The rating company downgraded more than 20 universities
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among the
largest was Pennsylvania’s State System of Higher Education, a
14-school system including  Bloomsburg University .  Moody’s cut $1.5 billion of the system’s debt to Aa3 from
Aa2 largely because of its financial dependence on the state,
which was also downgraded, it said in a release in October.  Other institutions downgraded included the private schools
Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in Needham,
 Massachusetts , and Morehouse College in Atlanta.  While private institutions with the greatest endowments
have flexibility to subsidize tuition, they are also facing more
volatile returns, according to Moody’s.  Harvard University  in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, the world’s wealthiest school with a
$30.7 billion endowment, lost 0.05 percent on its investments in
the year ended June 30 after gaining 21 percent the previous
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  