-- Oprah’s Armstrong Confession Threatens Fox Champ ‘Idol’
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/oprah-s-armstrong-confession-threatens-fox-champ-idol-.html
Lance Armstrong ’s doping confession
to  Oprah Winfrey  tomorrow threatens to siphon viewers from
“ American Idol ,” the most-watched TV show for nine years, as
the singing competition returns for a new season.  Winfrey’s OWN network airs the first part of her interview
with Armstrong at 9 p.m. New York time, halfway into the two-
hour, second night of “Idol” on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox. The talent
show begins its 12th season tonight with a two-hour premiere.
Both count women as their largest viewer group.  Winfrey’s interview with the seven-time Tour de France
winner, who was stripped of his medals last year, is vying with
a heavily promoted “Idol” that’s looking to stem viewer losses
with new judges Nicki Minaj,  Mariah Carey  and Keith Urban. Fox
is counting on “Idol” and the new Kevin Bacon drama “The
Following” to rebound from a 20 percent drop in ratings this
season.  “The median age for ‘Idol’ was over 50 last year and
skewed more toward females,” said  Brad Adgate , director of
research at Horizon Media Inc., an advertising company in New
York. “That’s Oprah’s core viewer as well.”  Nicole Nichols, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based OWN,
and Gaude Paez, a spokeswoman for Fox in Los Angeles, declined
to comment on the competing telecasts.  The challenge from Winfrey comes at a turning point for
“Idol,” which held its No. 1 spot last season even as viewers
shrank 26 percent to 17 million, according to Nielsen data.
 CBS’s (CBS)  “NCIS” is averaging almost 22 million viewers a night in
the current season. At its 2006 peak, “Idol” drew more than 30
million.  For the new season, the producers of “Idol” chose to
replace judges Steven Tyler and  Jennifer Lopez , who helped lead
an 8.4 percent rise in viewership two years ago. Randy Jackson
returns, and is the only original judge left on the show.  Judges Feud  Any hit from Winfrey, 58, will probably be brief. The new
judges, including a feuding Carey and Minaj, may renew interest,
Adgate said. Viewers who choose Winfrey’s interview over
“Idol” can still catch up with a DVR, video-on-demand or
Hulu.com. “Idol” was already one of the most DVR-viewed shows,
he said.  Armstrong, 41, ended 13 years of denials by acknowledging
for the first time during an “emotional” 2 1/2-hour interview
that he used performance-enhancing drugs, Winfrey said yesterday
on “CBS This Morning.”  “He did not come clean in the manner that I expected,”
Winfrey told CBS.  The second half airs at 9 p.m.  New York  time on Jan. 18.  “We felt that to leave over half of this on the cutting
room floor after millions of people have been waiting for years
for many of these answers would not be the right thing to do,”
Winfrey told CBS.  OWN Ratings  The former daytime host has boosted the audience of her
cable channel, owned jointly with  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ,
since taking over as chief executive officer of OWN in July 2011
and hosting “Oprah’s Next Chapter.”  Winfrey’s March 11 interview with Whitney Houston’s family
drew almost 4 million viewers to lead all cable shows that night
among women ages 25 to 54, according to Nielsen data cited by
the network. She’s also scored ratings wins interviewing Rihanna
and pastor Joel Osteen.  “Our America With Lisa Ling,” “Welcome to Sweetie
Pie’s” and “Six Little McGhees” were among OWN’s most-watched
programs, the network said on Jan. 4.  OWN expects to reach about 85 million U.S. cable TV homes
by May, Discovery CEO  David Zaslav  said at a Dec. 4 investor
conference. The network increased its average prime-time
audience by 61 percent to 328,000 viewers in the fourth quarter
of 2012 from a year earlier. Almost three-fourths were female,
according to Nielsen data.  Breaking Even  Zaslav also stuck by his projection that the network would
break even in the second half of this year.  Tonight’s “Idol” features auditions from New York, while
tomorrow’s episode, up against Winfrey, will show contestants in
 Chicago .  During the first part of the “Idol” season, contestants
vie to make early round cuts and travel to Los Angeles. The
audience for “Idol” usually rises in later rounds.  Hosted by  Ryan Seacrest , the show’s early episodes feature
the city where auditions are taking place, tell stories about a
few contestants and end with the judges deciding who advances.  The audience for “Idol” has been declining as the singing
competition has aged, attrition that Fox executives have come to
expect, according to Mike Darnell, the network’s president of
alternative programming.  “It’s still an exceptionally valuable property,” Darnell
said at a Jan. 8 TV critics conference in  Pasadena ,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  