-- Oregon’s Chip Kelly Named Coach of NFL’s Philadelphia Eagles
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-16T18:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/oregon-s-chip-kelly-named-coach-of-nfl-s-philadelphia-eagles-1-.html
University of  Oregon  coach Chip Kelly was hired as coach of the  Philadelphia Eagles , bringing
his fast-paced offense to the  National Football League .  Kelly, 49, compiled a 46-7 record in four years at Oregon
and reached four straight Bowl Championship Series games. His
offensive system averaged 49.5 points a game this past season,
the second-highest at college football’s top level, and 44.7
points during his tenure.  Kelly succeeds  Andy Reid , who was fired Dec. 31 after the
team finished 4-12 and missed the playoffs for the second
straight season. Reid’s 14-year run in Philadelphia was the
longest of any active coach in the NFL.  “Chip Kelly will be an outstanding head coach,” Eagles
owner  Jeffrey Lurie  said in a statement. “He has a brilliant
football mind. He motivates his team with his actions as well as
his words. He will be a great leader for us and will bring a
fresh, energetic approach to our team.”  Kelly interviewed with Lurie, team President Don Smolenski
and General Manager Howie Roseman for nine hours in Arizona
following Oregon’s 35-17 Fiesta Bowl win over Kansas State on
Jan. 3. ESPN reported three days later that Kelly would remain
at Oregon after interviewing with the Eagles and for the
Cleveland Browns’ coaching job.  Evaluated Chance  The Eagles said in their news release that Kelly had
decided he wanted to stay at Oregon, yet continued to evaluate
the opportunity to work in the NFL. The Ducks won the  Rose Bowl 
for the first time in 95 years after the 2011 season and were in
position for a spot in the national championship game this past
season before a Nov. 17 loss to Stanford.  “I have great respect for Chip, consider him a friend and
wish him the best of luck in the NFL,” Oregon Athletic Director
Rob Mullens said in a statement on the school’s website.
“Oregon Athletics has executed two successful head-coach
transitions in the past 18 years and each time we continued our
ascent. We are focused on identifying a leader who is the right
fit to guide Oregon football.”  Kelly becomes the Eagles’ 21st coach and the first hired by
Philadelphia from the college ranks since Dick Vermeil left UCLA
in 1976.  Kelly was Oregon’s offensive coordinator in 2007 and 2008
before taking over as coach. He was an assistant coach at the
University of  New Hampshire , his alma mater, from 1994 to 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  