-- Tories Say EU Is ‘Stealing’ U.K. Clearinghouse Business
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-16T12:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/tories-say-eu-is-stealing-u-k-clearinghouse-business.html
Conservative lawmakers urged Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to protect the U.K.’s financial-services
industry and fight back against European Union efforts to
“steal” business from British clearinghouses.  Speaking two days before Cameron makes a keynote speech on
Britain’s relationship with the EU, the lawmakers, who call
themselves the  Fresh Start Project , said the premier must
renegotiate the terms of Britain’s affiliation to the bloc.
Cameron has signaled he supports putting the outcome of such
talks to a popular vote after the 2015 general election, with
the government arguing to stay in.  “We want Britain to remain in the EU,” the group’s
chairwoman, Andrea Leadsom, told reporters in Parliament in
 London  today. “But the status quo in terms of ever-encroaching
rules and bureaucracy -- that must stop.”  In their “ Manifesto for Change ,” published today, the
lawmakers urged Cameron to focus his efforts on “a robust but
achievable renegotiation of our terms of membership.” It
highlighted a “demand” by the  European Central Bank  that U.K.-
based clearing houses “establish themselves inside the euro
zone to be allowed to clear transactions in euros.”  “That’s blatantly stealing Britain’s business,” Leadsom
said. “It’s got nothing to do with the single market.”  Unlike some other Tory lawmakers, the Fresh Start group
doesn’t call for full British withdrawal from the EU, instead
arguing for a “new and different relationship for ourselves
whilst remaining a full member of the EU.”  Rutte Review  Citing a review of possible repatriation of powers by Dutch
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , Leadsom suggested this path could be
taken by other member states.  About 120 of the Tories’ 303 lawmakers attended Fresh
Start’s first meeting late last year.  The manifesto calls for an “emergency brake” for all
member states on financial-services issues alongside
repatriation of powers on social and employment law. It also
seeks a U.K. opt-out from all EU policing and criminal-justice
measures and a new legal safeguard for the single market.  The Strasbourg,  France , seat of the European Parliament
should be abolished on cost grounds and the legislature located
permanently in Brussels, the lawmakers said.  Foreign Secretary  William Hague , writing in the foreword of
the document, called it a “well-researched and well-considered
document full of powerful ideas for Britain’s future in
 Europe .”  “Many of the proposals are already government policy, some
could well become future government or Conservative Party policy
and some may require further thought,” Hague wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  