-- United Joins LOT Defying Dreamliner Scare by Flying 787s
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r ,   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-01-16T17:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/lot-defies-dreamliner-scare-with-first-transatlantic-traverse.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
the only U.S. carrier operating Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner,
joined LOT Polish Airlines SA in continuing to fly the jets
after two Japanese companies grounded their fleets.  “We inspected all of our 787 aircraft and they are flying
as scheduled,” Mary Ryan, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based
United, said in an e-mail. The company has six of the planes.  United, LOT and carriers including Qatar Airways are
sticking with their Dreamliner service after an emergency
landing by an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  aircraft prompted the first
operator of the 787 and  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  to ground their
fleets today and tomorrow. The aircraft, built from plastic
composite materials, has been plagued by in-flight and on-ground
technical faults since deliveries began in 2011.  United Flight 33 is being operated with a 787 jet that left
 Tokyo ’s Narita airport about 8 p.m. local time, two hours late,
and is due to arrive at Los Angeles shortly before noon today
local time, according to the carrier’s website. United is also
flying 787s from Houston to Los Angeles,  Chicago  and  Newark , New
Jersey, Ryan said.  LOT,  Europe ’s first operator of the Dreamliner, proceeded
with its inaugural trans-Atlantic flight today. Flight LO3 to
Chicago O’Hare International Airport from Warsaw left at 4:18
p.m. local time, according to the airline’s website.  “We conducted preventively a series of reviews of all
systems in both Boeing 787s we have in our fleet,” LOT said in
an e-mail. “All the tests were completed positively.”  FAA Review  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration has started a
review of the entire Dreamliner program, with particular
attention to the power system and lithium-ion batteries being
used for the first time on a commercial aircraft.  The decision by the Japanese carriers, which represent the
bulk of the in-service 787 fleet with 17 operated by ANA and
seven by  Japan  Airlines, “is not surprising given the public
interest,” said Paul Hayes, head of safety at Ascend, a London-
based aviation consultant.  “There’s been no service bulletin, no airworthiness
directives by safety regulators, so the decision to ground is
purely a commercial one,” Hayes said.  LOT, based in Warsaw, said its aircraft are not among the
initial production batch and therefore have “modifications
which reduce technical problems appearing in previously
manufactured Dreamliners for the other carriers.”  American Airlines, with pending orders for 42  Boeing Co. (BA) 
787s, said it expects the planemaker to resolve the operating
issues  “I’m confident that will be a good airplane,” American
Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said in an interview today.
“Boeing and the operators will work through the issues.”  Emergency Landing  ANA pilots made an emergency landing in Japan this morning
after seeing a battery-fault warning and smelling smoke,
prompting the grounding. The event came a week after a battery
in a Japan Airlines Dreamliner caught fire in  Boston , prompting
U.S. regulators to review the jet that entered service in 2011.  Qatar Air, which operates five 787s, said it would continue
flying. Arun Mishra,  India ’s director general of civil aviation,
said the regulator will conduct checks on all six Dreamliners in
Mumbai-based  Air India (JETIN) ’s fleet. Ethiopian Airlines said “minor
bugs” are common on new aircraft, and that it is pleased with
the aircraft’s performance so far.  Ethiopian, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest carrier,
said its 787s have accrued 5,500 flying hours, achieving
utilization of about 14 hours a day without any significant
issues.  “We have been using them very well and our experience is
good,” Chief Operating Officer Mesfin Tassew told Bloomberg
television in an interview. “Customers are happy with the
airplanes and at this time we have no sufficient reason to
ground them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  