-- Louis Dreyfus Partners With Namoi to Rival Olam in Cotton
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-01-16T06:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/louis-dreyfus-joins-with-australia-s-namoi-cotton-to-boost-sales.html
Louis Dreyfus Commodities Group, the
world’s biggest cotton merchant, agreed to partner with  Namoi
Cotton Co-operative Ltd. (NAM)  to sell fiber from  Australia ,
intensifying competition with  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)   Namoi will sell its cotton marketing and commodities
packing assets into the venture for A$30.4 million ($32.1
million), the Wee Waa, New South Wales-based company said today
in a statement. Louis Dreyfus will also buy A$3.7 million worth
of Namoi shares.  The venture will give Louis Dreyfus increased access to
cotton from Australia, the world’s fourth-largest shipper. Namoi
 markets  about 30 percent of the nation’s crop, while Louis
Dreyfus handles about 20 percent. Louis Dreyfus tried to capture
more market share in 2007 with its failed bid for Queensland
Cotton Holdings Ltd., which was bought by Singapore-based Olam.  The venture will allow “the global Louis Dreyfus
Commodities business greater exposure to additional cotton
volumes to meet the needs of its international customers,” its
Australian Chief Executive Officer  Robert Green  said in the
statement.  Namoi surged  25 percent to 30 Australian cents at the close
in Sydney, the biggest gain since October 2011. Olam, one of the
world’s six largest cotton traders, processes and exports cotton
from Australia.  Cotton Exports  Namoi Cotton will hold a 51 percent stake in the joint-
venture to be known as Namoi Cotton Alliance, and Louis Dreyfus
will have 49 percent, Namoi said in the statement. Namoi will
retain its cotton ginning and seeds business.  Louis Dreyfus will buy a quantity of cotton each season
from the venture, Namoi said. Louis Dreyfus will continue to
operate its existing business in competition with Namoi Cotton
Alliance, it said.  Cotton exports from Australia are set to climb to a record
1.1 million metric tons in the year that started July 1, the
Australian  Bureau  of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said Dec. 11. Production is set to total 945,000 tons
in 2012-2013, from 1.2 million tons a year earlier, it said.  Namoi’s board unanimously recommended grower members accept
the offer, it said. Funds raised from the deal will be used to
reduce debt, the company said.  In August, Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan   approved  the
sale of Cubbie Group Ltd., the nation’s biggest cotton grower,
to Shandong RuYi Scientific & Technological Group Co. Ltd. and
Lempriere Pty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  