-- Toyota Supplier Considers China Capacity Boost on VW, GM Orders
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-01-16T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/toyota-supplier-considers-china-capacity-boost-on-vw-gm-orders.html
Tsubakimoto Chain Co., (6371)  an Osaka-
based auto parts supplier, is considering expanding in  China  to
meet a surge in orders from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
as a territorial dispute damps demand for Japanese cars.  The about 6 billion yen ($68 million) in bookings from the
two automakers will triple the amount of business Tsubakimoto’s
auto-components division does in China, according to Toru Fujiwara, the head of the division. China sales will be between
3 billion yen and 3.5 billion yen in the fiscal year ending
March, most of that from Japan-based automakers including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , he said.  “While we still have some expectations, we’re not thinking
like in the past about growing on the strength of Japanese
companies,” Fujiwara said in an interview in  Osaka . It has
become important for Tsubakimoto to expand its ties in China
with non-Japanese companies, he said.  Tsubakimoto is studying building factories near Shanghai or
Tianjin, China, to cope with a capacity shortfall expected from
2014, and may announce details in May along with its full-year
earnings, Fujiwara said.  Shares of Tsubakimoto, which also manufactures conveyor
chains, have gained 10 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a 27 percent increase in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Recovery in China  Chinese production in December recovered to about 65
percent of the levels before demonstrations broke out across the
nation in September over a territorial dispute between  Asia ’s
two biggest economies, according to Fujiwara.  Passenger-vehicle sales in China will probably gain as much
as 10 percent this year, as a rebound in economic growth gathers
strength, according to eight analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . Chinese leaders assuming power in a once-a-decade handover
to be completed in March may introduce economic stimulus to
increase domestic demand, according to forecasts by
Autoforesight Shanghai Co., LMC Automotive and Synergistics Ltd.  Toyota’s China sales in December dropped 16 percent to
90,800, bringing annual sales to 840,500 vehicles, 4.9 percent
less than in the previous year. Nissan Motor Co. sales dropped
24 percent last month in China, while Honda Motor Co.’s fell 19
percent.  It may take some time before Japanese companies regain
their previous share of the Chinese market, Fujiwara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  