-- Mozambique Private Investments to Exceed $3.2 Billion in 2013
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-16T11:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/mozambique-private-investments-to-exceed-3-2-billion-in-2013.html
Mozambique  expects more than $3.2
billion in investment to flow into roads, rail and other parts
of the economy this year as it plans to become a gateway for
goods and services to and from other African nations.  “Our natural resources have led to big investments in
infrastructure that will help turn Mozambique into a transit
point for goods and services to other countries such as Zambia,
Zimbabwe and  Malawi ,” Godinho Alves, deputy director of the
state-run  Investment Promotion Center , said by phone yesterday.
Investors are also interested in farming, fishing and the
financial industry, he said.  Located on the southeast coast of  Africa , Mozambique is the
site of the world’s largest discovery of natural gas in the past
decade.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, is
building a railway line to transport coal from a mine in
Mozambique’s Tete province through Malawi to the port of Nacala.  Private investment approved by the Investment Promotion
Center, including foreign and local investments, rose 11 percent
in 2012 to $3.2 billion from the previous year, according to the
agency.  The agency didn’t take into account some mining and gas
exploration projects that were approved last year, according to
Alves.  “Investments this year should exceed those approved in
2012,” Alves said. The fact that Mozambique’s economy has been
“performing well” also helps attract investors, he said.  Mozambique’s economy is forecast to have grown 7.5 percent
last year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a  statement 
on Dec. 21, citing a robust performance in the services sector
and a “stronger-than-expected” contribution from the nascent
coal industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  