-- Pakistan Government Jolted by Premier Arrest Order, Protests
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-01-16T11:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/pakistan-government-jolted-by-premier-arrest-order-protests-1-.html
Pakistan’s government was dealt a
double blow months ahead of a landmark election as the  Supreme
Court  ordered the arrest of the Prime Minister over alleged
corruption in power projects and a popular cleric rallied
supporters in the capital.  The twin jolt could hasten preparations for the poll, as
President Asif Ali Zardari’s democratically elected
administration seeks to create history by becoming the first to
complete its five-year term and transfer power through a ballot
in a country ruled for half its history by the military.  Yesterday’s court ruling followed hours after Islamic
scholar Tahir-ul-Qadri, 61, had gathered thousands of people in
the center of Islamabad, vowing to stay put until the government
quit and corrupt politicians were removed from the legislature.
In Karachi, the two events combined to push the benchmark share
index down by 3.2 percent, the most in 17 months. Stocks rose
0.5 percent today.  “The government has been driven into a corner,” said Ayaz
Amir, a political analyst and member of the National Assembly,
as tens of thousands of protesters continued to occupy streets
near parliament. “The crowd will have to be dispersed by force
or the government will have to accept something. The army may
put pressure on it behind the scenes.”  Resign Call  Pakistan ’s top judges ruled that the National
Accountability Bureau should arrange warrants for the arrest of
Premier Raja Pervez Ashraf and 15 others accused over the
handling of contracts for rented power units, according to the
court order. The bureau’s chairman has been ordered to report to
the court tomorrow. Ashraf, who hasn’t been convicted of any
crime, didn’t respond to the court order.  “The most this crisis will do is to force the government
to appoint a neutral caretaker set-up and announce the date of
election,” said Mehdi Hasan, a political analyst and dean of
the School of Communications at the Lahore-based Beaconhouse
National University. “Democracy will survive.”  Speaking from his bullet-proof cabin for over three hours
today, Qadri asked Ashraf to take a moral decision and step down
after the Supreme Court order.  “Does any democratic tradition allow anybody to still
maintain the office of the prime minister” after such a ruling,
he said, reiterating his resolve to continue with the sit-in
until his demands for the reconstitution of the Election
Commission and an impartial interim government are met.  Army Pressure  Ashraf took power last year after his predecessor was
removed by top judges for refusing to order the reopening of
graft charges against the president. That confrontation with the
Supreme Court, and speculation that it was fueled by a military
seeking to remove Zardari from power, distracted the elected
government amid a fight with Taliban insurgents and a record
power crisis. Rolling outages closed factories and sparked
street protests.  Power producers were paid “exorbitant rentals,” while
their contracts were not transparent and violated the principles
of fair competition, the Supreme Court said March 30 last year.
Ashraf was power minister at the time the contracts were awarded
and was barred from leaving the country.  Analysts including Eurasia Group’s Shamila Chaudhary said
the court’s intervention yesterday amid Qadri’s demonstration
was an opportunistic attempt to add to the woes of the Zardari
administration.  In an e-mailed analysis, Chaudhary said that the army would
watch and tacitly support “constitutional efforts to weaken”
the government which the “military views with contempt for its
poor economic as well as security track record.”  Brief Clashes  Fourteen percent of Pakistanis viewed Zardari favorably in
a Pew Research Center  survey  in June, down from 64 percent in
2008. About 87 percent are dissatisfied with the country’s
direction, viewing the economy, crime and corruption as the
biggest problems, it said. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  Under existing law, Zardari’s government will leave office
by the end of March, and a caretaker administration approved by
a majority of parties represented in parliament will oversee
elections within three months.  Qadri’s sudden appearance after years out of Pakistan
politics, and his demands that the army have a role in
determining the country’s electoral future, have triggered media
commentary that the security establishment may be behind his
movement. Both Qadri and the army deny any link.  Police briefly clashed with Qadri’s supporters yesterday as
they tried to enter the highly-protected red zone where most of
the foreign embassies are located, Interior Minister Rehman Malik told the Geo TV network in live comments. Malik put the
size of the crowd backing Qadri at 20,000 people. Geo, citing
intelligence agencies, said it could be twice that figure, far
below the turnout claimed by the cleric.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  