-- Pakistan Stocks to Rebound After Uncertainty, BMA’s Malik Says
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-01-16T04:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/pakistan-stocks-to-rebound-after-uncertainty-bma-s-malik-says.html
Muddassar Malik, chief executive
officer of BMA Funds, who oversees the equivalent of $120
million in stocks and bonds, comments on his outlook for
Pakistan’s stock market after the benchmark Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 index sank 3.2 percent to 16,107.89 yesterday, its
steepest drop since Aug. 9, 2011.  Stocks fell after the country’s  Supreme Court  ordered the
arrest of Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf in a corruption case
involving rental power projects. Prior to that announcement,
Tahir-ul-Qadri, a popular cleric, rallied thousands of
protesters in the capital Islamabad, calling for the government
to be dismissed. Malik spoke in a phone interview from London
late yesterday.  On the impact of the court order:  “The events are very significant, disruptive events for
Pakistan’s political landscape. But I feel this is not the end,
perhaps it’s the beginning. I believe the likelihood is that
these events will be driving the position into positive
territory.  “The structural and the fundamental story in Pakistan
remains unimpaired; high population, a country with significant
demand driven by domestic consumers and located in one of the
fastest growing regions in the world. What is missing is a set
of economic and political policies which create the right
environment for investment and I think the disruption can bring
about that change in confidence. There is a certain degree of
optimism that we have to look forward to.”  On investors’ fears:  “There are concerns about the future direction post-
elections. Investors are looking for clarity. In the last four
or five years,  Pakistan  has been through a very difficult and
challenging period in terms of politics and economics as well as
the war on terror. So investors see a landscape that is starving
of investment, and I think people are hungry to get back into
the game.”  On market sentiment:  “The unexpected announcement was obviously a jolt for the
market and it caught the market unaware and wrong-footed in the
context of the political demonstrations taking place in
Islamabad. Market sentiment is 100 percent driven by politics at
the moment and I think it’s unrealistic to assume that sentiment
will change very quickly for the next week to fortnight.”  On BMA Fund’s index target for 2013:  “Our  index  target for the calendar year 2013 is 20,000,
and we don’t feel that the current set of events will derail
that target for the time being. With the market showing the
declines it has done and also the declines it could do in the
coming days, it will certainly set up some of the good high-
quality stocks to give healthy returns in excess to 20 percent
to 30 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 