-- Panetta Ties Delay of Aid in Mali to Legal Questions
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/panetta-ties-delay-of-aid-in-mali-to-legal-questions.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
U.S. assistance to France in its fight against Islamist
militants in  Mali  is being delayed because of questions raised
by Obama administration lawyers.  “I find that every time I turn around I face a group of
lawyers,” Panetta told reporters yesterday in Rome, where he
met with Italian Defense Minister Giampaolo di Paola. The
administration lawyers want “to be sure that they feel
comfortable that we have the legal basis to do what we are being
requested to do” in aiding the French effort, he said.  President  Barack Obama  also understands the “need to have
that kind of basis” before the U.S. can provide airlift and
logistics support in addition to some intelligence information
that’s already being provided to  France , Panetta said.  “Those are the discussions that are occurring,” he said.
“I’m not going to say that these questions are
insurmountable.”  In 2001, Congress passed authorization for the president to
use military force against al-Qaeda and the Taliban. That
authority remains available, and that’s why “I’m confident we
will be able to provide this assistance” to France, Panetta
said.  France has committed about 1,700 troops to the Mali
mission, including 800 already in the country, with the goal of
destroying or capturing militants who split the country in two
early last year and began moving south toward the capital last
week. Some of the insurgents are part of al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb, or AQIM.  Aid Considered  Since France’s military action began on Jan. 11, the
Pentagon has been weighing providing assistance, including
refueling capability, airlift and additional intelligence
information.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said Jan. 15
that the U.S. couldn’t directly aid current Mali’s government,
which was installed through a coup led by a military officer who
had received Pentagon training.  She said there were no restrictions on helping allies such
as France and other African nations, which are preparing to send
forces to Mali under United Nations authorization.  “We are precluded under the counter-coup restrictions from
funding a military that has been involved in a coup until
democracy has been restored, but we’re not precluded from
assisting allies and partners in trying to restore security to
that country,” Nuland told reporters.  The U.S. is preparing to send military trainers and
supplies to assist those soldiers before they deploy to Mali,
she said.  Panetta Meeting  Panetta met with di Paola in  Rome  yesterday after visiting
with the Portuguese and Spanish defense ministers earlier in the
week.  “All of us concur that we ought to provide whatever
assistance we can to assist the French in their effort and
ultimately insure that West African nations take
responsibility” for the security in Mali, Panetta said.  Italy said yesterday that it would provide logistical aid
to the French military forces in their air operations in Mali.  Asked if the Mali mission is being viewed in the U.S. as a
French mission, Panetta said, “This is an international effort.
I believe it should be an international effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Rome at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  