-- Pennsylvania Passes N.J. to Become No. 2 U.S. Casino Hub
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-16T21:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/pennsylvania-passes-jersey-to-become-no-2-u-s-casino-market.html
Pennsylvania , with a growing
gambling industry, passed  New Jersey  in annual casino revenue to
become the second-largest U.S. betting hub behind Nevada last
year.  Gross casino revenue increased 4.4 percent to $3.16
billion, Pennsylvania’s Gaming Control Board said today in an e-
mailed  statement . On Jan. 10, New Jersey  reported  revenue for
Atlantic City casinos slumped 8 percent to $3.05 billion.  The data underscore the challenges facing New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  as he looks to reinvigorate the tourism
and gambling industries after years of decline and the recent
superstorm Sandy. The state has lost business as  New York ,
Pennsylvania and  Maryland  expanded their gambling operations.  “Pennsylvania is a great growth story,” said Jan Jones Blackhurst, executive vice president for communications and
government relations at Las Vegas-based  Caesars Entertainment
Corp. (CZR) , which has one casino there and four in New Jersey.
“Governor Christie has really been trying to reposition
Atlantic City as a resort destination.”  Casino revenue in New Jersey has fallen for six straight
years since peaking at $5.2 billion in 2006, according to state
data. Pennsylvania ranked third in the nation in casino spending
in 2011, behind Nevada and New Jersey, according to the American
Gaming Association trade group.  New Jersey has 12 casinos after the opening of Revel last
year. Pennsylvania has 11. The closely held Parx Casino &
Racing, formerly Philadelphia Park Racetrack & Casino, was the
state’s largest in revenue with almost $500 million in total,
separate reports showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  