-- Philippine Authority Says Okada Faces FBI Probe on Permit
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-01-16T08:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/philippine-authority-says-okada-faces-fbi-probe-on-casino-permit.html
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada
faces a U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation probe, adding to a
 Philippines  justice department inquest into how he got a casino
permit, the chairman of the Asian nation’s gambling authority
said in an interview.  The FBI wants to know the process Okada used to obtain his
license, the tax benefits given to him and the flow of funds
involved, said Cristino Naguiat, chairman and chief executive of
the Philippine Amusement & Gaming Corp. gambling authority.  “We haven’t engaged in wrongdoing,” Nobuyuki Horiuchi,
spokesman at Okada’s Universal Entertainment Corp., said
yesterday by phone.  Okada holds one of four casino licenses the Philippines
awarded in 2008 and 2009 to build and operate a  Manila  gambling
and entertainment complex the government is developing to
compete with Macau and  Singapore . A Hong Kong affiliate of
Universal Entertainment paid at least $30 million to a
Philippine consultant, while seeking tax breaks and ownership
waivers on the Philippine gambling license, Reuters reported in
November, citing former Universal employees and company records.  ‘Always Open’  “We were informed of the FBI investigation and we are
always open to agencies that would like to investigate,”
Naguiat said in a Manila interview yesterday. Okada, Universal’s
chairman, could lose his gambling license should the Philippines
justice department probe uncover wrongdoing, he said. Okada also
 owned  about 68 percent of the Tokyo-based company through Okada
Holdings as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Universal Entertainment dropped 3.4 percent, the biggest
decline since Dec. 6, to 1,545 yen at the close of trading in
 Tokyo . The broader Topix index fell 2 percent.  Robinsons Land (RLC) 
Corp., Philippines billionaire John Gokongwei’s development
company and partner with Okada casino partner, fell 2.7 percent
to 21.3 pesos as of the close in Manil.  The Philippine justice department is also investigating
bribery allegations against Okada, presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said Nov. 19. Bridget Pappas, a Las Vegas-based FBI
spokeswoman said by e-mail the bureau follows a policy of
neither confirming nor denying the existence of investigations.  Panel Formed  Universal said on Jan. 7 said that it formed an independent
panel to look into reports by Reuters and  Japan ’s Asahi
newspaper that the company  made  illegal payments to benefit the
Philippine casino resort.  “We haven’t received any detailed report from our
Philippines unit as to what sort of contact the FBI made to our
company,” Horiuchi of Universal said. “If the FBI contacts us
in the future, we plan to fully cooperate with the
investigation.”  Universal filed a lawsuit Dec. 4 in Tokyo District Court
against  Thomson Reuters , calling the newswire’s article about
illegal payments a “fabrication” and seeking 200 million yen
($2.3 million) in damages.  Okada’s Fortune  Okada amassed a fortune making machines for pachinko, an
upright pinball game played as a form of gambling in Japan. He
was also an early backer of  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  until last year,
when Wynn seized his almost 20 percent stake at a 30 percent
discount to market value and accused the Japanese magnate of
“improper payments” to officials in the Philippines.  Okada has sued Wynn in the U.S. and Japan, while the Las
Vegas-based casino operator removed Okada from the board of its
Macau affiliate and has vowed to oust him as a director of the
parent company at a special shareholder meeting Feb. 22.  Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez, at a Jan.
15 hearing in  Las Vegas , denied Okada’s request to dismiss Wynn
Resorts’ claims that he breached his duty as a corporate
director.  The Philippines is counting on Okada’s project and three
other gambling developments, collectively known as Pagcor
Entertainment City, to boost tourist traffic that lags regional
neighbors including  Indonesia  and  Thailand .  Chasing Macau  Naguiat said the country won’t be stopped by the bribery
allegations against Okada in meeting its goal of joining
neighbors Macau and Singapore as  Asia ’s gambling centers.  “There were negative feedbacks and people were expecting
it,” Naguiat said. “But then analysts are bullish and positive
on the future of Entertainment City. We have to move forward and
let us not be stopped by” the issues on Okada.  The opening of these casino resorts, scheduled at about one
a year in the next four years, will increase the nation’s gaming
revenue to $10 billion by 2016 or 2017, from about $2 billion in
2012, Naguiat said.  The nation’s tourist attractions and beaches will help the
country compete with Singapore and Macau, which don’t have the
same resources in drawing players in the region, Naguiat said.
“We offer a complete package,” he said.  Chinese Gamblers  The Chinese market is “critical” for gaming revenues to
reach $10 billion in three to four years, Naguiat said. Chinese
players will account for about 20 percent of the nation’s gaming
revenues then, he said.  The bribery allegations have not stopped other casino
operators from expressing interest in obtaining Philippine
gaming permits, according to Naguiat.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  and  SkyCity Entertainment
Group Ltd. (SKC)  and a couple of Las Vegas-based casinos are among
those that expressed interest since the bribery allegations
involving Okada erupted, he said.  Amid the bribery allegations, Universal in December
partnered with Gokongwei to build the $2.3 billion gaming resort
complex in Manila, which includes luxury hotels, restaurants,
commercial facilities, a budget hotel and residences. Partner
Robinsons Land said Dec. 20 the complex will be completed in
2014.  Okada competitors include Philippine billionaire Andrew Tan
and  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK) , which plan to jointly open a local
casino in 2016. Philippine billionaire  Henry Sy  and  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  are set to start another one in 2014.  The Philippines drew 2.14 million tourists in the first
half of 2012, trailing Thailand’s 10.5 million, and Indonesia’s
3.87 million, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  