-- Philippine Peso Weakens After Intervention; Bonds Little Changed
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-01-16T09:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/philippine-peso-weakens-after-intervention-bonds-little-changed.html
The Philippine peso declined the
most in more than a week after its rally to an almost five-year
high this week prompted the central bank to intervene.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas participated in the market to
restrain the currency and is focused on containing speculative
inflows that could potentially create asset-price bubbles,
Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday. Policy makers will keep
the exchange rate market-determined and aren’t targeting any
specific level, he said. The peso touched 40.55 per dollar on
Jan. 14, the strongest level since March 2008, according to
prices from from Tullett Prebon Plc.  “There might be some tweaking of policy variables to slow
down the strengthening of the peso,” said Emilio Neri, an
economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in  Manila .  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 40.628 per dollar at the close
in Manila, data from Tullett Prebon show. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, was unchanged at 4 percent.  “Those macro prudential measures will come,” central bank
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in an interview yesterday.
“We will continue to review our policy toolkit and see what
else can be considered. We still have several aces up our
sleeves.”  The monetary authority approved limits on currency forwards
last month, a year after it ordered lenders to provide more cash
to cover risks on such contracts. It banned foreign funds from
its special deposit accounts in July to slow inflows. The
government will curb fluctuations in the exchange rate and will
consider borrowing dollars onshore to temper the peso’s rise,
President  Benigno Aquino  said today in Cebu.  The yield on the 8 percent bonds due March 2031 was little
changed at 5.49 percent in Manila, according to Tradition
Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  