-- Piracy Plunges to Lowest in Years on $1 Trillion Trade Route
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-01-16T12:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/piracy-collapses-to-lowest-in-years-on-1-trillion-trade-route.html
Somali pirates’ attacks on shipping
plunged last year to the lowest since at least 2007 as increased
use of armed guards and naval intervention deterred incidents in
an area handling about $1 trillion in trade.  Attacks fell to 75 in 2012 from a record 237 in the prior
year, the London-based International Maritime Bureau said in an
e-mailed report today. While the number of hijacked ships fell
by 50 percent to 14, the threat of vessel seizures remains as
pirates wielding automatic weapons and rocket-propelled grenades
are still seeking targets, the piracy observer said.  About 42,250 vessels a year, including 20 percent of crude
oil traded, traverse seas where Somali pirates operate in an
area as large as continental  Europe , hijacking ships for ransom
and costing almost $7 billion in 2011. Incidents have taken
place across the  Indian Ocean , near the  Persian Gulf , and in the
 Gulf of Aden , causing some vessels to deviate from  Egypt ’s Suez
Canal linking Europe and  Asia .  “The continued presence of navies is vital to ensuring
that Somali piracy remains low,” IMB director Pottengal Mukundan said in the report. “This progress could easily be
reversed if naval vessels were withdrawn from the area.”  Pirates are still active and looking for ships to seize,
and that’s not reflected in statistics gathered because navies
aren’t classifying them as attacks, Glen Forbes, head of Oceanus
Live, a counter-piracy information website, said by phone today.  Increase in Approaches  “There’s an increase in approaches but not actual attacks
and that’s not being reported, or being under-reported as navies
often say ships are mistaking pirates for fishing vessels,”
Forbes said. Oceanus Live is operated by Forbes Wallace Ltd., a
Plymouth, England-based company.  About 30 percent of ships use private armed guards when
transiting the area, compared with fewer than 10 percent three
years ago, according to the International Chamber of Shipping in
 London . No vessel with armed guards on board has been hijacked,
according to the Security Association for the Maritime Industry.  Pirates abort attacks when they see armed guards displaying
their weapons, said David Rider, a spokesman for Poole, England-
based Neptune Maritime Security Ltd., a maritime security
company. They are instead increasingly seeking to identify soft-
targets, he said.  There are three naval missions deployed to fight Somali
piracy with the military’s last capture, of 12 pirates, on Jan.
6, Jonathan Worthington, a spokesman for Maritime Command NATO,
said by phone from Northwood,  England  today.  $7 billion  “Incidents of successful pirate attacks are at all-time
low,” Worthington said.  Maritime piracy cost industry about $7 billion in 2011, and
42,250 merchant ships transited the area, according to Oceans
Beyond Piracy, a project of the Broomfield, Colorado-based
nonprofit One Earth Future Foundation.  Trade through the region is valued at $1 trillion,
according to the European Union’s naval force, known as EU
Navfor. The U.S. Energy Information Administration says 20
percent of the world’s liquefied natural gas, and 20 percent of
oil traded worldwide sails through the  Strait of Hormuz  into the
 Gulf of Oman , part of the at-risk area.  Pirate attacks globally fell to 297 in 2012, also a five-
year low, from 439 in the prior 12 months, according to the IMB.
The decrease was led by fewer Somali incidents, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  