-- Pound Declines as Gilts Advance on World Bank Downgrade
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-01-16T17:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/pound-falls-fourth-day-against-dollar-gilts-are-little-changed.html
The pound dropped to a seven-week
low against the dollar as the World Bank cut its global growth
forecast for this year, spurring demand for the safest assets.  U.K. government bonds advanced for a fourth day, the
longest run since September. Sterling approached its weakest
level in nine months against the euro as Prime Minister David Cameron prepared to outline his plans on repatriating powers
from the European Union. The yield on 10-year index-linked bonds
fell to a record before the government sells inflation-protected
securities tomorrow.  “There’s obviously ongoing uncertainty regarding the
economic environment in the U.K.,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London. “There’s probably some residual concerns overhanging
the state of play with the U.K. within  Europe  as well. It’s
tough to make anything other than a fairly negative pitch for
the short-term outlook for sterling.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.6006 at 5:05 p.m. London
time for a fourth day of declines and the longest losing streak
since November. It dropped as low as $1.5976, the least since
Nov. 28. Sterling depreciated 0.4 percent to 83.13 pence per
euro. It traded at 83.26 pence on Jan. 14, the weakest since
April 3.  The yield on the  10-year gilt  declined three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2 percent after falling to 1.98
percent, the lowest level since Jan. 3. The 1.75 percent
security maturing in September 2022 rose 0.21, or 2.10 pounds
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 97.83.  Sterling Falls  The Washington-based World Bank yesterday projected the
global economy will expand 2.4 percent in 2013, down from a June
forecast of 3 percent, after growing 2.3 percent in 2012.  “Markets are getting ahead of themselves -- talking
themselves into more optimistic scenarios of global economic
recovery,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, a London-based senior
economist at Jefferies International Ltd., one of the financial
institutions that deal directly with the Debt Management Office
in the gilt market. “Yields in gilts have recently risen
because of that. They are likely to adjust lower as data shows
recovery may not be as solid as some are expecting.”  Cameron’s desire to renegotiate Britain’s European Union
membership may cause “the corporate investment climate” to
suffer, according to foreign-exchange analysts at Morgan
Stanley. Lloyds Banking Group Plc said it will require
“something significant” to push the pound through potential
orders to buy the currency at 1.20 euros.  Fish, Chips  The pound declined against all 16 of its major peers as
Cameron, speaking in parliament, dismissed as a “false choice”
calls from members of his Conservative Party for an early vote
on leaving the 27-nation EU. He will outline his plans in a
speech in the Netherlands on Jan. 18.  Finnish Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen today evoked British
fast-food preferences in an appeal for the U.K. to remain part
of the bloc, describing the union without Britain as “pretty
much the same as fish without chips. It’s not a meal anymore.”  The British currency has weakened 1.7 percent this year,
the third-worst performance after the yen and Swiss franc,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies.  The yield on 10-year  index-linked bonds  fell six basis
points to minus 1.07 percent after reaching minus 1.08 percent,
the lowest since Bloomberg started collecting the data in 1992.
The securities pay investors based on changes in the retail-
price index.  The U.K. is scheduled to auction 1 billion pounds of
inflation-linked debt due in 2029 tomorrow. Index-linked
securities outperformed nominal gilts, gaining 1.73 percent this
year through yesterday, while conventional gilts lost 1.4
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  