-- PPC CEO Gordhan Sees Volumes Increasing as Much as 4%
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-01-16T11:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ppc-ceo-gordhan-sees-volumes-increasing-as-much-as-4-.html
Pretoria Portland Cement Ltd. (PPC) ,  South
Africa ’s largest cement maker, may increase production in the
country by as much as 4 percent this year, Chief Executive
Officer Ketso Gordhan said.  Volume will probably climb by 3 percent to 4 percent,
Gordhan said in a mobile-phone interview. He took office
yesterday after replacing Paul Stuiver, who resigned as part of
a  succession plan  announced in October.  “South Africa is in a very tough environment at the
moment,” Gordhan, 51, said. An oversupply of cement partly
caused by new entrants will have an impact on the market in the
first quarter of 2014, he said.  South African cement sales fell 3.8 percent in the third
quarter as widespread  strike action  and slower economic growth
sapped demand. PPC sales rose 8 percent in the year through
September. Africa’s largest economy probably expanded 2.3
percent in 2012, below a previous estimate of 2.5 percent and
the slowest rate since the 2009 recession,  Standard Bank  said
yesterday. Africa’s biggest economy is expected to grow 2.9
percent in 2013, according to the South African Reserve Bank.  “Without a more buoyant residential and non-residential
building sector, it will be difficult to see volumes bounding
ahead,” said Peter Steyn, an analyst at Macquarie First South
Securities Ltd. “Hopefully government infrastructure delivery
gains pace to bring a new growth driver to the market, as this
tepid growth rate will do little to bring balance.”  Shares in PPC rose 0.7 percent to 32.90 rand by 1:18 p.m.
in Johannesburg, while the FTSE/JSE  Africa  All-Share Index was
unchanged.  Africa Expansion  Sephaku Holdings Ltd. (SEP)  is expected to begin construction of
a new production facility in 2013, and PPC is “unlikely to be
unscathed” by the arrival of new supply, said Peter Steyn, an
analyst at Macquarie First South Securities Ltd.  PPC is expanding outside South Africa via acquisitions
including a 51 percent stake in Rwanda’s Cimerwa Ltd. for $69.4
million. It also agreed to buy about half of Ethiopia’s Habesha
Cement Share Co. alongside South Africa’s Industrial Development
Corp. in July. The Johannesburg-based company plans to announce
two more projects in Africa this year as it looks to boost
profit, Gordhan said.  Gordhan, who has worked in South African President  Jacob
Zuma ’s office, was previously the head of private equity at
FirstRand Financial Services Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  