-- Queens Park Rangers Sign Striker Loic Remy From Marseille
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-01-16T14:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/queens-park-rangers-sign-striker-loic-remy-from-marseille.html
Queens Park Rangers signed striker
Loic Remy from Marseille to reinforce its attack as the English
Premier League’s bottom team strives to avoid relegation.  QPR didn’t specify the transfer fee, which it said is a
club record. It’s 8 million pounds ($12.9 million), according to
the Press Association. Remy, who scored four goals in 17
appearances for  France , joins on a 4 1/2-year contract.  QPR manager  Harry Redknapp  praised club chairman Tony Fernandes’s efforts in recruiting Remy.  “He’s a great buy for us,” Redknapp told the club
website. “I didn’t think we’d get him to be honest, but Tony
Fernandes worked ever so hard on this. He wouldn’t give up on
it, and it’s great that we now have him here with us.”  Remy, 26, previously played for Lyon, Lens and Nice. He was
also linked with a move to Newcastle but QPR offered 80,000
pounds a week in salary, double the Magpies’ offer, according to
the  Daily Mail .  “He’s quick, can score goals and makes great runs,”
Redknapp said. “His movement is excellent. He’s got the
potential to be a really outstanding striker.”  Remy said Redknapp played a “big part” in his decision to
join.  “I spoke to him and  Tony Fernandes  at length and they made
it clear they wanted me here,” he said. “They gave me the
right motivation to join QPR. This season the objective is to
stay up but beyond that we have greater objectives. This is the
right time for me to pursue a new challenge in the Premier
League, the best league in the world.”  M’Vila Too?  Another France international, Rennes midfielder Yann
M’Vila, is also poised to join QPR for 7 million pounds,
according to the PA.  West London-based QPR has won only two of 22 league games
this season, picking up 14 points of a possible 66. Former
Tottenham coach Redknapp took over as manager in November,
replacing the fired Mark Hughes after the team took four points
from the first 12 matches. QPR finished one place above
relegation last season.  QPR won 1-0 at West Brom last night in an F.A. Cup third-
round replay. Remy could make his QPR debut at West Ham in three
days, subject to international clearance of the deal.  Last week defender  Ryan Nelsen  said he’ll leave to become
head coach of Toronto FC in  Major League Soccer , although he’ll
stay with QPR in the short term as it battles relegation.  The club also released forward Kieron Dyer, whose career
has been blighted by injury in recent seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  