-- Sharapova Repeats Shutout as Stosur Stumbles in Australia
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-16T14:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/radwanska-extends-winning-streak-to-advance-at-australian-open.html
Maria Sharapova  moved to the third
round of the Australian Open with the first back-to-back shutouts
in a major in almost three decades. Former  U.S. Open  champion
Samantha Stosur extended a run of flops at her home Grand Slam.  Sharapova will next face No. 25 Venus Williams, winner of
seven major singles championships, after the American beat Alize
Cornet of France 6-3, 6-3 on Rod Laver Arena yesterday. Novak
Djokovic of  Serbia , seeking a third straight championship in
 Melbourne , closed play on the main showcourt by sweeping past
 Ryan Harrison  of the U.S. in straight sets.  The second-seeded Sharapova, 25, from Russia, beat  Japan ’s
Misaki Doi 6-0, 6-0 and became the first woman in 28 years to
make it through two rounds at a Grand Slam tournament without
losing a game. Wendy Turnbull of Australia did it at the 1985
Australian Open.  “It’s not really the statistic I want to be known for,”
Sharapova told reporters after her 47-minute victory. “I want
to be known for winning Grand Slam titles, not that I won two
matches 6-0, 6-0.”  With temperatures forecast to rise to as high as 39 degrees
Celsius in Melbourne today, women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka 
of Belarus faces Greece’s Eleni Daniilidou in the first match of
the day on Rod Laver Arena. That’s followed by reigning U.S.
Open and Wimbledon champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. against
 Spain ’s Garbine Muguruza. U.S. Open champion  Andy Murray  of
Britain plays Portugal’s Joao Sousa while Wimbledon champion
 Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  faces Russia’s Nikolay Davydenko in
the evening session.  Stosur ‘Choke’  Ninth-seeded Stosur fought back to lead Zheng Jie of China
5-2 in the third set and twice served for the match on Rod Laver
Arena before losing 6-4, 1-6, 7-5. The 28-year-old lost in the
first round 12 months ago after breaking through for her first
major title at the 2011 U.S. Open. She’s never gotten past the
fourth round in 11 appearances at Melbourne Park.  “It’s a pretty hard one to take when you get yourself well
and truly into a winning position,” Stosur, who gifted Zheng
the match-clinching point with her ninth double fault, said in a
news conference. “At 5-2 up in the third, double break,
probably is a bit of a choke.”  Sharapova, who didn’t play a tuneup after withdrawing from
the Brisbane International because of a collarbone injury,
completed a career sweep of the four majors at last year’s
 French Open . She won more than three times as many points as
Doi, who only struck one winner.  Radwanska’s Run  Women’s No. 6 seed Li Na, a finalist in 2011, earlier
advanced along with men’s No. 4  David Ferrer  and fifth-seeded
Tomas Berdych. Former top-ranked women Ana Ivanovic and Jelena Jankovic set up an all-Serbian matchup in the third round by
winning in three sets.  Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 4 seed from Poland who tuned
up by winning titles in Auckland and Sydney, beat Irina-Camelia
Begu of Romania 6-3, 6-3 to extend her win streak this year to
11 matches. Five other women also have won two lead-up events
since the Australian Open moved permanently to its January slot
in 1987. None of them advanced past the semifinals.  “I’m very happy I’ve been able to play my best tennis
since the beginning of the year,” the 23-year-old Radwanska,
who’s yet to drop a set this season, said in a televised
courtside interview. “It’s always great to win in two sets.”  Djokovic Cruises  Djokovic set up a third-round match with Davis Cup winner
Radek Stepanek of the  Czech Republic  by beating Harrison 6-1, 6-
2, 6-3. Fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic, the No. 8 seed, won in
five sets.  “This was definitely a better performance than the first
round,” Djokovic said in a news conference. “I managed to play
in a very high level already in the second round of a Grand
Slam, which is very encouraging for the next challenge.”  No. 5 Angelique Kerber of Germany also was a straight-set
winner and will next face Madison Keys, a 17-year-old American
who upset No. 30 Tamira Paszek of Austria 6-2, 6-1. Keys won a
U.S. Tennis Association playoff last month to earn a wild-card
berth at the tournament.  “She’s been around and she’s done well the last couple
years,” Keys said of her matchup with Kerber. “If I just focus
on what I’m doing, then it doesn’t really matter.”  Slovakia’s 15th seed Dominika Cibulkova lost to 159th-
ranked Russian qualifier Valeria Savinykh. Li, who followed her
2011 runner-up finish in Melbourne by securing China’s first
Grand Slam singles title at the French Open, beat Olga Govortsova of Belarus 6-2, 7-5.  Ferrer in Four  Spain’s Ferrer, who led the men’s tour with seven titles
last season, needed four sets to defeat Tim Smyczek of the U.S.
That set up a clash with 2006 runner-up  Marcos Baghdatis  of
Cyprus who ousted Tatsuma Ito of Japan.  Berdych, playing with a career-high fifth seeding at a
major, beat France’s Guillaume Rufin in straight sets. The Czech
reached the quarterfinals in Melbourne the past two years and
could play Djokovic in this year’s last eight.  Sixteenth-seeded Kei Nishikori, who reached the
quarterfinals 12 months ago in the best Grand Slam performance
by a Japanese man, beat Carlos Berlocq of  Argentina . No. 20  Sam Querrey , the highest-ranked U.S. player in the men’s draw, will
meet No. 15 Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland in the third round
after both their opponents quit their matches injured.  “He said he kind of just felt his knee almost buckle and
kind of heard like a pop or a snap,” Querrey told reporters
after compatriot  Brian Baker  retired following two games of the
second set in their match.  Jerzy Janowicz, the No. 24 seed, dropped a first-set
tiebreaker 12-10 to India’s Somdev Devvarman and fell behind by
two sets before winning in five sets in exactly four hours. The
Pole will next play 10th-seeded Nicolas Almagro of Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  