-- Raiffeisen CEO Sees Russian Retail Lending Driving Credit Growth
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-01-16T12:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/raiffeisen-ceo-sees-russian-retail-lending-driving-credit-growth.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
owner of the third-biggest foreign lender in  Russia , expects
loan growth in eastern Europe to be driven by Russian retail
credit, Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic said.  Raiffeisen, which trails  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  in Russia, expects only subdued credit demand in the Balkans
and “moderate to average” requests for loans in the region
including Poland,  Hungary  and the Czech and Slovak republics,
Stepic said in an interview today while attending a Euromoney
conference in Vienna.  “We’ve had in the past three years much higher lending
rates in central and eastern European markets,” Stepic said.
“It will continue in a slightly reduced fashion, but it will
continue to grow much faster than” in western  Europe , he added.  Raiffeisen and its peers, owners of three-quarters of the
banking assets in post-communist Europe, bet that the region
will have higher growth rates than developed Europe and that
banks will expand even faster as consumers and companies use
more banking services. That trend will be intact for years to
come, Stepic said.  “The growth differential is due to the transformation
process from a centralized economy to a free economy,” Stepic
said. “Whether you pick Serbia or Russia, it will be the case.
This will continue to drive growth for the next 10 to 15 years,
the next generation and that makes us very confident.”  The region’s recovery and a pickup of loan growth will
depend on the development of the euro area, Stepic said. “We’ll
see two slow quarters in 2013 followed by a modest upswing
beginning this year and then a better consolidation in 2014,”
he said. “If Europe is performing better, central and eastern
Europe will perform better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in Vienna at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  