-- RasGas Said to Halt Three Qatar LNG Plants This Year for Works
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-01-16T11:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/rasgas-said-to-halt-three-qatar-lng-plants-this-year-for-works.html
Ras Laffan Liquefied Gas Co., one of
two Qatari producers of the fuel, will shut three of its seven
liquefaction plants for maintenance this year, according to
three people with knowledge of the work.  The company’s fourth facility, called a train, will halt in
April, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the information is confidential. Train 3 will be shut in
September and unit 7 will undergo repairs in November, the
person said, adding that the halts will last from three to four
weeks. The Doha-based press office at RasGas, a venture between
state-run Qatar Petroleum and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , didn’t respond
to an e-mail sent today and a phone message seeking comment.  LNG shutdowns in Qatar, the world’s largest producer of the
fuel, may affect short-term prices for natural gas in markets
from the U.K. to Asia. Total maintenance planned for this year
in Qatar will affect less than half the capacity halted in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Production from train 7, one of the largest in the world
with an annual capacity of 7.8 million metric tons of the
chilled fuel, is shipped to Exxon, according to the website of
International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers. Units 3
and 4 can each produce 4.7 million tons and supply  India ’s
Petronet LNG Ltd. and Spain’s Endesa SA and Italy’s Edison SpA,
respectively, according to the Paris-based association.  Qatar started its 14th liquefaction train in 2011, boosting
annual capacity to 77 million tons, or more than 25 percent of
the world’s total. Work is planned on at least 28.2 million tons
of the Persian Gulf nation’s capacity this year, down from 58.7
million in 2012, the data show. There was one unplanned shutdown
last year that halted the 7.8 million ton Train 7 at QatarGas4
for 10 days in September.  LNG for delivery to Northeast Asia in four to eight weeks
has climbed each week since Oct. 8, rising to $17.50 per million
British thermal units on Jan. 7, the highest since June 11,
according to  assessments  by New York-based World Gas
Intelligence. Prices climbed to a record $18.40 last May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  