-- Treasuries Rise for Fourth Day on Debt-Limit Talks
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-01-16T11:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/treasuries-hold-three-day-gain-on-debt-debate.html
Treasuries rose for a fourth day on
speculation political wrangling over the  U.S. debt  ceiling will
curb economic growth, fueling demand for the safety of debt.  Ten-year yields  approached the lowest level in two weeks as
the  World Bank  cut its global-growth forecast, saying austerity
and high unemployment will weigh on developed nations. The
 Federal Reserve  is scheduled to  buy  as much as $1.75 billion of
Treasuries due between 2036 to 2042 today as part of its program
to cap borrowing costs. Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said policy makers may boost monthly debt purchases to
meet their twin goals of stable prices and  full employment .  “The U.S. still has a number of hurdles to clear in terms
of domestic policy and event risks in the weeks ahead that the
market will be cautious about,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London . “There’s
certainly a concern in terms of global prospects. In the near-
term there are going to be intermittent rallies in Treasuries.
Overall our view is that yields will go higher.”  The 10-year  yield  dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 6:50 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in November 2022 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 10/32. The yield fell to 1.81 percent yesterday,
the lowest since Jan. 2.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.27 percent by Dec. 31,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  Emergency Measures  The U.S. government makes about 80 million payments each
month, including for  Social Security , veterans’ benefits,
defense contractors,  law enforcement  and income-tax refunds.  The Treasury uses emergency measures to delay a default as
the total value of debt nears the ceiling. Exhausting the
extraordinary steps without raising the limit would require it
to fund the government with cash on hand, which wouldn’t be
adequate “for any meaningful length of time,” according to
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  Congress has raised or revised the limit 79 times. their
twin goals of stable prices and full employment.  “We will have a serious problem next month” if
politicians don’t raise the borrowing limit, said Kim Youngsung,
head of fixed income in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management Co.,
South Korea’s largest private bond investor. “It will have a
negative impact on the global economy. I hope the problem will
be solved, and yields will go up again.”  Under Pressure  Fitch Ratings said yesterday its AAA credit ranking on the
U.S., France and the U.K. will probably come under pressure this
year because of the slow pace of economic expansion and high
debt levels. Moody’s Investors Service warned Jan. 2 that
further measures to control the deficit were needed to support
the U.S.’s top Aaa standing.  While  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA rating
in 2011, demand for Treasuries was maintained in 2012, sending
the 10-year yield to a record low of 1.38 percent in July.  The World Bank yesterday lowered it global-growth forecast
for this year to 2.4 percent, from a June prediction of 3
percent. It halved its estimate for Japan, cut the U.S.
projection by 0.5 percentage point and forecast a second year of
contraction in the euro region.  The Washington-based bank also lowered projections for
 emerging markets  led by Brazil, India and Mexico.  Industrial Production  U.S. reports today will show  industrial production  slowed
in December while consumer prices were unchanged from a month
earlier, based on  Bloomberg News  surveys of economists. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will both release
fourth-quarter earnings  The Treasury is scheduled to report on foreign ownership of
U.S. securities for November.  Japan raised its holdings of U.S. debt to $1.13 trillion as
of October from $1.06 trillion at the end of 2011, and is on
pace to again become the largest U.S. creditor since slipping to
second place in September 2008. China owns $1.16 trillion.  The Fed is purchasing government and mortgage debt each
month to spur the economy by putting downward pressure on
 interest rates .  “There is the capacity to enlarge it if that were to
become necessary,” the Boston Fed’s Rosengren said yesterday in
a telephone interview with Bloomberg News.  Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said he
sees medium-to-longer-term inflation risks “given the current
stance and anticipated path of monetary policy,” in a speech
yesterday in Rochester, New York. Rosengren votes on monetary
policy this year, while Plosser doesn’t.  This week’s rally has made U.S. government securities the
most expensive in two weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed that includes expectations for
interest rates, growth and inflation, was negative 0.78 percent
today, the least since Jan. 1.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  