-- Recession Replacing Crisis as Concern With Euro Defying Doubters
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-01-16T13:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/recession-replacing-crisis-as-concern-with-euro-defying-doubters.html
Europe ’s biggest headache is
suddenly the economic threat posed by the strengthening euro, a
currency some analysts didn’t expect to survive into 2013.  The euro’s jump to the strongest in more than 10 months
prompted Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker to warn
yesterday that a “dangerously high” currency would make it
harder to turn the economy around by raising export costs.  Debt-stricken southern Europe dragged the overall euro zone
into recession in the third quarter of 2012. The malaise has
reached  Germany , with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
today cutting its growth forecast for 2013 to 0.4 percent.  Juncker’s plea is unlikely to have “any lasting effect on
the euro as long as the European Central Bank is not ready to
accommodate any attempt to weaken the euro,” Copenhagen-based
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  analysts led by Arne Rasmussen said in a
research note today.  The euro averaged $1.2860 in 2012, dipping as low as
$1.2061 on July 24 and rising as high as $1.3458 on Feb. 28. It
approached that upper bound on Jan. 14, touching $1.3404. It
bought $1.3273 at 2:30 p.m. Brussels time, down 0.3 percent.  ECB President Mario Draghi noted last week that the euro’s
exchange rate is at its long-term average. ECB Executive Board
member Peter Praet was quoted in La Libre Belgique today as
calling the exchange rate “one variable to be factored in.”  The euro exchange rate is “not a major concern,” ECB
council member Ewald Nowotny told reporters in Vienna today.  Juncker, who next week ends eight years of chairing euro
finance meetings, became the first policy maker to label the
export-crimping effect of the currency’s rise as a more pressing
concern than the three-year debt crisis.  Juncker’s Efforts  “It was said last year that the euro zone was at risk of
breaking and I said last year that this won’t happen,” Juncker
told business leaders in Luxembourg. “The euro zone has become
more stable after lots of efforts, some from me.”  With  Greece  now drawing on a revised aid package and
declines in borrowing costs providing a cushion for Spain and
 Italy , the European headlines have been dominated by concerns
over growth and unemployment.  The ebbing of financial tensions in Europe, indications
that an ECB interest-rate cut is off the near-term agenda, and
speculation that  Japan  is seeking a weaker yen have contributed
to the euro’s start-of-year advance.  A further rise in the euro is likely to wear down the ECB’s
resistance to cutting its main policy rate from 0.75 percent,
according to London-based Citigroup Inc. economists including
Juergen Michels.  Rate-Cut Forecast  “Considering the importance of the exchange rate for
growth and price stability, in our view a further strengthening
of the euro will have an impact on ECB policy, probably as a
factor for an interest-rate cut,” Citigroup said in an e-mailed
note today.  Euro-area joblessness climbed to 11.8 percent in November,
the highest since the euro’s debut in 1999. The average masked
rates as low as 4.5 percent in  Austria  and as high as 26.6
percent in Spain.  “I don’t think the crisis is over,” Peter Bofinger, a
member of the German government’s council of economic advisers,
told Bloomberg Television yesterday. “On the financial markets,
the situation has been stabilized, but this is not sufficient to
stabilize the situation in the real economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  