-- ResCap Wins Approval to Try to Sell Defaulted Loans
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-16T19:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/rescap-wins-approval-to-try-to-sell-defaulted-loans.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt mortgage company whose parent is owned by the U.S.
government, won court approval to try to sell a pool of
defaulted loans with a balance of about $130 million.  The mortgages are the best of about $1 billion in bad loans
that ResCap was forced to repurchase after borrowers quit
paying, according to papers the company filed earlier this month
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  ResCap “identified those loans that will be attractive to
a number of prospective bidders, which are expected to result in
the highest average market price for the loans sold,” the
company said in the filing. ResCap picked about 650 loans that
have the best information about the value of the homes.  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell its major assets and resolve legal claims related
to mortgage loans. The company is owned by  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,
a Detroit-based auto lender majority owned by U.S. taxpayers.  Last year, the company held auctions for the most valuable
ResCap assets -- its loan-servicing business and a separate
portfolio of mortgages.  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  won the Oct. 24 auction for the loan-
servicing unit with a bid of $3 billion. The next day,  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  won the auction for a portfolio of ResCap’s loans
with a $1.5 billion offer.  ReCap’s 6.5 percent bonds that mature in April climbed
1.7 percent to 29.25 cents on the dollar, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 