-- Tri Pointe Homes Files to Raise Up to $187 Million in IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-16T17:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/tri-pointe-homes-files-to-raise-up-to-187-million-in-ipo.html
Tri Pointe Homes LLC (TPH) , a homebuilder
controlled by Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital Group LLC,
filed to raise as much as $187.2 million in its initial public
offering, seeking to cash in on growing demand for new homes.  Tri Pointe and Sternlicht, who currently owns 83.5 percent
of the company, are offering 11.7 million shares at $14 to $16
each, according to a regulatory filing today.  Tri Pointe is the second U.S. builder to announce plans to
go public since early December as housing stocks surge.  Taylor
Morrison Home Corp. (TMHC) , based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , is seeking to
raise $250 million in an IPO, according to a Dec. 5 filing. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding index of 11
companies has about  risen  74 percent in the past 12 months.  “Housing is taking off and has years to run,” Stephen
Duffy, an investment banker with Moss Adams Capital LLC in
 Irvine , said in an e-mail. “While small, this conversion to the
public market will allow TRI Pointe and Starwood Capital to
leverage their capital with less-expensive public-market debt
and equity. This will fuel the next phase of growth.”  Tri Pointe, led by Chief Executive Officer Douglas Bauer
and two former executives he worked with at William Lyon Homes,
builds houses in California and  Colorado , markets where demand
has been rising as employment improves after a five-year housing
slump. U.S. home prices rose 7.4 percent in the 12 months
through November, the biggest increase since May 2006, CoreLogic
Inc. reported yesterday.  Starwood, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , committed to
invest $150 million in the homebuilder in 2010. Sternlicht is
chairman of the company.  A Starwood fund will own about 51.7 percent of Tri Pointe’s
common stock after the offering, or 46.1 percent if underwriters
exercise the option to buy additional shares, according to the
filing.  The IPO terms suggest Tri Pointe will be valued at about
$474 million, based on the midpoint of the range. Citigroup
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and FBR Capital Markets Co. are the lead
underwriters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  