-- RRSat CEO Says Sales to Beat Estimates: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-17T08:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/rrsat-ceo-says-sales-to-beat-estimates-israel-overnight.html
RRSat Global Communications Network
Ltd. (RRST)  will earn more revenue than analysts estimate in 2013 as
the Israeli satellite video provider benefits from rising demand
for live sports events, Chief Executive Officer Avi Cohen said.  The company is also targeting more acquisitions after
buying SM2 Sports & Media Solutions, an international
distributor for the  National Football League , in November, Cohen
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York
yesterday. Revenue will increase 4.9 percent to $118.5 million
this year, according to the  mean  of two analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a good chance that we’ll beat” sales
projections, said Cohen, who was appointed RRSat’s CEO on June
27. “We’re moving aggressively into managing video and sporting
events, and turning that into content for television channels.”  RRSat, based in Airport City,  Israel , rallied 3.2 percent
to $7.7 in  New York  yesterday, the highest level since February
2011. The stock has soared 80 percent over the past year, making
it the sixth-biggest gainer on the  Nasdaq Telecommunications
Index. (CUTL)  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-
traded Israeli stocks rose the most in a week, led by  Nova
Measuring Instruments Ltd. (NVMI)  and  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)   RRSat held $37 million in  cash  at the end of the third
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and would
consider taking on debt to make an acquisition, Cohen said.  “We have definitely made M&A part of our growth
strategy,” he added. “You can assume we’re looking at targets
and possibilities.”  ‘Over Promising’  Israel’s TA-25 Index fell for a fourth day in five,
dropping 0.2 percent to 1,206.86 at 9:52 a.m. in  Tel Aviv . The
Bloomberg Israel-US gauge rose 0.4 percent to 86.37 yesterday.  RRSat’s adjusted net income fell  short  of analysts’
estimates in every quarter in 2010 and twice in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cohen took over as CEO with a mandate to remake a company
that had a “history of overpromising and underdelivering,”
Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said yesterday
by phone from New York.  “Cohen is all about developing a growth strategy for a
company that has underperformed expectations,” said Uerkwitz,
who has a perform, or neutral, rating on RRSat. “The SM2
acquisition was a big step in that direction. That’s why
investors are getting excited.”  More Float  RRSat has 4 million shares publicly traded, which compares
with 52.7 million shares for  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the country’s
largest mobile phone operator.  “When the price is right,” RRSat will consider increasing
the company’s float, Cohen said. “If the market gets to where
the price should be, a secondary is definitely a possibility.”  Nova Measuring surged in New York to  widen  its premium
versus the Israeli shares to 41 cents, the most since Oct. 31.
Nova shares traded in New York jumped 5.5 percent to $8.27 on
trading volume that was three times the stock’s three-month
daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock in Tel Aviv this morning rose 4.6 percent to 30.65
shekels, or the equivalent of $8.22.  Mellanox, the Israeli developer of data-management
technology, gained 3.2 percent in New York to $52.74, the
highest since Jan. 2. Shares traded in Tel Aviv today gained 2.4
percent to 196 shekels, or $52.59.  Perion Networks Ltd. (PERI) , which sells e-mail, photo sharing and
Internet security products, gained 1.1 percent to $12.33 as
Benchmark Co. began  coverage  with a buy rating and a 12-month
price target of $17. Perion shares in Israel yesterday advanced
1.2 percent to 47.23 shekels, or $12.67.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  