-- Ruble Gains on Oil as Ulyukayev Warns of ‘Currency War’
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-16T22:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/ruble-slides-second-day-as-world-bank-growth-cut-curbs-risk-bets.html
The ruble appreciated against the
dollar in late Moscow trading as oil rallied in New York.
Central banker Alexei Ulyukayev said leading economies are on
the brink of a “currency war.”  Russia ’s currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.3110 per
dollar by 11:50 p.m. in Moscow, after earlier slipping as much
as 0.5 percent. The ruble was little changed at 34.8094 against
Bank Rossii’s dollar-euro basket, used by policy makers to
smooth exchange-rate moves that crimp exporter competitiveness.  Crude, Russia’s biggest export earner, closed 1 percent
higher at $94.24 a barrel in New York, the highest level since
Sept. 18, as government data showed U.S. stockpiles fell more
than expected last week. Other nations may follow  Japan  in
devaluing their currencies to lift competition, hurting the
global economy, First Deputy Chairman Ulyukayev told a
conference in Moscow.  Russia has curbed interventions aimed at stemming ruble
appreciation after buying 15.3 billion rubles ($503 million) of
foreign currency since the start of the year.  “The central bank didn’t intervene in the market much for
the last few days, which freed the ruble rate,” Anna Bogdyukevich, an Aton Capital analyst in Moscow, said by phone.  Bank Rossii, which manages the world’s fourth-largest
stockpile of international reserves, didn’t intervene in
December for the first month since at least August 2008, when
the regulator started publishing the data.  ‘More Flexible’  The ruble was little changed against the euro, sliding less
than 0.1 percent to 40.3075. Yields on Russia’s generic 10-year
ruble-denominated notes gained 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 6.9541 percent, the highest since August.  “The ruble is now far more flexible” as the central bank
moves toward toward targeting inflation instead of the exchange
rate, Neil Shearing, chief emerging market economist at Capital
Economics in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note. “The ruble now
moves broadly in line with changes in Russia’s overall balance-
of-payment position, a key determinant of which remains the
price of oil.”  Bank Rossii bought foreign currency at the start of the
year to curb the ruble’s appreciation after the biggest jump in
four months on the first day of trading Jan. 8. The regulator
didn’t buy or sell currency Jan. 14, according to its most
recent data.  The yen gained for a second day after touching its lowest
level in two years against the dollar this week on bets the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  will raise its 1 percent inflation target and introduce
more monetary stimulus at its Jan. 21 to Jan. 22 meeting.  ‘Weakening the Yen’  “Japan is weakening the yen and other countries may
follow,” Bank Rossii’s Ulyukayev said.  South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso led Asian gains
in 2012, prompting policy makers in the two nations to clamp
down on the use of currency forwards in the fourth quarter.
 Taiwan ’s central bank has intervened to weaken its dollar on
most days in the past nine months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified.  Indonesia ’s central bank is supporting the rupiah in
response to “out of proportion” concerns about the current-
account deficit, Governor Darmin Nasution told reporters in
Jakarta Jan. 11.  Brazil ’s central bank has used currency derivatives to buy
and sell dollars, fueling speculation policy makers are pursuing
a currency-band policy to strike a balance between reviving the
economy and stemming annual inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  