-- Rupee Drops a Second Day as RBI Says Limited Room for Stimulus
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-01-16T04:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/rupee-drops-a-second-day-as-rbi-says-limited-room-for-stimulus.html
India’s rupee weakened for a second
day after the central bank said policy makers have limited room
to stimulate economic growth.  Inflation, which slowed to a three-year low of 7.18 percent
in December, is still “quite high,” Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao 
told management students yesterday in Lucknow, in the northern
state of Uttar Pradesh. The shortfall in India’s  current account ,
the broadest measure of trade, widened to a record $22 billion
in the quarter ended September, official data showed on Dec. 31.
Asia’s third-largest economy has the widest budget deficit among
the world’s biggest emerging nations.  “The backdrop for the rupee is likely to remain
challenging,” analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc, including Hong
Kong-based  Paul Mackel , wrote in a report today. “This is due
to two reasons: the ongoing widening of its twin deficits,
particularly the current-account deficit, and the difficulty for
the government to tackle these issues ahead of a number of state
elections this year.”  The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 54.7400 per dollar as of
9:38 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged
at 9.80 percent.  The macroeconomic condition in India is a cause for concern
and the nation will be lucky if  gross domestic product  expands
5.5 percent in the year ending March, Subbarao said. The BSE
India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares rose through 20,000 yesterday
for the first time since January 2011, on speculation the
 Reserve Bank  of India will reduce interest rates this month and
the government will continue efforts to boost growth.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.73 per
dollar, compared with 55.60 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.61 versus 55.44. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  