-- Rupiah Forwards Weaken on Concern Exports Will Extend Declines
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-01-16T02:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/rupiah-forwards-weaken-on-concern-exports-will-extend-declines.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards dropped
after the  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast, adding to
concern the Southeast Asian nation’s exports will extend
declines. Government bond yields were at a one-month high.  Global funds pulled 2 trillion rupiah ($205 million) from
holdings of local-currency sovereign  debt  this month,  finance
ministry  data show. The World Bank forecasts the global economy
will expand 2.4 percent in 2013, compared with the 3 percent
gain it predicted in June. Indonesia’s  overseas sales  contracted
for an eighth month in November, prompting a second straight
trade deficit, according to the latest official data.  The rupiah’s one-month non-deliverable forwards declined
0.1 percent to 9,905 per dollar as of 8:59 a.m. in Jakarta, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s 2.2 percent weaker than the
spot rate, which fell 0.3 percent to 9,690, prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg show. A daily  fixing  used to settle
non-deliverable forward contracts was set at 9,859 yesterday by
the Association of Banks in  Singapore .  “The rupiah’s weakening is driven by concern over the
trade situation,” Suriyanto Chang, Jakarta-based head of
treasury at PT Bank QNB Kesawan. “Expectations for slower
global growth will weaken demand and further worsen exports.”  The currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
unchanged at 6.75 percent, the highest level since September.  The Finance Ministry raised 9 trillion rupiah at a
securities auction yesterday, exceeding its 7 trillion rupiah
target, Robert Pakpahan, director general at the debt management
office, said yesterday. Investors bid for 2.5 times the amount
offered.  The yield on the government’s 5.625 percent notes due May
2023 was little changed at 5.27 percent, the highest level since
Dec. 12, according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  