-- Russia Rate Wording Pits Morgan Stanley Against Easing Calls
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-16T12:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/russia-rate-wording-pits-morgan-stanley-against-easing-calls-1-.html
Russia’s central bank removed a
reference to  interest rates  being adequate, pitting banks
including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  against market consensus in predicting
an increase in borrowing costs.  Policy makers dropped a phrase that money-market rates are
acceptable for the “nearest future” in a statement on
yesterday’s decision to leave the  refinancing rate  at 8.25
percent for a fourth month. While a Bloomberg survey and
contracts used to speculate on three-month borrowing costs point
to lower rates later this year, the last time this language
disappeared, interest rates were raised the next month.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is fine-tuning the
regulator’s interest-rate outlook after economic expansion
slowed to the weakest pace since a recovery began in 2010 and
inflation accelerated further beyond the regulator’s goal. Bank
Rossii now has a free hand to raise or lower borrowing costs at
the next board meeting in February, Alexey Ulyukayev, a first
deputy chairman of the central bank, said today.  “Non-food and core inflation will rise further in the
first half, and this will prompt a hike,” Jacob Nell, an
economist at Morgan Stanley in Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail.
“I’ll wait to see inflation data before being more specific
about timing.”  Investor Bets  Investors, who switched to betting on lower interest rates
in November for the first time in six months, are now pricing in
24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, cut in rates over the
next three months, according to forward-rate agreements tracked
by Bloomberg. That’s down from 35 basis points the day before
the rates meeting in December and compares with a jump of as
much as 54 basis points forecast on May 17.  President  Vladimir Putin  said Dec. 12 that work to refrain
price growth may take priority over short-term growth. Speaking
at a televised government meeting in Moscow today, Putin said
the economy’s slowdown late last year was a “cause of concern”
and demanded further analysis of any additional fiscal or
monetary stimulus that Russia may still deploy to shore up
demand.  Russian equities dropped for a second day, with the 50-
stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  losing 0.4 percent to 1,509.48 by 3:49 p.m. in
Moscow after falling 0.9 percent yesterday. The ruble was little
changed at 30.3350 per dollar.  Imbalances, Risks  “Softening monetary policy by lowering rates or deploying
additional elements of quantitative easing would be
counterproductive” because  Russia ’s economic growth is near its
potential, Ulyukayev said. “That’s likely to produce new
imbalances, new risks for different segments of the economy.”  November  data  suggested the economy continued to cool
gradually, with industrial output and retail trade stabilizing
at “low” growth levels and investment slowing, Bank Rossii
said in its statement.  Gross domestic product  rose 2.9 percent
from a year earlier in the third quarter of 2012, compared with
4.9 percent in the first.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said today that assuring
stable economic growth of 5 percent is the government’s top
priority in the coming years. GDP gained about 3.5 percent in
2012 from a year earlier, according to Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach . The government projects 3.6 percent expansion
this year.  Rates Held  As well as keeping the refinancing rate flat, meeting the
forecasts of all 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, Bank
Rossii left the overnight repurchasing rate that’s used to
provide banks with liquidity at 5.5 percent and the deposit rate
at 4.5 percent, also in line with forecasts.  It last removed the “nearest future” wording from its
statement in August before raising the refinancing rate a
quarter-point the following month, becoming the biggest
emerging-market central bank to increase borrowing costs in
2012.  Price growth  quickened to 6.6 percent from a year earlier
in December after remaining at 6.5 percent the previous two
months and stood at 6.8 percent as of Jan. 9. Consumer prices
may rise more than 0.5 percent in January from the previous
month, Klepach said today.  The central bank wants to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent this year, a range it was forced to abandon last year.
Price growth may slow to within the target band in the second
quarter, Ulyukayev said.  ‘Measured’ Growth  December’s increase was driven by food prices and passenger
transport costs, while price-growth for non-food items
“remained measured,” Bank Rossii said. Inflation remaining
above target may influence economic expectations and cause
inflation risk, it said.  “I expected, and expect, rates will be raised in the first
quarter if inflation exceeds 7 percent,”  Julia Tsepliaeva ,
chief economist at  BNP Paribas (BNP) , said by e-mail. “If inflation
is below this level, rates will be kept unchanged.  Market consensus suggests policy makers’ next move will be
to reduce borrowing costs. Bank Rossii will cut rates in the
second quarter after leaving them unchanged in the first,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists. The cost to
fix floating interest payments in rubles for a year using rate
swaps is 7.2987 percent today, down from last year’s high of
7.81 percent on July 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Top government officials including Klepach and Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov today joined calls for more easing.
Monetary stimulus is ‘‘essential,” as loan rates charged by
commercial banks are choking economic expansion, Klepach said.  Lower Rates  “Now there’s all the necessary grounds to expect lower
rates,” Siluanov said in an interview. September’s rate
increase has “served its purpose,” he said.  The central bank is preparing the ground “to cut policy
rates to accommodate a soft patch in the economy and generally
contained inflation,” said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  Yaroslav Lissovolik, head of research at Deutsche Bank AG
in Moscow, predicts monetary policy will be eased in the spring.  Nevertheless, the change in the central bank’s policy
statement has injected an element of uncertainty into its future
direction on borrowing costs, particularly in light of the
heightened inflation pressure, according to  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Moscow.  “Dropping the words about the policy rates’ adequacy to
the current macroeconomic stance speaks about increasing chances
of a rate hike than a rate cut,” he wrote yesterday in an e-
mailed note, though he predicts the regulator won’t raise rates.
“The purpose of the central bank’s comments is to calm down
market expectations about an early rate cut already in the
second quarter of this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  