-- Russian Rate Debate Flares Up as Cabinet Seeks Growth
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-01-17T10:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/russian-rate-debate-flares-up-as-cabinet-seeks-growth.html
Russia ’s government clashed with the
central bank over its reluctance to stimulate the country’s
sagging economy, with President  Vladimir Putin  urging an
evaluation of both fiscal and monetary measures to boost growth.  Bank Rossii has “all the necessary grounds” to signal a
future cut in borrowing costs, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
said yesterday and Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said
monetary stimulus was “essential.” Easing policy would be
“counterproductive,” said Alexey Ulyukayev, the central bank’s
first deputy chairman.  “We should analyze whether we have really exhausted these
measures’ potential in this situation, or whether, given the
European recession, it still makes sense to keep doing something
to stimulate demand using budget or monetary-policy measures,”
Putin said in Moscow yesterday.  Economic growth  in the largest energy exporter has
decelerated to the weakest pace since a recovery began in 2010
as weakening demand from  China  and  Europe  hurts exports. The
slump is challenging Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose
final term expires in June.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  traded 0.4 percent higher at
1,521.16 at 2:21 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble was little changed at
30.3005 per dollar against the dollar and slid 0.4 percent to
40.4595 against the euro. Non-deliverable forwards, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements, showed
the ruble at 30.7140 in three months.  Dropped Phrase  The central bank on Jan. 15 removed a reference to interest
rates being adequate, a move that preceded the rate increase in
September when Bank Rossii became the biggest emerging-market
regulator to increase borrowing costs last year.  Policy makers on Jan. 15 removed a reference to interest
rates being adequate for the “nearest future” from the
statement following a decision to keep borrowing costs unchanged
for a fourth month. The central bank left the refinancing rate
at 8.25 percent, the overnight and one-week repurchase rates
used to provide banks with cash stayed at 5.5 percent and the
overnight deposit rate remained at 4.5 percent.  The change in the wording split economists, with banks
including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  saying monetary tightening may follow,
while a Bloomberg survey and contracts used to speculate on
three-month borrowing costs point to lower rates this year.  Free Hand  Bank Rossii now has a free hand to raise or lower borrowing
costs at its next board meeting in February, Ulyukayev said. A
slowdown in Russia’s corporate lending growth since September
shouldn’t be blamed on higher rates the central bank set that
month, Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman Alexei Simanovsky said
today. While companies complain they’re being charged too much
for credit, banks counter they can’t find enough reliable
borrowers, he said.  Assuring stable economic growth of 5 percent is the
government’s top priority in the coming years, Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev  said yesterday. Gross domestic product rose
about 3.5 percent in 2012 from a year earlier, according
Klepach. The government projects 3.6 percent expansion this
year.  “We think that Russia has definitely exhausted its
potential to grow further through private consumption and should
start to invest heavily and efficiently,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki, said
by e-mail. “The government should have been asking such
questions a couple of years ago already.”  Economy Slumps  Slowing economic growth at the end of the year, reflected
in industrial output, investment and agriculture, may be caused
not only by the global economy, Putin said. December’s  inflation 
rate of 6.6 percent was “very low,” especially when compared
with an average 12.75 percent in 2000-2010, Putin said.  The central bank wants to hold  inflation  at 5 percent to 6
percent this year, a range it was forced to abandon last year.
Price growth may slow to within the target band in the second
quarter, Ulyukayev said.  “Softening monetary policy by lowering rates or deploying
additional elements of quantitative easing would be
counterproductive” because Russia’s economic growth is near its
potential, Ulyukayev said. “That’s likely to produce new
imbalances, new risks for different segments of the economy.”  November data suggested the economy continued to cool
gradually, with industrial output and retail trade stabilizing
at “low” growth levels and investment slowing, Bank Rossii
said in its Jan. 15 statement.  Investor Expectations  Investors, who switched to betting on lower  interest rates 
in November for the first time in six months, are now pricing in
17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, of rate cuts over the
next three months, according to forward-rate agreements tracked
by Bloomberg. That’s down from 35 basis points the day before
the rates meeting in December and compares with a jump of as
much as 54 basis points forecast on May 17.  Market consensus suggests policy makers’ next move will be
to reduce borrowing costs. Bank Rossii will cut rates in the
second quarter after leaving them unchanged in the first,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists.  “Such relative hawkishness of the central bank might be an
effort to counter massive pressure for easing, which is coming
from the government and the president,” Vladimir Osakovskiy,
 Bank of America  Merrill Lynch’s chief economist in Moscow, said
by e-mail yesterday. “We still think that the central bank will
start to cut rates sooner rather than later, possibly from March
or the second quarter as economy is very weak and inflation is
not a major problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  