-- Sabanci Expects Minimum $1 Billion Valuation for AvivaSA in Sale
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-01-16T10:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sabanci-expects-minimum-1-billion-valuation-for-avivasa-in-sale.html
Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) ,
Turkey’s second-largest group of companies, said any sale of
shares in pensions and life insurance provider AvivaSA Emeklilik
& Hayat AS should value the company at a minimum of $1 billion.  “If we don’t get at least $1 billion market value, we
won’t offer it to the public,” Haluk Dincer, head of Sabanci’s
retail and insurance group, told reporters in Istanbul yesterday.  Sabanci and London-based  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-
largest insurer by market value, have agreed in principle to
hold the initial public offering, Dincer said. They will sell
equal amounts of shares and will evaluate the company’s
performance this year to decide on the minimum stake to be sold,
he said. Sabanci and Aviva each own 49.8 percent.  An IPO may value AvivaSA at $900 million, Is Invest,
 Turkey ’s biggest broker by trading volume, said yesterday.
Sabanci and Aviva may offer 20 percent to 25 percent to the
public, Kutlug Doganay, vice president of research at Is Invest,
said by phone yesterday.  Sabanci Holding and Aviva plan to sell the stake next year,
Sabanci Chairwoman Guler Sabanci said at a news conference in
Istanbul yesterday, before Dincer spoke.  Sabanci estimates that AvivaSA made a profit of 44 million
liras ($25 million) last year, an increase of 8 percent on 2011,
Dincer said. It ranks second among Turkish pension and life
insurance providers in terms of funds managed, with 4 billion
liras as of Jan. 4, according to the Istanbul-based  Pension
Monitoring Centre , ran by insurers and the Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  