-- Sabic Poised to Report Profit Decline as Europe Demand Stutters
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-16T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sabic-poised-to-report-profit-decline-as-europe-demand-stutters.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  may
report a 14 percent decline in annual profit, highlighting the
petrochemical maker’s struggle with slowing economies in Europe
and a resurgent U.S. chemical industry.  Net income  at the world’s largest petrochemical company by
market value probably fell to 25.1 billion riyals ($6.7 billion)
from 29.2 billion riyals last year, according to 14 analysts
polled by Bloomberg. The Riyadh-based company may report 
results as early as Jan. 19.  The U.S. shale gas industry is testing the long-standing
advantage that state-owned Sabic has had from proximity to the
world’s largest reserves.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  is adding an ethylene
plant in  Texas  fueled by local shale supplies. Heightened
competition comes at a time when demand among European
automotive and construction clients has ebbed.  “The shale-gas revolution in  North America  is really a
game changer,” Ahmed Shams El Din, Cairo-based director of
equity research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in an e-mail.
“It provides the chemicals industry with cheap and sustainable
access to ethane and methane gas that will facilitate building
low-cost chemical and fertilizer capacity.”  Sabic  shares  rose 0.3 percent to 93.75 riyals in Riyadh
yesterday, bringing their advance this year to 4.5 percent.  Slashed Demand  Europe’s economic woes also reduced demand for Sabic. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 global growth forecast
to 3.3 percent, the slowest since the 2009 recession, from a
July forecast of 3.5 percent. The fund, which lowered its 2013
forecast to 3.6 percent from 3.9 percent, warned of even slower
expansion unless the U.S. and Europe address threats to their
economies.  Lower pricing has weighed on earnings this year, with
further pressure stemming from weak demand for polymers and
derivates against a backdrop of slowing growth in China and
volatility in energy prices, El Din said.  Subsidiaries also suffered from shutdowns.  Saudi Kayan
Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  on Jan. 13 fell the most in six months after
quarterly results for the affiliate of Sabic missed estimates
for the eighth consecutive time.  “In terms of its subsidiaries, Saudi Kayan started off a
year ago and has yet to report any significant profitability,”
said Muhammad Faisal Potrik, an analyst at Riyad Capital.  Subsidiaries Suffer  Saudi Kayan’s fourth-quarter loss widened to 195 million
riyals from 191 million riyals in the year-earlier period. That
missed estimates for losses of 50.3 million riyals at NCB
Capital and 28 million riyals at Securities & Investment Co.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , known as Safco, is 43 percent
owned by Sabic and  Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co. (YANSAB)  is 51
percent owned. Both also reported a decline in quarterly
earnings.  Petrochemical and plastic products represented 75 percent
of the kingdom’s non-oil exports in November, according to data
from the Central Department of Statistics and Information in
Riyadh. Asia was the top destination for non-oil exports at 40
percent, followed by the  Middle East  at 29 percent.  Sabic’s results will provide a window on European chemical
companies, from synthetic rubber-maker  Lanxess AG (LXS)  to  BASF SE. (BAS) 
The company has taken five years to integrate GE Plastics, which
it bought in 2007 for $11.6 billion in it’s biggest transaction
to date.  “Sabic’s consolidated earnings are also leveraged to Sabic
Innovative Plastics, which is currently loss making due to high
feedstock prices and relatively weak end market demand in
automotive, construction and electronics,” El Din said.  Fifteen analysts have a buy rating on Sabic shares, and one
recommends holding them, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter results may show some improvement as
pricing pressure eased, said Mohammed Al-Omran, a financial
analyst and president of the Gulf Center for Financial
Consultancy in Riyadh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  