-- Samsung, Nordstrom, Budvar, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-16T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/samsung-nordstrom-budvar-apple-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is the
leading corporate applier for patents on a new carbon substance
for which two scientists at the University of Manchester won the
 2010 Nobel Prize in physics , the  BBC   reported .  The substance, known as “grapheme,” is a single layer of
carbon atoms and, as the thinnest material ever created, has
potential uses in a wide range of technologies, according to the
BBC.  CambridgeIP , which has been tracking grapheme-related
patent applications, reported that of the 7,351 patents and
applications filed by the end of 2012, International Business
Machines is second to Samsung in seeking patents on the
technology, according to the BBC.  China  is the country that is the source of the most patent
applications -- 2,200 -- while the U.K. has only 54, a situation
that has caused  David Willetts , that nation’s science minister,
to say “we need to raise our game,” the BBC reported.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nordstrom Fails to Get Order Against ‘Beyond the Rack’ Mark  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the Seattle-based clothing chain, failed in
its attempt to get a court to bar a Canadian retailer’s use of
“Beyond the Rack.”  The Seattle chain filed a trademark-infringement lawsuit in
August claiming that 755525419  Canada  Inc.’s use of “Beyond the
Rack” infringed trademarks related to Nordstrom’s  Nordstrom
Rack  unit, which sells “clearance” merchandise.  Beyond the Rack  sells clothing on the Internet through its
“flash sale” site. For these sales, customers are alerted,
typically by e-mail, and typically have 48 hours in which to
make a purchase. Unlike Nordstrom, Beyond the Rack has no brick-
and-mortar presence, according to court papers.  The public probably would be confused and the Canadian
company was trying to piggyback on the  Seattle  chain’s fame and
prestige, Nordstrom said in its pleadings filed in federal court
in Seattle.  U.S. District Judge Thomas S. Zilly was unpersuaded by
Nordstrom’s arguments. He said that many stores use “rack”
somewhere in their names, and more than 500 registered U.S.
trademarks also contain the word. Nordstrom’s “Rack” and “The
Rack” trademarks “occupy a crowded field of similar marks,
with each member of the field enjoying a relatively weak ability
to prevent use by others in the crowd,” he said.  Zilly determined that Nordstrom failed to present
sufficient evidence that consumers were actually confused by the
similarity of names used by the Seattle and Canadian companies.  Nordstrom also failed to demonstrate it would suffer
irreparable harm if the Canadian company was to continue to use
“Beyond the Rack,” Zilly said.  “Nordstrom has provided no analytic or evidentiary support
for the contention that its reputation or goodwill has been or
will be diminished” by the Canadian company’s continued use of
“Beyond the Rack,” he said in denying the request for a court
order.  The case is Nordstrom Inc. v. 7525419 Canada Inc., 2:12-
cv-01387, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Washington 
(Seattle).  Apple, Amazon Settlement Talks Scheduled in ‘Appstore’ Case  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Amazon.com Inc. were ordered to hold
settlement talks to try to resolve the iPhone maker’s trademark-
infringement lawsuit over the online retailer’s use of the term
“app store.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte in San Francisco
directed the companies to confer on March 21 and to bring their
lead attorneys and people who have full authority to negotiate
and settle the case, according to a court filing yesterday. A
trial is scheduled for August.  Apple is seeking a court order to block Amazon from using
the term Appstore in its service to sell software for devices
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. Apple alleges
the online retailer infringes its trademark and violates unfair
competition laws.  Apple started its App Store in 2008. Amazon, which started
its service in March 2011, says the term is a generic one that
Apple doesn’t have exclusive rights to. Amazon won dismissal
this month of Apple’s claim that the use of the term is false
advertising.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
order. An e-mail message seeking comment sent to Seattle-based
Amazon’s press office wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-01327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (Oakland).  Both Budvar and Anheuser-Bush Permitted ‘Budweiser’ Name in U.K.  Budejovicky Budvar NP and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  may both
sell beer in the U.K. under the Budweiser name, Britain’s
Supreme Court ruled, the Associated Press  reported  yesterday.  The court said it rejected Anheuser-Busch’s request to
reverse a lower court ruling, which said Czech Republic-based
Budvar could keep the name, according to AP.  State-owned Budvar told AP that  Belgium ’s Anheuser-Busch
won’t be permitted to appeal the Supreme Court ruling.  Apple Sued in Russian Court Over Use of Russian Railways Mark  Apple Inc., maker of the iPad and iPhone, was sued for
trademark infringement in a Moscow court yesterday, the Russian
state news agency RIA Novosti  reported .  The suit was brought by Russian Railways, which objected to
what it said was unauthorized use of its logo in Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s  App Store , according to RIA Novosti.  The logo allegedly shows up in the “Railway Tariff” app,
which provides estimates related to cargo delivery in  Russia ,
RIA Novosti reported.  Although RIA Novosti failed to reach Apple for comment by
its deadline, the news service reported that Moscow’s Court of
Arbitration confirmed the filing of the suit.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  MIT Embrace of Web Freedom Clashes With Hacking Case Criticism  The  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology -- the first
university to require professors to make their work freely
available after publication -- has posted class materials online
for a decade. Last year, it joined with Harvard to offer free
courses on the Web. MIT’s faculty includes a hacker who was
fined $10,000 for releasing a computer virus.  Yet when Aaron Swartz broke into an MIT network to download
millions of research articles he intended to post publicly, he
found himself in a tricky legal area that MIT itself hasn’t
resolved. U.S. prosecutors indicted him on fraud charges.
Swartz, who advocated that access to information shouldn’t be
restricted to people who can afford it, faced as long as 35
years in prison and a $1 million fine if convicted. The 26-year-
old hanged himself in his  Brooklyn , New York, apartment Jan. 11.  Now students, faculty and top administrators at MIT are
asking why the campus, known for its openness, got involved in
the case in the first place.  MIT President Rafael Reif said Jan. 13 that he ordered an
investigation of the institute’s role in Swartz’s case. The
school declined to comment beyond that statement “both out of
respect for those grieving Aaron’s death and because we do not
want to get ahead of the forthcoming analysis,” spokeswoman
Kimberly Allen said in an e-mail.  In 2009, MIT’s faculty voted to require that professors
make their work publicly available after publication.  MIT has been a haven for computer hackers and advocates of
free access to information. Richard Stallman, who founded the
Free Software Foundation in 1985, was an MIT computer scientist.
Robert Tappan Morris, who was fined $10,000 and ordered to
perform 400 hours of community service for releasing a “worm”
computer virus in 1988, is on MIT’s computer-science faculty.  Swartz was accused in a 2011 federal indictment of gaining
unauthorized access to JSTOR, a subscription-service for
academic journals, and downloading more than 4 million of them.
According to a federal indictment, Swartz made a number of
attacks on the JSTOR system from Sept. 24, 2010 to Jan. 6, 2011,
while he was a fellow at Harvard University’s  Safra Center for
Ethics , according to the indictment.  While JSTOR settled its claims with Swartz, the Justice
Department charged him with wire fraud, computer fraud,
unauthorized access to a protected computer and computer damage.  Massachusetts U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz dismissed the case
yesterday in a federal court filing, citing Swartz’s death.  The case was U.S. v. Swartz, 11-cr-10260, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Warner Music Sued by Composer Gershwin’s Heirs Over Royalties  Warner Music Group Corp. was sued by George Gershwin’s
heirs over claims they’re owed $4.5 million in royalties and
interest from works of the late composer of “ Rhapsody in Blue” 
and “ Porgy and Bess .”  The claims relate to the rental of Gershwin’s works outside
the U.S. and Canada, worldwide licensing of ballets, worldwide
licensing of concert grand rights and Warner Music’s failure to
register copyrights in a timely manner, according to the
complaint filed Jan. 11 in New York state court in  Manhattan .  The heirs, including a nephew and niece of George and Ira
Gershwin, said in the complaint that in 2007 they reviewed
Warner Music’s books and records, which they said revealed
“significant non-payments and/or underpayments of royalties and
other amounts” as well as other contractual breaches.  The heirs are also conducting two other examinations
related to other “worldwide and traditional income issues” and
may bring additional claims, they said in the complaint.  James Steven, a spokesman for Warner Music, declined to
comment Jan. 14 on the lawsuit.  George Gershwin died in 1937. Besides “Rhapsody in Blue”
and “Porgy and Bess,” he is known for his “An American in
Paris” symphonic work, and at least 15 musical comedies
performed on Broadway.  The case is Gershwin v. WB Music Corp., 650117/2013, New
York State Supreme Court, County of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  