-- San Francisco Lawmaker Proposes Naming Airport After Harvey Milk
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-01-16T02:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/san-francisco-lawmaker-proposes-naming-airport-after-harvey-milk.html
San Francisco  International Airport,
the seventh-busiest in the U.S. by passenger traffic, may be
renamed to honor assassinated gay-rights leader Harvey Milk.  The proposal would go before voters on the Nov. 5 ballot if
a measure introduced yesterday by Supervisor David Campos is
approved by the Board of Supervisors.  “It’s about time that an out gay person was recognized on
this international scale,” state Assemblyman Tom Ammiano of San
Francisco, a member of the legislature’s  Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual
and Transgender Caucus , said in a statement released by Campos’s
office.  Harvey Milk San Francisco International Airport would be
the first in the U.S. to be named after an openly homosexual
person and follows voter approval of same-sex marriage ballot
measures in three U.S. states in November. Milk, a member of the
Board of Supervisors, or city council, was the first openly gay
man elected to public office in the U.S.  Milk and Mayor George Moscone were shot to death in  City
Hall  in 1978 by former Supervisor Dan White.  California  law
designates May 22, Milk’s birthday, as Harvey Milk Day, when
schools are encouraged to commemorate his life.  The airport proposal may come up for a vote by the
supervisors in as soon as two weeks, said Nate Allbee, a
legislative aide for Campos.  ‘Significance, Potential’  “Harvey recognized the significance and potential of San
Francisco, a place where the LGBT community and others would
find inclusion and the celebration of diversity,” Stuart Milk,
Harvey Milk’s nephew, said in the Campos statement.  “It’s about sending a message that recognizes the
contributions of this openly gay man who gave his life for his
beliefs,” Campos, who is gay, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “It provides an opportunity to recognize the dignity
of LGBT people.”  San Francisco became the first government in the U.S. to
grant marriage licenses to same-sex couples in 2004 after then-
Mayor Gavin Newsom, now California’s lieutenant governor,
ordered the city to issue them. The process was halted by a
court challenge.  The U.S. Supreme Court is preparing to hear arguments in
March on the constitutionality of California’s Proposition 8,
which bans same-sex marriage, and the constitutionality of the
federal Defense of Marriage Act, which limits marriage benefits
to opposite-sex couples.  “The airport does not have an opinion on this matter and
if it becomes legislation, it would be a measure that the voters
of San Francisco would render judgment on,” said Doug Yakel, a
spokesman for San Francisco International.  San Francisco International is ranked behind John F.
Kennedy International in  New York  City among the busiest U.S.
airports, with 40.8 million total passengers in 2011, by the
 Airports Council International North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  