-- Santander, Intesa Lead Peripheral Bank Bond Sales as Risk Rises
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-16T11:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/santander-intesa-lead-peripheral-bank-bond-sales-as-risk-rises.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  led bond issuance from Europe’s peripheral lenders
even as the cost of default insurance on the region’s financial
debt climbed for a seventh day.  The Markit iTraxx Financial index of credit-default swaps
linked to 25 banks and insurers rose three basis points to 137
at 11:50 a.m. in  London , the highest since Jan. 1. German cable
operator Unitymedia, a unit of  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , is also in
the market with a high-yield note offering.  The extra yield investors demand to hold financial company
bonds compared with government debt fell to 159 basis points on
Jan. 14, the lowest since February 2008, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro Financials  index  shows. Bond issuance from  Europe ’s
periphery totaled 6.3 billion euros ($8.4 billion) last week,
the busiest period since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Conditions are fairly strong for peripheral banks, and
many investors have a sense that they need to buy into what is
offered,” said Joseph Faith, a credit strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. “It’s going to be much harder to generate
returns in 2013 than in 2012, with spreads pretty tight
already.”  Santander,  Spain ’s biggest lender, is selling 1 billion
euros of bonds due 2020 that will be priced to yield 275 basis
points more than the mid-swap rate, according to people familiar
with the sale. It’s the Madrid-based bank’s first note issue of
the year.  Debt Decline  Santander’s debt was among the biggest decliners in Bank of
America Merill Lynch’s Euro Corporate  index . The bank’s 4.75
percent bonds due 2019 dropped 1.5 percent to 86.4 cents on the
euro, the lowest since Jan. 3, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy’s second-largest lender, is raising
1 billion euros from covered bonds due 2025 that will yield 150
basis points more than swaps, people familiar with the
transaction said. The Turin-based bank raised $3.5 billion from
bonds last week, with its first benchmark sale in the U.S. in
almost two years.  Banca Popolare, Italy’s oldest cooperative bank, is also
selling 750 million euros of three-year notes that will be
priced to yield 360 basis points more than the benchmark mid-
swap rate.  Unitymedia Hessen GmbH & Co. KG and Unitymedia NRW GmbH are
selling 10-year bonds in euros with a five-year call date.  Faurecia Bonds  Bonds of  Faurecia (EO)  SA, Europe’s biggest maker of car
interiors, were the biggest fallers in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial High-Yield Index after the company
said debt exceeded forecasts as auto production in the region
contracted. The company is 57 percent-owned by PSA Peugeot
Citroen.  The Nanterre, France-based company’s 3.75 percent bonds due
2019 dropped 1.9 percent to a two-week low of 107.76 cents on
the euro.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is holding an investor roadshow for a sale of
953 million euros of bonds backed by German  car loans . Europe’s
largest carmaker sold the region’s first corporate bonds of the
new year last week and was the biggest issuer of debt in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  is also meeting investors before a
possible sale of undated subordinated hybrid bonds in euros. The
Vienna-based company, which is part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB, is considering raising funds to help finance
the acquisition of new mobile spectrum in  Austria .  In credit derivative markets, the cost of insuring against
default on junk-rated European companies climbed for a third
day. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
jumped 6 basis points to 437. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
contracts on 125 investment grade companies was little changed
at 106 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  