-- Scene Last Night: Wall Street Women Scoop Trading Awards
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-01-16T16:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/scene-last-night-wall-street-women-scoop-trading-awards.html
Jennifer Litwin, a senior director
at Greenwich Associates, once sang an aria in a prospect’s
office right off the trading floor.  “The meeting wasn’t going well” Litwin said. When she
told him she’d been an opera singer before entering finance, he
challenged her to demonstrate.  Knowing how to float out Puccini’s “O mio babbino caro” is
one of the talents that landed Litwin a Traders Magazine  Wall
Street  Women Crystal Ladder Award. It was one of nine such 
honors presented to 15 women last night at the Waldorf Astoria.  “Women have worked hard for a long time in a locker room
atmosphere,” Kenneth Heath, the publisher of Traders Magazine,
said. “If you’re smart and tough enough, you last, just like a
guy.”  Being nice also works, said  Michael Pachter , managing
director in equity research at Wedbush Securities, introducing
his boss, Sheri Kaiserman, head of equities at the firm, and
winner of the Excellence in Leadership Award.  “Because she is so nice, we feel comfortable taking risks.
If we mess up it’s OK,” Pachter said.  Kaiserman said for a long time she attributed her success
to luck and running with the opportunities given to her. In her
acceptance speech, she unveiled a new attitude:  “My success is a result of my skills and hard work,” she
said, arms raised in Rocky-style victory. “That was really
hard. I practiced it over and over with my husband.”  Traders Magazine  Among the other winners, profiled in the November 2012
issue of Traders Magazine: Peggy Bowie, senior trader, Manulife
Asset Management, for lifetime achievement; Nancy D. McLaughlin,
Managing Director, Sales and Business Development, ConvergEx 
Group, also lifetime achievement; Kerry Byrne, senior vice 
president, First Eagle Investment Management, in the Crystal 
Ladder category; and Cathy Wilson Rosen, a senior trader
at Zweig-DiMenna Associates LLC, for charitable work on behalf
of St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.  An independent advisory board of seven female leaders in
the securities industry selected the winners, Traders Magazine
Editorial Director Tom Steinert-Threlkeld said. (Understandably,
because there are no women on the editorial masthead of the
magazine.)  Industry Trailblazers Award winner Donna Sims Wilson,
executive vice president at Castle Oak Securities LP, addressed
the issue of balancing work and family.  “My friend and mentor Myra Lapeyrolerie told me, ’You can
have it all, but you can’t have it all at the same time,’” Sims
Wilson said.  Besides the manifold examples of women who’ve thrived on
Wall Street, the strongest message on how women can advance in
the industry came from  Stephanie Ruhle , an anchor on Bloomberg
Television.  Action Clubs  “Why moan about the old boys clubs,” Ruhle said in the
keynote address. “Stop complaining and create the womens clubs.
Make them less about cocktailing and more about action.”  The comment led to an impromptu announcement concerning the
format of the event.  “We won’t have an open bar next year, so best to go get a
drink now,” Heath, the maestro of the ceremony, said.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Richard Vines  on food and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  restaurants.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 