-- SEC Sues Broker Alleging Insider Trades Tied to Galleon
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sec-sues-broker-alleging-insider-trades-tied-to-galleon.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused a former broker at Incremental Capital LLC of
insider trading in an action tied to the case of former Galleon
Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer.  Eric Rogers, 31, of Oceanside, New York, then a proprietary
trader at Spectrum Trading LLC, a registered broker-dealer in
New York, the SEC alleged in federal court in Manhattan. In
August and September 2007, Rogers traded ahead of the
announcement of the corporate acquisition of 3Com Corp., using
nonpublic information obtained by Brien Santarlas and Arthur Cutillo, then lawyers at the Boston-based law firm Ropes & Gray
LLP, the agency said yesterday in its complaint.  The case has been settled,  John Nester , a spokesman for the
agency said. While terms of the settlement weren’t immediately
available on the SEC’s litigation website yesterday, the accord
includes Rogers not having to pay any fine and agreeing to be
barred from working in the financial industry, his lawyer said.  “We have resolved this case on the grounds that Mr. Rogers
has no money and is no longer working on Wall Street,” Joseph
Ryan, a lawyer for Rogers, said in a telephone interview.  Passed Information  In exchange for kickbacks, Cutillo and Santarlas passed the
information that affiliates of Bain Capital Partners LLC would
acquire 3Com, the SEC alleged. Using Cutillo’s college roommate,
Jason Goldfarb, as a conduit, the two lawyers passed the tip to
 Zvi Goffer , a former proprietary trader at Schottenfeld who then
passed the tips to his brother Emanuel, Rogers and others, the
SEC said.  Rogers allegedly purchased shares of 3Com in August and
September 2007, earning illicit profit of almost $207,000, the
SEC said.  Zvi Goffer, 35, later founded Incremental Capital after he
was fired from Galleon, his lawyer told jurors at his 2011
trial. While the SEC alleges that the insider-trading occurred
while Rogers was at Spectrum, records for the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority indicate that Rogers worked at Incremental
between August and November 2009.  Zvi Goffer and his brother, Emanuel, were convicted of
federal insider-trading charges along with Michael Kimelman the
co-founder of Incremental Capital, in a 2011 trial in federal
court in New York. The Goffers and Kimelman were sentenced to
prison. Santarlas, Goldfarb and Cutillo all pleaded guilty and
were sentenced to prison.  The case is U.S. v. Rogers, 1:13-cv-00374, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 