-- SEC’s Hired Gun on High-Frequency Trading Gets Permanent Role
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-16T00:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sec-s-hired-gun-on-high-frequency-trading-gets-permanent-role.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has promoted its computer-trading specialist,
boosting his office’s effort to scrutinize rapid-fire trading’s
impact on equity markets.  Gregg E. Berman, who holds a doctorate in physics from
Princeton University, was named today as associate director of
the SEC’s new office of analytics and research. Berman had been
working at the agency on a temporary appointment to improve the
SEC’s monitoring of electronic trading, and his contract would
have expired in October.  “Though the markets may be complex, they are not
impenetrable, and I am confident in our abilities to continue
developing data-driven analyses to inform policy,” Berman said
in a statement.  Under Berman, the SEC has started using a system, dubbed
Midas, to collect trading data generated by exchange companies
such as  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  The system gives
the SEC access to the same data acquired by banks and high-
frequency traders.  Berman, 46, also played a key role in writing a rule, known
as the consolidated audit trail, which requires exchanges to
track all orders and trades.  Such tools are intended to give the SEC quicker insight
into market disruptions caused by complex, computerized trading
systems. The SEC’s report on the 2010 stock market disruption,
commonly called the “flash crash,” took five months because
the agency lacked access to the necessary data.  Luring Analysts  Employing fewer than 10 people, Berman’s office is still
trying to lure Wall Street analysts and specialists. Those who
have been hired were offered two-year stints, due to restraints
on the SEC’s ability to hire permanent, non-attorney employees.  Berman said the temporary positions haven’t been an
obstacle to attracting analysts, who are allowed to work in the
SEC’s  New York  regional office.  “Coming into the SEC is a big commitment for many people,
especially if they are from The Street,” Berman said in a phone
interview. “They have experiences, families, and there seems to
be an appeal to saying you are not signing up forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  