-- Serb Central Bankers May Leave Benchmark Rate Unchanged
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-01-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/serb-central-bankers-may-leave-benchmark-rate-unchanged.html
Serbia ’s central bank probably will
leave borrowing costs unchanged as a December slowdown in
inflation and the strengthening dinar may prompt policy makers
to temporarily refrain from a fourth consecutive increase.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will keep the
benchmark  one-week repurchase rate  at 11.25 percent after
raising it from 10.95 percent last month, according to 13 of 22
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Nine expect a quarter-point
increase and one sees a quarter-point cut. The central bank will
announce the decision at around noon today in Belgrade.  The bank’s monetary policy runs counter to other
authorities in eastern  Europe , where rates are falling to halt
economic slowdowns amid Europe’s debt crisis. Serb rate setters
are still concerned about long-term inflation and are trying to
bring it down to its target band of 2.5 percent to 5.5 percent
this year after price growth jumped to 12.2 percent in 2012.  “We think this is just a pause, not an end to  interest
rate  increases,” said Andrej Knez, an analyst at Zagreb-based
Hypo Alpe- Adria-Bank DD.  The National Bank of Serbia began raising its benchmark
rate last June from 9.5 percent, citing elevated inflationary
expectations and higher-than-expected growth in food and
regulated prices.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s five-month-old coalition
government is seeking to curb price increases and restart growth
after the economy contracted an estimated 2 percent in 2012,
betting on higher exports of  Fiat SpA (F)  cars produced in Serbia
and more sales of crude oil products abroad for growth.  Inflation Pickup  Though December consumer prices fell from the previous
month for the first time in a year, the annual rate rose from
11.9 percent in November, the statistics office reported on Jan.
11.  Inflation has been accelerating since April, when it fell
to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food prices amid
a drop in farm output. Prices continued to rise even as the
economy fell into its second recession in three years and
consumer demand contracted as wages remained tame and
unemployment expanded.  The central bank re-introduced reverse repo operations last
month, citing increased liquidity at banks and a need to mop up
excess to avoid a spillover into aggregate demand, inflation and
the dinar  exchange rate .  Inflation is likely to peak by the end of the first quarter
of this year, said Ljiljana Grubic, an analyst with the
Belgrade-based Raiffeisen Bank AD.  “If they decide to keep the rate on hold, it may well be
because the outstanding repo stock is expanding and there is no
need for the central bank to pay such a high interest rate to
banks,” said Grubic. “The central bank may easily continue to
raise the rate as proof that the inflation targeting remains
their monetary policy framework.”  The central bank has repeatedly said its rate decisions
depend on fiscal-consolidation efforts by the government, which
wants to narrow this year’s budget deficit to 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product from 6.7 percent in 2012.  The gap in December was the second-highest monthly
shortfall last year, according to Finance Ministry data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  