-- Shinsei Sets Up Japan Nursing Home Fund Before REIT Listing
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-01-16T02:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/shinsei-sets-up-japan-nursing-home-fund-before-reit-listing.html
Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303) , the Japanese bank
partly owned by J.  Christopher Flowers , set up a fund that
bought a nursing home for 1.7 billion yen ($19 million), as it
plans to list a health-care real estate investment trust.  The bank has raised about 500 million yen from individual
investors and financed the rest of the purchase through loans,
said Takashi Fujimura, the general manager of Shinsei’s health-
care finance division. It plans to set up separate funds to
acquire at least one property each quarter as it prepares for
its 100 billion yen REIT listing in 2014, he said.  The so-called bridge fund will become a part of Shinsei’s
health-care REIT that will invest in nursing homes and
properties for retirees in  Japan , which has one of the world’s
fastest-aging populations. One in every four people in Japan
will be older than 65 in 2014, compared with 9.6 percent in
 China  and 14 percent in the U.S., according to data compiled by
the U.S. Census Bureau.  “The interest generated from individual investors
confirmed our belief that the REIT will do well,” Fujimura said
in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Because the rental income
generated from retiree homes is steady, it provides a very
stable return for investors.”  The government set up a committee in September to discuss
how to allow the listing of health-care REITs in an effort to
increase the supply of such facilities. Shinsei is a member of
the panel representing the financial sector, according to the
land ministry.  Nursing Shortage  The fund, which costs 2.5 million yen per unit for
individuals to invest, offers a 3.5 percent annual return,
Fujimura said. Shinsei plans to target nursing homes with a
value of at least 2 billion yen, he said.  About a quarter of 421,000 applicants had to wait for the
availability of a bed in public nursing homes in 2009, according
to the latest  data  from the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare. The number of people using elderly care facilities is
estimated to increase by 25 percent to 1.15 million in 2015 from
920,000 in 2011, according to  data  from the Cabinet Office.  Japan has about 4,000 operators of housing projects for the
elderly, Fujimura said. Shinsei will focus on the top operators
and examine their credit as well as the quality and past
performance of each property, he said.  Shinsei also plans to invest in a company that operates a
health-care REIT as a way to enter the market and provide
lending to the trust, Fujimura said.  “This is a very young industry,” said Fujimura. “There
are many small operators. It requires someone with specialized
skill to be successful in this market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  