-- Silver Lake Said to Gather More Than $7 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-16T18:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/silver-lake-said-to-gather-more-than-7-billion-for-fund.html
Silver Lake  Management LLC, the
private-equity firm said to be discussing a potential buyout of
computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL) , has raised more than $7 billion for
its latest fund, according to two people briefed on the matter.  The fund, which officially started gathering money in
March, had raised $4.1 billion as of August, meaning Silver Lake
won about $3 billion since then. Silver Lake Partners IV LP is
seeking $7.5 billion, with the option of raising as much as $10
billion.  Silver Lake, the largest technology-focused private-equity
manager, is among investors in talks with Dell about taking the
company private, people familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg
News  this week. A deal could require buyers to put together
about $22 billion in debt and equity financing, the most for a
leveraged buyout since 2007. Dell founder  Michael Dell  was an
investor in Silver Lake’s first fund.  “By raising a fund of this size Silver Lake can
contemplate a deal the size of Dell, though it will still need
to create a syndicate with other funds or large co-investors to
do it,” said Kelly DePonte, a partner at Probitas Partners LLC
in  San Francisco , which raises money for alternative-investment
firms.  Gordon Goldstein, a spokesman for  Menlo Park , California-
based Silver Lake, declined to comment on the fund. The people
with knowledge of the fundraising asked not to be named because
the information is private.  Advent, Warburg  Silver Lake, founded by  Glenn Hutchins , David Roux and Jim
Davidson, is the largest technology-focused private-equity
manager, with about $14 billion in assets under management. It
is one of the few large buyout firms still able to amass
billions relatively quickly.  Advent International Corp., the Boston-based firm that
began raising money the same month, closed its latest fund at
8.5 billion euros ($11.3 billion) in November. Warburg Pincus
LLC, based in  New York , closed on $6.4 billion in November, more
than halfway to its goal, after entering the market in September
2011.  Like many of its peers, Silver Lake is offering management-
fee breaks to clients that make large commitments to the new
fund, according to a marketing document sent to prospective
investors last year.  The predecessor fund, Silver Lake Partners III LP, was
generating an 18 percent net internal rate of return and a
multiple of 1.5 times invested capital as of June 30, according
to data from  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , a
limited partner. Skype Technologies SA, an investment in the
third fund, generated a more than threefold profit for clients
when the video-chat company was sold to Microsoft Corp. in 2011.  The firm’s strongest returns came from its $2.3 billion
debut fund from 1999, Silver Lake Partners LP, which was
producing a 25 percent IRR and a 2.3 multiple as of midyear,
according to the  Calpers data .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  