-- Singapore Curbs Industrial Property Sales to Avert Bubble
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-17T09:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/singapore-curbs-to-cut-industrial-property-sales-southeast-asia.html
Singapore ’s industrial building
sales may drop 10 percent this year after the city became the
first in  Asia  to impose curbs on such properties, according to
the world’s largest closely held commercial real estate broker.  The government on Jan. 11 imposed as much as 15 percent in
stamp duties on sellers of properties such as warehouses and
logistics buildings to curb speculation after  prices  doubled in
the past three years and outpaced the increase in rents.  “We foresee a substantial short-term impact on the
industrial segment,” Priyaranjan Kumar, the Singapore-based
regional director of  capital markets  at  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc.,
said in a Jan. 15 interview. “Measures targeting the industrial
sector are appropriate given very vocal concerns by local small
and medium scale industries of being increasingly priced out of
the market.”  Ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to do
business for a seventh year, Singapore’s grappling with rising
costs that pushed its inflation to among the highest in the
developed world. The country with an area slightly smaller than
 New York City  said this week land and labor limits will
“increasingly constrain” its economic expansion.  “Industrial property prices have seen one of the fastest
increases in 2012 and the capital values were moving much ahead
of the rentals,” said Vijay Natarajan, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Pte in Singapore. “The government has to retain its
advantage of the cost of setting up business in Singapore and if
that keeps escalating, then it’s a problem for the
attractiveness of Singapore as a business hub.”  Most Severe  The maximum  tax rate  will apply to sellers of warehouses
and factories after one year, with the rate falling to 10
percent in the second year and 5 percent in the third, the
government said. The new rules were effective as of Jan. 12.  The government also added new levies on homebuyers last
week after  residential prices  and sales climbed to a record in
2012.  Low  interest rates  and measures on residential properties
prompted some investors to shift their focus to higher-yielding
warehouses and logistics assets, according to Cushman &
Wakefield. Industrial space returned 6.25 percent to 7.5 percent,
exceeding the 4 percent for apartments and 5 percent for offices,
according to the New York-based property brokerage.  “The recent measures will most likely lead to increased
activity for office and retail strata sales,” Jeremy Lake,
Singapore-based  executive director  of investment properties at
CBRE Group Inc., said in an e-mailed response to queries. “The
strong fundamentals which kicked off the office and retail
strata sales activity 18 months ago remain intact and positive
sentiment is further supporting the market now.”  Declining Volumes  Almost 98 percent of sellers of strata factories made an
average profit of 47 percent or S$263,000 ($215,000), according
to London-based property brokerage Savills Plc. Industrial
properties bought in 2012 and sold in the same year generated a
15 percent return, it said in a  report  sent on Jan. 15.  Strata title refers to ownership of a building that’s
subdivided with shared areas.  Transaction volumes will decline 10 percent this year
because speculators are being driven out of the market, Boon-
Leong Tan, executive director at broker Colliers International,
said in an interview on Jan. 14.  The number of industrial strata title transactions climbed
78 percent to 3,460 last year, according to data from Seattle-
based Colliers, while the value of the sales more than doubled
to S$3.3 billion.  Discouraging Speculation  The government said it introduced the property curbs to
discourage short-term speculative activity that could distort
the underlying prices and raise the costs for businesses.
Singapore’s economy expanded 1.2 percent last year, less than a
quarter of the pace in 2011. Growth is expected to range between
1 percent and 3 percent this year, based on official estimates.  The stamp duties and restrictions on mortgages were the
“most severe and most encompassing” since the government
started curbing gains in residential prices almost four years
ago, according to  Knight Frank .  “The government is concerned with the rising property
prices in Singapore, which has fueled inflationary pressures and
could cause long-term structural problems to the economy if left
unresolved,” Png Poh Soon, head of research & consultancy at
Knight Frank, said in a Jan. 15 statement. “This latest set of
cooling measures is designed to have the maximum impact on the
 property market  to rein in escalating prices.”  REITs Gain  The city’s real estate stock  index  dropped 0.9 percent this
week following the measures.  Ascendas Real Estate Investment
Trust (AREIT) , the city’s biggest industrial trust, climbed 2.9 percent.
 Mapletree Logistics Trust (MLT) , one of the largest logistics property
landlords in the area near the Singapore port, gained 1.3
percent, while  Cambridge Industrial Trust (CREIT)  advanced 1.5 percent.  The stamp duty on industrial properties meant to discourage
short-term speculation is unsurprising given the strong run-up
in prices, analysts Elaine Khoo and Gregory Lui at Deutsche Bank
AG said in a note to clients on Jan. 14.  “For investors, the message is to purchase prudently and
ensure underwriting is not reliant on short-term exits and
financing,” Kumar at Cushman & Wakefield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  