-- Smith & Nephew's Jury Verdict Against Arthrex Revived
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-16T20:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/smith-nephew-s-jury-verdict-against-arthrex-revived.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  won an appeals
court ruling reinstating an $85 million patent-infringement
verdict against Arthrex Inc. over anchoring devices used in
shoulder surgery.  A trial judge erred in overturning the jury verdict, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington said
in an  opinion  posted today on its website. The case was remanded
to the trial judge for further proceedings.  The dispute, first filed in 2004, is over devices that are
anchored to a bone to repair tears in the rotator cuff or in the
labrum, a fibrous ring in the shoulder socket. The June 2011
trial was the third in the case, and the jury found that Naples,
Florida-based Arthrex knew that its anchor used steps similar to
those covered by the patent.  “We see no reason to disturb that finding by the jury,”
Circuit Judge Alan Lourie wrote for the 2-1 majority.  Circuit Judge Raymond Clevenger, in dissent, said the
jury’s verdict won by London-based Smith & Nephew was “not
supported by substantial evidence,” so he would have affirmed
the trial judge’s decision in December 2011 to overturn the
verdict.  “The reinstatement of the June 2011 jury award of $85
million for Arthrex’s infringement activities is affirmation of
the innovation coming from Smith & Nephew,” Joe Metzger, a
spokesman for Smith & Nephew, said by telephone. “We will
continue to defend our intellectual property rights from
infringement by others.”  Considering Options  Arthrex is analyzing the ruling to determine what impact it
may have on another patent dispute between the two companies
that was put on hold pending the outcome of this case, said
Arthrex General Counsel John Schmieding.  “We’re disappointed in the ruling and considering all of
our options,” he said in a telephone interview.  The case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc., 2012-1265,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
lower court case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc., 04cv29,
U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon ( Portland ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  