-- SNS Reaal Falls on Bad Loan Writedowns Report: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-01-16T13:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sns-reaal-falls-on-bad-loan-writedowns-report-amsterdam-mover.html
SNS Reaal NV (SR) , a Dutch bank and
insurer struggling to wind down a money-losing real estate
lending unit, fell the most in more than two months after a
report said it may have to post a 1.8 billion-euro ($2.4
billion) writedown on property-finance loans.  The shares declined as much as 11 percent to 85 euro cents,
the biggest intraday drop since Nov. 6, and were down 6.4
percent as of 1:53 p.m. in Amsterdam. They have fallen 14
percent this year, giving the Utrecht, Netherlands-based company
a market value of 255 million euros.  SNS may have to write down 1.2 billion euros to 1.8 billion
euros on a property finance portfolio of more than 8 billion
euros, Het Financieele Dagblad reported today, citing
unidentified people. A plan to make  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Rabobank
Groep, ABN Amro Group NV investors in a planned bad bank to help
SNS Reaal was blocked by European Union regulators, it said. ING
and ABN Amro had both received state aid.  “We know they need more capital,” said Benoit Petrarque,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets with a
reduce rating on the shares. “In any scenario, whether
involving other Dutch banks or the state, it’s clear that there
will be a massive dilution for existing shareholders.”  Asset Sales  SNS, which acquired ABN Amro’s property-finance unit in
2006, has been hurt by losses on real estate loans that have
left it struggling to repay a government bailout. Its banking
unit’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, fell to 8.8 percent at the end of the third quarter,
below the European Banking Authority’s 9 percent minimum, as
risk-weighted assets and loan losses in the property-finance
unit increased, most recent figures show.  The firm, which went public in 2006, last year started
exploring options to repay state aid while maintaining
sufficient capital. Measures could include asset sales, limiting
credit risks in the property-finance unit and giving a stake in
the bank to the government, it has said.  Jeroen de Graaf, a spokesman for SNS Reaal, said the
company is studying options to come to a “comprehensive
solution.” No decisions have been made, he said by telephone
today. He declined further comment on the report.  Officials at the Dutch Finance Ministry and the Dutch
central bank declined to comment on the report, as did ING,
Rabobank and  ABN Amro  officials.  ‘Rumored Impairment’  The “higher rumored impairment” will lead to more
dilution for shareholders, Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabobank
International with a reduce rating on SNS Reaal, said in a note
today. Kluis had estimated 700 million euros in impairments.  SNS received 750 million euros from the Netherlands in 2008
and 500 million euros from Foundation Beheer SNS Reaal, its
largest shareholder. It sold shares in 2009 to help repay 250
million euros of aid, of which 185 million euros was returned to
the government.  If the lender fails to repay the aid by 2013, European
regulators could force additional asset sales.  “There are ongoing informal contacts at the technical
level between the commission and the Dutch authorities
concerning the situation of SNS Reaal,” Antoine Colombani,
spokesman for EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , told
reporters in Brussels today.  ABN Amro and ING are banned from takeovers as part of
restructuring agreements with the European Commission to gain
approval for state aid during the financial crisis, he said.  SNS Reaal is the smallest of the four Dutch banks
designated as “systemically important,” or too big to fail, by
the Dutch central bank. It has 32.5 billion euros in consumer
savings deposits, according to a presentation published on Nov.
15. ING, Rabobank and ABN Amro are its three larger competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  