-- Soaring Temperatures Put Australian Firefighters Back on Alert
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-16T23:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/soaring-temperatures-put-australian-firefighters-back-on-alert.html
Temperatures in  Australia ’s
southeast are forecast to soar today, creating a return to the
dangerous conditions that’s seen more than 150 homes destroyed
this month as wildfires burn in five states.  South Australia’s state capital, Adelaide, is expected by
the  Bureau of Meteorology  to reach 42 degrees Celsius (108
degrees Fahrenheit) today, while in  Melbourne , which is hosting
the Australian Open grand slam tennis tournament, temperatures
will hit 39 degrees.  “A large mass of hot air has been over central Australia
for several weeks, baking the continent,” said Stuart Coombs, a
Melbourne-based forecaster for the bureau. “The combination of
very low rainfall, very high temperatures and these occasional
stronger winds has given rise to some pretty nasty fire danger
situations and there’s no let up yet.”  Prime Minister Julia Gillard is today inspecting damage at
the New South Wales town of Coonabarabran, 450 kilometers (280
miles) northwest of Sydney, where a fire that destroyed at least
49 homes earlier this week is still burning. That’s among more
than 70 blazes still going in the state, even after firefighters
enjoyed relief earlier this week from cooler weather.  Fires are also burning in South Australia, Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania, where about 100 homes were destroyed
earlier this month. The worst fires in the nation’s history, the
so-called Black Saturday blazes, killed 173 people as they swept
through rural areas of Victoria state in February 2009.  Australia’s dangerous fire season has emerged after two
years of wetter-than-normal conditions led to extensive growth
in grass and scrub, which has subsequently died and dried,
leading to more fuel for fires that often start through
lightning strikes, the bureau’s Coombs said. The continent
registered a national average of 40.33 degrees Celsius on Jan.
7, the hottest day in more than 100 years of records.  “In the next week or so, with no real rain forecast,
there’s not a lot of relief in the offing,” Coombs said.
Sydney, Australia’s largest city, and Canberra, the national
capital, are both forecast by the bureau to reach 38 degrees
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  