-- SocGen Falls in Paris as Cheuvreux Cuts Stock to ‘Underperform’
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-01-16T17:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/socgen-falls-in-paris-as-cheuvreux-cuts-stock-to-underperform-.html
Societe Generale  SA,  France ’s
second-largest bank, fell in Paris trading after CA Cheuvreux
cut its rating on the stock to “underperform,” citing possible
“large negative one-off items” in the fourth quarter.  The lender dropped 2.8 percent to 32.54 euros, valuing the
company at 25.4 billion euros ($33.8 billion). The stock has
risen about 15 percent this year.  Chief Financial Officer Bertrand Badre told analysts
yesterday the bank will have fourth-quarter own-debt charges
higher than third-quarter pretax charges of about 600 million
euros, according to a note by CA Cheuvreux analyst Cyril Meilland and another note by London-based Credit Suisse Group
AG’s analyst Maxence Le Gouvello. Banks book accounting charges
or gains tied to the theoretical cost of buying back their own
debt as market prices fluctuate.  Societe Generale today confirmed by e-mail that it expects
fourth-quarter own-debt charges exceeding 605 million euros
“given the significant tightening of bank spreads” in the
period. The lender also sees a goodwill depreciation on its
stake in Newedge Group SA. It didn’t give an amount.  Newedge is a Paris-based brokerage joint venture between
Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-largest
bank.  Fourth-quarter earnings “are unlikely to be inspiring, and
the first part of the year at least will still be a transition
period for Societe Generale,” CA Cheuvreux’s Meilland wrote. In
corporate and investment banking, the fourth quarter probably
saw “some pressure on equity revenue in November and December,
even though the start of this year has been better so far,”
Meilland wrote.  He estimates that Societe Generale will probably post a net
loss of about 300 million euros in the fourth quarter. The bank
is scheduled to report earnings on Feb. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  