-- Soybeans, Corn Gain on South American Crops; Wheat Rises
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-16T21:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/soybean-futures-advance-on-south-american-crop-concerns.html
Soybeans rose to a three-week high
and corn extended the longest rally in a year on speculation
that warmer, drier weather may hurt crops in  South America ,
increasing demand for U.S. supplies. Wheat also advanced.  Soil moisture  in central  Argentina ,  Paraguay  and southern
 Brazil  will decline during the next seven days with little rain
expected in the following week,  World Weather Inc . in Overland
Park, Kansas, said in a report. Frequent precipitation in
northern Brazil into February will slow soybean harvesting, the
company said.  “The forecast is starting to look more threatening for the
crops in South America,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis, said in a
telephone interview. “We are capping crop potential, and yields
will start to decline in February if the forecast verifies.”  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 1.6 percent to
close at $14.365 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, after reaching $14.39, the highest since Dec. 26. Prices
are up 4.6 percent this week and 24 percent higher than a year
ago.  Corn futures for March delivery rose 0.1 percent to $7.3125
a bushel on the CBOT, after touching $7.35, the highest since
Dec. 10. The price has climbed 7.5 percent over eight sessions,
the longest rally since December 2011.  Smaller Inventories  Soybean and corn inventories on Dec. 1 in the U.S., the
world’s largest grower and exporter last year, were the lowest
for that date in nine years, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said on Jan. 11. Almost 42 percent of the contiguous U.S. was in
severe to exceptional drought as of Jan. 8, government data
show. That’s more than double for the date a year earlier,
before the worst drought since the 1930s cut combined output of
corn and soybeans by the most since 1996.  “U.S. supplies are tight,” Arlan Suderman, the senior
market analyst for Peoria, Illinois-based Water Street Solutions
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The biggest factor is the
forecast for continued dry weather increasing drought conditions
in the Midwest.”  Wheat futures for March delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$7.85 a bushel in Chicago, capping the first four-day gain Nov.
28, after the USDA said farmers planted less winter grain than
forecast by analysts.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest at $14.4 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  