-- Squire Sanders, Milbank, Shearman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-16T15:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/squire-sanders-milbank-shearman-business-of-law.html
Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP’s
antitrust head Mark Botti, decamped to Squire Sanders LLP with
two colleagues, J. Brady Dugan and Anthony Swisher, also
antitrust partners.  Botti, who headed Akin Gump’s antitrust and unfair
competition practice, previously spent 13 years at the U.S.
 Justice Department , where he was the assistant chief of the
Antitrust Division and oversaw hearings by the Federal Trade
Commission on health care during 2004 and 2005.  “The expansion of our antitrust practice has been one of
the key strategic goals of our Washington, D.C., office and our
regulatory practice,” Jim Maiwurm, chairman and global chief
executive officer of Squire Sanders, said in a statement. “As
antitrust scrutiny and enforcement continue to rise around the
world, the addition of this team to the firm’s existing global
antitrust and regulatory capabilities will enhance our ability
to support clients in this strategically critical area.”  Botti represents clients on antitrust matters that include
government investigations, mergers and acquisitions, and joint
ventures. His representative matters include defending Medtronic
Inc. in Lenox MacLaren Surgical v. Medtronic and defending
UnitedHealthcare Insurance Co. in Franco v. Memorial Hermann
Healthcare v. West Houston GP, according to his cached biography
at Akin Gump.  Botti said in an interview that  Squire Sanders ’s global
focus both generally and in its antitrust practice was what drew
him to the firm. His new firm’s U.S. regulatory focus was key as
well, he said.  “In the  United States , what is developing is a stronger
interaction between antitrust enforcement and other government
regulatory bodies,” Botti said. “So, Squire Sanders’s focus
will complement what I will be doing in the future.”  Dugan, a 15-year Justice Department veteran, focuses on
criminal and civil antitrust, fraud and related matters. He also
has experience with international cartel matters and white
collar federal crimes. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
Dugan spent three years in the Justice Department’s Office of
Intelligence Policy and Review, where he appeared before the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the firm said.  Swisher, who has represented clients before the FTC and the
Antitrust Division, also has health-care experience,
representing health plans, according to his cached Akin Gump
biography.  “We thank Mark, Brady and Anthony for their contributions
and wish them well in all future endeavors,” Akin Gump Chairman
R. Bruce McLean said in an e-mail.  Squire Sanders has about 1,300 lawyers at 37 offices in 18
countries.  Milbank Hires Financial Services Regulatory Litigator  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP expanded its litigation
practice with the addition of financial services regulatory
litigator  Charles Evans  as a partner in  London .  Evans joins from Norton Rose LLP, where he handled domestic
and international banking and commercial disputes, and developed
a specialization in contentious regulatory proceedings, the firm
said.  “We are very pleased to add such a prominent and
experienced financial services regulatory litigation partner to
our practice,” Alan Stone, the practice group leader of
Milbank’s litigation and arbitration group, said in a statement.  Evans is the fifth new partner to join Milbank’s London
office in the past eight months. In May, the firm announced the
arrival of corporate lawyer Mark Stamp from Linklaters LLP. In
June, Nicholas Spearing joined from Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP as the office’s first competition/antitrust
partner. In August, Neil Caddy joined from Mayer Brown LLP to
expand the firm’s leveraged finance practice and Clive Ransome
joined the project finance practice from Linklaters, the firm
said.  Milbank has 575 lawyers at 11 offices in the Americas,
Europe and  Asia .  Public Finance Lawyer Rafael Perez Joins Edwards Wildman  Public finance lawyer Rafael Perez joined Edwards Wildman
Palmer LLP as a partner in the public finance department at the
firm’s Madison,  New Jersey , office. Perez was a partner at Cozen
O’Connor, where he was co-chairman of the public and project
finance practice group, the firm said.  Perez has worked on public finance projects, acting as bond
counsel, underwriter’s counsel, trustee’s counsel and borrower’s
counsel. He has also represented corporations and financial
institutions in transactional and general corporate matters.  Edwards Wildman’s office in Madison has expanded to 20
lawyers. The firm has 650 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S.,
London and Asia.  Reed Smith Adds Global Regulatory Enforcement Partner  Reed Smith  LLP announced that Tracy K. Genesen joined the
firm as a San Francisco-based partner in the global regulatory
enforcement group. Genesen joins from Kirkland & Ellis LLP,
where she was a partner focused on regulatory litigation.  During her 23 years in practice, Genesen has developed an
expertise in the area of constitutional law relating to the
interstate sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages,
particularly with respect to wineries, the firm said. She also
provides regulatory advice to producers, retailers and social
media entities in the alcoholic beverage industry. Genesen also
joins the firm’s global energy and natural resources group.  Reed Smith has more than 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the  Middle East .  Deals  Skadden IP Partner Leads Cleveland Browns Stadium Naming Deal  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is advising
FirstEnergy Corp., which announced a naming rights deal with the
 Cleveland Browns  for an undisclosed amount.  The Browns home field, which has been known as Cleveland
Browns Stadium since it was completed in 1999, will now be
called FirstEnergy Stadium.  Skadden intellectual property and technology partner Stuart Levi led the team along with associate Gregory Palumbo.  The energy company, based in Akron,  Ohio , has been a
corporate partner with the Browns since 1999, the company said
in a statement.  The deal must be approved by the Cleveland City Council.  Skadden also represented MetLife Inc. in 2011 in connection
with its 25-year deal to name the Meadowlands Stadium in New
Jersey, where the NFL’s New York Jets and Giants play, MetLife
Stadium, the firm said.  Shearman Advises on Saint-Gobain Sale to Ardagh for $1.7 Billion  Four law firms were involved in  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ’s
agreement to sell the U.S. business of its Verallia glass
bottle-and-jar unit to Ardagh Group SA for $1.7 billion in a
deal that tops the valuation placed on it in an earlier spinoff
attempt.  Shearman & Sterling LLP and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
LLP advised Ardagh. Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP and Bredin Prat
are advising Saint-Gobain.  Shearman & Sterling is representing Ardagh on both the
antitrust and financing side of the deal. London corporate
partner Apostolos Gkoutzinis is leading the financing work,
while New York antitrust partner Dale Collins is leading the
antitrust work.  Antitrust partner  Christine Varney , corporate partner
George Stephanakis and tax partner Stephen Gordon from Cravath
worked on the deal.  The Freshfields team was led by partner Alan Mason in
Paris, with New York-based corporate partner Julian Pritchard.
Paris-based partner Cyril Valentin and Washington-based partner
Claude Stansbury advised on tax issues.  “It puts a high value on our North American containers
business, above the multiples contemplated at the time of the
planned IPO,” said Saint-Gobain Chief Executive Officer Pierre- Andre de Chalendar. In 2011, the French company sought to raise
as much as 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) by selling 40
percent of Verallia in an initial public offering, only to be
prevented by a market slump amid the sovereign debt crisis.  Saint-Gobain is exiting packaging to focus on homebuilding
and renovation products, glass used in cars and construction,
and high-performance materials such as refractories. Closely
held Ardagh, a Luxembourg-based glass and metal packaging
company with clients such as brewer  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and cosmetics
maker  L’Oreal SA (OR) , said the deal will increase its glass business
globally by almost 60 percent and help it win new clients in the
U.S. wine industry.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Exxon Lawyer Tells Jury MTBE Caused No Illness in New Hampshire  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  told a jury that a gasoline additive to
reduce air pollution never caused illness to any resident of  New
Hampshire , which sued  oil companies  claiming the chemical
polluted its groundwater.  Exxon Mobil  and Citgo Petroleum Corp. made opening
statements yesterday in a jury trial of an $816 million lawsuit
in which the state alleges the oil companies knew the chemical
would contaminate groundwater. The state court trial, which
began Jan. 14 in Concord, pits the environmental claims against
assertions by companies that they were simply complying with
federal pollution standards.  “This is not a personal-injury case,” David Lender, a
partner at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP representing Exxon Mobil,
told the jury. “There’s not any evidence that anyone ever got
sick or got cancer from MTBE.” He said there has been no
gasoline sold in the state containing MTBE for more than six
years.  The state claimed that the oil companies knew that if they
added MTBE to gasoline it would increase the risk and costs
associated with contamination.  “Exxon decided to disregard the recommendation of its own
employees and put MTBE in gasoline,” Jessica Grant, a lawyer
for the state, told jurors Jan. 14. “In 1984, Exxon anticipated
that if it added MTBE to its gasoline, the number of
contamination incidents would triple. These incidents would take
longer to clean up and cost five times as much.”  Each cleanup at that time would have cost as much as $7
million, she said.  The companies said the federal  Clean Air Act  overrides the
state claims, and that by adding MTBE to gasoline, they were
complying with a U.S. mandate to supply cleaner-burning fuel.  Oil refiners began adding MTBE to gasoline in the 1970s to
replace lead. From 1995 to 2006, they increased the use of MTBE,
which boosts the fuel’s oxygen level, making it burn more
cleanly.  “We had no choice but to put oxygenates in our gasoline,”
Nate Eimer, a lawyer for Citgo, said yesterday in his opening
statement. “Nothing worked better in cleaning the air than
MTBE.”  James Quinn, also a partner at Weil and a lawyer for Exxon
Mobil, told the jury Jan. 14 that there were “great benefits to
using MTBE but there were downsides. All of these downsides were
known to all the folks involved.”  New Hampshire sued Exxon Mobil and Citgo in 2003 along with
Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc., ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Ltd.,
Vitol SA and  Hess Corp. (HES)  All settled but Irving, Texas-based
Exxon Mobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of Venezuela’s
state-owned oil company,  Petroleos de Venezuela SA . Shell and
Sunoco agreed to pay $35 million in an accord announced in
November.  New Hampshire said it has identified 228 sites that will
require cleanup from contamination by MTBE, which according to
court filings can cause cancer in animals. Tests in 2005 and
2006 found MTBE in 9.1 percent of private wells throughout the
state, it said.  New Hampshire is seeking $816 million to cover cleanup and
monitoring costs, Grant said, and it will ask for damages from
Exxon Mobil and Citgo based on their market shares of gasoline
sold in the state during the time the suit covers.  The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-
C-0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County
(Concord). The federal cases are consolidated as In re MTBE
Products Liability Litigation, 00-11898, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  