-- Stable AAA Gives Scant Relief on Imbalances, Katainen Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-01-16T09:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/stable-aaa-gives-scant-relief-as-imbalances-mount-katainen-says.html
Finland  has emerged as the safest
credit inside the euro area. That assessment does little to ease
Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen’s concerns that his economy run by
aging Finns risks losing competitiveness.  Finland this week became the only euro-area nation to boast
a stable AAA grade at all three major credit rating companies,
after Standard & Poor’s on Jan. 14 raised the nation’s outlook.
Top-rated  Germany  and Luxembourg have negative outlooks at
Moody’s Investors Service, while the Netherlands risks a
downgrade both at S&P and Moody’s.  “The most important signal this credit rating gives to us
and the rest of the world is that we have done something
right,” Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki yesterday.
Yet the regained stable outlook doesn’t ease pressure on the
government, he said. “We cannot afford this because we know
we’re in the middle of two structural challenges, of which the
first one is aging.”  Finland’s economy, saddled with the fastest-aging
population in  Europe , is mired in a recession with the rest of
the single currency bloc. The AAA rating affords Katainen little
relief in negotiating new spending cuts and tax increases with
his six-party coalition as lawmakers start talks in March to
design a budget framework for the next four years.  Haven Status  The Nordic nation, which credit default swaps suggest is a
safer bet for bond investors than Germany, has benefited from
its haven status during Europe’s fiscal crisis. It costs about
30 basis points to insure against a Finnish default, versus 40
basis points to guard against non-repayment of German debt using
five-year contracts, according to data available on Bloomberg.  Investors often ignore rating actions, as evidenced by the
rally in Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in
2011. France and  Austria  were stripped of their AAA scores a
year ago.  Government bond yields in debt-ridden nations in southern
Europe have fallen since November and spreads to benchmark
German securities have narrowed. The difference in yield between
10-year Finnish bonds and similar-maturity German notes narrowed
to 12 basis points today from yesterday’s 19 basis points,
compared with as little as 8 basis points in August.  Finland’s public debt will grow to 54.7 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 53.1 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said on Nov. 7. That compares with an
average debt load of 94.5 percent in the euro zone this year,
after 92.9 percent in 2012, according to the commission.  Crisis Lull  S&P said the Finnish government “appears committed to
pursuing strong fiscal and structural policies that should
enable the economy to grow above 1 percent in the medium term.”
The rating company also said “policy making in Finland remains
prudent, transparent, and consensus-based.”  Europe’s leaders have won some respite from the debt crisis
thanks to European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s July
pledge to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. Policy
makers in Europe should make use of the lull in the turmoil to
enact reforms, re-balance budgets and address external
imbalances,  Moritz Kraemer , managing director at S&P, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television today.  “More important than what the ECB is doing is what the
governments are doing,” Kraemer said. Whenever market pressure
eases, “the risk of complacency looms large,” he said.  Finland can’t afford to postpone reforms, Katainen said.  Aside from an aging population, Finland is also struggling
to keep pace with “an industrial structural change,” he said.  S&P’s ratings on Germany and the Netherlands are
unsolicited, meaning the countries don’t pay the company for the
review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  