-- StanChart Expects 15% Jump in Middle East Project-Loan Pipeline
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-16T08:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/stanchart-expects-15-jump-in-middle-east-project-loan-pipeline.html
Middle East and Africa project
finance loans are set to rise almost 15 percent to about $40
billion this year as borrowers seek funds for petrochemicals,
power and metals production,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said.  Lending will advance from about $35 billion in 2012 because
“infrastructure demand is going to be significant,”  Ravi Suri, Standard Chartered’s Dubai-based head of project and
export finance for the Middle East, Africa, South Asia and
 Europe , said in a Jan. 14 interview. Delays in some projects
last year had muted demand for credit, he said.  “Power and desalination will be huge,” Suri said. “You
will have some petrochemicals, you’ll have infrastructure,
roads, solar, renewables will perhaps play a big role.”  Governments in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council are
investing oil wealth in more than $1 trillion of projects,
including schools and roads in Saudi Arabia and stadiums to host
the 2022 soccer World Cup in Qatar. Among projects set to raise
money in 2013 are Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Dow Chemical Co.’s
$20 billion Sadara Chemical Co. joint venture and Abu Dhabi-
based Emirates Aluminium Co.’s $4.58 billion expansion.  Some European banks cut back on project finance loans to
the Middle East and  Africa  last year amid the euro-zone debt
crisis, a gap largely filled by regional banks and export credit
agencies from  Japan  and South Korea, Suri said. Middle East and
North Africa syndicated lending fell 7 percent in 2012 to $41
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar Loans  Almost 80 percent of the Middle East project finance
pipeline this year will be denominated in foreign currencies
because interest rates on dollar funds are lower than those on
local currencies, Suri said. Companies also prefer longer-
maturity funding in dollars “due to the inability to hedge
long-term in other currencies,” he said.  The three-month Saudi Interbank Offered Rate, the  benchmark 
used by banks in the kingdom to price some loans, jumped 22
basis points last year, the biggest advance since 2005, to 0.995
percent. The jump, which happened as loan growth accelerated at
the fastest pace in more than three years,  tripled the spread 
over the equivalent U.S. rate to 69 basis points, or 0.69
percentage point.  Interest rates may “trend up marginally” this year
because of the strong demand for loans, Suri said. There will
also be a “lot of activity on project bonds” to fund a
infrastructure projects after construction is complete, Suri
said. Middle East and North Africa bond sales jumped 54 percent
last year to a record $49 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  