-- Star Wars Producer Raps Communists in Killer Heroes Movie
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-01-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/star-wars-producer-seeks-to-show-communist-dark-side-.html
After ridding the universe of the
Dark Side of the Force,  Rick McCallum  is aiming his cinematic
light sabers at the Czech Communists.  The 60-year-old “Star Wars” producer moved to Prague with
his Czech wife months before his former employer,  George Lucas ,
sold his company to  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  for $4.05 billion. McCallum
has now started work with local filmmakers on the real-life
escape tale of five anti-Communists who sparked a major manhunt
across East  Germany  in 1953.  He hopes the story of  Cold War  brutality will blunt the
rise of the  Czech Communists , who form part of 10 of 13 regional
councils and could join the national government for the first
time since 1989 in 2014 elections.  “Nothing is more transformative than a film,” McCallum
said in an interview at his new production company in the
historic quarter below  Prague Castle . “It can change people’s
viewpoints, and if it’s a good film, it just might change what
is politically going on in this country before elections.”  After years in isolation, the Communists are again gaining
ground, opinion polls show, even with views that echo back to an
authoritarian past. Communist leader  Vojtech Filip  praised  North
Korea ’s Kim Jong-il after his 2011 death. Also that year,
lawmaker Marta Semelova lauded Cold War-era border guards who
shot at fleeing Czechs and urged more “Bolshevization.”  Armed Resistance  The 80 million-koruna ($4 million) film, which should
appear in Czech cinemas before the elections, is in the pre-
production stages. It plans to tell the true story of the Masin
 brothers , who as teenagers established an armed resistance cell
after the Communists took power in  Czechoslovakia  in 1948.  Ctirad and Josef Masin  were the sons of General  Josef
Masin , executed by the Gestapo for his role in the Czech
resistance. The brothers decided to fight Communism in the
belief that the Americans would soon come and free them from
totalitarianism.  In October 1953, the  brothers  and three other members of
the cell resolved to flee the country and reach the American
zone in partitioned Berlin to join the U.S. army, learn military
insurgency tactics and return to carry on the fight.  After a bungled car-hijacking attempt, they were identified
and pursued by tens of thousands of German officers and Soviet
troops for almost a month. They killed at least three East
German policemen in trying to evade capture.  Escape to U.S.  Three of the group, the Masins and  Milan Paumer , reached
West Berlin, joined the U.S. Army and settled in the States,
while the other two escapees were sent back and executed, along
with members of the cell who had stayed home. After the 1989
Velvet Revolution, Ctirad and Josef refused to return to
Czechoslovakia because the Communist Party had not been banned.  McCallum was born in Germany, the son of a U.S. military
pilot father and Pat York, a photographer who later married
actor  Michael York . The producer said he wants to remind Czechs
of the “unimaginable suffering” eastern  Europe  underwent under
communism.  He first heard tales about the Masin brothers in 2000, when
he was in the  Czech Republic  to scout for locations for the
first  Star Wars prequel . Their harrowing 32-day escape to West
Berlin reminded him of  Indiana Jones .  After meeting with Czech director  Tomas Masin , a distant
relative, McCallum bought the film rights for the Czech prize-
winning novel “So Far So Good -- the Masins -- the Greatest
Story of the Cold War.”  ‘Valmont’ Writer  The book is based on archived documents and interviews with
the brothers and their younger sister. Published in 2004, its
author was the Czech screenwriter and emigrant  Jan Novak , who
collaborated with director Milos Forman on the script for
“Valmont.”  The movie is planned as the first segment of a trilogy
called “How could this happen?” Two further films will address
the Nazi massacre of 34,000 Jews in Ukraine’s Babi Yar and boy
soldiers in  Sierra Leone .  The trilogy will be produced by Film United, a production
company McCallum founded with Czech filmmakers including
 Katerina Silna , who worked on “Casino Royale,”  Daniel Craig ’s
first Bond film.  For Czechs, the Masins’ legacy is not without controversy
because of their use of violence and murder to achieve their
goals. The brothers killed two Czech police officers trying to
capture weapons and ammunition and a cashier during a robbery.  Murder Propaganda  Even after the collapse of the Communist regime, which
demonized them in mass-distributed propaganda, most Czechs see
the Masins as murderers and some even demand that the brothers
be tried for what they did: one of the Czech officers died while
handcuffed and chloroformed.  Still, in 2011, the then Czech Defense Minister Alexandr Vondra awarded the brothers a military award called the “Zlata
Lipa.”  McCallum said the film will try to put the sometimes-brutal
actions of the Masin brothers into context.  “If we can get people to equally love and hate the movie
then we’re successful,” he said. “If it’s a good film, it may
change the political views of people.”  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Lance
Esplund  on U.S. art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  