-- Stoke, Fulham Win in Extra Time in F.A. Cup; Sunderland Out
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-16T00:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/stoke-fulham-win-in-extra-time-in-f-a-cup-sunderland-out.html
Sunderland was eliminated, while
Stoke and Fulham needed extra time to beat second-tier teams in
F.A. Cup third-round replays.  Stoke scored three goals in extra time to beat Crystal
Palace 4-1 and Fulham defeated Blackpool 2-1 last night to
advance in English soccer’s top cup competition. Sunderland lost
at home 2-0 to Bolton of the Championship.  Jonathan Walters scored twice and Cameron Jerome once in
extra time for Stoke. The Potters took the lead on Kenwyne Jones’s goal in the second half before Palace tied the game with
Glenn Murray’s penalty kick with three minutes left.  Brede Hangeland’s goal in the 116th minute lifted Fulham
over Blackpool. The Cottagers forced the extra period after
Kieran Richardson’s stoppage-time goal tied Nathan Delfouneso’s
82nd-minute score.  Marvin Sordell got both goals as Bolton won at Sunderland.
Queens Park Rangers prevailed in the only all-Premier League
match of the night, 1-0 over West Bromwich Albion on Jay Bothroyd’s goal, while Wigan beat Bournemouth 1-0 on a goal from
Mauro Boselli.  El-Hadji Diouf’s penalty kick in the 76th minute gave Leeds
a 2-1 win against Birmingham, while Hull beat Leyton Orient 2-1
in extra time on a goal from Tom Cairney.  Milton Keynes Dons and Brentford of the third tier both won
at home to advance. Shaun Williams and Dean Bowditch scored as
MK Dons beat Sheffield Wednesday 2-0, and Clayton Donaldson’s
goal with 14 minutes left lifted Brentford past Southend 2-1.  The third round concludes tonight with two more all-Premier
League replays as Manchester United hosts West Ham and Swansea
visits Arsenal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 