-- Suicide Bombers Strike Afghanistan’s Spy Agency Headquarters
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-01-16T10:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/suicide-car-bomber-strikes-near-afghan-interior-ministry-1-.html
A group of Taliban suicide bombers
attacked the Kabul headquarters of the Afghan intelligence
agency, exposing the challenges the country’s forces face as
they ready to take over the lead security role within months.  Six militants wearing explosive vests stopped their
vehicles near the building before running toward its gates,
Hashmatullah Stanekzai, a spokesman for Kabul police, said in a
phone interview. One successfully detonated his explosives while
the other five were shot dead by police, he said.  The  New York  Times said one of two minivans used in the
assault exploded, while devices in a second vehicle didn’t
detonate. The paper said those wounded in the attack were seen
staggering down the street, some covered in blood. Kabul police
said 30 civilians were injured.  Zabihullah Mujahed, the Taliban’s spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement that the group carried out the attack. The
capital is routinely targeted by the movement’s guerrillas, who
are fighting U.S.-led troops and the Afghan forces of President
 Hamid Karzai .  Signaling his resolve to extricate the U.S. from an 11-year
war, President  Barack Obama  Jan. 12 laid out an accelerated
security transition at a news conference with the Afghan leader.
The two leaders met as the Obama administration considers
options for how many support troops to keep in  Afghanistan  after
2014 -- from none to several thousand.  Chief Wounded  While Pentagon officials have proposed keeping some troops
in Afghanistan for counterterrorism and training,  Ben Rhodes , a
deputy national security adviser to Obama, said last week that
the U.S. has the option of removing all its forces if
differences, such as immunity from local prosecution, between
the two countries aren’t resolved.  Afghanistan’s intelligence chief, Asadullah Khalid, was
wounded last month in a suicide attack at a guest house run by
the spy agency in the capital. The attacker had posed as a
Taliban peace messenger who then detonated his suicide vest once
inside the National Directorate of Security building.  Pakistan  has begun releasing some members of Afghanistan’s
Taliban movement in a bid to help the U.S. and Afghan
governments start meaningful negotiations with the insurgents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  