-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2013-03-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Feb. 22.  BOSTON: “Economic activity continues to expand in the
First District, albeit slowly, according to business contacts.
Most contacted retailers but only one-half of responding
manufacturers report higher sales in the latest period than a
year earlier; nonetheless, most manufacturers are upbeat about
2013. Contacted staffing services firms cite a pick-up in
business, while several software and IT services firms say their
results are below expectations although they maintain a positive
outlook. Commercial real estate fundamentals are largely
unchanged, with office leasing activity mixed. Most residential
real estate markets across the region continue to show robust
sales growth and modest price increases. Across sectors, vendor
prices and selling prices are reported to be generally stable
and headcount changes fairly modest, either up or down.”  NEW YORK : “Economic activity in the Second District has
continued to expand at a moderate pace since the last report.
Business contacts report some pickup in input price pressures
but relatively few say they are increasing their selling prices.
The labor market has shown scattered signs of improvement:
manufacturers report an upturn in hiring, and a major employment
agency notes increasingly strong demand for temps. Retailers
report that sales have generally been strong and ahead of plan
in January and early February. Auto sales in upstate New York
were also described as robust since the beginning of the year.
Tourism activity has been mixed but generally strong thus far in
2013, with hotels getting an additional boost from displaced
residents and recovery workers in the aftermath of Superstorm
Sandy. Both residential and commercial real estate markets
showed signs of improving since the last report. Finally,
bankers report increased loan demand, no change in credit
standards, further narrowing in loan spreads, and lower
delinquency rates on commercial loans and mortgages.”  PHILADELPHIA: “ Aggregate business activity in the Third
District has maintained the modest pace of growth that was
evident during the previous Beige Book period. In particular,
general services and commercial real estate leasing continued to
expand at modest rates. Activity in staffing services,
transportation services, and residential construction appear to
have accelerated somewhat to a modest rate of growth. The
manufacturing sector reversed course again, citing slight
declines in overall demand.  “The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as
those views expressed in the last Beige Book. Ongoing
uncertainty over fiscal issues has postponed many business
decisions. Contacts reported a fundamental optimism in the
economy and described new signs of emerging growth; however, the
ongoing uncertainty over fiscal issues has been blamed for
continued weak  consumer confidence  and reluctance of businesses
to make needed investments in plant, equipment, and labor.”  CLEVELAND: “The economy in the Fourth District grew at a
modest pace since our last report. Manufacturing orders and
production were steady or rose slightly. The momentum seen in
residential construction at the end of 2012, including multi-
family, has carried over into 2013. Retail purchases during
January fell below year-ago levels, while motor vehicle sales
posted solid gains on a year-over-year basis. Little change was
seen in conventional oil and natural gas production, but shale
gas activity expanded at a robust pace. Output at coal mines
trended lower.  “Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-
firm representatives reported that the number of job openings
and placements picked up slightly since the beginning of the
year. Vacancies were found primarily in the shale gas and motor
vehicle industries and in professional business services.”  RICHMOND: “District economic activity grew moderately
since our last report. Manufacturing strengthened somewhat in
recent weeks. Tourism also picked up, while other non-retail
services providers reported that activity grew at a slower pace.
Retail sales rose, although auto sales slowed slightly from
previous high levels. Lending activity increased marginally,
with a slight uptick in demand for commercial and residential
mortgages. Residential real estate activity grew at a modest
pace, and commercial real estate and construction markets
improved. The agricultural sector remained strong, while oil and
natural gas production eased during the past six weeks. Labor
markets were generally flat since our last report.”  ATLANTA: “Sixth District business conditions appear to
have improved modestly in January and early February and the
outlook among most contacts remained generally optimistic across
sectors. Overall, retailers cited mild sales growth at the
beginning of the year. The District’s tourism industry remained
a bright spot with both domestic and international visitors
contributing to its growth. Homebuilders and brokers noted home
sales and prices were above year-ago levels for new and existing
homes, while commercial real estate markets continued to witness
slow but steady improvements in overall activity. Manufacturers
reported increases in new orders and production. Reports from
bankers suggested that loan demand remained constant, largely
because of refinance activity. Hiring in District labor markets
expanded at a modest pace and prices generally remained flat
compared with late last year.”  CHICAGO: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand at a slow pace in January and February. Many
contacts expected that growth would be weak in the first half of
2013, partly because of uncertainty over federal fiscal policy,
but that activity would rebound in the second half of the year.
Growth in consumer and business spending slowed during the
latest reporting period, but the pace of manufacturing
production improved. Residential construction rose at a moderate
pace while nonresidential construction remained weak. Credit
conditions continued to improve gradually.”  ST. LOUIS: “Economic activity in the Eighth District has
expanded at a moderate pace since the previous report. Recent
reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have
been positive. Retail sales over the past three months have
increased compared with the same period a year ago. Reports on
auto sales over the same period have been mixed. Residential
real estate market conditions have continued to improve, and
commercial and industrial real estate markets have also
improved. Lending activity at a sample of large District banks
indicated little change during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Prices, wages, and employment levels over the past three months
have stayed the same or increased for a majority of contacts
across the District.”  MINNEAPOLIS: “The Ninth District economy showed signs of
moderate growth. Increased activity was noted in consumer
spending, tourism, professional services and manufacturing.
Construction and real estate posted strong growth, while
agricultural producers were in mostly strong condition. Activity
in the energy sector was mixed, while mining slowed. Labor
markets tightened modestly, and wage increases were moderate.
Prices were generally stable with some exceptions noted.”  KANSAS CITY: “The Tenth District economy showed modest
improvement in January and early February. Retail sales slowed
during the beginning of the year, but vehicle sales were
improved compared to a year ago. Manufacturing activity was weak
among durable goods manufacturers, but non-durable manufacturers
saw a slight improvement in activity, and high-tech services
activity rose. Residential real estate activity and prices
increased, but commercial real estate markets were flat. Bankers
reported modest growth in loan demand and improvements in loan
quality. Drought continued in the District and agriculture
conditions deteriorated further. District energy activity
expanded during the survey period. Wage pressures continued to
be weak, but there was some evidence of upward pressures on
prices.”  DALLAS: “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
moderate pace over the past six weeks. Reports on manufacturing
activity were mixed. Retail sales were flat to up slightly,
while automobile dealers noted a seasonal slowdown in sales. In
the nonfinancial services sector, legal and accounting demand
increased, and reports from staffing firms were mixed. Rail and
cargo firms said activity weakened, but demand was above year-
earlier levels. Airlines said passenger demand was flat to up
since the last report. Housing demand remained strong and
commercial real estate activity improved. Lenders noted flat to
moderate growth in loan demand, and activity in the energy
sector remained at high levels. Prices remained stable overall,
and there were limited reports of wage pressure. Employment
levels were steady to up.”  SAN FRANCISCO: “Twelfth District economic activity
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of January
through late-February. Price inflation was limited overall, and
upward wage pressures were quite modest. Sales of retail items
were up on balance, and most business and consumer services
gained. District manufacturing activity ticked up. Production
activity and sales were strong for agricultural producers.
Housing demand trended up further, and commercial real estate
activity expanded. Contacts from financial institutions reported
small increases in overall loan demand and slight improvements
in credit availability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  