-- Sungevity Receives $125 Million for Rooftop Solar Power Systems
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-01-16T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sungevity-receives-125-million-for-rooftop-solar-power-systems.html
Sungevity Inc., a closely held
developer of rooftop solar systems, received $125 million in
venture capital and project financing to expand its U.S. leasing
service.  Energy Capital Partners is providing $50 million of
mezzanine debt and “a leading commercial bank” is providing
$35 million in equity investments that will fund additional
solar panel installations on homes in nine states, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Birch said by telephone.  Oakland, California-based Sungevity installs photovoltaic
panels on homes and its customers pay a monthly fee to lease the
systems for 20 years. Companies that finance and install solar
are thriving after the  price  of panels fell about 30 percent
last year, and one of Sungevity’s competitors,  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) ,
completed an initial public offering in December.  “There’s a lot of momentum in this space, and we hope to
benefit from that,” though Sungevity has no specific plans or
timeline for an IPO, Birch said. “We think that Sungevity’s
model is the most efficient model to serve downstream solar,”
he said.  The company was able to cut its total installation cost per
system by about a third last year with Internet, software and
satellite technologies that reach more potential customers and
lower expenses for design and permitting, he said.  Sungevity also received $40 million in venture capital
financing, led by existing investors Brightpath Capital Partners
LP and Lowe’s Cos., it said in an e-mailed statement. New
backers Craton Equity Partners, Vision Ridge Partners LLC and
Eastern Sun Capital Partners LLC also participated in the deal.  ‘Mainstream Financing Solutions’  Lowe’s began offering in-store quotes for Sungevity’s
systems in 2011 after buying a minority stake in the company.
Those services will be revamped this year starting at locations
in  California , Birch said.  Sungevity also is exploring other ways to expand the reach
of its services, which may include new financing methods such as
asset-backed securities, according to Birch.  “That’s going to be a big part of residential solar,”
Birch said. “We’re actively speaking to financiers on that and
other structures,” he said, without naming potential partners.
“There is a maturing of the asset class, which is leading us to
the more mainstream financing solutions.”  Sungevity provides residential solar leasing in  Arizona ,
California,  Colorado ,  Delaware ,  Maryland ,  Massachusetts , New
Jersey and New York. Its customers in Connecticut buy systems
instead of leasing them, Birch said.  The company invested in a venture in  Australia  last year
and expanded to the Netherlands in 2011 after buying a stake in
Zonline BV. Most customers in those countries also buy systems
from Sungevity, though “we think that there’s an opportunity to
expand the lease offering in those two new regions,” Birch
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  