-- Swastikas, Elephant God, Minsk Sex at Radar Fest: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-01-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/swastikas-elephant-god-minsk-sex-at-radar-fest-review.html
In “Ganesh Versus the  Third Reich ,”
the elephant-headed Hindu god goes to  Germany  to reclaim the
swastika design that the Fuhrer has turned into an icon of
slaughter.  This extraordinary show was part of the 13th  Under the
Radar Festival , headquartered at  New York ’s  Public Theater  and
run by the remarkable Mark Russell, a brilliant curator. This
year’s festival is devoted to outsider individuals and
ensembles.  The story unfolds haltingly as members of Back to Back
Theatre stop to examine their own motives. Do they have the
right to impersonate people dying and murdered? Are they
minimizing the Holocaust? Are they as actors up to this task?  Those questions are compelling in part because this troupe,
from Geelong,  Australia , consists of men with various mental and
physical challenges. And Ganesh is the god of overcoming
obstacles.  We take time attuning to the sometimes staccato delivery of
one or the uneasy gait of another actor. Their expressions of
criticism and self-doubt often turn from funny to shockingly
cruel. Just as in “normal” life.  Also in the festival was “Arguendo” a work in progress
presented by  Elevator Repair Service , which brought us the
unforgettable “Gatz.”  The title is a legal term meaning, “let’s just say, for
the sake of argument...” The show ponders the question
confronting the Rehnquist Supreme Court in 1991, in Barnes v.
Glen Theatre: Did Indiana’s public decency law violate the First
Amendment rights of nude go-go dancers?  Salacious Strauss  Four actors under the direction of  John Collins  take on the
roles of various Justices, the lawyers and a dancer.  The back-and-forth can be provocative and hilarious: When
the Indiana prosecutor says the law reasonably prevents a man
from walking into a bookstore naked, Justice Scalia counters
that “he can evidently sing in an opera without his clothes
on” and wonders how one “draws the line between ‘Salome’ and
the Kitty Kat Lounge.”  The performances were underscored -- and sometimes
undermined -- by some dizzy-making visuals, primarily of text
from the arguments.  If there’s any question about the underlying importance of
such a debate over free expression, “Minsk 2011: A Reply to
Kathy Acker” answers it. (The late novelist Acker wrote a
treatise on sexuality and society.)  This astonishing production by the  Belarus Free Theatre  --
remembered for “Being Harold Pinter” -- offers scenes from a
gray city made grimmer by repression. Merely looking at a
stranger can get you beaten up, arrested or both. And sexuality
is just another art form to be violently repressed.  The company of nine actors calls the show a love letter to
Minsk. But it’s more like a raucous eulogy, full of remorse and
the sense of loss -- and anger.  Twelve shows are spread across the 11-day festival. Most
run under 90 minutes (an exception is “Life and Times: Episodes
1-4,” a 10-hour marathon from  Nature Theater of Oklahoma ).
All tickets are $20; there’s no better way to spend that little
in the gray days of January.  Under the Radar runs through Jan. 20 at the  Public Theater ,
425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-967-7555;
 http://www.undertheradarfestival.com   (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on food and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 