-- Sweden’s Borg Sees Danger in Declaring End to Europe Crisis
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-16T17:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/sweden-s-borg-sees-danger-in-declaring-end-to-europe-crisis.html
Sweden’s Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said it was too early to declare an end to Europe’s crisis
as his government stands prepared to provide further stimulus to
safeguard growth in the largest Nordic economy.  “I don’t think we should be overly optimistic about
2013,” Borg said in a speech in  London  today at the  London
School of Economics . “It would be dangerous to say the crisis
is over. “We may come back to a situation where uncertainties
about some member countries come back to the forefront of the
market.”  Swedish growth is stalling as some of the biggest
companies, including  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , have cut
thousands of jobs in an effort to adjust to slumping exports.
 Sweden  sells about half of its output abroad, of which about 70
percent goes to Europe.  Borg last month cut his economic outlook for this year to
1.1 percent, versus an earlier estimate for 2.7 percent. He said
today that the government stands ready to provide stimulus for
the economy should it be needed.  “Being cautions, keeping a safety margin, means that you
can also continue to do stimulus measures if the crisis still
goes on for longer,” he said. “We are ready to provide demand
support in 2013, 2014, if that proves to be necessary.”  Slow Recovery  Sweden’s central bank last month cut its  repurchasing rate 
for a fourth time in a year, bringing it to 1 percent.  Sweden will post a 1.3 percent deficit of  gross domestic
product  this year, more than double its previous estimate, it
said last month. The government in September said it will spend
about 0.7 percent of gross domestic product on new initiatives
next year including infrastructure, research and a corporate  tax
cut  to 22 percent from 26.3 percent.  “We are seeing a bleak year, slow recovery,” Borg said.
“Because of the high household debt levels, we need to be
cautious. With our bond yields trading where they are, I don’t
see any credibility issue.”  Sweden’s 10-year bond yield trades at 1.74 percent, about
16 basis points above benchmark German bunds. Yields on Italy
and Spain are above 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  