-- Swiss Industry CEOs Prefer Acquisitions to Dividends, KPMG Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-01-16T09:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/swiss-industry-ceos-prefer-acquisitions-to-dividends-kpmg-says.html
Mergers and acquisitions by Swiss
industrial companies are set to rise by as much as 20 percent
next year as their chiefs use their strong balance sheets to
make purchases overseas, according to  KPMG .  “I think the opportunity of distributing to shareholders
is not what they prefer,” Patrik Kerler, head of mergers and
acquisitions in Switzerland at financial advisory firm KPMG,
said in an interview in Zurich. “They are deciding on whether
to keep cash back for what’s coming up the road or to spend on
acquisitions in growth markets.”  Companies in industrial and consumer markets completed the
largest number of Swiss deals in 2012, according to data from
KPMG. Zurich-based power-grid maker  ABB Ltd.’s (ABBN)  $3.9 billion
takeover of Thomas & Betts Corp., a U.S. maker of electrical
components, was the largest Swiss industrial deal. In
commodities, that was eclipsed by Baar-based trader  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s proposed takeover of Swiss mining company
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in a deal worth more than 29 billion pounds ($46.7
billion), according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ABB may spend as much as $10 billion by 2015 on takeovers,
Chief Financial Officer Michael Demare said last May. Lock-maker
 Kaba Holding AG (KABN)  and electronic-components supplier  Daetwyler
Holding AG (DAE)  have also said they are scouting for deals to build
market share.  “I think the directions for these investments will be the
U.S. and South America where there is a growth market and decent
prices,” Kerler said, adding that the high liquidity of Swiss
companies gives them an advantage in acquisitions.  Swiss companies did 352 transactions with a total volume of
$116 billion in 2012, or 56 percent more than the previous year,
KPMG said in a yearbook of Swiss deals published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  