-- Syngenta to Defend Insecticide as Europe Review Shows Bee Risk
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-01-16T17:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/syngenta-to-defend-insecticide-as-europe-review-shows-bee-risk.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
agrochemical company, will defend the use of its Cruiser
insecticide after a review by the European Food Safety Authority
concluded the product’s active ingredient is a risk to bees.  “We will deploy all means at our disposal to defend the
use of this product,” Chief Operating Officer John Atkin said
in an e-mailed statement, after the EFSA published a report on
its  website  today.  The EFSA said it has identified a number of risks posed to
bees by three neonicotinoid insecticides sold by Syngenta and
 Bayer AG. (BAYN)  Bayer Cropscience said in a statement earlier today
that it’s convinced neonicotinoids can be used safely. The
EFSA’s finding is a blow to Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta as
it deals with increasingly costly regulatory compliance to get
its crop sprays approved in  Europe .  “Without neonicotinoids, up to 17 billion euros ($22.6
billion) of economic value could be lost across Europe over the
next five years,” Atkins said. “This threatens 50,000 jobs
directly and could impact the income of up to one million people
working in agriculture.”  Cruiser was  released in 1997 , and is used to protect crops
from corn to cotton against insects such as beetles and
centipedes. Thiamethoxam, the active ingredient in Cruiser, is a
“blockbuster product” with sales that exceeded $1 billion for
the first time in 2011,  according to Syngenta .  Neonicotinoids are a class of insecticides which kill
insects by attacking the central nervous system. Recent studies
have suggested that exposure to neonicotinoids at sub-lethal
doses can harm bee health and bee colonies, the EFSA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  