-- Syngenta, Bayer Insecticides Said to Threaten Bee Health
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-16T21:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/syngenta-bayer-insecticides-said-to-threaten-bee-health.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) 
insecticides that are applied to  Monsanto Co. (MON)  crop seeds are a
threat to bee health, the European Food Safety Authority said.  Insecticides known as neonicotinoids pose a “high acute
risk” to honey bees through the nectar and pollen of some
treated crops and through drifting dust, the agency said in a
 study  released today. Sap exuded from corn plants treated with
Syngenta’s Cruiser insecticide also has an “acute effect on
honey bees,” the EFSA said.  The population of honeybees, which pollinate 130 different
crops, has fallen in recent years partially because of Colony
Collapse Disorder, an unexplained syndrome. A United Nations
report in March said honeybee-colony deaths worldwide may be the
result of reasons as varied as a decline in flowering plant
species to insecticides.  Syngenta said in an e-mailed statement that the assessment
was “hurried and inadequate.” Neonicotinoids can be used
safely, Bayer said in a statement.  Monsanto continually evaluates ways to reduce “dust-off”
from treated seeds and recommends farmers be careful not to
plant when winds can carry the chemical into adjacent fields of
flowering crops, Kelly J. Clauss, a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. DuPont Co., which also applies neonicotinoids to crop
seeds it sells, is evaluating the research, Jane Slusark, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Weak Bees  Neonicotinoids are a class of insecticides that kill bugs
by attacking the central nervous system. Recent studies suggest
exposure to neonicotinoids at sub-lethal doses can harm bee
health and bee colonies, the EFSA said. More study is needed to
fill in data gaps, the authority said.  Low-level exposure to neonicotinoids weaken bees and make
them more likely to succumb to a pathogen such as the parasitic
Varroa mite and associated viruses, Dennis vanEngelsdorp, a
research scientist at the  University of Maryland , said today.  “The whole bee situation is clearly not one factor
alone,” vanEngelsdorp said by phone.  Fungicides, habitat loss and  climate change  may also
contribute to bee declines, he said. More field trials are
needed before bans on neonicotinoids are enacted, he said.  The EFSA’s finding is a blow to Basel, Switzerland-based
Syngenta as it deals with increasingly costly regulatory
compliance to get its crop sprays approved in Europe.  The insecticide Cruiser, which was  released in 1997  and is
used to protect crops from corn to cotton against insects such
as beetles and centipedes, contains a neonicotinoid, according
to Syngenta, the world’s largest agrochemical company.  “We will deploy all means at our disposal to defend the
use of this product,” Syngenta Chief Operating Officer John Atkin said in its statement.  Without neonicotinoids, as much as 17 billion euros ($22.6
billion) of economic value may be lost across  Europe  over five
years, Atkins said. A ban would threaten 50,000 jobs directly
and could impact 1 million people working in agriculture, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  