-- U.K. Should Shun ‘Difficult’ Volcker Rule, Says John Vickers
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-16T12:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-k-should-shun-difficult-volcker-rule-says-john-vickers.html
U.K. banks  shouldn’t be restricted
from proprietary trading in a way similar to the U.S.’s so-
called Volcker rule because it would be too complicated to
police, said  John Vickers , chairman of Britain’s Independent
Commission on Banking.  The distinction between market making and a bank trading
with its own money is ill-understood and would sap too much time
from regulators, Vickers, 54, told the U.K.’s Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards today. Shielding banks’ consumer
units from their investment banking operations as recommended by
the ICB is preferable, he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , 85, who helped
devise the U.S. rules, told Parliament in October that Vickers’s
own proposals will be difficult to maintain and financial
institutions will seek to unwind separations over time. The
Treasury has said it plans to pass legislation relating to
Vickers’s plans by 2015 and fully implement them by 2019.  “If one had ring fencing and Volcker there would be two
boundaries to police,” Vickers said. “Volcker draws the line
in a very difficult, almost excruciatingly difficult, place.”  If proprietary trading is banned from banking, it could
“move elsewhere” where there may be fewer rules to govern it,
Vickers said. Banks holding bonds and shares to sell to clients,
so-called market making, is indistinguishable from proprietary
trading, where a firm takes its own positions in securities for
its own gain, he said.  It would be “very difficult” for a regulator to tell the
difference between market making and proprietary trading,
Vickers said. “People at the top of banks themselves have not
known what was going on in terms of the kind of trading, and the
regulator is at a disadvantage even relative to them.”  The Volcker rule, part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, is
intended to prevent deposit-taking banks from putting
depositors’ money at risk. The Fed in April said banks have
until July 2014 to fully conform their activities and
investments to the Volcker restrictions.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  