-- U.K. Green Bank Plans to Allocate $4.8 Billion by 2015
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   R o h a n   B o y l e
-- 2013-01-16T13:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-k-green-bank-plans-to-allocate-4-8-billion-by-2015.html
The U.K. Green Investment Bank may
allocate all of the 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion) provided by
the government to stimulate investment in clean technology by as
early as 2015, Chief Executive Officer Shaun Kingsbury said.  The bank is prioritizing offshore wind,  waste treatment ,
recycling, energy from waste and energy efficiency, though it
isn’t targeting spending specific amounts in each of those
areas, Kingsbury said in a phone interview. It allocated 188
million pounds since announcing its first deals on Nov. 28.  “We feel confident that in the next two to three years we
can commit that capital,” Kingsbury said of the 3 billion
pounds. “There is an opportunity for that.”  The bank is part of the U.K.’s efforts to stimulate the
renewable energy projects and carbon reductions required to meet
its binding targets of deriving 15 percent of all energy from
renewables by 2020 and cutting emissions by 34 percent in 2020
from 1990 levels.  Kingsbury said there’s potential to get added support for
renewables through a new law allowing the government to
guarantee as much as 40 billion pounds of infrastructure
investment.  “Certainly a portion of that money could go into the
renewable energy business,” he said. “We will want to work
closely with them” to use Treasury guarantee programs alongside
Green Investment Bank money on joint deals, he said.  Securing Returns  Two days ago, the bank said it was lending 30.4 million
pounds to help Shanks Group Plc build a waste recycling and
power plant. Last month, it provided a loan facility of as much
as 100 million pounds for Drax Group Plc to convert burners at
its power station to biomass from coal. It also provided 45
million pounds to allow PGGM NV and Ampere Equity Fund to
refinance their 24.8 percent stake in an offshore wind farm.  Kingsbury said he has two bottom lines for transactions: to
make an “adequate” return on investments, and to ensure the
bank’s loans, bonds and stakes add “sustainable benefits” to
the U.K. economy.  “Our job is to crowd in other capital, by being part of a
syndicate to ensure that something gets built that wasn’t going
to get built,” he said. “We won’t provide soft loans, be the
lender of last resort, or provide grants or anything like
that.”  Because of its rules on profitability, Kingsbury said it
could take more than five years for marine technologies such as
wave and tidal power to meet that criterion, so for now, they’re
not priorities. For offshore wind, he said the bank is focusing
on putting money into existing assets to free up cash for
developers to invest in new ones.  Kingsbury spoke in a Jan. 10 interview. The bank was
established in May and became operational in October after
receiving state aid approval from the European Union, allowing
it to disburse funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Rohan Boyle in London at 
 rboyle13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  