-- U.S. Federal Reserve Jan. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-jan-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
economic activity has expanded since the previous  Beige Book 
report, with all twelve Districts characterizing the pace of
growth as either modest or moderate. Since the previous Beige
Book, activity in the  New York  and Philadelphia Districts
rebounded from the immediate impacts of Hurricane Sandy. Growth
in the  Boston , Richmond, and Atlanta Districts appears to have
increased slightly, while the  St. Louis  District reports some
slowing.  All twelve districts reported some growth in consumer spending.
Overall, holiday sales were reported as being modestly higher
than in 2011, though sales were below expectations for contacts
in many of the Districts. Auto sales were reported as steady or
stronger in ten Districts. Citing concerns that consumers will
spend cautiously due to ongoing fiscal uncertainty, retail
contacts and auto dealers reported a slightly dimmer, though
positive, outlook for future sales. Tourism activity was
reported to have increased across much of the nation due to
strong business and international travel, early snowfall in some
ski areas, and a rebound in areas disrupted by Hurricane Sandy.  Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall.
Firms within the six Districts reporting on transportation
services generally noted increased volumes. Manufacturing was
mixed overall since the previous Beige Book; six Districts
reported an expansion of activity and three reported a decrease.
Among Districts reporting on their firms’ near-term
expectations, the manufacturing outlook remained generally
optimistic; however,  capital spending  plans were less uniformly
positive.  Since the previous Beige Book, real estate activity has expanded
or held steady in eleven Districts for existing home sales and
leasing; eight Districts for residential construction; eleven
Districts for nonresidential sales and leasing; and nine
Districts for nonresidential construction. Overall loan demand
was steady in five Districts, rose in four, and fell in one.
Credit standards were largely unchanged, except in two Districts
where there were some signs of loosening. Six Districts reported
improving  credit quality  and/or falling delinquency rates.  Although rain partially eased drought conditions for some
agricultural regions in three Districts, reports of agricultural
activity remained mixed. Districts reported that energy and
mining sector activity was steady at high levels for most
energy-related products but significantly weaker in coal
production and coal-related investments.  Trends in wages, prices, and employment conditions were
relatively unchanged in the  Federal Reserve  Districts. Input
price pressures were reported to be steady overall with mixed
reports for specific commodity prices in various Districts.
Employment conditions were also little changed since the last
report. However, hiring plans were more cautious for firms doing
business in  Europe  or in the defense sector. Wage pressures were
stable in all twelve Districts, though several Districts cited
greater pressures for firms that reported difficulties finding
qualified workers with specific skills.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Since the previous Beige Book, consumer spending increased to
some degree in all twelve Districts. Across the nation, holiday
sales grew modestly compared with last year but came in below
expectations in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta,  Chicago , and
 San Francisco  Districts. Boston reported continued strong demand
for clothing, shoes, and furniture, and San Francisco reported
robust online sales. A major retail chain in New York indicated
that sales picked up in early January. Retail sales were flat in
Richmond except for gains in food and auto sales. Expectations
for future sales were positive but mild, particularly in
Philadelphia,  Kansas City , and  Dallas  where contacts cited the
impact of fiscal cliff uncertainty on  consumer spending .  Reports of auto sales were steady to stronger in ten Districts.
Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco noted strong sales. New
York and Dallas cited mixed sales that were generally positive,
while auto sales in Kansas City slowed but remained higher than
a year ago. Some dealers in the Chicago and Kansas City
Districts reported high levels of inventory. Contacts in
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas expect
consumers to react to ongoing fiscal uncertainty, thus dimming a
positive outlook for future sales. Chicago auto dealers were
more upbeat, expecting stronger new car sales due to pent-up
consumer demand, easing credit conditions, and rising used
vehicle prices.  Tourism held steady or grew in all but one of eight reporting
Districts. Coastal activity had fallen in the immediate
aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy  throughout most of the New York and
Philadelphia Districts but has rebounded in all but the hardest
hit areas. Boston, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported strong
tourism in their Districts, with Boston and Atlanta citing
business and international travel as strong contributors. Winter
tourism activity in the  Minneapolis  District was strong in areas
with snow, while Richmond reported normal winter activity in its
District.  Nonfinancial Services  Overall, nonfinancial services have grown modestly since the
previous Beige Book. Businesses in the New York and Philadelphia
Districts recovered from the disruption of Hurricane Sandy. The
Boston, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts reported
positive growth among various service sectors, while the
Richmond District reported stable to stronger demand for service
firms. Boston reported strong demand for some health-care IT
services and drug impact research, while San Francisco noted
relatively weak demand for health-care services. Staffing firms
in the Dallas District reported steady to slightly softened
demand. Respondents remained optimistic about growth over the
near-term in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis,
and Dallas Districts.  Transportation services were generally positive among the six
Districts that reported. Freight transport shipping volume
improved in the Cleveland District due to rising demand from the
retail sector and areas affected by Hurricane Sandy. Atlanta
reported increases in trucking tonnage and total railroad
carloads, but low river levels caused delays in Mississippi
River traffic. Reports from transportation services in the
Dallas District were mixed, and most firms expect weak growth in
the near-term. Trucking firms in the Richmond District reported
a flattening in revenues; however, the District’s port activity
was boosted by ships diverted by Hurricane Sandy.  Manufacturing  Reports of manufacturing activity were mixed overall, with six
Districts growing since the last Beige Book, three Distracts
contracting, and two Districts reporting little or no change.
Firms in the Boston and Chicago Districts reported continued
expansion of activity at modest and moderate rates of growth,
respectively. Overall activity once again appeared to expand in
the San Francisco District, although it was mixed across
sectors. Gains in the aerospace and chemical sectors contributed
to growth in the Boston and San Francisco Districts, as well as
in the Dallas District. Manufacturing in the Chicago District
grew with contributions from the auto and housing-related
sectors. Manufacturing continued to expand, but at a more modest
pace, in the Richmond District. Several firms cited falling
export demand, especially from Europe.  In contrast to slight declines in the past Beige Book, firms in
the Philadelphia and Minneapolis Districts reported slightly
increased manufacturing activity. As in other Districts, product
flowing into supply channels for auto production and housing
construction contributed to Philadelphia’s gains. Prior trends
continued as firms in the New York District experienced little
or no growth, except for the revenues of firms in the New York
City area that recovered after Hurricane Sandy disruptions.
Reports continued to be mixed among sectors in the Dallas
District.  Manufacturing activity within the Cleveland and Atlanta
Districts, and reported plans in the St. Louis District,
declined somewhat - a trend reversal from the prior Beige Book.
Contributing to the declines were steel and auto producers in
Cleveland and makers of HVAC equipment, electric components,
food, and automobile parts in St. Louis. Despite production
gains in electrical equipment, appliances, and components, more
pronounced contractions within the broad nondurable goods sector
led to a continuation of declining activity in the Kansas City
District.  Manufacturing firms’ expectations of future activity were
generally optimistic in the New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts; the level of optimism
has significantly increased in the Philadelphia and Atlanta
Districts since the previous Beige Book. Contacts in the Chicago
District expect vehicle production to expand in 2013, while
reports of activity from manufacturers in the St. Louis District
have been negative on net. Boston District firms reported that
capital spending was slow, except for select growth sectors.
Capital spending was on track in the Cleveland District and was
slowly increasing in the Chicago District. Looking ahead,
Philadelphia District firms have significantly increased their
capital spending plans, while the outlook in the Minneapolis
District was reported as flat. In the Cleveland District, more
contacts plan to reduce outlays than expand capacity.  Real Estate and Construction  Existing residential real estate activity expanded in all
Districts that reported; growth rates were described as moderate
or strong in nine Districts. Contacts in the Boston District
attributed their strong sales growth to low  interest rates ,
affordable prices, and rising rents. All Districts reporting on
 price levels  saw increases; New York and Chicago reported only
very minor increases. The five Districts that reported on
housing inventories all reported falling levels. New residential
construction (including repairs) expanded in all but one
District of those Districts that reported. Contacts in the
Kansas City District reported that increased lumber and drywall
costs limited construction, causing a slight decline this
period. Hurricane Sandy disrupted construction activity
initially in New York, but this has since led to increased work
for subcontractors on repairs and reconstruction.  Though a little weaker than residential real estate, reports on
sales and leasing of nonresidential real estate are still mostly
positive - described as modest on average. The Boston District
reported a drop in leasing beyond normal seasonal trends;
contacts cited fiscal cliff uncertainty as a factor. Minneapolis
and Kansas City reported increased demand and tightening
commercial real estate markets. Philadelphia, St. Louis, and
Dallas all reported more modest increases in nonresidential real
estate activity. Nonresidential construction is weaker than
residential, with only slight to modest growth. The Boston
District reported that demand for commercial real estate loans
appears to be softening and that the pipeline for new
construction projects has diminished significantly since the
last report. Dallas reported that construction was expected to
pick up in the commercial real estate sector in 2013.  Banking and Finance  Overall, loan demand was largely unchanged in the Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts,
with most of these Districts reporting a continuation of slight
to moderate growth in total volume. The New York, Atlanta,
Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported stronger demand than
previously, while the St. Louis District reported a slight
decline. Some increased lending in Philadelphia, Chicago, and
Dallas was driven by businesses taking out loans for special
year-end purposes such as tax planning and dividend payments.
Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco all
reported strong auto lending. Demand for residential mortgages
improved in Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco. Commercial real estate lending was cited as a
particular bright spot by New York, Cleveland, Kansas City, and
Dallas. However, lenders in San Francisco remained reluctant to
lend to real estate investors outside of the multifamily
residential sector. San Francisco also reported a slight
slowdown in IPO,  venture capital , and private equity activity in
that District’s technology sector.  Banks in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas
City, and San Francisco Districts reported improvements in asset
quality. Lenders were described as competing aggressively for
highly qualified borrowers in Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta,
and San Francisco. In Atlanta, this stiff competition may be
leading to loosening credit standards, as there was some
indication that banks were more willing to increase their
tolerance for risk. Chicago banks also reported some loosening
of standards. On the other hand, lending standards remained
largely unchanged in New York, Cleveland, and Kansas City.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Reports of agricultural activity were mixed, although rain and
mild temperatures delivered some relief from drought conditions
to parts of the Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts. Low
water levels along the Mississippi River also hampered transport
for some contacts in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts.
Despite the drought, some contacts in these Districts reported
that farm income remained high with adequate crop insurance and
historically high prices. Producers in the Kansas City and
Dallas Districts expect ongoing dry conditions to hurt the
winter wheat crop.  Activity in the energy sector had mixed reports. Production of
oil and natural gas held steady at high - sometimes record -
levels in the Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas
Districts. San Francisco reported that activity expanded to
historic levels. Contacts in the Cleveland District reported
that shale gas activity grew at a robust pace. In contrast, coal
production has declined in the Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St.
Louis, and Kansas City Districts since the previous Beige Book.
Firms in the Atlanta District continue to plan investments,
ranging from reserve development to increased refining and
petrochemical operations to new pipeline infrastructure.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Labor market conditions remained mostly unchanged in all
Districts. The Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City,
and San Francisco Districts all reported delayed hiring, often
in defense manufacturing, due to fiscal cliff uncertainties.
Companies in the Chicago District with trade or investment
exposures to Europe reduced their hiring plans as well. Chicago
reported that manufacturers are choosing to cut hours instead of
reducing head count in expectation of production rebounds in
2013. Atlanta and Kansas City cited health-care policy changes
and costs as another cause for minimal hiring. On the other
hand, the New York, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts
saw the labor market firming modestly. Finally, contacts in
several Districts reported difficulties finding qualified
workers in some specialized fields, such as skilled
manufacturing, energy, and IT.  For those Districts that reported, wage pressures have been
stable since the previous Beige Book and were most frequently
described as contained or subdued. The San Francisco District
reported modest wage pressures that were held down by an
abundance of workers. The Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis
Districts characterized wage growth as moderate. Specifically,
business contacts in the Minneapolis District expected to
increase wages 2 to 3 percent in 2013, while oil drilling
companies in North Dakota and  Montana  expected higher increases.
Several Districts reported wage pressures in sectors
experiencing labor shortages, such as energy and IT. The New
York and Chicago Districts reported higher year-end bonuses
ahead of anticipated tax increases in 2013.  Overall, input price pressures appear to be stable. The Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts reported steady input prices, while Chicago
reported decreasing raw materials prices. The New York, Atlanta,
and Kansas City Districts characterized input prices as slightly
increasing; price pressures in these Districts were passed
through to consumers somewhat in the form of higher finished
goods prices. However, Chicago noted that businesses were unable
to fully pass on meat and milk price increases to consumers. The
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco
Districts all cited rising prices for construction-related
materials. Specifically, a Philadelphia builder noted that over
the past 90 days these rising prices added about 3 percent to
the cost of a new home.  Prepared at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  and based
on information collected on or before January 4, 2013. This
document summarizes comments received from businesses and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 