-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand at a slow pace in late November and December. Many
contacts expected that growth in 2013 would match or outperform
2012, but some remained more cautious than others, citing the
impact of continued uncertainty over federal fiscal policy on
the near-term economic outlook. Consumer spending increased
somewhat, while growth in business spending remained tepid.
Growth in manufacturing production was again moderate.
Residential construction continued to increase at a slow but
steady pace, but nonresidential construction remained weak.
Credit conditions continued to improve gradually. Cost pressures
eased some, and wage pressures remained moderate. Cattle and hog
prices moved higher; while corn, soybean, and milk prices moved
lower.  Consumer spending. Consumer spending increased somewhat from the
previous reporting period. Retailers noted that holiday sales
were slightly below expectations. Multiple retailers reported
that store traffic volumes fluctuated more throughout the
holiday season than in recent years. Apparel and jewelry sales
were strong, while sales of toys and electronics were more in
line with expectations, and general merchandise sales were
weaker. Auto sales in the District lagged the national pace,
with several dealers indicating that lower  consumer confidence 
hurt year-end sales. Some auto dealers also noted that inventory
levels were slightly high. However, dealers expected new car
sales to be stronger in 2013 due to pent-up consumer demand,
easing credit conditions, and rising used vehicle prices.  Business spending. Growth in business spending remained tepid in
late November and December. Inventory investment was little
changed while spending on equipment and structures continued to
slowly increase. Some contacts again noted a reluctance to spend
given heightened uncertainty related to federal fiscal policy.
Labor market conditions were unchanged. Hiring plans for the
coming year were limited. Retail employment increased with some
seasonal hiring, but few significant full-time post-holiday
additions were expected. A recruiting firm noted that customers
that are heavily dependent upon government spending were very
cautious about increasing headcount amidst the fiscal cliff
negotiations. Companies with exposures to  Europe  were likewise
being more conservative in their hiring plans. However, contacts
indicated that there is still strong demand for talent in
technology, engineering, accounting and finance, energy, and
skilled manufacturing jobs. Manufacturers indicated a reluctance
to reduce headcount despite the recent slowdown in activity,
choosing to cut overtime hours instead in expectation of a
rebound in production in the first quarter. In addition, some
contacts are also beginning to limit hours for part-time workers
to less than 30 hours in order to avoid the 30-hour (full-time
employee status) rule related to the Affordable Care Act.  Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate activity
was mixed in late November and December. Residential
construction continued to rise. However, homebuilders noted that
new construction would stay moderate in many regional markets as
long as existing home prices remained well below new home
prices. Existing home prices did edge up in some areas of the
District, and rental rates continued to rise. In addition,
contacts reported that in many cases credit for homebuyers
remained tight, slowing the pace of home sales. Demand for
nonresidential construction remained weak, but some improvement
was noted in the light industrial and office markets. Several
commercial real estate contacts observed that uncertainty
surrounding federal fiscal policy continues to weigh on
structures spending in a number of market segments. However,
commercial real estate conditions improved slightly. Vacancy
rates continued to decrease; and while the pace of leasing and
acquisition deals remained slow, it picked up slightly as
financing became easier to obtain.  Manufacturing. Growth in manufacturing production continued to
be moderate over the reporting period. Capacity utilization in
the steel industry increased slightly and service center
inventories were noted to be at desirable levels. Specialty
metal manufacturers reported a decline in quoting and new orders
as customers continued to delay purchases until the last minute.
In contrast, a contact in the defense industry noted a
substantial rebound in orders due to the two-month delay in
sequestration. Contacts noted a slight pick-up in demand for
construction equipment due to improvement in the housing market,
although demand from the public sector remained weak. The auto
industry remained a source of strength for manufacturing. Auto
suppliers reported strong orders through the end of the year,
and many expected vehicle production to expand in 2013. Activity
in the energy industry appeared to slow. The lower price of
natural gas, in part due to abundant supply, has negatively
affected coal mining. In addition, one contact noted the lower
prices had also led to a pause in shale gas production. However,
contacts expected activity in the energy industry to rebound in
early 2013.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions continued to gradually ease
over the reporting period. Credit spreads and financial market
volatility remained low, and asset quality continued to improve.
Credit line utilization rose substantially, with contacts citing
end-of-year factors such as tax planning and special dividends
as reasons for the increase. Banking contacts also reported
moderate growth in demand for small business loans, particularly
from manufacturing industries such as machining and packaging.
Pricing for business loans changed little, while contacts cited
some loosening of loan standards. Consumer loan demand,
particularly for mortgage and auto loans, continued to increase.
Contacts indicated, however, that less home refinancing activity
was being processed than in the previous reporting period.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures eased in late November and
December. Most raw material prices moved lower, although there
was some pressure on lumber and drywall prices and concerns
remained around potential food and energy price increases. In
contrast, manufacturers supplying the defense industry said
their customers were attempting to negotiate large price
decreases; these contacts thought they could instead secure
multi-year price agreements in exchange for more moderate price
reductions. A contact in the grocery industry indicated that
they have been unable to fully pass on recent meat and milk cost
increases. More generally, retailers reported that discounting
and promotions increased over the holiday shopping season. Wage
pressures remained moderate, but nonwage costs increased.
Contacts again cited higher healthcare costs; however, a few
noted that increases this year were less pronounced than a year
ago. Several contacts also reported increasing 401(k) payouts
and year-end bonuses.  Agriculture. Although drought conditions eased, depleted soil
moisture remained a concern in much of the District. The low
levels of the Mississippi River hampered barge traffic moving
both crops to market and inputs to farms. Crop operations tended
to come out ahead for the year if they had adequate insurance
coverage, and most crop farmers saw their net worth grow.
Uncertainty regarding the tax treatment of capital expenditures
led farmers to move up purchases of equipment and other capital
improvements into 2012. Corn and soybean prices slid during the
reporting period. Milk prices decreased, while cattle and hog
prices increased. Of these agricultural products, only hog
prices were below the levels of a year ago. Farmland values
trended higher, with an extra spurt of farm sales at the end of
2012 in anticipation of tax code changes. Cash rents for
cropland increased as well for the upcoming season.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 