-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in consumer spending,
tourism, professional services, manufacturing and energy.
Construction and real estate experienced continued strong
recovery. Activity was steady in agriculture and slowed slightly
in the mining sector. Labor markets tightened modestly. Wage
increases were moderate. Overall price increases were subdued.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Overall consumer spending was up slightly relative to a year
ago. The  holiday shopping season  was somewhat stronger than last
year, with bigger gains in  North Dakota  and  Montana . Same-store
sales at a Minnesota-based retailer were flat in December
compared with a year ago. A Minneapolis area mall reported that
holiday traffic was level from a year ago, but sales were up.
Activity at a shopping center in South Dakota was relatively
level from a year earlier. A North Dakota mall manager reported
that December sales were about 10 percent higher than last year;
jewelry sales were particularly strong. Retailers in the Great
Falls, Mont., area generally reported a solid holiday season.
According to the Minneapolis Fed’s business outlook survey, 30
percent of respondents expect increases in  consumer spending  in
their communities during 2013; 25 percent expect decreases.
These results were similar to last year’s survey.  Recent new car and truck registrations in  Minnesota  were higher
than a year ago. In Montana, vehicle sales remained steady
during the past few months, according to a representative of an
auto dealers association.  Winter tourism activity was strong in areas with snow, but
lackluster in dry areas. A Montana ski resort reported that
visits were up and reservations were looking good for the rest
of the winter. However, in the Upper Peninsula of  Michigan ,
activity was soft due to marginal snow conditions. The winter
tourism season got off to a slow start because of a lack of snow
in western  South Dakota ; recent snowfall should help spur
activity, according to an official.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased at a solid pace since
the last report. The permitted value of new commercial
construction in December was up 26 percent in  Sioux Falls , S.D.,
and the value of November permits more than doubled in Billings,
Mont. A major outlet mall is planned for the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area. Residential construction increased considerably from
a year ago. The value of November residential building permits
in Billings was up 70 percent from last year, and the value of
December permits in Sioux Falls was up 39 percent from a year
ago. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, December residential
permits were up 17 percent compared with December 2011.  Commercial real estate markets continued to tighten. A major
commercial real estate firm forecast that Minneapolis-St. Paul
area office vacancy rates will dip to 17.7 percent at the end of
2012 compared with 19.1 percent at the end of 2011. The same
firm forecast industrial vacancy rates to drop to 9.9 percent
from 11.2 percent. Residential real estate market activity
increased. Home sales in November were up 20 percent from the
same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the
inventory of homes for sale was down 29 percent, and median sale
prices rose 17 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, November home
sales were up 20 percent, inventory was down 14 percent and the
median sale price increased 9 percent relative to a year
earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms grew since the
last report. Services sector respondents to the business outlook
poll expect sales volumes and  capital investment  at their firms
to grow in 2013. An appraisal company noted that demand is
increasing for its services, and the backlog continues to
increase. Another appraiser noted, “I am turning down more
business than I am accepting.”  Manufacturing  District manufacturing increased slightly since the last report.
According to a December survey of  purchasing managers  by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.), manufacturing activity
increased in Minnesota and South Dakota after five consecutive
months of decreases. Activity also increased in North Dakota,
but at a slower pace than in recent months. The Minneapolis
Fed’s 2012 survey of manufacturers indicated that respondents on
average expect orders, production, employment and profits at
their operations to increase in the coming year. The outlook for
capital investment was flat. A company announced that it is
opening a 40,000-square-foot cereal ingredient processing
facility in South Dakota.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy sector continued to grow, while mining
slowed. District oil production remained at record levels. An
 oil refinery  in Minnesota announced plans for a $400 million
upgrade in order to process more oil. Late-December oil and gas
exploration activity decreased slightly in North Dakota and
increased in Montana from the previous month. A railroad put on
hold its plans to expand a coal-shipping line from  Wyoming ,
citing a weaker outlook for domestic coal. Iron ore production
remained strong in northern Minnesota; however, recent months
were down from levels earlier in 2012. A large mining company
announced that it will idle some of its production at operations
in Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula in 2013, citing lower ore
prices and reduced global demand. A mining company increased its
estimate of deposits at a potential copper, nickel and precious
metals mine in northern Minnesota.  Agriculture  Agriculture was steady at high levels. Crop prices came down
somewhat recently but remain relatively high, a slight relief to
livestock and dairy producers who have been hammered by high
feed costs. The selloff of livestock herds continued. Sugarbeet
producers in Minnesota and North Dakota saw a record crop in
2012, but prices were down. Prices received by farmers increased
in December from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans,
chicken, dairy products and cattle. Prices for hogs, turkey,
eggs and dry beans decreased. According to the  Minneapolis  Fed’s
third-quarter (October) survey of agricultural credit
conditions, farmland prices continued their rapid rate of
increase.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets tightened modestly since the last report. A
manufacturer in Minnesota recently announced plans to open a new
facility that would employ 400 new workers. Up to 300 employees
are expected to eventually work at a call center in Minnesota.
However, an iron ore plant idled 125 workers, and a high tech
company laid off over 40 employees in Minnesota due to a slowing
in demand. According to respondents to the business outlook
poll, 28 percent expect to increase hiring during 2013, while 15
percent expect to decrease staff, similar to last year’s poll.  Wage increases were moderate. According to the business outlook
poll, 93 percent of respondents expect wages in 2013 to increase
no more than 3 percent. Business contacts in South Dakota and
Montana expected to generally increase wages between 2 percent
and 3 percent in 2013 from a year earlier. However, wage
increases in the oil-drilling areas of North Dakota and Montana
are expected to be higher.  Overall price increases were subdued. Minnesota gasoline prices
at the end of December were down about 20 cents per gallon since
the end of November and were about 10 cents per gallon less than
a year ago. A Minnesota-based food maker said it expects
ingredient cost inflation of up to 3 percent. Some metals prices
increased since mid-November. According to the survey of
manufacturers, 37 percent of respondents expect to increase
selling prices in 2013, while 16 percent expect to decrease
prices.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 