-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District-- San Francisco.  TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary Twelfth District economic activity expanded at a modest
pace during the reporting period of mid-November through
December. Upward price pressures were limited overall, and
upward wage pressures were quite modest. Sales of retail items
this holiday season were similar to or up slightly from last
year, and most business and consumer services gained. District
manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but generally
appeared to move up. Demand for agricultural products increased,
and extraction activity rose for providers of energy resources.
Housing demand trended up further, and conditions were largely
stable for commercial real estate. Contacts from financial
institutions reported that loan demand was unchanged or up
somewhat, and credit quality improved.  Wages and Prices  Upward price pressures were limited on balance during the
reporting period. Price movements for energy items were mixed:
retail gasoline prices fell, and electricity prices rose in some
areas. Prices for some intermediate materials used in the
construction sector, such as drywall and steel rebar, ticked up,
while log and pulp prices remained flat. Prices of grapes and
nuts increased, and higher prices for grains and corn due to the
drought earlier in the year boosted prices of grocery dairy and
meat items. A restaurant chain reported menu price increases in
the 2 to 3 percent range.  Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressures
were modest. Limited hiring plans and ready worker availability
in most sectors and regions have held down increases in wages
and compensation. However, wages increased for some information
technology workers who possess advanced skills and are in low
supply. The market for technically trained workers for the
petroleum industry remains tight. A few contacts expect wage
hikes in 2013 in response to the expiration of multiyear,
company-wide salary freezes. Health-care benefit cost increases
are expected to accelerate and outpace wage increases.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales were on a par with or up slightly from last year’s
holiday season, but generally did not meet vendors’
expectations. Online retailers experienced more robust sales
growth than traditional brick-and-mortar retailers. Inventories
generally were at or near desired levels given the pace of
sales, although some retailers reported having an excess of
winter apparel due to relatively mild weather conditions, while
others ran short on certain consumer technology products.
Contacts in the information technology sector indicated strong
sales of newer hardware and games, but relatively weak sales of
established goods as well as some Internet and digital media
products. Both sales and margins were soft for grocers. New
automobile sales remained solid, running well above levels from
12 months earlier, with year-end gains expected to be sizeable.  Demand for most business and consumer services rose. Contacts
pointed to solid sales of various technology services, due
mostly to typical year-end business spending increases. Revenues
continued to expand for food service providers. Tourism and
travel activity in the District was robust, with strong growth
of visitor counts and spending reported in both Hawaii and
Southern California. However, demand for health-care services
remained relatively weak, with some reports of consumers
continuing to opt out of elective procedures and health-care
providers having excess capacity.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but
expanded overall during the reporting period of mid-November
through December. With healthy demand for fuel efficient planes
and a sustained backlog of orders, production activity for
commercial aircraft and parts has been running well above levels
from last year. Demand continued to grow at a modest pace for
pharmaceutical and wood product manufacturers. By contrast,
capacity utilization remained relatively low for manufacturers
of technology equipment, and defense manufacturers have been
trimming payrolls due to expected federal spending reductions.
While demand for scrap metal remained somewhat weak by
historical standards, that for steel products used in automotive
manufacturing and in infrastructure and nonresidential
construction improved. Contacts indicated that production
activity picked up at petroleum refineries.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural output gained further, and extraction activity of
natural resources used for energy production continued to
expand. Demand for most crop and livestock products continued to
advance and was met in part through more intensive use of
capital equipment. Extraction activity expanded on balance for
petroleum and natural gas, and natural gas inventories remained
at historically high levels.  Real Estate and Construction  Housing demand in the District strengthened further, while
demand for commercial real estate was largely stable. Both
prices and sales transactions of homes climbed in most areas,
stimulating continued growth in home construction activity. In
some regional markets, activity ratcheted up for higher-priced
homes. Construction activity for multifamily residential
projects grew further, in response to rising rents and tight
availability of lower-priced homes. Demand for nonresidential
space was largely stable. However, contacts reported that in
select geographic areas of the District, substantial growth of
technology firms has boosted demand for office space.  Financial Institutions  Contacts from financial institutions reported that loan demand
was unchanged or up somewhat. Business loan demand was
characterized as moderate. Banking contacts continued to
highlight ample liquidity and generally stiff competition among
lenders to provide credit to well-qualified business loan
applicants, with community banks facing increasing competition
from larger national banks for small business lending. Although
owner-occupied commercial real estate financing is readily
available, banks in most regions remain reluctant to lend to
real estate investors outside of the multifamily residential
sector. Contacts noted a slight slowdown in IPO, venture
capital, and private equity activity in the District’s
technology, Internet, and digital media subsectors. Consumer
lending expanded further, primarily for automobile purchases and
new or refinanced home mortgages. Reports indicated that credit
quality for both business and consumer loans has continued to
improve, albeit at a slow pace.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 