-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a modest
pace during the past six weeks. Many of our contacts reported
that their outlook for the new year is uncertain due to
unresolved fiscal policy matters. Manufacturing orders and
production were mainly flat or down slightly. Residential and
nonresidential construction activity rose, with particular
strength noted in the multi-family segment. On balance,
retailers described the  holiday shopping season  as solid. Sales
of new and used motor vehicles increased on a year-over-year
basis. Shale gas activity continued at a robust pace, though
coal production trended lower. The slowdown in freight transport
volume seen in September and October has abated. Demand for
business credit flattened out, whereas credit use by consumers
picked up.  Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-firm
representatives saw little change in the number of  job openings 
and placements during the past six weeks. Vacancies were found
primarily in manufacturing and healthcare. Wage pressures are
contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in
construction materials.  Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that
new orders and production were flat or down slightly during the
past six weeks. Companies seeing increases were largely
suppliers to the motor vehicle and energy industries. Compared
to a year ago, production activity was mixed. Steel producers
and service centers described shipping volume as lower relative
to levels seen in the third quarter. Many of our contacts expect
a slight weakening in business activity during the next few
months due to seasonal factors and uncertainty surrounding the
outcome of fiscal policy issues. Auto production at District
plants showed a moderate decline during November on a month-
over-month basis. Relative to prior year levels, production was
largely higher, especially for foreign nameplates.  Inventories are being reduced to become more aligned with
demand. Manufacturers noted that capacity utilization has fallen
in recent weeks; however, rates were within or slightly below
their normal range.  Capital spending  was largely on track for
2012. About one-third of our contacts plan on cutting back
capital outlays during this year, and few producers anticipate
expanding capacity. Raw material prices were either flat or
trended lower, while finished goods prices held steady. On
balance, manufacturing payrolls were little changed. Less than
half of our contacts expect to hire new workers during 2013.
Wage pressures are contained, and rising health insurance
premiums remain a challenge.  Real Estate. Home builders reported that the upturn in sales of
new single-family homes continued into December. Although a
seasonal slowdown is expected, builders expressed confidence
that sales will pick up again in the spring. Contracts were
found mainly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. The
number of single and multi-family housing starts in December was
significantly above year-ago levels. List prices of new homes
are increasing, which was attributed to shrinking inventories
and rising construction costs. Builders have cut back on
discounting. Tight lending standards are still seen as
restraining the effect of low  interest rates  for builders and
home buyers. Multi-family developments are expected to be the
driving force behind new housing construction during the next
one to two years.  Nonresidential contractors reported that business activity grew
across market segments and was better than a year ago.
Nonetheless, margins are still tight. Although inquiries are
down, which is typical for this time of year, builders are
satisfied with their backlogs going into 2013. Project financing
is available, but it is very time consuming to close a deal. As
a result, some developers are turning away from banks and
looking more to private lenders. Our contacts are optimistic
about near-term activity due to customers wanting to complete
must-do projects, such as maintenance or production
consolidation. However, there is a heightened level of
uncertainly about the medium to long term. A general contractor
reported that his customers are postponing the design phase of
some of their projects. Other builders expect a slowing in
health care construction, as providers evaluate the
implementation of recently enacted laws.  Residential and nonresidential builders reported higher prices
for drywall and lumber, due to rising demand and a declining
supply base. Contractors anticipate widespread price increases
for building materials during the first quarter of 2013. General
contractors and subcontractors expect to increase their payrolls
at a modest pace this year. There is concern about the
availability of highly skilled trade workers and back-office
personnel, and the potential impact a shortage of either could
have on wage pressures.  Consumer Spending . Reports on the holiday shopping season were
generally solid. Most retailers were encouraged by results
during the Thanksgiving weekend, and a majority said that sales
during this holiday season were above those of a year ago.
However, some contacts reported that sales figures fell below
expectations for the entire season. Increased volume was seen
particularly in electronics and apparel. Sales for the first
quarter of the new year are expected to trend higher relative to
prior-year levels. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Capital
spending remains on target. A majority of our contacts reported
that they plan to increase outlays slightly during 2013,
particularly for warehousing, store improvements, and e-
commerce. Little new hiring is anticipated, except for staffing
new stores.  Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate
increase during November compared to the same time period a year
ago. Dealers reported that purchases of fuel-efficient cars,
including hybrids and compact SUVs, are doing well. New-vehicle
inventories were described as adequate to strong. A seasonal
slowdown in sales is expected during January and February.
Several dealers cited uncertainty over the resolution of fiscal
policy issues as a factor that may affect auto sales in upcoming
months. Year-to-date sales of used vehicles increased slightly
during November, though inventories are still tight. Leasing
continued to trend slightly higher, which should help to
replenish the used-vehicle inventory by mid-2013. One dealer
noted that the balance between leasing and traditional financing
has returned to normal. Some of our contacts reported that their
employment level is lower than prior to the recession, and most
do not expect to increase payrolls during the next 6 to 12
months.  Banking. Demand for business credit was steady or down slightly
since our last report. Some contacts cited a rise in the number
of applications for commercial real estate loans and
refinancings, but on balance, demand was little changed across
sectors and product categories. Several bankers noted that their
loan-to-deposit ratio was much lower than desired. On the
consumer side, reports indicated an increase in drawdowns on
home equity lines of credit and rising credit card receivables,
which were attributed to holiday shopping. A few bankers saw an
increase in auto loans. Activity was strong in the residential
mortgage market, with a large majority of applicants looking to
refinance. Delinquency rates held steady or declined across
consumer and commercial loan categories. Core deposits grew,
with an ongoing transition from time-deposit to transaction
accounts. Little change in banking payrolls is expected in the
near term.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production was stable
during the past couple of months. Shale gas activity continued
at a robust pace: in  West Virginia , well output at the end of
2011 was up 138 percent from the prior year, and during the
first six months of 2012, well output across  Pennsylvania  rose
by 42 percent compared to the previous 6 months. In eastern
 Ohio , 187 wells have been drilled in the Utica shale in the past
year, with 44 currently producing. Coal production for 2013 is
expected to be flat relative to 2012 levels. Demand for thermal
coal increased slightly due to colder weather and a slowdown in
switching from coal to gas by electric utilities. Demand for
metallurgical coal in the U.S. held steady, but declined from
offshore customers, particularly those in  Europe . Falling prices
for metallurgical coal have leveled off, while steam-coal prices
were mixed. Capital expenditures by conventional drillers and
coal producers are expected to decline during the first six
months of 2013. Production equipment and material prices were
flat across most categories. Apart from shale gas companies,
little hiring is anticipated during the next 6 to 12 months.  Freight Transportation. Reports on freight transport indicate
that shipping volume has improved since the start of November
after an unexpected drop-off during the prior two months. Some
contacts attributed the boost to rising demand coming from the
retail sector and areas affected by  Hurricane Sandy . Freight
executives were fairly positive in their outlook for 2013, with
the caveat that a resolution is reached on issues involving
fiscal policy. Costs associated with truck maintenance held
steady, while diesel fuel prices fell. Reports on capital
spending were mixed. Some freight haulers said that 2012
expenditures reached targeted levels. Others reported a
postponement in purchasing equipment for replacement and
expansion due to a sluggish economy and supply issues related to
Class 8 trucks. Spending in 2013 is expected to be similar to
2012 levels, and it will be mainly for replacement. Due to
uncertainty about the economy, hiring plans for 2013 are
tentative. Wage pressures were contained.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 