-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. District economic activity generally grew at a modest
pace in recent weeks. District manufacturing growth slowed, and
retail sales flattened, with the exception of food and vehicle
sales. Non-retail services providers reported stable to stronger
demand, and tourism activity was at normal winter levels.
Commercial and  consumer lending  varied by location, while the
environment remained competitive. Residential real estate
activity continued to improve; reports on commercial real estate
activity, however, were mixed. Agricultural conditions remained
favorable. Oil and natural gas production held steady at high
levels during the past six weeks, but coal production fell.
Labor market conditions weakened somewhat since our last report.
Manufacturers’ input prices were little changed, while finished
goods prices rose at a slower rate, and the pace of wage growth
remained moderate. Services providers’ prices rose slightly
faster and non-retail wage growth edged up. Retail price
increases slowed, and wages fell.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing continued to expand, but
at a more modest pace since our last report. A furniture
manufacturer said that his business had improved through gains
in market share and new product introductions, and that the
improvement should continue in 2013. A spokesperson for the
technology industry reported that 2012 was expected to be flat,
but instead grew by ten to twelve percent. Another contact
stated that, “Manufacturing is hanging in there,” noting that
niche markets were doing best, but only if they were not
dependent on international demand. A producer of lumber products
commented that sales volumes and orders dropped, in part because
of  Hurricane Sandy ’s impact on their customer base in the
northeast. An electrical components manufacturer reported that
business was “terrible,” adding that his only sales were to
replace ruined equipment from Hurricane Sandy, and that export
orders to  Europe  had dropped off. According to our latest
survey, raw materials prices were relatively flat, while
finished goods prices rose at a slightly slower pace.  Ports. The typical seasonal surge in import volumes shifted as a
result of two major events. The first was the threat of an East
Coast port strike that has loomed since the September 2012
expiration of the master contract between the International
Longshoremen’s Association and the U.S. Maritime Alliance. A
number of shippers used alternative West Coast and Canadian
ports ahead of the peak season to minimize disruptions to their
businesses. Secondly, Hurricane Sandy caused diversions to Fifth
District ports, boosting an already solid peak season. In
addition, bulk fuel shipments that were diverted to the
Northeast created “a pinch in supply” for companies located
further south. Exports of resins for plastics, grains, forestry
products and metal scrap were especially strong, with imports
being led by beverages and retail goods. Both exports and
imports of auto-related products were robust.  Retail. Retail sales flattened, with the exception of food and
vehicle sales, according to most merchants contacted since our
last report. Several blamed the lackluster sales on the federal
government’s failure to resolve its fiscal issues. Most
retailers responding to a special poll indicated that they
planned an equal amount of holiday discounting as a year ago. A
 West Virginia  department store manager reported that sales were
a little soft ahead of Christmas, while other retailers noted
little change. In contrast, many grocers noted an uptick in
revenues. Although big-ticket sales were weak overall, car sales
rose by double-digit percentages in recent weeks. Federal fiscal
indecision also pushed sales of heavy trucks, construction
equipment, and buses at the end of 2012, ahead of the possible
expiration of bonus depreciation. According to survey
respondents, retail price growth slowed during the past month.  Services. Services firms reported stable to stronger demand
since our last report. An executive at a national freight
trucking firm indicated that revenues flattened in the District,
while another trucking company reported that demand slowed
slightly, although that company was able to improve its margins.
Demand strengthened at telecommunications and engineering firms,
and a contact in  Washington , D.C. remarked that law firms see
regulatory practice as a growth industry. During the week of
Christmas and New Year’s Day, the CDC reported that the flu had
become widespread across the District. An executive at a  North
Carolina  healthcare facility commented that the “flu season hit
early and hard,” more than doubling the average number of cases
for that time of year. Non-retail services prices rose slightly
faster in recent weeks, according to survey respondents.  Tourism activity was at normal winter levels in recent weeks,
and rate changes were modest. In addition, a D.C. contact
commented that restaurant bookings were brisk for holiday meals
and events. An executive at a  Virginia  resort area said that his
rentals were filled up for the week from Christmas through New
Year’s Day. A source on the outer banks of North Carolina
reported somewhat less tourism activity, compared to a year ago
because of lingering road problems caused by Hurricane Sandy.  Finance. Demand for both consumer and commercial loans varied
across the District. A North Carolina lender noted that
mortgages for new purchases of homes declined, in part because
of economic uncertainty. However, a second North Carolina lender
said new financing is outpacing refinancing at his bank.
According to another North Carolina banker, the home mortgage
business is improving and he indicated that refinancing has
strengthened in his region; in addition, a number of lenders
stated that the competition among lenders for refinancing
business has been aggressive. Finally, a banking contact with
several locations in the District reported that demand for
consumer loans and mortgages had not changed much. Bankers in
 Maryland  and West Virginia reported that foreclosures have
slowed. A West Virginia banker said that while overall  credit
quality  has been very good, residential mortgage delinquencies
have crept up slightly, and that demand for commercial credit
had been steady at a relative high rate in recent weeks. Another
West Virginia banker remarked that his region’s commercial and
industrial loan demand had slowed because economic progress has
been “lumpy.” A banker in North Carolina reported that loan
demand from businesses had remained weak despite lower borrowing
rates, owing in part to economic uncertainty.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity continued to
improve since our last report. A contact in  South Carolina  said
that the real estate market was dynamic in the Charleston area
and that demand and pricing were stronger than they had been in
a long time. A Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area expects a
strong market through early 2013, as the combination of record
low inventory and low  interest rates  encourages new listings. A
contact in West Virginia told us that home sales in his area
have improved considerably and that prices were flat for the
first time since the drop in values two years ago. Another
source saw improvement in the “move up” market but little to no
activity in the speculative market. He also remarked that the
start-up market for housing remained flat and that the effect of
 student loans  on credit scores was a cloud over the mortgage
market.  Reports were mixed on commercial real estate and construction
markets in the District. While a few contacts reported modest
improvement in activity since our last report, others noted flat
activity or modest declines. A developer in the Carolinas said
that absorption rates in the office sector tightened in the
downtown  Charlotte  area, but vacancies in suburban areas
remained elevated. In contrast, a real estate representative in
Virginia indicated that office park absorption rates in the
Roanoke suburbs were good, with ninety percent occupancy rates,
which he attributed to new medical facilities. However, he noted
that vacancies in the downtown area were considerably higher.
Most sources also mentioned tightening of available  office
space , especially among Class A properties, due to lack of new
construction. A Charlotte Realtor stated that leasing rates in
the industrial sector continued to decline this year and noted
little new development in the retail sector. Moreover, several
realtors reported that rental rates were soft, noting that it
was a “tenant’s market.” However, all contacts were in agreement
that concessions were decreasing.  Agriculture and Natural Resources. Agricultural conditions
remained favorable. Oil and natural gas production remained at
high levels during the past six weeks. December was relatively
mild across most of the District, with warmer than normal
temperatures and significant precipitation. Small grain
conditions improved with the added moisture, as did pastures and
hayfields.  Although conventional oil and natural gas production held steady
at high levels, the rig count fell in West Virginia. Cushioning
the fall, many companies continued to drill in order to get
wells in place before permits expired. In contrast, coal
production fell last year due to lower demand from domestic
utilities and offshore customers, idling many mines. One coal
producer attributed the depressed coal market to stricter
regulations coupled with lower natural gas prices, as well as a
weaker economy both in the  United States  and in Europe.  Labor Markets. Conditions in labor markets weakened since our
last report. There were several reports of soft demand for
workers in part because businesses were reluctant to hire in the
politically uncertain climate. Retail employment dropped sharply
in recent weeks, and several service sector contacts indicated
that hiring decisions were in a holding pattern. Exceptions were
to fill vacated positions and to ease nursing shortages, and a
Washington contact remarked that restaurants were paying bonuses
to attract managers. Sources continued to report difficulty
finding qualified workers to fill vacancies, particularly in
advanced manufacturing. Two Virginia temporary employment
agencies noted increased demand for high tech and highly skilled
workers. According to an ad hoc poll, less than half of the
retailers who made seasonal hires expected to offer those
employees a permanent position after the holidays. Wage growth
in manufacturing remained moderate, even among skilled workers,
while average retail wages declined. In contrast, non-retail
service sector wages continued to rise at a moderate pace.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 