-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a modest pace over the
past six weeks. Reports on manufacturing activity remained
mixed. Real estate and construction activity continued to
improve. Retailers said holiday shopping boosted sales, and
automobile dealers reported that sales were above year-ago
levels. Staffing, accounting and legal services firms noted
steady demand, while reports from transportation service firms
were mixed, but improved overall. Energy activity remained at
high levels despite a decline in the rig count, and financial
firms reported modest growth in loan demand. Agricultural
conditions remained dry. Prices were mostly stable, and wage
pressures remained limited. Employment levels were steady to up.
Many responding firms’ outlooks reflected fiscal uncertainty
during the reporting period.  Prices  Most respondents noted stable prices, although accounting and
legal services firms reported a modest rise in billing rates and
some transportation service contacts noted an increase in
freight charges. Overall, costs were flat to up during the
reporting period. Some construction-related manufacturers and
transportation service firms noted higher input costs. An
aviation manufacturer said they planned to implement price
increases this month due to rising input costs. Feed costs for
livestock were at record high levels, while prices of other
agricultural commodities declined slightly.  The price of WTI rose over $90 per barrel during the reporting
period. Natural  gas prices  remained depressed. On-highway diesel
and gasoline prices trended down, and prices of petrochemical
products were mixed.  Labor Market  Employment held steady or increased at most responding firms.
Reports of employment increases came from legal firms, auto
dealers, and a few manufacturers. Retailers said employment was
up from a year ago, and one contact reported difficulty in
filling IT positions. Accounting firms reported hiring at a
slower pace than the last report. Auto dealers noted difficulty
finding qualified workers, and there were scattered reports of
shortages of skilled workers at energy-related firms. Wage
pressures remained largely subdued, although airlines reported
upward pressure and some construction-related manufacturers
reported plans to give cost of living adjustments in January.  Manufacturing  Construction related manufacturers’ reports were mixed. Lumber
producers noted stronger sales due to strong single-family
construction, but demand for other products remained the same or
softened since the last report. Outlooks were uncertain, with
some responding firms putting off major decisions until the
fiscal cliff was resolved. Demand for fabricated metals also
softened over the reporting period, although outlooks for 2013
were optimistic. Primary metals producers noted demand growth
was slower than expected.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said that production and
orders were flat to slightly down. One respondent noted that the
weak global economy was slowing demand across a broad array of
information technology products. Contacts said customer
inventories were lean, while producer inventories had increased
slightly but remained near desired levels. Respondents’ outlooks
for the next three to six months were more uncertain than at the
time of the last report. Most said that they are planning for
weakness to continue, and that they may reduce employment levels
in 2013.  Demand for paper products was strong in the first part of the
reporting period but stalled in recent weeks, in line with
normal seasonal patterns. Contacts were more pessimistic in
their outlooks, however, due to uncertainty regarding fiscal
issues. Food demand increased due to a seasonal pickup, and the
outlook was positive among contacts.  Overall, transportation manufacturing contacts said demand was
mostly flat to up slightly. Automobile manufacturers said
business was up, and outlooks were more optimistic. Demand for
aviation equipment increased, but remained below year ago-
levels.  Petrochemicals producers noted Gulf Coast chemical production
was up compared with last year. Gulf Coast refineries were
operating at rates above 90 percent, and margins remained
healthy. Refiners said that despite sluggish domestic demand for
distillates, strong export demand has kept inventories from
building.  Retail Sales  Retail sales volumes increased since the last report, mainly due
to holiday shopping, and contacts said demand was up year-over-
year. According to two national retailers,  Texas  continued to
outperform the nation. Contacts were cautiously optimistic in
their outlook for 2013; the largest source of uncertainty among
contacts was the fiscal cliff.  Reports on automobile sales were mixed over the past six weeks,
but were generally positive. All contacts noted that demand was
up from a year ago. Selling prices were unchanged since the last
report, but manufacturers were offering many more incentives,
making the final price to consumers lower. Uncertainty regarding
fiscal issues, future taxes, and health care costs, has
moderated firms’ outlooks.  Nonfinancial Services  Staffing services firms reported mixed results. Most said that
demand held steady, while one said orders had softened slightly.
Contacts continued to be very concerned about new health care
laws in 2014, and some noted their customers’ outlooks were more
uncertain due to fiscal concerns. Overall, staffing firms’
outlooks were slightly more pessimistic than six weeks ago.  Overall, accounting activity held steady with little growth;
strong energy-related activity was the exception. Contacts
expect modest growth in 2013. Legal firms reported steady
demand. Transactions and wealth planning practices were
reportedly the busiest they have ever been, energy-related
activity remained strong, and real estate-related activity was
better than expected. Responding firms remained optimistic in
their outlooks.  Reports from transportation services were mixed. Intermodal
cargo volumes edged down seasonally and have slowed from early
2012, but container volumes increased during the reporting
period. Railroads said cargo volumes remained steady despite
extremely strong growth in energy-related shipments. Grain and
coal volumes remained weak spots during the reporting period,
but auto shipments increased despite a strike at the Port of  Los
Angeles  that disrupted the flow of containers. Shipping
companies said that small parcel volumes posted very strong
growth since the last report, particularly due to retail
activity. Air cargo volumes were up slightly in preparation for
the holiday season. Airline contacts said that passenger demand
was soft over the past six weeks. Outlooks from transportation
services firms continued to reflect global economic uncertainty,
and most firms expect weak growth in the near-term.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the single-family housing sector reported continued
improvement in new and existing home sales. Despite increased
construction activity housing inventories remain low, pushing
overall prices up. Firms remain cautiously optimistic in their
outlooks. Apartment demand continued to ease slightly overall,
although occupancy rates remain historically high.  Demand for office and industrial space increased since the last
report, according to contacts in the commercial real estate
sector. Most firms expect to see an increase in nonresidential
construction in 2013. Commercial property investment activity
picked up slightly near year-end, and most respondents were
fairly optimistic in their outlooks for 2013.  Financial Services  Financial institutions reported modest growth in overall lending
activity. The increase in corporate loan demand was mostly
driven by customers opting to make purchases before year-end due
to tax uncertainty, but there was also moderate growth in real
estate lending activity. Consumer lending improved, with modest
growth in mortgage and new automobile loan demand. Loan pricing
remained extremely competitive, and deposits continued to grow
despite very low rates. Firms’ outlooks remained positive, with
fiscal and regulatory concerns posing downside risks.  Energy  Respondents at energy-related service firms said activity
remained at high levels, despite a larger-than-expected decline
in the domestic rig count driven by low natural gas prices.
Although  oil prices  remain at healthy enough levels to support
current activity, price volatility is making some firms nervous
about drilling in higher cost fields. Contacts expect overall
activity to be flat this year relative to fourth quarter of
2012, with some improvement expected in the second half of 2013.  Agriculture  With little rainfall, most of the District remained in drought
conditions since the last report. The drought is negatively
impacting the winter wheat crop, and contacts are beginning to
express concern for spring planting. Wheat harvest was mostly
completed over the last six weeks, and production was up from
2011, mainly because the drought was less severe. Contacts noted
that fiscal cliff concerns and the lack of a farm bill are
creating a great deal of uncertainty.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 