-- U.S. Accounting Group Plans to Tighten Repo Deal Rules
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-16T10:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-accounting-board-plans-tighter-repurchase-transaction-rules.html
The U.S. Financial Accounting
Standards Board proposed tightening rules for  repurchase
agreements  after investors raised concerns that borrowers can
use the transactions to conceal risks.  Under the proposals, almost all repurchase agreements would
be treated as borrowings, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based board
said in a statement yesterday. The plan, which is open to public
feedback, narrows the transactions that can be treated as sales.  Repurchase agreements are contracts where one investor
agrees to sell a security and then buy it back at a future date
and a fixed price. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and MF Global
Holdings Ltd. used a type of repo before their failures to
appear healthier than they were, bankruptcy officials and
lawmakers have said.  “Investors have raised concerns that current accounting
and disclosures for repurchase agreements do not appropriately
reflect the transferor’s obligations and risks resulting from
those transactions in certain circumstances,” FASB Chairman
Leslie Seidman said in the statement.  The proposal would eliminate the distinction between
agreements that settle before maturity and those that settle at
the same time as the transferred asset matures. As a result,
both types of transactions would be accounted for as secured
borrowings, according to the statement.  Shadow Banking  Global financial regulators have sought to rein in so-
called shadow-banking activities, which include repos.  The Financial Stability Board, a global financial policy
group comprised of regulators and central bankers that reports
to the Group of 20 nations, estimated last year that the U.S.
repo market may be worth as much as $2.6 trillion.  Repo trades “can pose a risk to financial stability by
aiding the build-up of excessive leverage and maturity
transformation outside the reach of prudential liquidity and
capital regulation,” the FSB said in a report published in
November.  The board proposed that regulators implement minimum
standards for calculating losses on the different types of
collateral used in the transactions.  MF Global (MFGLQ) , the U.S. brokerage that collapsed last year,
bought European sovereign debt to use as collateral for
borrowings in repurchase-to-maturity transactions. Under current
accounting rules, the New York-based firm didn’t have to show
the assets on its balance sheet because it no longer had control
of them, according to a November report by Republicans in the
U.S. House of Representatives.  A bankruptcy examiner found that Lehman Brothers, the U.S.
investment bank that collapsed in 2008 sparking a global credit
contraction, used so-called Repo 105 transactions to move as
much as $50 billion temporarily off its balance sheet to
convince investors it wasn’t carrying too much debt.  The accounting board’s move is its second attempt at
tightening the rules and follows a revamp in April 2011. The
proposal called for public comments by March 29 and may still be
changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  