-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated
that economic activity expanded moderately in late November and
December, with most expecting continued modest growth in early
2013.  District merchants cited mildly positive holiday sales, while
tourism contacts noted continued strength in both business and
leisure travel. Residential real estate contacts experienced
ongoing modest sales growth for both new and existing homes on a
year-over-year basis, while commercial contacts described demand
conditions as improving, especially in the multifamily segment
of the market. Manufacturers, on the other hand, noted a decline
in orders and production. Reports from bankers indicated that
loan demand had strengthened, driven in large part by an
increase in mortgage lending. Employment levels across the
District expanded at a modest pace, while pricing pressures
remained subdued.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District contacts reported
cautious optimism following a robust start to the holiday
season. While sales were better than expected over the
Thanksgiving weekend, reports covering the entire holiday season
showed that total sales, although above year-ago results, did
not appear to meet expectations. Deep discounting was prevalent
throughout the holiday season. Auto sales remained robust and
truck sales were somewhat positive with sales of replacement
vehicles driving the growth for that segment.  Travel and tourism contacts continued to report strong activity.
Hospitality contacts noted increases in visitation and spending
in the final quarter of 2012. Lower gasoline prices boosted
leisure travel. Business travel and attendance at major
conventions also increased. International visitors continued to
lift tourism activity and advance reservations of international
travel have exceeded expectations. The outlook for 2013 remained
positive with hospitality contacts projecting increases in
occupancy rates and revenue per available room.  Real Estate and Construction. The majority of District
residential brokers reported that recent existing home sales
were ahead of year earlier levels. Sales growth was strongest in
 Florida . Most brokers in the region again noted declining
inventories and rising home prices. Buyer traffic remained ahead
of the year-ago level by most accounts. For 2013, most
anticipate home sales growth will continue to improve slowly.  Reports from District homebuilders were a bit more positive than
in our last report. Builders reported that recent new home sales
and construction activity were slightly ahead of year-earlier
levels. The majority of builders continued to report that new
home inventories were below the year-ago level and prices were
up slightly. Buyer interest remained strong but several builders
continued to note difficulty securing development and
construction financing. Despite the challenges, the outlook for
construction activity remained positive and builders anticipate
new home sales in 2013 to exceed 2012 levels across many parts
of the District.  Reports from District commercial contractors indicated that the
pace of construction activity improved modestly from the third
to fourth quarter and was ahead of the previous year’s
performance. Apartment development was particularly strong. The
pipeline for commercial construction at the end of the fourth
quarter was greater than the year-ago level by most accounts.
Most said that commercial construction development financing
remained scarce. However, the outlook for 2013 remained positive
as most contacts expect commercial construction activity to be
slightly ahead of 2012 levels. Commercial brokers indicated that
most office, industrial, and retail markets in the District
experienced modestly positive absorption rates. Overall,
contacts continued to anticipate steady, but slow improvements
in District commercial real estate markets during 2013.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts in the
region reported that new orders and production contracted in
December. Finished inventory levels also declined from the
previous month. However, nearly half of manufacturing contacts
expect production to be higher than current levels over the next
three-to-six months, up from just under one-third in November.  Trucking contacts reported a notable increase in tonnage in
November, representing the first gain since July 2012, and
offsetting a drop in October’s readings. Reports suggested that
 Hurricane Sandy  affected both months’ readings. A large truck
dealer reported it is expanding sales to include flatbed
trailers in response to anticipated increased movement of
construction materials as a result of improvements in the
housing sector. Railroad contacts reported an increase in total
carloads in November over year-ago levels with the largest
increases occurring in chemicals and agricultural products while
declines were noted in coal, metallic ores, and metals. Concerns
grew over low river levels that have led to delays in
Mississippi River barge traffic.  Banking and Finance. Many banking contacts indicated loan demand
had increased and they’ve added lending specialists to deal with
current and anticipated demand. Competition for quality
borrowers remained fierce and there was some indication that
banks were more willing to increase their tolerance for risk.
Auto lending remained active and some  depository institutions 
noted more loan growth in November and December. Low rates
encouraged mortgage activity, and purchases accounted for a
larger share of  mortgage loans  than in the recent past.
Community banks reported spending a larger portion of their
income on compliance and remained concerned about increasing
regulatory pressures.  Employment and Prices. Since the last report, payroll growth
increased mildly across the District, though contacts said that
uncertainty over fiscal policy and healthcare costs tempered
hiring decisions. Aggregate gains in job growth across the
District were fueled largely by strong job growth in Florida and
 Louisiana . Contacts in Florida’s leisure and hospitality
industry reported moderately improved hiring expectations, while
the construction, retail, and energy sectors in Louisiana saw
relatively healthy increases in employment in November and
December.  Pricing pressures remained subdued, according to results from
our December Business Inflation Expectations survey which
indicated that unit costs were up 1.5 percent over the past 12
months, which is down from 1.7 percent in November. Margins
improved somewhat in December, especially for retail contacts
who reported being able to pass on slightly higher markups
compared to the holiday season in 2011. Looking forward, year-
ahead unit cost expectations of businesses were 1.9 percent in
December, moderating from 2.1 percent the month before.
Businesses continued to cite costs relating to  tax policy ,
regulation, and healthcare as sources of uncertainty going into
2013.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Planned investments, ranging
from reserve development to increased refining and petrochemical
operations to new pipeline infrastructure, continued to take
place in the energy sector. For example, preparation for
development of a large gas-to-liquids (GTL) and ethane cracker
complex in Louisiana was announced, which is expected to
increase the region’s production capacity for GTL diesel and
ethylene. Separately, industry contacts maintained that higher
margins for natural gas liquids and other associated products
continued to warrant ongoing drilling in natural gas wells,
despite low prices for natural gas. In the midst of an apparent
surge in investment activity in the  energy industry , District
contacts continued to cite a shortage of specialized skilled
labor as a significant hurdle facing expansion plans going
forward.  Prices for corn, soybeans, beef, and poultry remained above
year-ago levels, while the price for cotton was lower than this
time last year. Dry conditions persisted in much of the
District, although late December rains helped many areas in the
region.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 