-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Aggregate business activity in the Third District has resumed
the modest pace of growth that was evident prior to the
disruption by  Hurricane Sandy  during the previous Beige Book
period. In particular, general retail sales, general services,
and commercial real estate leasing recovered from temporarily
mild growth rates to resume their previously modest growth
rates. Sales of new and used autos accelerated to a moderate
rate of growth, and residential real estate sales maintained a
strong year-over-year growth rate (from a relatively low base).
Mild rates of growth are once again evident in manufacturing,
staffing services, transportation services, and construction
after many sectors suffered storm-related disruptions. Lending
volumes at Third District banks also continued to experience
slight growth, and credit quality has continued to improve.
Overall, beach-going tourist areas are experiencing a typical
slow season; however, some storm-damaged areas have lost
significant business while some areas that escaped the damage
are doing well. General price levels, as well as wages and home
prices, were reported to have increased slightly overall. This
remains similar to the last Beige Book period, except for home
prices, which had remained flat overall.  The overall outlook for at least modest growth is considerably
more optimistic relative to the views expressed in the last
Beige Book. Contacts reported underlying strength in many
sectors and expressed relief that part of the fiscal cliff
dilemma has been resolved. Contacts from virtually all sectors
reported greater expectations of future growth than during our
last survey period. Plans for future hiring were also
significantly more expansive. Most contacts continued to express
concerns over the impact from the recent payroll tax increase
and the remaining potential budget cuts that might reduce
demand.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments have
recovered to a pace of slight growth. The mild pace can be
partially attributed to seasonal trends. Comments from contacts
focused primarily on small upticks, new product demand, and
 emerging markets , rather than on disappointing orders. Makers of
food products, lumber and wood products, primary metals,
fabricated metal products, and instruments have reported gains
since the last Beige Book. Lower activity was reported by makers
of industrial machinery and electronic equipment.  Optimism among Third District manufacturers that business
conditions will improve during the next six months has rebounded
strongly since the last Beige Book and is evident across nearly
all sectors. Firms have also significantly raised their overall
expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital
spending since the last Beige Book.  Retail. Third District retail sales recovered to a modest pace
of growth for the holiday shopping season after the disruptions
of Hurricane Sandy, according to retail contacts. Sales reports
were mixed for mid-market department stores and some home
furnishing stores, which reported moderate early holiday sales
gains followed by a lull, with slight declines from the prior
year. High-end department stores, family apparel stores, and
outlet stores reported modest or moderate year-over-year sales
throughout the holiday period. Some substantial mall tenants
posted strong double-digit sales growth. Until final sales are
tallied, retail contacts relied on other early indicators to
suggest that the final days of the holiday shopping season had
grown modestly, or better. Traditional mall retailers continued
to draw shoppers with promotions, while outlet stores used fewer
promotions than in prior years. Shopper surveys revealed concern
over the consumers’ future paychecks from the pending fiscal
cliff negotiations.  Auto sales finished the year at a moderate pace of growth -
combining the sector’s slower pre-storm pace with a bump up for
replacement of cars damaged by the storm. In particular, New
Jersey dealers reported strong double-digit December sales,
capping a third consecutive year of sales growth. The outlook
among dealers remains positive; however, prospects for 2013 are
not as strong as they were for 2012. “Consumers will feel a
pinch” from the payroll tax increase and continued uncertainty
about possible budget cuts.  Finance. Overall, loan volumes have continued to grow at a
slight pace across Third District financial firms since the
previous Beige Book. A flurry of year-end business lending kept
banks busy facilitating tax-oriented business decisions
involving sales and liquidations, mergers and acquisitions,
accelerated depreciation, and dividend payouts. Home mortgage
refinancing rates continued to remain high. In describing their
competition as very aggressive, lenders expressed awareness of
some potential portfolio risk, even while the credit quality of
their borrowers continued to improve. Generally, financial
institutions are expecting growth to continue, if not improve.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders reported one
final surge of contract activity in November and then a
downswing in December to conclude with slight year-over-year
growth for the period. Despite facing erratic swings in demand
through the year, our contacts reported very strong year-over-
year growth for the entire year, which is more indicative of
their own gains in market share than of the sector overall.
Residential brokers reported robust year-over-year sales growth
in November, with steady year-end momentum. As with new home
construction, existing home sales are growing from a low base.
Builders and, to a greater extent, brokers are optimistic that
recent growth will be sustained in 2013. As with other sectors,
contacts expressed concern that the fiscal cliff negotiations
had been extended into their important first quarter.  Nonresidential real estate contacts reported renewed modest
growth in overall leasing activity and continued slight growth
in construction. Leasing activity finished the year with
sustained double-digit growth. Notably, in the fourth quarter,
contacts began “to see a re-emergence of leasing demand in
lagging submarkets” (in the Greater Philadelphia metro area),
including southern New Jersey. Stronger employment growth of
professional services is credited with much of the demand;
however, that demand is partially offset, as existing firms are
consolidating and adjusting to more efficient overall office
spaces with smaller square footage per person. New construction
of large industrial/warehouse space is planned in 2013 in the
Harrisburg-Lehigh Valley corridor on the heels of similar spaces
built this year; no such construction is anticipated in the
southern New Jersey market area. New apartment/condominium
projects continue to emerge throughout the Greater Philadelphia
region, especially in Center City. Nonresidential real estate
contacts retain an outlook of slow, steady growth.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have resumed a
more modest pace of growth since the last Beige Book, according
to contacts in various sectors. Tourist areas along the Delaware
and New Jersey shores are in various stages of recovery from
Hurricane Sandy. Atlantic City casinos reported significantly
lower revenues in November (as much as $55 million) compared
with 2011. Businesses and rental housing that serve the central
and northern Jersey Shore communities continued to lose some of
the money they would have earned in the low season. Southern New
Jersey and Delaware beach communities are largely intact and
operating normally. A Delaware beach hotel owner reported a
strong December finish to the year, which was partly due to an
extra holiday weekend. District staffing firms reported a mild
pace of growth at year’s end - an improvement after the storm
disruptions. Staffing contacts expect moderate growth in 2013
but are watching their clients’ reactions to the serial fiscal
cliff decisions. Defense-related firms received no relief from
the uncertainty of budget cuts that has held their business
plans in stasis for the past year. Overall, service-sector firms
expressed more confidence in their expectations for growth in
the near future.  Prices and Wages. Overall, price levels continued to increase
slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Cost factors among
manufacturing firms held steady, while the prices they received
rose a little. Tighter auto inventories generate a price
environment that favors auto dealers over their customers.
Homebuilders noted that rising commodity prices had added about
3 percent to the cost of a new home in the past 90 days. In
addition, roofing and siding contractors have lost crews to the
Jersey Shore repairs. Real estate contacts continued to report
that house prices are firming up and that houses in some markets
are receiving multiple offers. Rents are rising in most segments
of the Philadelphia central business district market and for
industrial space along the corridor from Carlisle, PA, to the
Lehigh Valley. In other segments and geographies, rents are flat
or still falling. Contacts from all sectors continued to report
that wages rose only a little, if at all. After a good year, two
homebuilders reported issuing the first pay raises to their
staffs in several years. Contacts did report strong growth in
unemployment compensation and workers’ compensation costs.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 