-- U.S. Industrial Production Rises 0.3% on Equipment Demand
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-16T21:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-industrial-production-rises-0-3-on-equipment-demand.html
Production at U.S. factories climbed
more than forecast in December and the cost of living was little
changed, showing the economy gained momentum entering 2013 while
inflation remained at bay.  Manufacturing output advanced 0.8 percent after jumping 1.3
percent in November, the strongest back-to-back reading in
almost a year, Federal Reserve figures showed today. The Labor
Department said its consumer-price index was unchanged last
month, capping the third-smallest annual gain in a decade.  Rebounds in housing, the auto industry and business
investment combined with stabilization in global growth will
probably support gains in manufacturing into this year. The lack
of inflation and an improving job market are also helping boost
Americans’ buying power, easing the risk that household spending
will slump as the budget battles in Washington shake confidence.  “We’re likely to start this year on much firmer footing
than we did last year,” said  Millan Mulraine , an economist at
TD Securities LLC in New York. “We’re moving in a positive
direction.”  The Fed said today in its Beige Book business survey that
the economy picked up across much of the nation last month,
boosted by sales of cars and homes.  “Economic activity has expanded since the previous Beige
Book report, with all 12 districts characterizing the pace of
growth as either modest or moderate,” the central bank said in
its survey, which is based on reports from the Fed’s district
banks.  Stock Prices  Most stocks fell on concern about Europe’s economy and
after the World Bank’s downgrade of global growth. More than
three stocks dropped for every two advancing on U.S. exchanges
as of 4 p.m. in New York. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
retreated 0.2 percent to 13,511.23 at the close. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,472.63.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government today cut its
growth forecast for Europe’s biggest economy as austerity
policies in cash-strapped euro-region countries and cooling
world trade damp exports.  The Washington-based World Bank late yesterday projected
the global economy will expand 2.4 percent this year, down from
a June forecast of 3 percent, after growing 2.3 percent in 2012.  The Fed’s production report showed total output, which
includes utilities and mining, increased 0.3 percent in
December, restrained by the biggest plunge in electricity use in
six months as the weather turned unseasonably mild.  Consumer Spending  “To the extent that the performance of the manufacturing
sector reflects pending consumption, it suggests sustained
improvement in consumer spending this quarter,” said Mulraine,
who correctly projected the increase in total production.  Last month was the second-warmest December in U.S. records
going back to 1958, according to the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.  The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected total industrial production would rise 0.3 percent.
Estimates ranged from a drop of 0.2 percent to an increase of
0.6 percent.  The two-month increase in manufacturing output, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy, was the biggest
since December 2011 and January 2012. It reflected in part a
rebound from the damage caused by superstorm Sandy in October.  Production Breakdown  The report showed the influence of the auto industry and
the rebound in business investment and housing.  Output of business equipment rose 1.3 percent in December
after a 2 percent gain the prior month. Production of
construction supplies advanced 1 percent.  The output of motor vehicles and parts increased 2.6
percent after a 5.8 percent surge a month earlier.  Autos remain a source of demand, according to other
reports.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the two largest
automakers by U.S. sales, topped analysts’ estimates last month
and forecast that industry deliveries will keep rising in 2013.
Cars and light trucks sold at a  15.3 million  annual pace in
December after a 15.5 million rate in November, the best two
months since early 2008, data from Ward’s Automotive Group
showed.  Global Growth  A turnaround in foreign markets also will probably boost
output at American factories. Exports advanced 1 percent in
November after declining the prior month.  Portland , Oregon-based
 Schnitzer Steel Industries Inc. (SCHN) , a steel recycler, is among
companies watching for signs of better overseas sales.  “The global economic outlook remains challenging, but
we’re cautiously optimistic that market conditions are modestly
improving,” Tamara Lundgren, president and chief executive
officer, said on a Jan. 8 conference call. “ China  is clearly
exhibiting stronger performance,” and  Europe  is stabilizing.  China’s exports jumped 14.1 percent in December from the
same month a year earlier, the biggest 12-month gain since May,
customs administration data showed on Jan. 10. Among other data,
a broad measure of credit surged 28 percent from December 2011,
according to the central bank.  Another report today reinforced that housing in the U.S.,
whose slump precipitated the recession, is making a comeback.
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders held in January at the
highest level in more than six years, according to data from the
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo. The group’s
sentiment index was 47, matching December’s reading as the
highest since April 2006.  Inflations Ebbs  Growing demand is not spurring inflation. The unchanged
reading in the consumer-price index matched the median estimate
of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg and followed a 0.3
percent drop the prior month, Labor Department data showed.
Costs rose 1.7 percent in 2012, down from a 3 percent increase
in 2011. Consumer prices rose 2.4 percent on average annually
over the past decade.  Price increases will probably remain restrained as
retailers including  Target Corp. (TGT)  use discounts to attract
customers and budget battles in Washington hurt confidence.
Federal Reserve policy makers are likely to maintain
unprecedented easing measures while inflation holds below their
target level and absent further progress on reducing
joblessness.  “There’s nothing to worry about on the inflation front”
so the Fed will continue easing measures, said Bricklin Dwyer,
an economist at BNP Paribas in New York, who correctly projected
the December price reading.  Price Measure  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which is tied to
consumer spending patterns, rose 1.4 percent in the 12 months to
November, according to data from the Commerce Department.  Central bankers in December adopted a more flexible
approach to their interest-rate outlook, saying borrowing costs
will stay low “at least as long” as unemployment remains above
6.5 percent and if the Fed predicts inflation of no more than
2.5 percent one or two years in the future. That language
replaced an earlier link between the rate outlook and calendar
dates. Unemployment was 7.8 percent in December and November.  The consumer-price report showed energy costs decreased 1.2
percent in December as gasoline fell 2.3 percent.  Fuel costs so far this year have held near a 2012 low
reached in December. A gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
 dropped  to a $3.29 average on Jan. 15, close to the $3.22
reached on Dec. 19 that was the lowest in a year, according to
AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group.  Lower fuel prices will help Americans’ buying power even as
higher taxes restrain their discretionary spending. The fiscal
pact passed by Congress on Jan. 1 allowed the payroll tax used
to pay for Social Security benefits to return to the 2010 level
of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. That reduces the paycheck by
about $83 a month for someone who earns $50,000.  A separate report from the Labor Department today showed
wages adjusted for inflation climbed 0.3 percent on average in
December after increasing 0.6 percent the prior month. For all
of 2012, they were up 0.3 percent after falling 1 percent the
prior year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  