-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in November and
December. After a strong start to holiday shopping, retail sales
remained solid as the holiday season progressed and vehicle
sales remained higher than a year ago. Manufacturing activity,
while above year-ago levels, eased further, especially in the
non-durable goods sector. Although energy activity remained
historically high, both oil and natural gas rig counts dropped
and District contacts expected further declines in the coming
months. Residential and commercial real estate markets
strengthened as prices and sales trended up and inventories
declined. Bankers also reported strong demand for both
residential and commercial real estate loans. Historically high
crop prices supported crop sector incomes, and livestock profits
improved with an uptick in livestock prices. Wage pressures
remained subdued except for the ongoing need to fill specialized
positions in energy, high-tech, transportation, and construction
industries. Numerous business contacts noted they were delaying
hiring plans due to economic uncertainty associated with the
fiscal cliff and potential policy changes.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending edged up in November and
December, and sales expectations softened heading into the new
year. Retail sales rose since the last survey period but
retailers expected less growth after the holiday season. Several
store owners noted that lower-priced items and home furnishings
sold particularly well while sales of high-end items remained
sluggish. Auto sales slowed but remained higher than a year ago
and some dealers noted undesirably high inventory levels. Near-
term sales expectations also eased but generally remained
positive. Hotel traffic fell sharply and occupancy rates were
substantially below last year’s levels. Although tourist
activity picked up somewhat, visitor counts remained well below
a year ago and were not expected to improve in the near-term.
Despite slightly better sales and higher selling prices,
restaurant owners turned pessimistic about future sales growth
as food costs mounted. Numerous contacts pinned their less
positive outlook for future growth on uncertainty associated
with the fiscal cliff that was inhibiting consumer spending.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing
activity eased since the last survey period, particularly in the
non-durable goods sector. Factory production retreated to year-
ago levels after a more pronounced contraction in non-durable
goods activity trimmed production over the past month. The
relative strength of durable goods activity was supported by the
production and sales of electrical equipment, appliances, and
components. Manufacturers expected generally stronger activity
over the next six months. Factory managers at non-durable goods
plants, however, were more optimistic about future activity than
their peers at durable goods plants with stronger expectations
for production, shipments, and new orders over the next six
months. Despite a potential rebound in manufacturing activity,
factory employment was not expected to rise, with some
manufacturers noting that they were delaying hiring plans
because of uncertainty in tax and regulatory policies. High-tech
service firms expected robust sales and  capital spending  over
the next three months. With railroad traffic continuing to rise
and flat sales expectations at transportation service firms,
backlogs and capital spending remained solid.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate sales accelerated since the last survey period despite
some weakness in new residential construction. Persistently
strong sales of existing residential homes drove prices higher
as home inventories continued to fall. Real estate contacts
noted that low- to mid-priced homes continued to sell well.
Overall mortgage activity and refinancings remained higher than
a year ago although expectations for the coming months edged
down. Despite recent strength at construction supply firms,
sales deteriorated unexpectedly over the past month due partly
to higher selling prices. Builders noted that surging lumber and
drywall costs led to fewer housing starts in November and
December. Commercial real estate markets also improved
substantially since the last survey period. Vacancy rates
continued to fall with a notable improvement in sales,
absorption, and rents, although some contacts noted that
economic uncertainty hindered activity. Rising commercial real
estate prices were expected to persist in the coming months, but
contacts expected a slower pace of both sales activity and
absorptions.  Banking. Bankers, on average, reported stronger loan demand,
improved loan quality, and higher deposit levels in the recent
survey period. Overall loan demand continued to strengthen, led
by demand for residential and commercial real estate loans.
Respondents also reported stable loan demand for both commercial
and industrial loans and consumer installment loans.  Interest
rates  on commercial and industrial loans continued to edge
lower. Most bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a
year ago, and they also expected the outlook for loan quality to
continue improving over the next six months. Credit standards
remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories and
respondents also reported generally higher deposit levels since
the last survey period.  Agriculture. Drought continued to impact crop conditions and
livestock profits improved with higher livestock prices and
lower feed costs. District winter wheat conditions remained
relatively poor due to persistent drought. The drought also
caused water levels on the  Mississippi River  to fall further,
hindering commodity transportation to and from agricultural
regions. Still net farm incomes remained high due to
historically high crop prices and crop insurance payments.
Livestock profit margins also improved over the past six weeks
due to a post-harvest decline in crop prices and rising
livestock prices. District contacts noted a surge in land sales,
sparked by concerns of tax policy changes in the new year.  Energy. District energy activity contracted in November and
December and was expected to slow further in the coming months.
The number of active oil rigs in the District eased from the
previous survey period despite a year-end uptick in crude  oil
prices . The number of active natural gas rigs declined as high
supplies of natural gas in storage kept prices from rising due
to winter heating needs. Energy contacts expected steady demand
to stabilize oil prices and the current oversupply of natural
gas to push prices lower.  Wyoming ’s coal output dropped in
December and annual production fell moderately short of year-ago
levels. District ethanol production remained steady and profit
margins, while still poor, improved slightly with easing corn
prices.  Wages and Prices. Although wage pressures remained subdued
during the survey period, raw materials prices rose further and
more companies expected to raise finished goods prices in the
coming months. Many businesses reported delaying hiring due to
uncertainty surrounding the fiscal cliff and health care policy.
Yet, some firms were offering wage premiums to fill specialized
positions, particularly in the energy, high-tech,
transportation, and construction industries. Raw material costs
at factories climbed higher, and more factories planned to raise
finished goods prices over the next six months. Builders
expected higher prices for many construction materials,
particularly lumber and drywall, to continue climbing due to
tight supplies. After rising during the  holiday shopping season ,
retailers expected retail prices to flatten during the coming
months. Restaurant owners planned to increase menu prices due to
high food costs. In contrast, fewer bookings led hotel operators
to reduce average room rates.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 