-- U.S. Charges 29 People in N.Y., N.J. Trash-Hauler Fraud Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-16T20:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-charges-29-people-in-n-y-n-j-trash-hauler-fraud-case-1-.html
Federal prosecutors indicted 29
people in an alleged organized-crime conspiracy to control
commercial-waste disposal businesses in  New York  and  New Jersey 
using intimidation, extortion and violence.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara accused 12 people of
running a racketeering scheme to control waste-hauling companies
in both states while 17 others were charged with extortion,
loansharking, mail and wire fraud. Three more were charged
separately with interstate transportation of stolen property.
The defendants are scheduled to be arraigned later today in
Manhattan federal court, Bharara’s office said.  Prosecutors said a dozen of the defendants were members and
associates of the Genovese, Gambino and Lucchese crime families
who had been previously banned from the waste industry and
unlikely to be granted the necessary licenses because of their
criminal affiliations. The defendants concealed their identities
and obtained the licenses by using waste disposal businesses
that were officially owned and operated by others.  “Organized crime has many victims -- in this case small
business owners who pay for waste removal, potential
competitors, and the communities infected by this corruption and
its cost,” Bharara said in a statement.  Prosecutors said the defendants controlled waste disposal
and carting businesses in the New York City area, as well as in
Westchester, Rockland and Nassau counties and New Jersey’s
Bergen and Passaic counties.  Trash Pick-Up  The defendants allegedly dictated which trash pick-up spots
a particular hauling company could use and extorted cash
payments in exchange for protection by organized crime
associates, prosecutors said.  The participants in the scheme were able to assert
“property rights” over trash pick-up routes and exclude
competitors who may attempt to underbid them or provide better
service, resulting in a “criminal tax” upon businesses and
communities, the U.S. said.  Thirty of the defendants were arrested this morning without
incident by agents of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said
 Peter Donald , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York office. Two
other defendants will surrender later this week, Bharara’s
office said.  ‘Ongoing Threat’  “The indictments show the ongoing threat posed by mob
families and their criminal associates,” said George Venizelos,
head of the FBI’s New York office. “In addition to the violence
that often accompanies their schemes, the economic impact
amounts to a mob tax on goods and services. The arrests -- the
culmination of a long and thorough investigation -- also show
the ongoing determination of the FBI to diminishing the
influence of La Cosa Nostra.”  The 12 charged with racketeering face as long as 20 years
in prison if convicted. Four men charged with mail and wire
fraud faces as long as 30 years if convicted while those charged
with extortion faces as long as 20 years in prison.  The cases are U.S. v. Franco, 13-cr-015, U.S. v. Giustra,
13-CR-014, U.S. v. Lopez, 13-cr-015, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  