-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District-- New York.  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Economic activity in the Second District has shown signs of
rebounding since the last report, as widespread disruptions from
Superstorm Sandy largely dissipated. On balance, the labor
market firmed, with manufacturers reporting flat employment but
non-manufacturing contacts indicating some pickup in hiring.
Manufacturers and other firms report more widespread price hikes
than in recent months, while retail prices were steady to up
moderately. Retailers report that holiday-season sales were
steady to somewhat higher than this time last year but slightly
below plan. Auto sales in upstate New York were mixed but
generally strong in November and December. Tourism activity
slumped in November, in the aftermath of Sandy, but rebounded
somewhat in New York City in December. Both residential and
commercial real estate markets were generally steady since the
last report. Finally, bankers report a pickup in demand for
commercial mortgages but steady demand on other types of loans;
they also report no change in credit standards, narrowing loan
spreads, and widespread decreases in delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending  Holiday season sales were up modestly from last year but came in
slightly below plan. A trade association survey of retailers
across New York State indicates that sales were disappointing in
the days leading up to Christmas as well as in the days after. A
major retail chain indicates that sales were below plan in
November and December but picked up fairly dramatically in early
January. Retail contacts in upstate New York report that sales
were flat to up compared to a year earlier. Retailers attribute
the weaker than expected holiday sales to a combination of
online shopping, mild weather, fiscal cliff concerns, and, in
some parts of the region, slow insurance payouts to those
affected by Sandy. Retail prices were reported to be steady or
up moderately.  Buffalo-area auto dealers indicate that vehicle sales picked up
in November but were expected to be flat to slightly lower than
a year earlier in December. However, Rochester-area dealers
report strong sales for both months to end 2012. Tourism
activity slumped in the immediate aftermath of Sandy. Even
hotels in the Albany area were reportedly affected by the storm,
as widespread meeting and conference cancellations pushed down
hotel occupancy rates in November. In New York City, Broadway
theaters report that attendance and revenues rebounded after a
deep post-Sandy slump in the first half of November. Still,
December attendance was down 5 to10 percent from a year earlier,
while revenues were little changed. Finally,  consumer confidence 
in the region weakened at year end. The Conference Board’s
survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa)
showed confidence falling to its lowest level in more than a
year, while Siena College’s survey of New York State residents
indicated a modest decline.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District were generally
steady since the last report, with the storm having little
discernible effect on the overall market. New York City’s rental
market appears to have lost some momentum during the final two
months of 2012, as rents in Manhattan and  Brooklyn  retreated and
were up only slightly from a year earlier. The inventory of
available rental apartments, however, remained low in late 2012.
Apartment sales activity in New York City was robust in the
fourth quarter--particularly in  Manhattan . A major appraisal
firm attributes some of the high sales volume to looming tax
changes and notes that there has been a flood of appraisal
requests for tax-related financial planning. Prices are reported
to be flat to up slightly. In contrast, an overhang of inventory
has kept prices from rising in northern New Jersey and Long
Island. Sandy disrupted construction activity in late 2012,
though a contact in the homebuilding industry notes that
construction sub-contractors are getting a great deal of work
from storm-related repairs and reconstruction during a typically
slow season.  Office markets were relatively stable in the final months of
2012. A commercial real estate contact reports that the recovery
from Sandy in Lower Manhattan has been slow, as a number of
buildings in the flood zone remained out of service at year end.
More broadly, leasing and sales activity across Manhattan were
sluggish in November but picked up in December. Vacancy rates
have been steady, while asking rents have edged up, led by brisk
gains in Midtown South. Strong demand from the new media and
advertising sectors and some pickup from legal services have
offset weak demand from the financial sector. Elsewhere in the
region, vacancy rates were little changed in the fourth quarter,
though asking rents fell noticeably in northern New Jersey.  Other Business Activity  Contacts in the manufacturing sector continue to report little
or no growth in activity though they remain mildly optimistic
about the near-term outlook. Non-manufacturing contacts report
some improvement in business conditions and have grown
increasingly optimistic about prospects for 2013. New York City
area firms--both manufacturing firms and non-manufacturing
firms--say that Sandy adversely affected revenues in November
but that business was seen to be back on track in December.  On balance, labor market conditions firmed in late 2012. While
business contacts in the manufacturing sector report little or
no change in employment, contacts in other sectors note some
pickup in hiring. A major New York City employment agency
specializing in office jobs said that while it is difficult to
assess the labor market during the holiday season some continued
softness in labor market conditions is apparent. In particular,
financial sector hiring has remained sluggish, but year-end
bonuses are expected to be up moderately from a year ago. Much
of the bonus pay typically distributed in January was reportedly
paid out in December in advance of higher tax rates.  Financial Developments  Small- to medium-sized banks report no change in demand for all
loan types except commercial mortgages, where loan demand
increased. Bankers report little change in demand for
refinancing. The vast majority of respondents continue to report
that credit standards were unchanged across all categories.
Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over
the costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly in
residential mortgages, where nearly three in five bankers report
lower spreads. Respondents also indicate a decrease in average
deposit rates, on balance.  Finally, bankers note declining delinquency rates in all loan
categories--most notably in commercial mortgages, where well
over half of those surveyed report lower delinquencies.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 