-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District-- St. Louis.  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary The economy of the Eighth District has grown at a modest
pace since our previous report. Recent reports of planned
activity from service firms have been positive. In contrast,
reports of planned activity from manufacturing firms have been
negative on net. Residential real estate market conditions have
continued to improve, and commercial and industrial real estate
conditions have also improved in some areas. Total lending at a
sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased slightly
from early September to mid-December. Agricultural conditions in
the District have been mixed since our previous report.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been negative
on net since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms
reported plans to lay off workers and close plants in the Eighth
District, while fewer manufacturing firms reported plans to hire
new workers or expand operations. Firms in HVAC equipment,
electric components, food, and automobile parts manufacturing
reported plans to lay off workers. In contrast, firms that
manufacture small arms and medical devices reported plans to
hire new workers and expand operations.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have been positive since our previous report. Firms in electric
power generation, food services, business support services, and
information services announced plans to hire new employees and
construct new facilities. In contrast, firms in medical services
and in financial services reported plans to lay off workers.
Retail contacts in Louisville reported the opening of several
new facilities, and an auto dealer group is expanding operations
in the  Memphis  area. Retailers in Memphis reported increased
sales on an annual basis, and auto dealers in Little Rock and
Louisville also reported increased sales for the year.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011,
November 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 16 percent in
Louisville, 5 percent in Little Rock, 13 percent in Memphis, and
19 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction increased in
the majority of the District. November 2012 year-to-date single-
family housing permits increased in the majority of the
District’s metropolitan areas compared with the same period in
2011. Permits increased 40 percent in Louisville, 26 percent in
Little Rock, 30 percent in Memphis, and 25 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
improved in some areas of the District. Contacts in the Memphis
metropolitan area noted that commercial and industrial real
estate activity remained stable. A contact in St. Louis noted
that office space leasing activity improved in the downtown
area, while a contact in Louisville noted strong suburban office
space leasing activity. Commercial and industrial construction
activity continued to improve throughout most of the District.
Contacts in Louisville noted plans for speculative industrial
construction in Jefferson County,  Indiana , and several
industrial construction projects in southern Indiana and in
Bullitt County, Kentucky. A contact in Little Rock reported new
commercial construction projects in southwest Little Rock.
Contacts in Memphis reported a number of ongoing health care
construction projects in the downtown area. A contact in St.
Louis reported commercial construction plans in the Dogtown
neighborhood and that an automobile assembly plant expansion is
under construction in Wentzville.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks decreased 0.6 percent from early September to
mid-December. Real estate lending, accounting for 72.4 percent
of total loans, was little changed. Commercial and industrial
loans, accounting for 15.7 percent of total loans, decreased 4.4
percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of
total loans, were essentially unchanged. All other loans,
accounting for 7.1 percent of total loans, increased 1.7
percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks
decreased 0.6 percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  November year-to-date commercial red meat production across the
District’s states was 4.3 percent higher in 2012 than the same
period in 2011. By contrast, November year-to-date poultry
production as measured by the number of young chickens
slaughtered was down 2.2 percent relative to 2011. The
District’s states ginned 6.4 percent less cotton from January 1
to December 15, 2012, compared with the same period in 2011.
Year-to-date coal production in the District’s states (excluding
eastern  Kentucky ) at the end of November 2012 was 9.4 percent
higher than the same period in 2011, while coal production for
November 2012 was roughly on par with production for November
2011.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 