-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-01-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Economic activity in the First District continues to grow
modestly, according to business contacts. Most retailers and the
tourism industry cite year-over-year increases in demand. Aside
from some firms with industry-specific or customer-specific
issues, First District manufacturers also report growth in sales
from a year ago. Similarly, consulting and advertising firms are
ahead of a year earlier, although a couple of companies with
fast growth over the last few years have recently seen business
level off. Commercial real estate contacts are somewhat
downbeat; office leasing is slow and demand for commercial real
estate loans and pipelines for commercial construction activity
are weaker than in recent reports. Residential real estate
markets continue to recover, with both sales and prices in
November above year-earlier levels. In all sectors, most
respondents are holding their selling prices level. Contacts say
their hiring depends on demand growth; as a result, most firms
are doing little to no hiring, but some firms are expanding
headcounts substantially. Notwithstanding ongoing concerns with
uncertainty, contacts generally expect continued modest growth
in 2013.  Retail and Tourism  One contact reports a small single-digit year-over-year decrease
in December sales while the others cite increases ranging from
near zero to 7 percent. Demand remains strong for clothing,
shoes, and furniture. Responding retail firms expect to hold
their selling prices steady based on an absence of price
increases at the wholesale level. These contacts anticipate that
2013 will be characterized by low single-digit growth in sales.  The tourism industry ended 2012:Q4 on a high note, establishing
new records for hotel room occupancy rates and revenues. Strong
domestic and international corporate business travel and
international leisure travel account for much of this
performance. Restaurants saw less spending on corporate
entertaining and end-of-year holiday events. Advance hotel
booking data indicate that the strong trend in business travel
will continue, leading to an expectation that occupancy rates
will hold level in 2013 compared to the high benchmark
established in 2012.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Manufacturing in New England continues to expand at a modest
pace according to First District contacts. Of 11 responding
firms, seven report higher sales in the fourth quarter than in
the same period a year earlier, although in some cases the gains
are quite modest. Two contacts in the semiconductor industry
continue to report a cyclical downturn in their business. A
contact in aerospace says that sales of parts for new airplanes
are extremely strong but depressed conditions in the aftermarket
have spread from the United States to  Europe . A contact in the
chemical industry says that while sales in pounds fell, the
pricing picture improved so much that sales in dollars are up.
Sales of frozen fish continue to be weak. The “fiscal cliff” was
an explicit problem for a computer firm that sells almost
exclusively to Defense Department customers who are worried
about sequestration.  Only five of the 11 respondents report significant hiring. Firms
with rapidly growing sales are hiring, but firms in slow-growth
industries are not. A biotech firm with 3,500 U.S. employees
plans to add another 1,000 over the coming year, about half
domestically. The computer supplier with customers dependent on
defense spending cut its staffing by 10 percent to 15 percent
over the period from June to September. A contact in the
chemical industry reports both good and bad news about the labor
market. On one hand, he says that for the first time since the
crisis began, workers are voluntarily leaving to take new jobs.
The bad news is that he is having great difficulty filling low-
skill jobs. He says that drug test fails are much more common
than in the past; in addition, a large number of workers quit
almost immediately after taking the job. The contact speculates
that both of these hiring problems may result from behaviors
developed during extended periods of unemployment.  As with employment, capital spending is generally slow except
for firms in growth industries, with four firms reporting
increases and four reporting decreases in spending. One
diversified manufacturer of parts for the aerospace and auto
industries reports that business units within the firm failed to
spend their planned capex allocations in 2012.  The outlook continues to be uncertain for most of our contacts.
Only one firm, the defense supplier, cites the fiscal cliff as a
serious problem and even they expect some resolution in the new
year.  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report
generally positive results for the fourth quarter. Several
contacts report modest growth, while two contacts--whose firms
have experienced rapid growth over the past two years--
experienced a leveling off. Marketing and advertising contacts
report a slight uptick during the fourth quarter and are
confident that business conditions have finally stabilized after
the recession, which hit them with a lag. Two contacts with
exposure to health care note robust demand for services related
to health-care IT implementation and drug-impacts research. At
the same time, firms focused on the pharmaceutical industry have
experienced slow growth, although one contact expects that
pharmaceuticals will start to emerge from its rough spell in
2013. Economic consulting remains strong because of high levels
of complex high-stakes litigation; management and strategy
consulting contacts report flat business conditions as clients
uncertain about fiscal policy and the macroeconomy remain
reluctant to invest in consulting services.  Contacts report little to no cost increases and are keeping
their prices relatively unchanged. One exception is an
advertising firm where health insurance costs rose 12 percent in
2012. Some contacts report no hiring, consistent with a lack of
demand growth, while others report net hiring in the low single
digits. Plans for future hiring are modest, with contacts
generally expecting zero to low single-digit workforce increases
in 2013.  Most contacts expect growth to pick up in 2013, with the
exception of a government contractor, who is too uncertain about
the future of fiscal policy to offer any forecast. No one
expects another recession and overall they express a sense of
cautious optimism.  Commercial Real Estate  Across most of the First District, leasing activity in the final
weeks of 2012 is described as very light, driven by a
combination of seasonal factors and uncertainty stemming from
fiscal cliff negotiations. However, a Portland contact notes an
uptick in leasing activity in that city in December, especially
in the warehouse sector, although office fundamentals remain
flat amid slow employment growth. Boston’s warehouse market
improved as well, while the city’s office vacancy rate remains
high--also attributed to slow employment growth--and the trend
toward office downsizing persists. In Hartford, the fate of
large downtown properties that experienced foreclosure in 2012
remains uncertain; a key question is whether current owners will
reinvest in the properties or resell them as is. Demand for
commercial real estate loans in the region appears to be
softening, while the pipeline of new construction projects in
Boston has diminished significantly since the last report.  Most contacts in the region are cautiously optimistic that
commercial real estate fundamentals will improve in 2013.
However, growth expectations remain very modest and some
contacts note downside risks to growth from pending fiscal
contraction and ongoing political uncertainty, even taking into
account the recently-enacted federal tax deal.  Residential Real Estate  Across the First District, contacts report strong year-over-year
growth in sales for November in both single-family home and
condominium markets. Similar to previous reports, contacts
attribute continued growth in sales to low interest rates,
affordable prices, and rising rents. Contacts say that buyers
have become more confident about purchasing a home as economic
conditions continue to improve. As buyer activity increased,
inventory levels fell throughout the region. Contacts argue that
declining inventory levels have now translated into higher
prices in most areas. The median sale price of homes rose year-
over-year across the First District, with some states
experiencing significant increases.  In terms of outlooks for the coming year, contacts continue to
feel positive about improvements in home values and strong
sales. Significant year-over-year growth in sales is expected
for the most of 2013, although a warm winter last year coupled
with a potentially harsher winter this year may soften year-
over-year growth in the coming months. In  Massachusetts  and the
Greater Boston area, contacts express concern that dwindling
inventory levels will discourage buyers and even potentially
deter some sellers who would like to purchase a replacement home
before listing their current one; at the same time, they express
worry about prices appreciating too quickly, but say they are
not concerned with ongoing moderate price appreciation.
Notwithstanding these potential concerns, contacts across the
region are generally very optimistic about the strength of the
housing market in 2013.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 