-- U.S. Will Leave Afghanistan to Warlords and Taliban
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-01-16T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/u-s-will-leave-afghanistan-to-warlords-and-taliban.html
“We wanted a clear message from
Obama that the U.S. will continue to support democracy in
 Afghanistan ,”  Fawzia Koofi , a lawmaker and human-rights
activist, said this month. “It’s the only alternative to
Talibanization.”  Her honesty revealed the plain truth, without official
pieties and doublespeak: The U.S. is quitting Afghanistan, and
the morning after it does, the Taliban will begin the reconquest
of that tragic land. After 11 years, and a  toll  of more than
2,000 Americans killed, 18,000 wounded, and the expenditure of
more than $600 billion, what is perhaps the longest U.S. war is
winding down.  That good war of necessity, set up as a willful contrast to
the war of choice in  Iraq , is in  Washington ’s rearview mirror.
No stirring prose attends that war. When Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  came to Washington for an  official visit  on Jan. 11, the
mood was sober and resigned. He could promise immunity for the
U.S. forces that would stay in his country, but this would not
change the course of things. A cunning warlord -- a job
requirement -- Karzai knew it was the endgame in Kabul for the
Americans.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who had made Afghanistan his
just war of necessity, had won re-election and he insisted that
the conflict was meant to avenge what befell the U.S. on Sept.
11, 2001. A year into his first term, he had doubled down in
Afghanistan, ordering a surge of his own. The potential damage
to his presidency from war in the Hindu Kush was contained. The
Republicans couldn’t outflank him, for they, too, knew that this
was an unpopular war.  Bloodless Realism  But Obama had been shrewd. Early on, he had stripped the
Afghan campaign of exalted claims. Not for him was the passion
of President  George W. Bush  about the Iraq War spreading
“freedom” throughout the Arab world. Obama had spoken of a
“civilian surge” of experts and technocrats from all walks of
life descending on Afghanistan and tackling its overwhelming
troubles. This was shelved and forgotten. A bloodless realism
guided the enterprise.  We would end the war “responsibly,” Obama would
repeatedly observe. He was without illusions about the man in
Kabul. In  Bob Woodward ’s “Obama’s Wars,” the president asks
and answers the central question about the local “partner” in
that war. “Why should Karzai change?” The Afghan could go on
with his ways, Obama said, and the “U.S. would be stuck tending
to the country for him.”  American soldiers could labor and sacrifice in Afghanistan,
but the  flights , eight a day, from Kabul to Dubai would haul off
the cash for the warlords to prepare for the time when the
American centurions would be gone.  There is kitsch and legend about the country being a
“graveyard for empires,” about the codes of the Pashtuns. But
decades of mayhem and corruption have hardened and wrecked the
culture. Plainly, the warrior bandits live off strategic rent,
the subsidies that come to them from foreign donors caught up in
the messiness of Afghanistan.  You would think that these proud Afghans would want the
departure of the Americans, but they dread that day. Luck had
come to them when al-Qaeda, Arab jihadis and financiers had
nested among them. Like a magnet, the Arabs had pulled in the
mighty Americans with their gear and deep pockets. A decade of
this lucrative trade for the Afghans in power has been heady.  In 2009, the U.S. ambassador to Kabul at the time,  Karl Eikenberry , explained the Afghan and Karzai ways in a  cable he
sent  to Washington. “President Karzai is not an adequate
strategic partner. He and much of his circle do not want the
U.S. to leave and are only too happy to see us invest further.
They assume we covet their territory for a never-ending war on
terror and for military bases to use against surrounding
powers.”  Mocking Imperialists  Say what you will about the Afghan warrior bandits: In the
decade Americans spent among them, they never told us sweet
things about our time, and our role, in their country. This was
“imperialism” with a new twist. The clients dependent on
imperial protection never wearied of second-guessing the
protectors.  Karzai himself must be unique in that regard in the long
line of unsavory despots the U.S. had supported over several
decades in  developing countries . For Karzai, the coalition
forces were predators inflicting pain and ruin on the Afghans.
At times, the foreign protectors ranked lower in esteem than the
Taliban.  In November 2011, Karzai gave the quintessential  Afghan
statement  about the place of the Americans and their coalition
partners in his homeland. “The lion doesn’t like it if a
foreigner intrudes into his house. The lion doesn’t like it if a
stranger enters his house. The lion doesn’t want his children to
be taken away by someone else in the night, the lion won’t let
it happen.” All the lion would tolerate is for the outsiders to
“just guard the four sides of the forest.”  Well, soon the lion will be on his own. No Americans will
be under any compulsion to dwell on the meaning and the ways of
the loya jirga, the assembly of elders. We will be spared
anthropological recitations about the “Pashtunwali,” the code
of the Pashtuns, for we have already seen through the pretense
and the kitsch.  There remain earnest Afghan women such as Fawzia Koofi and
those schoolgirls we glimpse in their uniforms when our
television crews venture into that country. One shudders in fear
and anxiety for them. They won’t be able to board the flights
for Dubai. They will be there when the pitiless soldiers of the
Taliban, like the  Khmer Rouge  of  Cambodia , sweep in and
overwhelm all that the foreign protectors had left in place.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian
Rebellion.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 