-- UEFA’s Platini Meets French Lawmakers on Soccer Finance Measures
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-01-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/uefa-s-platini-meets-french-lawmakers-on-soccer-finance-measures.html
Michel Platini , president of
European soccer’s governing body, met with French politicians
yesterday as they seek to introduce controls that may curb
Qatari-owned Paris Saint-Germain’s record spending on players.  Platini, who heads Nyon, Switzerland-based  UEFA , was
invited by parliamentarians at France’s National Assembly to
explain how his organization crafted its own rules that seek to
punish teams playing in elite competitions if they breach cost-
control regulations.  French teams are licensed by an independent body called the
Direction Nationale du Controle de Gestion, or DNCG, which
examines professional clubs’ finances before granting them
permission to play. Its regulations don’t as yet include break-
even rules that UEFA instituted in 2011 to combat soaring losses
in club soccer, though the possibility is being investigated.  “The president was at the parliament this morning,”  UEFA 
spokesman Thomas Giordano said in an interview. “The French
parliament started an inquiry to see what could be done and if
they can amend the regulations.”  Losses at European teams have grown from 700 million euros
($930 million) in 2008 to 1.7 billion euros in 2011, according
to UEFA. Parliamentarians in France have been raising concerns
about soccer finances since a unit of the state-controlled Qatar
Investment Authority took control of Paris Saint-Germain in
2011.  Since then the club, which won its last domestic league
title in 1994, has spent more on talent than any other European
team. Coveted attackers such as  Sweden ’s Zlatan Ibrahimovic and
Argentine duo Javier Pastore and Ezequiel Lavezzi have been
signed in a 250 million-euro spending spree.  Yann Guerin, a PSG spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
a call seeking comment.  ‘Unfair’  The team’s president Nasser Al-Khelaifi told French sports
newspaper L’Equipe earlier this month that he isn’t planning to
stop spending.  “We will keep on investing,” he said. “It’s necessary to
become one of the great European clubs. Other clubs have
invested for 20 years. We have been there for a year and a half
and now we must stop pouring money? It would be unfair.”  UEFA’s proposals could result in clubs being excluded from
the Champions League and Europa League if they don’t live within
their means.  While the discussions remain at a preliminary stage in
 France , soccer’s richest league is moving closer to introducing
a type of fiscal control: Executives from the English Premier
League’s 20 teams will meet next month and may put in place
their own measures if 14 of the member clubs agree.  Gill’s Pledge  Manchester United ’s Chief Executive Officer David Gill told
reporters yesterday that UEFA’s break-even regulations -- as
well as a proposal by northeast club Sunderland to limit annual
wage increases -- would both have to be adopted following a
“yes” vote. In December, United co-signed a letter along with
Liverpool, Tottenham and Arsenal promoting UEFA’s model.  “On wage-cost protocol it’s a ‘quid pro quo,”’ Gill said.
“If they get that we will want the other. In my opinion it’s a
joint program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  