-- TUI Travel Jumps as Majority Owner Makes Takeover Approach
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-16T17:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/tui-travel-jumps-after-majority-owner-makes-takeover-approach.html
TUI Travel Plc (TT/) ,  Europe ’s largest
tour operator, jumped to the highest since April 2010 after it
received an approach from its German majority owner to merge the
companies.  Talks with  TUI AG (TUI1)  are “at a very early stage” and “may
or may not result in a combination of the two companies,”
Crawley, England-based TUI Travel said in a statement today.  TUI Travel jumped as much as 8.4 percent and closed up 3.9
percent at 292.5 pence in  London , valuing the company at 3.3
billion pounds ($5.2 billion). TUI AG had a 57.5 percent
interest in TUI Travel, equivalent to 51.7 percent on a diluted
basis, according to a Dec. 6 statement.  TUI AG Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel, who is
stepping down in February, has sought to focus the company on
tourism by putting units such as shipping up for sale.  “It is obvious that you can harvest synergies if you
streamline the company’s structure,”  Jochen Rothenbacher , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet Bank AG, said by phone. “The
deal’s structure is unclear at the moment. It should be
favorable to both TUI AG’s and TUI Travel’s shareholders.”  TUI AG shares also  jumped  in  Germany , with the stock
soaring as much as 10 percent to a five-week high in Frankfurt.  TUI Travel denied that any combination would be achieved by
a reverse takeover, as reported by Reuters, and said it would be
completed through a “nil premium all-share merger.” TUI AG
will have to submit a firm intention to make an offer by Feb.
13, the owner of the Thomson holiday brand said.  TUI AG’s annual general meeting on Feb. 13 is “a good
point in time” to ask shareholders “to vote for any kind of
deal’s structure,” Rothenbacher said.  TUI Travel was formed in 2007 when TUI combined its travel
unit with First Choice Holidays Plc to ward off competition from
Web travel agents and budget airlines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  