-- Lira Jumps to 6-Day High Versus Euro After Valuation Warning
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-16T15:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/turkish-lira-falls-1st-day-in-3-on-export-threat-global-growth.html
The lira climbed to its strongest in
almost a week against the euro after the common currency
weakened against major peers as Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said the strength of the euro poses a threat to
the region’s economy.  The Turkish lira gained 0.2 percent against the dollar to
2.3492 at 5:07 p.m. in Istanbul, the strongest since Jan. 10.
Yields on benchmark two-year notes fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 6 percent.  The euro’s 8 percent gain against the  U.S. dollar  in the
past six months is posing a fresh threat to the European economy
and the euro is trading at “dangerously high” levels just as
it shows signs of escaping the debt crisis,  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said late
yesterday  “Today policymakers have several times mentioned the
euro’s valuation,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market
strategist at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen, said in e-mailed
comments. “It seems currency war is not only Turkey’s concern
and is becoming more widespread.”  Turkey’s central bank governor Erdem Basci said in November
that a reading above 120 on its real exchange rate index would
be cause for concern, suggesting the lira was becoming
overvalued.  The European currency dropped as much as 0.9 percent after
Juncker’s comments, the biggest intraday decline since Jan. 3.  ‘Downside Pressure’  “Correction in euro/dollar is also source of downside
pressure on euro/lira (there is strong correlation between those
crosses),”  Piotr Matys , an  emerging markets  analyst at 4Cast
Ltd in London, said in e-mailed comments.  The lira has gained 0.9 percent against the dollar so far
this month, the second-biggest appreciation among emerging-
market currencies in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  after
the Romanian leu, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkish two-year note yields fell 483 basis points last
year in the biggest retreat globally among emerging markets as
the central bank cut the  average cost of funding  for lenders to
5.51 percent on Dec. 25 from 11.93 percent on Jan. 6, 2012, as
economic growth slowed to 1.6 percent in the third quarter, the
lowest since a 2009 recession.  Policy makers lowered the  benchmark repurchase rate  in
December by 25 basis points to a record 5.5 percent.  The Turkish Treasury completed this month’s sales
yesterday, raising 12 billion liras of debt in five auctions
versus its monthly domestic borrowing target of 11.6 billion
liras. It plans to auction 34.6 billion liras of debt this
quarter, up 89 percent from the last three months of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  