-- Venezuela Gazette Shows Chavez Signing Decree in Caracas
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-01-16T17:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/venezuela-gazette-shows-ailing-chavez-signing-decree-in-caracas.html
Ailing Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  signed a decree in Caracas yesterday appointing a new
foreign minister, according to the Official Gazette, even as the
government gives updates on his recovery from cancer in Cuba.  It was the first decree featuring the president’s signature
since Chavez left for the communist island on Dec. 10 for a
fourth operation on an undisclosed type of cancer and followed
the announcement of Elias Jaua’s appointment as foreign minister
by Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  yesterday.  Chavez’s signature, datelined as Caracas Jan. 15, came
after opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski called into
question the legality of naming ministers in the president’s
absence. The 58-year-old Chavez has been battling a lung
infection following last month’s operation that prevented him
from attending his own swearing-in ceremony for a new term Jan.
10. The  Supreme Court  said the inauguration could be delayed,
leaving Chavez’s handpicked successor Maduro to run affairs in
 South America ’s biggest oil exporter.  “It’s public knowledge, endorsed by the Supreme Court and
the National Assembly, that the president is abroad, so the idea
that this decree was signed in Caracas lacks credibility,” said
Leonardo Palacios, a partner at Palacios, Torres, Crespo &
Korody law firm in Caracas and a former opposition lawmaker.
“It’s important to respect the procedures laid out by the
constitution to ensure legal security. Here that’s not being
done.”  Unsigned Decree  The only other decree published since Chavez went to Cuba
was unsigned and officially dated Dec. 9, even though it wasn’t
published until Dec. 21. The decree delegated some economic
powers to Maduro.  Venezuela ’s Information Ministry didn’t immediately reply
to an e-mail seeking comment about whether Chavez is in Caracas.  “If the president can sign decrees, I call on him to speak
to Venezuela,” Capriles said today in comments broadcast on
Globovision.  The legal ramifications of having the country’s president
run affairs from Cuba has been a point of contention between the
government and the opposition since Chavez first announced from
Cuba that he had a unspecified form of cancer. The opposition
argues that Chavez should cede the presidency temporarily while
he convalesces.  Electronically Signed  Before departing for his first round of chemotherapy in
July 20011, Chavez said that technology would allow him to run
the country from abroad, demonstrating on state television how
he could sign laws electronically using a program on a laptop
computer.  Opponents “think we’re in the Venezuela of the 16th
century and that I’m going to get on a sailboat and spend five
days getting to  Havana  without being able to communicate,” he
said. “We live in another world, what some call a global
village.”  Maduro said yesterday he returned to Caracas Jan. 14 after
paying a bedside visit to Chavez in Havana along with National
Assembly head  Diosdado Cabello  and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez .  “Our comandante is approaching the crest of the hill,”
Maduro said of Chavez’s health from Caracas during a meeting of
regional governors. “He is advancing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 