-- VimpelCom Weighs Use of $1.4 billion to Reduce Debt
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-01-16T15:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/vimpelcom-weighs-use-of-1-4-billion-to-reduce-debt.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  is considering the
use of $1.4 billion received from billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s
Altimo to cut debt or pay dividends, Jo Lunder, Chief Executive
Officer of the Amsterdam-based mobile operator, said today.  “The decision is to be made by the supervisory board,”
Lunder said on a London conference call with reporters. Altimo
agreed to pay the sum to VimpelCom for converting 128 million
preferred shares into common stock by April 16, the operator
said Dec. 24.  VimpelCom, controlled by Altimo and part-owned by Norway’s
 Telenor ASA (TEL) , is struggling to reduce debt that stood at $26.6
billion at the end of September following acquisitions,
including telecommunications assets from Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris  in Italy, Algeria and Asia.  The operator plans to improve cash flows by as much as $900
million a year through 2015 as it reduces and “optimizes”
debt, limits  capital spending  to about 15 percent of revenue and
cuts costs, VimpelCom said in a  presentation  today.  The company’s shares rose 2.6 percent to $11.28 at 10:55
a.m. in  New York .  VimpelCom will probably use the proceeds from Altimo’s
shares conversion to pay down the expensive debt of its Wind
Italy unit, which stands at about $5 billion, according VTB
Capital. Lunder declined to comment on this.  Dividend Policy  VimpelCom reiterated its  policy  to pay a dividend of at
least 80 cents per share and said this would continue to 2015.
It plans to cut the ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to less than 2 by
2015 from 2.4 as of Sept. 30.  The conversion of preferred shares will increase Altimo’s
economic stake in VimpelCom to 56.2 percent, while its voting
stake will stay at 47.9 percent. Telenor will become eligible to
convert its preferred shares into common from October, according
to Sberbank Investment Research.  Separately, Lunder also said today that VimpelCom is
“optimistic” on a potential resolution of its dispute with the
Algerian government regarding ownership of the local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  