-- Why Are Brits Scared of a Little Horse Meat?
-- B y   T o b i n   H a r s h a w
-- 2013-01-16T18:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/why-are-brits-scared-of-a-little-horse-meat-.html
The Italians stew it in Amarone and paprika. The Belgians like it raw, as
tartare. For the Germans, it's the traditional base of the cultural staple
sauerbraten. Britons, however, are freaking out that they might have unknowingly
eaten a bit of horse meat last time they tucked into a hamburger. The U.K.'s biggest grocery chain, Tesco, and other markets  pulled  frozen
ground beef patties from the shelves in Britain and Ireland yesterday after
Irish authorities found horse DNA in 37 percent of products they surveyed. While
there's apparently no health risk involved, public outrage spurred Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to call for a  government investigation  of the "completely
unacceptable state of affairs." O.K., nobody wants to buy -- nonetheless eat -- something that is other than
advertised. But would we have seen this sort of brouhaha if it had involved
stray meat from something that doesn't run at Ascot? In fact, nobody seems much
troubled that 85 percent of the meat in the tested batch showed signs of pork
DNA. Like the penchant for finance capitalism and Iraqi invasions, distaste for
equine flesh seems to be an Anglo-Saxon trait. Two-thirds of people in France
and  Belgium  have  eaten it  at least once, and for the Dutch it provides that
special flavor kick in Jumbo supermarket's  frozen minisnacks . Japanese foodies
prize it, and  China  is the world's biggest horse-flesh consumer. Mexico and
 Argentina  are major producers. (The Mongolians, who started the whole trend,
have largely switched to sheep.) So, other than squeamishness or sentiment over Black Beauty, why isn't horse
flesh a part of American or British cuisine? Economics might be one reason.
Until the rise of the automobile, horses were simply too valuable for
transportation and agriculture to be raised for slaughter. They are also rather
inefficient eaters, needing far more feed to gain weight than cattle. Still,
modern diets may have more of a place for horse flesh: It's low in cholesterol
and fat, and high in protein and Omega 3 fatty acids. The tiny U.S. industry shut down in 2006 when the last slaughterhouse was
closed, and the Agriculture Department stopped inspecting horse meat,
effectively barring sales. Congress re-funded USDA inspections for last year,
but the agency showed no eagerness to get back on the job, and Representative
Jim Moran of  Virginia  attached a reinstatement of the ban to the 2013
package. Supporters of the slaughter say that most horses that would be processed
domestically are now being  sent  to abbatoirs in Mexico and  Canada  -- 138,000 of
them in 2010 -- and that some owners of unwanted horses, facing high fees for
euthanasia and disposal, are abandoning them to starvation. Most opposition is
on animal-cruelty grounds, although there are claims that the meat is often
tainted with harmful pharmaceuticals. Which leads us to the big question: What's it taste like?  New Yorkers  missed
an opportunity to find out last summer when  M. Wells Dinette , the restaurant at
the Museum of Mondern Art's P.S. 1 outpost in Queens, abandoned plans to serve
horse tartare. Celebrity chef  Gordon Ramsay   called  it "slightly gamey"; Ryan
Poli of  Chicago 's Tavernita  resorted  to metaphor: "If you walked into a meadow
after it rained, that’s the only way I could describe the taste." Americans who want to find out for themselves will have to lobby against the
Moran amendment. Brits will have to hurry and scour the shelves at Tesco. I,
meanwhile, am off to  Rome  in a few weeks and will have my eyes open for a place
with  pezzeti di cavallo  on the menu. (Tobin Harshaw writes editorials for Bloomberg View. Follow him on
 Twitter .)