-- Yen Falls on Speculation BOJ Will Expand Easing; Aussie Weakens
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-01-17T09:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/yen-snaps-two-day-gain-versus-dollar-euro-on-boj-stimulus-bets.html
The yen fell against the dollar,
snapping a two-day advance, amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
will expand stimulus when it meets next week.  The currency fell versus 14 of its 16 major peers after
Economy Minister Akira Amari said his comments earlier this week
that excessive weakening of the yen was harmful had been
misinterpreted. It rallied in the past two days after comments
by Japanese officials damped expectations the government will
push for further declines. Australia’s dollar slid after data
showed the nation lost jobs in December. Switzerland’s franc
weakened as demand for the safest assets fell.  “The market is waiting to see what measures are introduced
next week,” said Antje Praefcke, a senior currency strategist
in  Frankfurt  at Commerzbank AG. “We think that they have to
deliver at their meeting and that, as well as the comments from
Amari are signs that yen is going to weaken.”  The yen slid 0.5 percent to 88.85 per dollar at 9:26 a.m.
in  London , after gaining 1.2 percent over the previous two days.
It depreciated to 89.67 on Jan. 14, the weakest level since June
2010.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.9 percent to 118.48 per euro. The
17-nation common currency rose 0.4 percent to $1.3336. The Swiss
franc declined as much as 0.7 percent to 1.2457 per euro, the
weakest since October 2011.  The yen will depreciate to 95 per dollar in the next six
months, Praefcke predicted. It last traded at that level in
August 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BOJ Meeting  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , who’s due to step down in
April, and his fellow board members will review the central
bank’s inflation goal at their Jan. 21-22 meeting. Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe has called for the target to be doubled to 2
percent and said on Jan. 13 that he wants a BOJ chief “who can
push through bold monetary policy.”  The yen is still in the process of correcting from
excessive gains, Amari told reporters today in  Tokyo .  “The media didn’t report my full remarks and that caused a
reaction in the markets,” Amari said, referring to a comment
earlier this week that an excessively weak currency may drive up
import costs and hurt households.  “Mostly foreigners sold the yen in reaction to the English
headlines on Amari comments,” said  Yuji Saito , the director of
the foreign-exchange department in Tokyo at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   Currency Indexes  The yen has tumbled 12 percent over the past three months,
making it the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar has added 0.2 percent and the euro has risen 1.9
percent.  Australia’s dollar declined against all its major
counterparts today after data showed  employment  fell by 5,500 in
December. That compared with economist estimates for a 4,000
increase.  “Domestically, the economy does not look that strong,”
said  Thomas Harr , the head of Asia local markets strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “In the very, very short
term, there’s a risk to the downside for the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar weakened 0.5 percent to $1.0515.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 