-- Yen Rises as Officials Step Up Currency War Rhetoric
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-16T22:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/yen-rises-as-officials-step-up-currency-war-rhetoric-rand-drops.html
The yen strengthened against the
dollar for a second day after its 5.5 percent drop over the past
month prompted criticism from leaders around the world that
recent  exchange-rate  moves have been excessive.  Japan ’s currency pared gains as risk appetite improved and
stocks erased losses. The yen rose earlier after touching a 30-
month low on Jan. 14 as the nation’s policy makers moved to
boost inflation and spur growth. A gauge of volatility increased
to a four-month high as  Russia ’s central bank said the world’s
leading economies are on the brink of a “currency war.”  South
Africa ’s  rand  rose from the weakest level this year.  “You’re waiting for the next piece of news to push the yen
above the 90 level,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice president of
corporate foreign-exchange sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “A lot of the
inflation target of 2 percent and the previous intervention has
already been priced into the market.”  The yen advanced 0.5 percent to 88.38 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, following a 0.8 percent jump yesterday. It gained
as much as 1.1 percent earlier today. The Japanese currency
reached 89.67 on Jan. 14, the weakest level since June 2010. It
advanced 0.6 percent today to 117.45 per euro.  The shared currency depreciated 0.1 percent to $1.3289
after touching $1.3404 on Jan. 14, the highest since Feb. 29.  Implied  volatility  climbed. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7
 Volatility Index , based on three-month options on Group of Seven
nations’ currencies, reached 8.53 percent, the most since Sept.
6. It fell to 7.06 on Dec. 18, the lowest since August 2007.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed after
falling earlier as much as 0.3 percent and rising 0.1 percent.  Rand Gains  South Africa’s rand advanced versus the greenback after
falling last week for five straight days, the longest losing
stretch since August.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the nation Jan.
10 to BBB from BBB+, citing slowing growth and rising
unemployment. The currency rose 0.2 percent to 8.7980 per dollar
today after touching 8.8790, the least since Dec. 4.  The gain was to be expected after “pretty strong
selling,”  Win Thin , global head of emerging-markets strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The economy has been so weak, I think a rate cut is
likely this year. High yield is one of the few things helping
the rand right now.”  South Africa’s  benchmark  interest rate is 5 percent. The
nation’s 10-year government bonds yielded 6.7 percent today,
compared with 1.82 percent for U.S. Treasuries.  Pound Drops  Sterling declined for a fourth day versus the dollar, the
longest losing stretch since November, and weakened against the
euro as the World Bank lowered its global growth forecast. The
pound lost 0.4 percent to $1.6007. It depreciated 0.2 percent to
83.02 pence per euro.  The  World Bank  cut its growth forecast for 2013 as
austerity measures, high unemployment and low business
confidence weigh on economies in developed nations. It projected
the world economy will expand 2.4 percent, down from a June
forecast of 3 percent, after growing 2.3 percent in 2012.  The Swiss franc strengthened for the first time in five
days against the euro today, gaining 0.2 percent to 1.2371. It
slid yesterday to 1.2413, the weakest level in 13 months.  Biggest Loser  The yen tumbled 5.5 percent over the past month against
nine other developed-market peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes amid speculation the BOJ will step
up measures to boost the economy that may weaken the currency.
It was the biggest loser in the group. The dollar rose 0.2
percent, and the euro climbed 1.2 percent.  Policy makers across the world’s leading economies are
advocating weaker currencies as a way to boost economic growth.
 Switzerland  capped the franc’s appreciation against the euro at
1.20 in 2011, while newly elected Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s campaign to boost the economy and seek a more aggressive
central bank has driven down the yen.  “Japan is weakening the yen, and other countries may
follow,” Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said at a conference in Moscow today. Reciprocal devaluations
would hurt the global economy, Ulyukayev said.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will review its 1 percent inflation goal
at a policy meeting on Jan. 21-22. Abe has called for the target
to be doubled.  ‘Scaling Back’  “We had a really big run on the yen, and that’s been
followed by a bit of profit-taking,”  Greg Anderson , the North
American head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc.
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It may be scaling
back expectations of radical movement by the Bank of Japan at
its upcoming meeting.”  The euro fell 0.6 percent against the greenback yesterday,
after Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the
exchange rate is “dangerously high.”  The 17-nation currency’s advance is posing a fresh threat
to the European economy just as it shows signs of escaping the
debt crisis, Juncker, who steps down this month as head of the
group of euro-area finance ministers, told an annual gathering
of business leaders in Luxembourg .  The dollar stayed lower versus the yen after the  Federal
Reserve  said in its Beige Book business survey that the  U.S.
economy  picked up across much of the country last month. Growth
was boosted by auto and home sales, even as the outlook for
unemployment showed few signs of improvement, it said.  The book may strengthen the resolve of policy makers who
want to press on with the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases under the quantitative easing stimulus strategy.
The Fed meets Jan. 29-30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  