-- Zambia to Sell $1.5 Billion Roads Bond as It Starts Toll System
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-01-16T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-16/zambia-to-sell-1-5-billion-roads-bond-as-it-starts-toll-system.html
Zambia ’s  Road Development Agency 
plans to sell $1.5 billion of bonds by the end of the year, the
latest state-owned company to tap international debt markets
after the country sold its first dollar notes last year.  The agency has presented a plan for the sale to Finance
Minister Alexander Chikwanda and expects to receive feedback by
the end of the month, Bernard Chiwala, director for the Lusaka-
based company, said by mobile phone yesterday.  “Toward the second half of the year we will have concluded
that,” he said. “It is our expectation that we will be able to
raise about $1.5 billion” from international investors, Chiwala
said.  Zambia raised $750 million through its first Eurobond sale
in September last year. Demand for the debt exceeded supply 24
times, encouraging companies in  Africa ’s biggest copper producer
to take advantage of investor appetite for its debt. The Lusaka
City Council is looking for advisers in its planned $500 million
bond sale, it said Jan. 2. Zesco Ltd., the power utility, also
plans to raise as much as $2 billion.  “It will take three to six months to crystallize
everything,” including hiring bookrunners and advisers, Chiwala
said.  The roads agency plans to securitize the bond with the
revenue it generates from a fuel levy, he said. The towns of
Livingstone, which straddles the Victoria Falls World Heritage
Site, and Solwezi, in the copperbelt, should follow Lusaka, the
capital, in selling international municipal bonds, Deputy
Finance Minister Miles Sampa said Jan. 8.  Road Repair  Part of the proceeds of the planned bond sale will go
toward funding a 1.6 billion-kwacha ($303 million) project to
repair 2,000 urban roads across all 10 of Zambia’s provinces,
Chiwala said. President  Michael Sata  announced the project
yesterday.  The RDA, as the agency is known, also plans to start
building a toll-gate system across Zambia’s national road
network by the end of the year, Chiwala said.  “We are working on the design of the toll booths,” he
said. “We are expecting by June we will have concluded this
plan,” with building to begin in the second half of the year.  The routes the government will initially focus on tolling
are those linking Livingstone, the tourist capital in the
southwest, and Nakonde, bordering Tanzania in the northeast.  Route Upgrades  It will also charge fees for motorists using the Great East
road, linking Lusaka to Malawi, Chiwala said . The road joining
the copperbelt towns in northern Zambia will also probably be
tolled, as well as upgraded to dual-lane carriageways, he said.  The governments of Botswana and Zambia earlier this month
appointed engineers in charge of building the planned $260
million bridge that will link the two land-locked countries at
Kazangula, said Chiwala. All the required funding has been
secured for the project, he said.  Motorists and pedestrians currently use a ferry to traverse
the Zambezi River that separates Botswana and Zambia at
Kazangula.  “We are planning to start the construction next year in
April,” said Chiwala. “It will take four years,” to build the
923-meter (3,028-foot) bridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  