-- 
M&A Loan Payback Means Wesfarmers Swaps Beat Woolworths: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-30T06:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/m-a-loan-payback-means-wesfarmers-swaps-beat-woolworths-australia-credit.html
For the first time in two years,
the bond market deems  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s second-
biggest retailer, less risky than  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  as the company
pays off record loans used for its biggest takeover.  Credit-default swaps on Wesfarmers have been lower than
Woolworths for seven days this month, according to CMA prices.
Contracts on the Perth-based retailer fell 10 basis points to
65.4 basis points in the past year, compared with a 17 basis-
point rise for Woolworths to the same level, the data show.  Moody’s Investors Service raised Wesfarmers’ outlook last
week while  Standard & Poor’s  has restored its A- credit rating,
after the retailer boosted earnings at the Coles supermarket
chain it bought for A$19.7 billion ($20.2 billion) in 2007.
Wesfarmers credit-swaps are the cheapest in almost five months
relative to contracts on global retailers as Australian firms
benefit from an economy forecast to grow at the fastest pace in
more than a decade.  “Wesfarmers credit-default swaps have outperformed over
the past 12 months,” said Mark Reade, a Sydney-based credit
strategist at Citigroup Inc. “Credit investors have become more
comfortable that the strategic and financial risks associated
with the company’s Coles acquisition are finally in the rearview
mirror.”  Credit Rating  Wesfarmers’ credit rating was cut one grade to BBB+ by S&P
when it agreed to A$10 billion in loans, a record for an
Australian borrower, to buy the Coles chain. Since then,
Wesfarmers has used cash and bond sales to reduce outstanding
bank loans to A$2.9 billion as of June 30, down 41 percent from
a year earlier, according to its annual report.  The retailer’s $650 million of U.S dollar notes due in
April 2013, which were priced to yield 425 basis points more
than Treasuries in 2008, now yield a 110 basis-point spread,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices.  Its Australian dollar bonds returned 0.95 percent this
month, outperforming the 0.83 percent gain on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Australian Corporate and Collateralized Index.  Australian retail sales rose more than forecast in January,
advancing 0.4 percent, on spending at supermarkets and grocery
stores. They also increased 0.4 percent in February, according
to the median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The statistics bureau releases the data tomorrow.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia is forecasting economic
growth of 4.25 percent this year as China and  India  fuel the
nation’s biggest resources boom in a century. Economists
estimate growth of 3.1 percent in the U.S. and 1.7 percent in
the  euro zone , Bloomberg surveys show.  Inflation Expectations  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.96 percent for the next five years, the
fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg.  Ten-year government bond yields fell 2 basis points this
quarter to 5.53 percent. Yields on similar-dated Treasuries
increased to 3.49 percent from 3.29 percent in the same period.  The RBA raised its benchmark interest rate seven times
between October 2009 and November last year to 4.75 percent, the
highest in the developed world.  That helped bolster  Australia ’s dollar, the world’s fifth-
most traded currency, which touched a record $1.0333 today. The
currency climbed 6.8 percent in the past six months against the
greenback, the best performance among major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, to $1.0327 at 4:54 p.m. in Sydney.  ‘Softer Retail Sales’  The interest rate increases are restraining  consumer
spending , with a March 2 government report showing Australia’s
household savings rate approached 10 percent last quarter, up
from 1.5 percent in 2007.  Consumer confidence  fell to a nine-
month low in March, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and
Melbourne Institute survey.  “Wesfarmers is fairly well-placed to deal with softer
retail sales given the defensive nature of its supermarket
earnings and its diversified business profile,” Citigroup’s
Reade said.  Credit-default swaps on retailers worldwide have increased
11.2 basis points in the past year to 179.6 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark Markit
iTraxx Australia index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 22 basis
points to 106.5.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Market Share  Contracts on Wesfarmers are now at an appropriate level
relative to the iTraxx index and Sydney-based Woolworths, said
 Michael Bush , Melbourne-based head of credit research at
National Australia Bank Ltd.  Alan Carpenter, a spokesman for Wesfarmers, declined to
comment. Woolworths’ media department didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  The two companies have been in business for more than 80
years, with Wesfarmers first operating as a farmers’ cooperative
in  Western Australia  in 1914 and Woolworths opening its first
branch in Sydney 10 years later, according to information on
their websites.  Coles was a main sponsor of television show MasterChef
Australia, which set ratings records when one in four
Australians watched the final in July. Managing Director Ian McLeod has opened outlets with more selling space for fresh
fruit and vegetables to capture a bigger share of Australia’s
A$80 billion groceries market from Woolworths.  Coles’ earnings before interest and tax rose 18.3 percent
to A$575 million in the six months to Dec. 31, according to a
regulatory filing. EBIT from Woolworths’ Australian supermarkets
excluding petrol sales climbed 8.1 percent in the 27 weeks to
Jan. 2, a separate filing show.  “Sales results have been showing for some time that Coles
has reversed market share losses,” Bush said. “The turnaround
has been better than expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 