-- 
Amish Life in Tokyo Will Cause Economic Backlash: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-29T07:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/-amish-life-in-tokyo-may-trigger-a-backlash-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
What’s up with the blue jackets?  This is suddenly THE question I’m getting when speaking
with folks overseas or reading my e-mails. It’s not whether I
feel safe, or if I’m drinking  Tokyo ’s radioactive tap water or
if I plan to make a beeline out of the Fukushima zone. It’s why,
oh why, are Japanese leaders dressed like auto mechanics?  It’s to show, of course, they are in full-blown crisis-
management mode. We’re engaged, we’re on the ground and we’re
working hard.  Barack Obama  in  Washington  and  David Cameron  in
 London  roll up their sleeves to indicate they’re getting their
hands dirty. In Tokyo,  Naoto Kan  gets into blue crisis gear.  The trouble is, this powerful photo-op image isn’t being
matched by substance or action. There’s a very valid reason why
Kan’s approval rating is a wretched 28 percent: His timidity in
the face of  Japan ’s worst crisis since World War II.  Nowhere is that more apparent than the kid gloves with
which he continues to treat Tokyo Electric Power Co. It should
have been nationalized 10 days ago and its entire corporate
board fired for incompetence and negligence. Each day that
passes with Tepco’s leaky nuclear facilities wreaking havoc with
the third largest economy further damages Kan’s standing.  Kan has been neither a complete disaster nor inspirer-in-
chief for his traumatized nation of 127 million. He’s been
something else -- largely irrelevant. That can be seen in a joke
making the rounds: U.S. President Obama wants to speak with
Japan’s leader about the nuclear crisis. When Kan answers, Obama
asked to speak to his spokesman, Yukio Edano.  Vague Platitudes  That Edano has been more visible than Kan during this
crisis -- wearing, of course, a blue crisis jacket -- has only
heightened the sense that no one is in firm control. Dressing
up like a gas-station attendant, doing helicopter fly-bys and
addressing the nation with vague platitudes only buttresses the
sense that Kan doesn’t get it. Kan has time to turn things
around. The question is, can he?  Teetering in the balance is  Japan’s economy . It’s amazing
that a week ago economists were still arguing Japan would avoid
recession. Their mistake was applying conventional thinking to a
wildly unconventional scenario. Hyper-modern, neon-sign-crazy
Tokyo is now  Asia ’s answer to Amish country.  Corporate Japan has long been famous not only for its own
innovations, but for taking ideas from abroad, improving upon
them and making them its own. The Amish, meanwhile, are known
for simple living and an aversion to many conveniences of modern
technology -- like electricity. I never expected to experience
that in gizmo-obsessed Tokyo.  Fallout Continues  The fallout from the March 11 earthquake, tsunami and still
unfolding nuclear crisis is ushering in an age of self-restraint
in a city known for consumerism. Not only are normally bustling
Prada, Tiffany and Hermes shops empty -- when they’re not closed
to save energy -- so are higher-end eateries.  Walking around Tokyo is quite an experience. While the
place certainly isn’t a ghost town, it’s eerily quiet. It’s a
good thing Tokyo is reasonably crime free. Otherwise, the fact
that shops are only turning on a few lights and operating darkly
would make the place a shoplifter’s paradise. Many elevators,
escalators, heaters and televisions used for advertisements are
off. So are other creature-comforts like toilet-seat warmers.  Many pachinko parlors that operate with a jamboree of
buzzers, bells and whistles that flows loudly into the street
are sound-free. The emptiness of the shelves at the city’s
ubiquitous 24-hour convenience stores smacks more of Moscow,
circa 1986, than Tokyo in 2011. Karaoke clubs are closing early,
baseball games are being shifted to daytime and even Tokyo’s
fabled cherry-blossom-viewing parties are being scaled back.  Got Toilet Paper?  Rolling blackouts have created a  bull market  for LED lamps
and flashlights. Suddenly, department stores regret not having
bigger camping-equipment sections. Really, who knew? Tokyoites
are hoarding bottles of water and toilet paper is frustratingly
scarce. My local reggae bar owner told me he’s stopped placing
extra rolls in the bathroom. His patrons are stealing them.  And then there are the more headline-grabbing disruptions.
Plants run by the likes of Asahi Breweries Ltd., Fuji Heavy Ltd.,
Meiji Holdings Co., Nikon Corp. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  have been
shuttered. Tourists are canceling spring trips to Japan. Many of
the foreigners who fled Tokyo have yet to return.  So, economists out there: Still think Japan will experience
positive growth this year? That rebuilding efforts in the
northeast will be enough to overcome the extent to which
Tokyoites and their employers are living the modern-day
equivalent of a late 19th century existence? I sure don’t.  Self-Restraint  Japan wants consumers to spend more and save less. Yet the
way Kan’s government has handled this crisis is further dimming
economic confidence. Two weeks ago, Kan should have declared a
national emergency and, at a minimum, nationalized Tepco (only
now is the government mulling just that).  Instead, the message has been of the “life goes on”
variety. Well, Tokyoites, with our voluntary self-restraint, are
saying that’s obviously not the case. Life here is changing
markedly, and neither the economy nor the political scene will
ever be the same. Someone should tell the prime minister.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  