-- 
‘Hell of the North’ Lures London's Bicycle-Riding Financial Professionals

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-03-29T22:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/-hell-of-the-north-lures-london-s-bicycle-riding-financial-professionals.html
Tom Underhill is preparing for the
challenge of professional cycling’s toughest terrain by riding
in some of the most genteel streets of London.  The sales director at  Artemis Fund Managers Ltd ., which
oversees $18.3 billion of assets, hurtles on his bike over a
100-meter (328-foot) stretch of cobblestones in Park Square Mews
near Regent’s Park to prepare for a slog over the country lanes
of industrial northern France.  Tour de France organizer Amaury Sport Organisation is
staging an amateur version of the Paris-Roubaix race, known as
the “Hell of the North,” on April 9 on the back of a cycling
boom in the U.K. About 25 percent of 1,500 people who signed up
for the inaugural event are from the British side of the
Channel, according to event director Laurent Boquillet.  “Cycling is the new golf,” Underhill, 35, said. “At
every red traffic light on my morning commute into the West End
of London there are 10 or 12 cyclists.”  Paris-based ASO began running a one-day amateur race based
on a Tour de  France  mountain stage in 1993, when 48 of the 1,705
riders were from abroad. ASO plans to set up six more events
over the next 18 months, Boquillet said.  There is one slated to coincide with September’s  Vuelta a
Espana ,  Spain ’s top race that’s part-owned by ASO, and another
planned before Belgium’s Liege-Bastogne-Liege, Boquillet said.
Next year, ASO plans one for a Cote d’Azur leg of the Paris-Nice
race, Boquillet added.  ‘Question of Surviving’  About 20 miles of the 101-mile ride to Roubaix, near the
Belgian border, are on cobblestones. It’s often rainy in April
in northern France, creating an additional hazard: The stones
can get slippery. Photographs of riders caked in mud have made
the 115-year-old pro race famous, Ben Dixon, a hedge-fund lawyer
in  London  who has signed up, said.  “It’s a question of surviving,” Dixon, 32, said, adding
he expects to fall off on the “boulder size” stones. “A few
older streets in London are made of cobblestones but they are
brick size.”  Only the French, who make up about half the field,
outnumber the British entrants, Boquillet said.  Spending on bicycles in the U.K. soared 40 percent to 665
million pounds ($1.1 billion) in 2009 compared with 2005,
according to a report last year by  London-based market
researcher Mintel . Racing bikes made up about 7 percent of sales
in 2009.  “Cycling used to be a bit of a closed world,” Underhill,
who commutes to the  West End  from his home in Highbury, said.
“Now there’s a have-a-go feel about it.”  ‘Touring Ride’  While the  wannabe “Hell of the North”  -- the day before
and 60 miles shorter than the professional version -- may lose
money in its first year because of a lower-than-expected
turnout, the market for such events could become worth as much
as 20 million euros ($28 million), Boquillet said.  “There is a business to be grown around this, we just need
to figure out how to do it properly,” Boquillet said.  Organizational plans have gone awry. In a March 29 e-mail
to entrants, ASO said it was cutting their fee to 40 euros from
75 euros and offering full refunds because it couldn’t seal off
roads from traffic and was downgrading the event from a race to
a “touring ride.” It plans to revert to plans for a race as
soon as next year, it said.  ASO is competing with the  Velo Club de Roubaix , which has
run a ride over the course since 1974. It charged 25 euros
apiece to a record field of 2,652 last year.  “We make a little bit of money for the club but we are the
opposite of ASO: making money is their job,” club President
Francis Lajus said.  ASO, which also organizes the Paris marathon, had net
income of 31.8 million euros on sales of 145.2 million euros in
2009, according to a company filing.  ‘Not Dangerous’  Some fans are steering clear of ASO’s invite to the
cobblestones for safety reasons. In 2008, 200 riders were
treated for injuries on the Velo Club ride, Lajus said.  Peter Easton, who runs New York-based  Velo Classic  that
sells a $5,300, 11-night ride-and-watch trip to pro races in
France and  Belgium , said he felt “totally out of control” when
he first rode over the course in 2000.  “It feels like somebody is hitting you all over your body
with a pillow case full of softballs,” Easton said. “I don’t
want to put my clients in that position” on a narrow road with
hundreds of other riders, he added.  Easton said he may change his mind if next month’s event
goes smoothly. ASO’s Boquillet says: not to worry. There will be
10 start times from 7.30 a.m. to avoid congestion.  “It’s not dangerous,” Boquillet said. “You might break
something but it’s not going to be major, you’re not going to
die.”  In the London mews, Underhill’s main hazards are the
Porsche Cayenne and  Audi Q7  cars. They cost as much as 84,000
pounds and 100,000 pounds, respectively.  “I’m nervous of slipping on the cobbles and scratching
them up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 