-- 
‘Policy Error’ More Risky Than Oil for Scottish Funds Navigating Markets

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/-policy-error-more-risky-than-oil-for-scottish-money-managers.html
Financial markets are more at risk
from policy makers getting spending and interest rates wrong
than rising oil prices, according to investment strategists in
 Scotland  overseeing about 530 billion pounds ($850 billion).  The timing of interest rate increases in developed
economies, China’s response to accelerating inflation, the
European debt crisis and tackling the U.S. fiscal deficit all
pose bigger threats to markets than this year’s 20 percent jump
in the cost of  Brent crude , they said.  “The biggest risk out there still is the risk of policy
error,”  Andrew Milligan , head of global strategy at  Standard
Life Investments , Edinburgh’s biggest fund manager, said in an
interview. “There are numerous policy decisions that need to be
taken for our central scenario of ‘steady as she goes.’”  Borrowing costs are rising in emerging markets such as
China and  Brazil  to counter inflation, while European Central
Bank council member Jozef Makuch said yesterday a euro rate
increase next week is “highly probable.” Policy makers in
nations including Britain are concerned action to curb consumer
price increases might lead to weaker economic recoveries.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ,  Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership  and  Aegon Asset Management  are also concerned that
the recovery in the global economy could be ambushed if policy
makers raise interest rates too quickly.  Rate Expectations  “Investors have become accustomed to very low interest
rates and that’s my main concern,” said Ken Adams, head of
strategy at Scottish Widows Investment, the Edinburgh-based fund
unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   Adams, who spoke on March 23 at Bloomberg’s Edinburgh
office in discussion with Milligan and  Mike Turner , head of
global strategy at Aberdeen Asset Management, also said the
greatest threat to markets is “policy error.”  The  Bank of England  has held its benchmark interest rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009. Analysts polled by
Bloomberg News expect the cost of borrowing to rise to 1 percent
in the fourth quarter of this year. The U.K.’s  Office for Budget
Responsibility  last week cut its forecast for growth for 2011
and 2012.  Economists expect the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate to
remain 0.25 percent through 2011, while the ECB will push its
main refinancing rate up to 1.75 percent from 1 percent by the
end of the year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are very significant risks to the relatively
sanguine view investors are taking,” Bill Dinning, head of
strategy at Aegon, said in a separate interview on March 25.
“Twenty emerging-market countries had raised interest rates
when I looked, and that creates policy risk.”  Scottish Funds  Aberdeen’s assets rose 27 percent to 183 billion pounds at
the end of 2010, while Standard Life’s funds went up 13 percent
to 157 billion pounds. They advanced 3.2 percent to 146 billion
pounds at Scottish Widows Investment. Dutch insurer  Aegon NV (AGN) ’s
U.K. fund business managed 41 billion pounds from Edinburgh on
Dec. 31, 14 percent more than a year earlier.  Rising interest rates in the fastest-growing economies
doesn’t necessarily mean stocks are entering a “big bear
phase,” Turner at Aberdeen said.  “I don’t think the valuation of stocks is particularly
demanding,” Turner said. “Just in terms of yield
competitiveness with other assets, the competing asset class
angle means there’s always the realization that if there’s a dip
in equity markets it makes them even more competitive.”  Adams agreed that there was still value in stocks,
especially relative to bonds.  “The question now is do we respond to this sell-off, do we
have an opportunity to replace risk, what the size of the
position should be,” Adams said.  Bond Yields  The biggest strategic worry is the level of government bond
yields, which Turner said are still too low. U.S. 10-year
Treasuries yield about 3.45 percent, down 10 basis points from
three weeks ago before an earthquake and tsunami hit  Japan ’s
northeast coast. Yields should be 4 percent to 4.25 percent,
Turner said.  The lingering effects of the global financial crisis,
rising concern about European sovereign debt, increasing
political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa and the
disaster in Japan are all making it tougher to navigate markets.  “We are starting to see the deceleration of global
growth,” Milligan said. “ China  tightening and oil tightening
is not a great combination.”  Controlling inflation is its main task, the People’s Bank
of China said on its website after the quarterly meeting of the
central bank’s monetary policy committee.  Faster Inflation  The world’s second-largest economy had consumer-price
inflation of 4.9 percent in February, higher than in any of the
Group of Seven nations. The central bank has raised interest
rates three times since October.  Oil prices have risen 37 percent in the past six months to
about $105 a barrel. That’s paring  consumer spending  and will
reduce company profitability later this year, prompting Aegon to
reduce its “overweight” position in Asian and U.K. stocks this
month, keeping the money in cash, Dinning said.  “The potential rolling over of activity combined with the
oil price is a risk,” Dinning said. “We have close to zero
rates and you’ve never seen this before. It might be some time
before we know all the consequences.”  It’s not clear how much markets have priced in the prospect
of slower earnings growth, Milligan said.  “The world economy is going well but if big policy errors
came along, markets wouldn’t be correctly priced at all,” he
said. “Are the Chinese going to make policy errors in all the
issues that they face? What on earth is America going to do with
its fiscal deficit? Can European politicians get their act
together on the debt crisis?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  