-- 
Actor Clooney May Testify at Berlusconi's Prostitution Trial, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-03-29T16:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/actor-clooney-may-testify-at-berlusconi-s-prostitution-trial-lawyer-says.html
Oscar-winning actor  George Clooney 
may be called to testify as a witness at  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
underage-prostitution trial, the Italian premier’s lawyer said.  “Clooney has been included in the list of the defense
witnesses,” Piersilvio Cipolotti, one of Berlusconi’s
attorneys, said by phone today. “He was cited in court
documents as a guest of Berlusconi at one of the dinners the
premier organized and we want to ask him to confirm this.” The
witness list must be approved by judges.  Berlusconi on Feb. 15 was ordered to stand trial on charges
of abuse of power and paying a minor for sex, fueling calls for
his resignation amid a deepening clash with Italy’s judiciary.
The trial, which starts in Milan on April 6, will examine his
ties to Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan dancer nicknamed Ruby
Heart Stealer who attended at least one party at his mansion
near Milan in February 2010 when she was 17.  El-Mahroug has been cited in Italian media including daily
la Repubblica as saying in court documents that she was present
at a dinner there along with Clooney and his Italian girlfriend,
Elisabetta Canalis. Cipolotti confirmed she made the statement
to prosecutors.  The abuse-of-power charge stems from Berlusconi’s role in
helping secure Ruby’s release from police custody in Milan after
her detention in May on unrelated theft charges. The premier
referred to El Mahroug as a relative of former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  when he phoned the police on her behalf,
Interior Minister  Roberto Maroni  told parliament in November.  Mentioned to Mubarak  She is not related to Mubarak. Still, Berlusconi’s lawyers
say he mentioned his relationship with Ruby to the Egyptian
leader during a meeting with Mubarak last year.  “For this reason we included the Egyptian interpreter who
was at that meeting in the witness list,” Cipolotti said. Other
defense witnesses include Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  and
Education Minister  Maria Stella Gelmini .  Berlusconi, 74, who has denied any wrongdoing, has called
the charges “disgusting” and “groundless.” Cipolotti said
Berlusconi is “highly unlikely” to attend the first hearing of
the trial due to official duties.  Clooney won an Academy Award for best supporting actor in
the movie Syriana. He was also nominated for Oscars for roles in
“Michael Clayton” and “Up in the Air.”  -- With assistance from  Flavia Krause Jackson  in Rome. Editors:
 Jeffrey Donovan ,  Dan Liefgreen   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  