-- 
Afren CEO Has ‘Rich Acquisition Pipeline’ After Bond Sale

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-29T15:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/afren-focused-on-africa-has-rich-acquisition-pipeline-after-bond-sale.html
Afren Plc (AFR) , a U.K. oil and gas
explorer focused on Africa, has a “very rich acquisition
pipeline” after exceeding a target for bond sales, Chief
Executive Officer Osman Shahenshah said.  The company raised $500 million in a bond sale last month,
beating a goal of $450 million, following “very strong demand”
from investors, he said.  “It’s helpful to have additional funding,” Shahenshah
said in phone interview today. “There are many, many
opportunities in  Nigeria  and elsewhere.”  Afren expects to triple revenue this year to more than $1
billion, Shahenshah said, as the startup of Nigeria’s Ebok field
boosts overall production. The company posted a maiden full-year
profit of $45.9 million in 2010, according to a statement.  Shahenshah declined to say whether Afren is bidding for
fields owned by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in Nigeria. “We see many
opportunities that are quite interesting,” he said.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil producer, agreed last year to
sell four fields out of a total of 34 blocks it holds in
Nigeria. The sale attracted bids from companies including Essar
Group,  Seven Energy Ltd.  and Afren, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter at the time.  Afren plans to almost triple production this year to about
40,000 barrels of oil a day after the Ebok startup. It plans to
drill “high impact” exploration wells in Ghana, Nigeria,  Kenya 
and  Tanzania  this year.  Keta Sale  Afren agreed to sell 35 percent of its Keta Block in  Ghana 
to  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Italy . The partners, including Mitsui & Co and
Ghana National Petroleum Corp., plan to drill the first well at
Keta in the third quarter, at an estimated cost of as much as
$80 million, Shahenshah said.  The block’s “independently estimated gross prospective
resources” have more than doubled to 1.4 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, according to  Netherland, Sewell & Associates Inc.   Last week, it said it acquired a 74 percent interest in the
Tanga block onshore and offshore Tanzania from Petrodel
Resources Ltd. In January, Afren said it was targeting about 900
million barrels of oil and gas resources from Kenya, Madagascar,
Seychelles and  Ethiopia .  East  Africa  “is highly prospective and it’s very
undrilled,” the CEO said. “We are one of the pioneers and some
other larger companies” are entering the area.  Afren plans to invest $450 million this year in
exploration, appraisal and development, up from $437.1 million
last year.  In Nigeria, production from the Ebok field tested at a rate
of about 17,500 barrels of oil a day from four wells, and daily
output will rise to 35,000 barrels by the end of the second
quarter.  Afren closed unchanged at 164 pence in London, after
earlier rising as much as 5.5 percent.  “Ebok was the main disappointment,” said  Dougie Youngson ,
an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in  London . “This
project is substantially late and the key driver for production
and revenue growth this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  