-- 
Air-Traffic Growth Slows on Mideast Turmoil, May Diminish Further on Quake

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-03-29T09:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/air-passenger-traffic-growth-slows-on-unrest-in-mideast-africa.html
Growth in air-passenger traffic
slowed in February as political unrest in Arab states curbed
flying, and will diminish further following the earthquake in
 Japan , the  International Air Transport Association  said.  Demand increased 6 percent compared with a year earlier,
slowing from an 8.4 percent advance in January, IATA said today
in a statement. Political turmoil cut international traffic by
about 1 percent and was responsible for almost all of the
slowdown, it said.  “As the unrest in Egypt and  Tunisia  spreads across the
Middle East and North Africa, demand growth across the region is
taking a step back,” IATA Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said. “The tragic earthquake and its aftermath in
Japan will most certainly see a further dampening of demand.”  Political shocks are denting traffic just as carriers
recover from the recession. The first quarter has been “very
difficult” and load factors, a measure of seat occupancy,
shrank to an average 73 percent, down 2.2 percentage points
from peak levels, Bisignani said. That puts pressure on an
already “pathetic” 1.4 percent profit margin estimate for
the year, he said.  The impact on international cargo traffic was even more
marked, with growth slipping to 2.3 percent in February from
8.7 percent the previous month. Freight load factors have
slumped to 51.6 percent, 4 points below their peak last May.  “The industry situation is volatile and we are watching
higher fuel prices carefully,” Bisignani said. “With looser
supply and demand conditions, it will be a challenge for
airlines to recover the added costs of fuel.”  Based on an average oil price of $96 a barrel, IATA says
kerosene will account for 29 percent of average operating costs
this year, with a total fuel bill of $166 billion. For every
dollar increase in the price of crude, the industry must recover
an additional $1.6 billion in added costs, the association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  