-- 
Taiwan May Raise Interest Rate as Asia Strives to Curb Inflation

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-30T02:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/taiwan-may-raise-interest-rate-as-asia-strives-to-curb-inflation.html
Taiwan  will probably increase
borrowing costs for a fourth straight quarter tomorrow, becoming
the eighth Asian economy to tighten monetary policy this month
as the region fights price pressures.  The central bank will raise the discount rate on 10-day
loans to banks by 0.125 percentage point to 1.75 percent,
according to 17 of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
after increases of the same amount each in June, September and
December from a record low. One respondent predicted a quarter-
point move to 1.875 percent.  Taiwan would join neighbors from  South Korea  to  Thailand  in
boosting rates in March as the island tries to restrain a surge
in home prices. At the same time, officials are weighing the
threat to growth from interruptions to trade and tourism after
Japan’s worst earthquake on record.  “We see a strong case to normalize the interest rate as
the central bank has consistently expressed concerns over high
property prices and inflationary pressure,” said Raymond Yeung,
an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group in  Hong
Kong . “However, soft export orders and disruptions from Japan’s
quake may make it reluctant to move aggressively.”  Taiwan’s dollar has appreciated about 7.8 percent against
its U.S. counterpart in the past year, rising along with most
Asian currencies as the region boosted rates and led the rebound
from the 2009 recession. The local dollar fell 0.1 percent to
NT$29.498 as of 10:08 a.m., according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Falling Yields  The island’s benchmark 10-year bond yields have fallen five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.35 percent since
the March 11 temblor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
signaling investors have pared bets that rate increases will
accelerate. The benchmark Taiex stock index is down about 3.6
percent this year.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch has lowered its estimate for
Taiwan’s gross domestic product growth by 0.2 percentage point
to 4.6 percent this year, saying the island is the Asian economy
most affected by the potential supply disruptions from the
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami.  Recent reports showed Taiwan’s inflation accelerated to
1.33 percent in February, the fastest pace in three months,
while the growth in export orders slowed to 5.33 percent, a 16-
month low.  While the catastrophe likely won’t “derail” worldwide
economic growth, interruptions to  Japan ’s exports,
transportation and output on the global supply chain are “the
biggest uncertainty,” Morgan Stanley said in a report this
month.  Record Home Prices  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan and the policy board
have raised borrowing costs and tightened mortgage lending rules
as home-price gains sparked concern a property bubble may form.  India , the  Philippines  and  Vietnam  have also raised rates
this month to tackle price pressures, while  China  and  Malaysia 
have ordered lenders to set aside more cash as reserves.  Taiwan’s Cabinet this month approved a proposal to impose
a 15 percent tax on some residential homes sold within a year of
purchase, and a 10 percent levy on some sold within two years.  Housing prices in Taipei rose 12.2 percent last year to a
record, according to Dave Chiou, a Taipei-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc.  The negative impact of the Japan earthquake “will be
transient” and the central bank will aim to keep real rates
positive “to avoid the risks of fueling inflation expectations
and asset-price bubbles,” Ma Tieying, a Singapore-based
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said in a March 28 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  