-- 
Major League Baseball Institutes Seven-Day Disabled List for Concussions

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-29T19:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/major-league-baseball-institutes-seven-day-disabled-list-for-concussions.html
Major League Baseball will
implement a new policy regarding concussions on Opening Day,
with a plan that includes mandatory testing requirements and a
seven-day disabled list for players with head injuries.  Commissioner Bud Selig said the new protocols, announced by
MLB and its players union, are a “major step forward” in
improving player safety. The  National Football League  and
 National Hockey League  also recently enhanced their guidelines
regarding concussions.  “Player safety is a major concern,” union Executive
Director Michael Weiner said in a statement. “These new
protocols and procedures should enhance our ongoing efforts to
protect the health of players and umpires.”  The policy will govern how concussions are diagnosed and
the determination on when players or umpires can return to the
field. Each team will be required to designate a brain injury
specialist in its home city to evaluate players or umpires when
necessary.  Teams also will have to follow protocols for evaluating
players for a possible concussion after high-risk incidents,
such as being hit in the head by a pitched, batted or thrown
ball, or colliding with another player or fixed object.  Baseball will establish a seven-day disabled list aimed at
allowing concussions to clear and giving teams a full complement
of players after a head injury. Any player on the seven-day
disabled list for more than 14 days will automatically and
retroactively be transferred to the standard 15-day disabled
list.  The new policy will be in effect from March 31, when the
 Major League Baseball  season opens with six games.  “This policy, which reflects the collective expertise of
many of the foremost authorities in the field, will benefit
players, umpires and clubs alike,” Selig said. “I am proud of
the spirit of cooperation that has led us to this result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  