-- 
Making Whoopi as Small Investors Absorb the Risk: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-03-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/making-whoopi-as-small-investors-absorb-risk-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
These days, choosing business
interests over investor protection is so popular that even
celebrity liberal  Whoopi Goldberg  is pushing for softer
securities laws.  Goldberg “really is about the underdog,” and is
sympathetic to the problems of small business owners who can’t
get financing, her business partner, Tom Leonardis, told me in a
telephone interview last week. That’s why the Oscar-winning
actress and talk-show host is backing an effort to get the
Securities and Exchange Commission to ease regulations that
frustrate a money-raising technique called crowdfunding.  This time, Whoopi may have picked the wrong dog.  Crowdfunding is a popular way to raise money online from
individuals. It started as a way for artists to get fans to help
underwrite music tours and films, and today has expanded to
things like collecting money for a patient’s medical procedure
or raising  venture capital  for an entrepreneur’s new idea. In
its most benign form, the recipient of crowdfunding gets
donations of as little as $5, and rewards contributors with
tokens like a coffee mug or a thank-you note.  The key word is donations, not investments. If crowdfunders
were to offer investment returns instead of coffee mugs, they
would have to register with the SEC or their state regulators.
That would mean “tens of thousands of dollars and countless
hours completing forms and filing them,” according to a
 petition  to the SEC that Goldberg endorsed on her Facebook page
earlier this month. Leonardis said Goldberg was on vacation and
not available for comment.  Disclosure Burdens  Crowdfunders have a solution to the aggravation of
regulation. Forget the forms. Forget the filing. Stop badgering
entrepreneurs with all those demands for regulatory scrutiny.
That disclosure stuff is downright un-American at a time when
entrepreneurs are struggling to pull a few bucks together.  In other words, let the small investor absorb the risk of
deficient disclosure so that entrepreneurs can get easy capital.  The push to get a regulatory break for crowdfunders comes at
a time when small business is looking to relax other securities
law exemptions that are already on the books, says  A. Heath
Abshure , commissioner of the Arkansas Securities Department and
chairman of the corporate finance section of the  North American
Securities Administrators Association , an organization of state
regulators.  Congressional Permissiveness  Earlier this month, the House Committee on Financial
Services proposed a law that would make an existing exemption to
the securities laws, Regulation A, even more permissive. The
exclusion, which now lets companies make securities offerings of
$5 million or less by filing simplified, unaudited financial
statements with the SEC, would balloon to $50 million under the
draft  bill .  The petition Goldberg is backing would create a new way to
sell securities without what it calls “costly and time-
consuming filings.” Sherwood Neiss, a Florida entrepreneur who
wrote the petition, says business owners who want to attract
money on a crowdfunding site should be allowed to raise as much
as $1 million under his proposal, but that the public is
protected because he would put a cap of $10,000 or 10 percent of
adjusted gross income on the amount any one person could invest.  Abshure says it’s exactly that sort of private securities
offering that makes up most of the fraud that keeps his
investigators busy.  Small investors bore the brunt of the financial crisis, says
Abshure, and crowdfunding promoters are proposing we rebuild the
economy by subjecting those investors to more risk.  Costly Compliance  Profounder , a crowdfunding website, has moved beyond the
donations idea and helps raise money for entrepreneurs who offer
investors a cut of any revenue. Yet it operates within existing
securities law exemptions, says Profounder President  Dana
Mauriello , assisting issuers with filing the proper documents at
the state level. Neiss says state law requirements ”often
offset any costs saved by the federal registration exemption.”  Crowdcube , based in Exeter,  England , calls itself “the
world’s first equity-based crowdfunding community,” though only
U.K. residents can invest.  Investors are sufficiently savvy that the law should change,
Neiss says. More than half of Americans are invested in the
stock market today, compared with 4 percent when federal
securities laws were written in 1933, he says. Neiss says this
matters because it shows “the majority of investors understand
the basics of investing.”  ‘Degree of Trust’  Owning stocks is correlated with knowing what you’re doing?
Who knew?  Neiss says he’s heartened that the crowdfunding masses can
vet companies and talk to one another about it. “Social media
has proven it can lead to a degree of trust,” he says. Yet the
trust thing can work against the crowd as easily as it works for
it. Just ask any regulator who’s had to mop up the mess after an
affinity fraud, where a scamster skips town with the money he
bilked from members of his ethnic, religious or professional
community.  If there are a few bad apples, it is, after all, only
$10,000, or 10 percent, of an investor’s adjusted gross income
at risk here, so how bad could it be to relax the rules?
“Anyone can go to Vegas and have $10,000 and lose it,” says
Neiss.  Right. Gambling. Crowdfunding. Two ways to lose your money
without getting a disclosure document. At least in Vegas you can
catch a Whoopi Goldberg show and maybe even get a free drink.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  