-- 
German Stocks Snap Two-Day Decline as MAN, ThyssenKrupp Advance

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-30T15:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/alstria-daimler-nordex-roth-rau-ag-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks advanced for the
first time this week, led by gains in automotive shares and
steelmakers, amid speculation the global economy is strong
enough to overcome  Japan ’s nuclear crisis.  MAN SE (MAN)  rallied as  JPMorgan Cazenove  reiterated its
“overweight” stance and increased its price forecast on the
stock. ThyssenKrupp AG and Salzgitter AG followed European
basic-resource shares higher.  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  declined after
saying it will delay a report on its 2010 fiscal year.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 1.8 percent to 7,057.15 at the
5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt  as every stock in the index
climbed. The gauge has gained 8.3 percent since this year’s low
on March 16 as investors speculated that Japan will prevent a
meltdown at its earthquake-damaged nuclear power plant and the
U.S., U.K. and  France  mounted airstrikes against Muammar Qaddafi’s armed forces in  Libya . The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  added
1.7 percent today.  “All the themes from last week like Libya and Japan don’t
have as much impact today,” said Andreas Lipkow, an equity
trader at MWB Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Investors are looking at companies and there are good buying
opportunities among carmakers and truckmakers.”  In Libya, Qaddafi loyalists forced the rebels to halt their
advance on Sirte, withdrawing to Bin Jawad and then the oil port
of Ras Lanuf, according to Al Jazeera television. Government
troops attacked the rebels with artillery and rockets, proving
that they retain some military capacity after more than a week
of allied bombing runs.  U.S. Employment  In the U.S., companies added more workers in March, a sign
the labor market may be strengthening, data from a private
report based on payrolls showed today.  MAN climbed 3.3 percent to 87.56 euros as JPMorgan lifted
its price estimate on  Europe ’s third-largest truckmaker to 117
euros from 110 euros, saying the market had yet to price in
“MAN-Scania synergies or takeover potential.”  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
world’s biggest truckmaker, rose 3.1 percent to 49.84 euros.  Continental AG soared 2.4 percent to 64 euros as Exane BNP
Paribas upgraded Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker to
“outperform.”  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter,  Germany ’s largest steelmakers,
gained 1.5 percent to 28.88 euros and 1.3 percent to 55.85
euros, respectively.  Freenet AG (FNTN)  advanced 2.2 percent to 8.06 euros, ending three
days of declines, as  DZ Bank  AG raised its recommendation on the
mobile-phone operator to “buy” from “sell.”  Roth & Rau slipped 4.5 percent to 16.20 euros, the lowest
price in a week. The maker of equipment used to produce solar
energy generation products said it will push back scheduled
press and analyst conferences to April 8 from March 31 because
of delays composing the company’s report on the 2010 fiscal
year. The stock was cut to “sell” from “buy” at DZ Bank.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  lost 9.7 percent to 8.07 euros as the wind
turbine maker was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at
Commerzbank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  