-- 
Amazon Unveils Music-Streaming Service Ahead of Google, Apple

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-03-30T00:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/amazon-introduces-online-music-streaming-service-ahead-of-google-apple.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  joined the ranks of
music-streaming services today by unveiling Cloud Player,
letting users buy tracks, store them on the company’s servers
and play them on computers and Android smartphones.  Music libraries can be uploaded to Amazon’s new Cloud
Drive, with 5 gigabytes of memory available free, the company
said in a statement. Users who purchase an album from Amazon.com
will be upgraded to 20 gigabytes of Cloud Drive space, which can
be used to store music, photos, videos and other digital files.  “Our customers have told us they don’t want to download
music to their work computer or phones because they find it hard
to move music around to different devices,” Bill Carr, vice
president of movies and music, said in the statement.  The move by Amazon places it a step ahead of rivals
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , both of which are aiming
to start similar services.  Record companies  have struck
licensing deals with existing music-streaming sites, such as
Spotify Ltd., Rdio Inc. and Music Unlimited, to help counter the
effects of piracy and a drop in purchases of compact discs.  Cloud Player , which is bundled into the latest version of
Amazon’s MP3 application, lets users listen to tracks uploaded
into the Cloud Drive on Android smartphones, as well as on
personal computers running Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari
for Mac or Chrome Web browsers.  Multiple Devices  The Cloud Player may prompt users of Apple’s iTunes who
mainly use Amazon for music downloads to make a more significant
move to the online retailer’s music services, said Eric Garland,
chief executive officer of BigChampagne Media Measurement, a
Beverly Hills, California-based music-tracking company.  “They designed everything they do in that category to work
pretty much seamlessly with iTunes,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They’re answering what I’m sure are their
customers’ requests to make backup access to media and use of
multiple devices a simpler and more transparent process.”  While customers of iTunes can also use Amazon for music
downloads, the online retailer may have trouble diverting many
loyal Apple users from music-playing software they’ve used for
years, even in the face of extra benefits, said Russ Crupnick,
an analyst at NPD Group Inc.  “It’s unlikely they’d desert Apple for Amazon cloud
services, especially since you have to assume Apple won’t be far
behind,” Crupnick said in an e-mail.  ‘Big Battle’  Amazon is trying to garner consumer loyalty early on to gain
a strong footing before moving to areas outside of music, said
Ann Winblad, co-founder of Hummer Winblad Venture Partners, in a
televised interview on “Bloomberg West.” The company is
competing against Apple and Google not just in music, but to get
customers’ entire hard drives on its cloud, she said.  “They are part of a big battle,” Winblad said. “Amazon
just laid down the first announcement -- it happened to pick
music today. It’s not so much about the future of the  music
industry  as it is the future of my data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 