-- 
Ameristar $2.1 Billion Refinancing to Include Cov-Lite Loan

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-03-29T19:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ameristar-2-1-billion-refinancing-to-include-cov-lite-loan-1-.html
Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA) , the owner
and manager of eight U.S. casinos, will meet with lenders
tomorrow on $2.1 billion of loans to refinance debt, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Deutsche Bank, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of America Corp. are arranging the debt, which includes a $700
million, seven-year covenant-lite term loan B, and a $200
million term loan A and a $500 million revolving line of credit,
both due in five years, said the person who declined to be
identified because the transaction is private.  The banks have scheduled a lender meeting tomorrow at 2
p.m. in  New York , the person said.  The company is proposing to pay 3.25 percentage points to
3.5 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate on the  term loan  B, said the person. Libor, the rate banks
charge to lend to each other, may have a 1 percent floor.  Ameristar may sell the loan at 99.5 cents on the dollar,
the person said, reducing the proceeds for the borrower and
boosting the yield for investors.  Tom Steinbauer, chief financial officer of Ameristar,
didn’t immediately return a message left at his office seeking
comment.  Las Vegas-based Ameristar had $510 million outstanding
under its revolving credit facility and $380 million under its
term loan facility at Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The existing loans were scheduled to come due in
2012.  Last month, Ameristar said it would seek $2.1 billion in
new loans to retire about $1.5 billion of existing debt, to fund
a share repurchase and for general working capital purposes,
according to the Feb. 28 filing.  ’Well Received’  Ameristar today announced it started a cash offer for $650
million aggregate principal amount of its 9.25% senior notes.  “We think the new deal will be well received by investors.
Ameristar has been a fairly stable company and has performed
consistently over the years,” Barbara Cappaert, an analyst at
KDP Investment Advisors Inc. wrote in a Feb. 28 report.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan B is
sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds . A term loan
A is sold mainly to banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  