-- 
American Express Loses Bid to Dismiss Lawsuit Over Foreign-Exchange Fees

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-29T20:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/american-express-loses-bid-to-dismiss-foreign-exchange-fee-suit.html
American Express Co., the world’s
biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, must face a class-
action lawsuit accusing it of conspiring to fix foreign currency
conversion fees.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  New York  today
rejected a bid by AmEx to dismiss the group lawsuit originally
filed in 2004. He said AmEx had failed to provide documentation
to support its defense.  “That Amex cannot pinpoint the precise date of its
decision to implement a foreign exchange fee is arresting,”
Pauley said in his ruling. “The lack of internal company
documentation raises suspicion.”  The plaintiffs, holders of Visa or MasterCard credit cards
issued by more than a dozen banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , allege that AmEx engaged in a price-
fixing conspiracy with banks and also conspired to include
compulsory arbitration clauses in cardholder agreements.  The plaintiffs said the price-fixing scheme began when AmEx
met with representatives of other banks in May 1999, Pauley said
in his decision. After the meeting, Amex raised its foreign
exchange conversion fee to 2 percent from 1 percent, and some
other banks also raised their fees, according to the ruling.  Lacked Standing  AmEx argued there was no evidence that the fee increases
resulted from a conspiracy involving the New York-based company,
according to the ruling. AmEx also said the plaintiffs lacked
standing under the arbitration clause to bring a conspiracy
claim because they couldn’t demonstrate a “threatened loss.”  While “the plaintiffs are not AmEx cardholders, they
nevertheless suffered reduced choice in the marketplace as a
result of AmEx’s alleged collusion with the banks,” Pauley said
in his ruling.  “A jury could find that AmEx’s conduct caused injury to
competition in the credit card market,” the judge said.  “We are disappointed by the court’s decision,”  Joanna Lambert , an AmEx spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“While we don’t comment on the specifics of pending litigation,
we do note that the judge’s decision makes no findings other
than the plaintiff may proceed with its case. We intend to
continue to vigorously defend the case.”  The case is Ross v.  American Express Co. (AXP) ,
04-cv-05723, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  