-- 
Man Expects Inflows for First Time Since 2008 on GLG Purchase

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-29T08:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/man-group-estimates-pretax-profit-will-decline-to-213-million.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  expects quarterly
sales of investment products to exceed redemptions for the first
time in more than two years, as the world’s largest publicly
traded hedge-fund manager benefits from its $1.6 billion
acquisition of GLG Partners Inc.  Sales of hedge funds, long-only funds that bet stocks will
rise and other investment products will exceed redemptions by
$700 million for the three months ending March 31, London-based
Man said in a statement today. Assets under management will
probably increase to $69 billion from $68.6 billion on Dec. 31,
the company said.  “The work we have done this year to expand the range of
investment styles and solutions we offer our investors, coupled
with strong performance, broad distribution and a sound
financial base, continue to position us well to meet investor
demand globally in the coming quarters,” Man Chief Executive
Officer Peter Clarke said in the statement.  Man acquired GLG Partners in October to try to reduce
its dependence on Man AHL Diversified Plc, a computer-driven
investment program that accounts for more than one-third of the
firm’s assets under management. AHL ended December below the
level at which it can charge investors performance fees. It has
fallen another 6.1 percent this year after political unrest in
the Middle East and  Japan ’s worst earthquake roiled markets.  “AHL’s portfolios have been generally positioned to
benefit from continuing global economic recovery,” Man said in
the statement. It “suffered as the Japan earthquake triggered
significant reversals across equity, commodity and  currency
markets ,” according to the statement.  GLG Fund  AHL has since pared some of its losses, Man said. The GLG
Global Opportunity Fund rose 1.6 percent through February and
then “lost some ground” in March, the company said. Man
expects all of its funds to have lost a total of $2.1 billion
for the three months ending in March.  Clarke, on a conference call with investors today, said
Man aims to follow through on plans made before the earthquake
to issue a new AHL product in Japan in April. The damage caused
by the quake shouldn’t have a “significant” effect on sales,
he said.  “I don’t see this as being a significant shock to our
ability to continue to sell product in Japan,” he said.  Earnings Outlook  Man also said it expects full-year pretax profit to decline
60 percent to $213 million, hurt by costs such as a $375 million
expense to write down the value of its multi-manager investment
business. Man’s structured-products unit plans to use GLG
investments instead of multi-manager strategies going forward,
hurting sales for the multi-manager business, the firm said.  Man fell 0.5 percent to 243.3 pence as of 9:30 a.m. in
 London . The stock has fallen 18 percent this year.  Man said last week it would sell a 25 percent stake in
BlueCrest Capital Management Ltd. back to  Europe ’s third-largest
hedge fund for $633 million. The transaction will add about $250
million to Man’s pretax profit. The sale will also eliminate the
management and fee income Man has generated from BlueCrest since
it invested in the firm eight years ago.  Man expects its hedge funds to generate $600 million of
inflows in the three months ending March 31, with AHL adding
$200 million and GLG strategies contributing $400 million.  Long-only funds will probably add $800 million of inflows,
driven by sales in January and February of a GLG product that
invests in Japanese stocks. The earthquake hasn’t had a
“material effect” on sales of the GLG product, Man said.  Hedge funds  are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profit from
speculation on whether asset prices will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  