-- 
Murray Ends Coaching Relationship With Corretja After Two Months of Losses

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-29T13:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/andy-murray-ends-coaching-relationship-with-alex-corretja-his-agent-says.html
Andy Murray , who hasn’t won a match
since he lost the Australian Open finals in January, ended his
three-year coaching relationship with Alex Corretja, his agent
said.  The world’s fifth-ranked men’s tennis player is
“reviewing” his coaching situation after parting with the
Spaniard, Matt Gentry, his agent at XIX entertainment, said
today in an interview.  “I’ve had a really good relationship with Alex over the
past three years,” the 23-year-old said in an e-mailed
statement. “I have learned so much from being around him and I
want to thank him for his hard work, enthusiasm, dedication and
support. He has been a great friend as well as a mentor to me
and we’ve shared lots of success and good times both on and off
the court.”  Corretja, a former world No. 2, had worked with Murray on
an ad hoc basis since April 2008. During that time, the Briton
reached three Grand Slam finals and won 6 Masters Series, the
most important events on the men’s ATP World Tour. He has yet to
win a major, which would end Britain’s 75-year long wait for a
male Grand Slam champion.  “Helping Andy has been a great experience for me, he’s got
great talent and can be one of the best on any surface,”
Corretja said in the statement. “I am very thankful to him for
his confidence and trust during this time and also to his
family, and the rest of Andy’s team.”  Promising Start  Murray had started 2011 well, making it to a second
straight final at the Australian Open in  Melbourne  in January,
where he lost 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 to Novak Djokovic. Murray had lost
to men’s Grand Slam record holder  Roger Federer  in the 2009
finals in Melbourne. The Swiss had also beaten Murray in his
first major final, at the 2008  U.S. Open .  While the second-ranked Djokovic of  Serbia  has yet to lose
a match this season, Murray has struggled to win one. He lost in
the opening round of Rotterdam to former world No. 8 Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus, in the first round of  Indian Wells ,
California to U.S. qualifier Donald Young and also in the first
round of Miami to another American qualifier, 118th-ranked Alex
Bogomolov Jr.  The departure of Corretja comes eight months after Murray
parted company with his main coach  Miles Maclagan . Murray
continues to be accompanied on the men’s tour by his childhood
friend and hitting partner Dani Vallverdu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  