-- 
Angang Steel Incurs Second-Half Loss on Higher Costs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T15:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/angang-steel-incurs-second-half-loss-on-higher-costs-1-.html
Angang Steel Co.,  China ’s biggest
Hong Kong-traded steelmaker, incurred a net loss in the second
half because of higher costs and slowing demand from builders
and automakers.  Net loss was 720 million yuan ($110 million) in the six
months ended Dec. 31, compared with a profit of 2.3 billion yuan
a year earlier. The numbers were derived by deducting six-month
figures from full-year profit released today on the Shenzhen
stock exchange under International accounting standards.  Slowing demand from vehicle and appliance makers in the
second half and high iron ore costs have depressed the average
profit margins of Chinese steelmakers to just 3.5 percent in
2010, the lowest of any industry, according to the government.
China’s gross domestic product grew 9.6 percent in the third
quarter, the smallest gain in a year.  Angang gained 0.4 percent to close at 8.09 yuan in Shenzhen
trading today, before the announcement. The benchmark Shenzhen
Composite Index fell 1.9 percent. It declined 0.2 percent to
HK$10.14 in  Hong Kong .  Contract iron ore prices fell about 10 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months after gaining more
than 20 percent in the third quarter.  Full-year profit rose 181 percent to 2.04 billion yuan by
Chinese accounting standards, Angang said. Net income by
international standards was 2.05 billion yuan, missing the 2.1
billion yuan mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vehicle sales in China may grow 10 percent this year after
rising 32 percent last year, partly because the government
withdrew tax breaks and rural subsidies, stoking “concern”
that demand for automotive steel sheets may slow,  Xu Lejiang ,
chairman of Baosteel Group Corp., China’s second-largest
steelmaker, said this month.  Chinese prices of cold-rolled coil, used in cars and
appliances, have fallen 7 percent in the year to March 22,
compared with a 14 percent gain in reinforcing bars used in
buildings during the same period, according to researcher
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. Cold-rolled products
accounted for 43 percent of Angang’s first-half sales, according
to the company.  --Helen Yuan. With assistance from Feifei Shen in Beijing.
Editors: Alan Soughley, Josh Fellman  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 