-- 
Apollo May Raise $499 Million Selling at Discount to Blackstone

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/apollo-may-raise-499-million-selling-at-discount-to-blackstone.html
Apollo Global Management LLC plans
to raise as much as $499 million in its share sale this week,
betting a recovery of capital markets will spur investors to buy
the stock at a discount to  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co.  Apollo, the New York-based private equity firm led by  Leon Black , is scheduled to offer 26.3 million shares for $17 to $19
each today, according to a regulatory filing. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. is among the investors that will sell a partial
stake. The midpoint price would value Apollo at 5.4 times
adjusted earnings of $1.18 billion last year, compared with 14
times for Blackstone and 5.7 times for KKR, Bloomberg data show.  The revival of capital markets that began in 2010 has
boosted valuations on Apollo’s holdings and enabled dealmaking
after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
KKR, which listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange
after combining with its publicly traded European fund in July,
has gained 73 percent. Blackstone is trading at its highest in
almost three years, paring declines since its 2007 initial 
public offering.  “They see the valuations of their peers improving
tremendously over a relatively short amount of time, and the
cynic in me says they want to get while the getting is good,”
said Tom Jalics, a senior investment analyst at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , which oversees $25
billion. “The fact that their assets are linked to the equity
markets in general obviously has been a boon to them.”  GNC, Qihoo  Apollo, GNC Holdings Inc., Qihoo 360 Technology Co. and
Preferred Apartment Communities Inc. are attempting to raise as
much as $1.08 billion in offerings this week, marking the
biggest weekly number of deals in more than a month after the
March 11 earthquake in  Japan  caused global markets to slump and
at least 10 share sales worldwide to be shelved or scrapped.  Private equity firms, which are required to mark the value
of their holdings to market quarterly, wrote down stakes during
the stock market decline and later benefited in the recovery.
That has left Apollo’s early backers without a return on their
investment.  California Public Employees’ Retirement System 
bought a stake for about $580 million in 2007, which had dropped
in value to $240 million as of June 30. The share sale may value
Calpers’ stake closer to the original price.  Asset Volatility  The volatility in asset values has led investors to place
a higher value on more traditional asset managers such as  Legg
Mason Inc. (LM) , which is trading at a multiple of 20 times adjusted
earnings in the past 12 months. Analysts tend to discount
private equity incentive fees, which are dependent on the
performance of buyout funds, because the profits vary widely and
are difficult to predict.  “Investors have a better understanding of private equity
companies now that Blackstone has been public for over three
years,” said  Michael Kim , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners in New York. “Despite that, public investors will
still discount the incentive fee the firms generate because it’s
more volatile.”  Blackstone sold shares for $31 in June 2007, two months
before the start of the credit market freeze, and is now trading
at $18.93. The firm, as well as Apollo and KKR, is working to
diversify revenue beyond fees tied to buyouts.  The offering by Apollo, which Black helped found in 1990 as 
an investor in distressed companies, aims to raise as much as 
$342 million for the firm and $157 million for existing 
shareholders, according to its filing with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission. Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 
Bank of America Corp. are leading the sale, according to the 
filing. Underwriters may buy 3.94 million additional shares from 
Apollo by exercising an overallotment option, the prospectus 
showed.  Adjusted Earnings  The earnings multiples for buyout firms are based on a
measure called economic net income, which doesn’t conform to
generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Analysts use
that measure because it doesn’t include some costs such as
equity-based compensation and expenses associated with moving to
a publicly traded company from a private partnership.  Apollo may have a market capitalization of $6.43 billion
after the offering, assuming the $18 midpoint price. The firm
had adjusted ENI of $1.18 billion for 2010, according to its
prospectus. KKR, with a market value of $12.2 billion, had ENI
of $2.14 billion last year, according to a filing with the SEC.
Blackstone, with a market value of $22.5 billion, reported ENI
of $1.58 billion for the period.  U.S. initial share sales have raised $11.8 billion so far
this year, more than triple the $3.8 billion raised in the first
quarter of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 2008 and 2009, the worst two years for new stock sales
since 2003.  Vitamin Chain  GNC, the Pittsburgh-based retailer of vitamins and sports
nutrition products owned by Ares Management LLC and the  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan , is attempting to raise as much as $382.5
million. The company is offering 22.5 million shares at $15 to
$17 each, according to an  SEC filing  and Bloomberg data. Goldman
Sachs and JPMorgan are leading the deal.  Proceeds of the offering will be used to redeem preferred
stock, reduce debt and pay management fees to Ares, the
prospectus showed. GNC’s shares will trade on the NYSE under the
symbol GNC.  Qihoo, the Beijing-based provider of computer anti-virus
products and Web browsers, is seeking to raise $151.4 million
selling 12.11 million American depositary receipts at $10.50 to
$12.50 each, its filing with the SEC showed.  Product Development  The midpoint price of $11.50 values Qihoo 360 at about 25
times 2010 sales, more than five times the average of 4.7 among
26 U.S.-traded Chinese Internet companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Investors in Qihoo 360 include venture capital firms
Highland Capital of Lexington,  Massachusetts , and  Menlo Park ,
California-based  Sequoia Capital , according to the share-sale
prospectus. UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. are leading the offering.  Qihoo 360 will use the proceeds for product development and
acquisitions, the filing said. The ADRs will trade on the NYSE
under the symbol QIHU.  Preferred Apartment Communities, the Atlanta-based real-
estate investment company set up to buy multifamily properties
in the U.S., will attempt to raise $45 million in an offering
led by Wunderlich Securities Inc. The shares will trade on the
NYSE Amex under the symbol APTS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  