-- 
Apple's Production of IPads and IPhones May Be Hurt by Japan Earthquake

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-29T17:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/apple-device-production-may-be-hurt-by-earthquake-analyst-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s production of iPhones
and iPads may be “meaningfully impaired” in the coming months in
the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , according
to Pacific Crest Securities Inc.  “If Apple is unable to find replacement supply of certain
components, then iPhone and iPad production volume could be
meaningfully impaired in the second half” of its fiscal third
quarter, which ends in June, Andy Hargreaves, an analyst at
Pacific Crest in Portland, Oregon, wrote today in a research
note.  The earthquake and tsunami earlier this month left Apple
with as little as two months of inventory for key components for
the iPhone and iPad tablet, Hargreaves said. Japan is a hub for
consumer-electronics parts such as  flash memory , which stores
songs and photos in portable devices; batteries and touch-screen
overlay glass that’s used in Apple products, IHS ISuppli said
this month.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  The supply problems might lead Apple to be more
conservative in the financial guidance it gives investors when
it reports second-quarter results next month. Hargreaves, who
rates Apple shares “outperform,” estimates the company will post
second-quarter sales of about $23.1 billion and profit of more
than $5.30 a share.  In the third quarter, Apple is likely to generate profit of
$5.31 a share on sales of $23.7 billion, based on the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell $1.81 to
$348.63 at 1:38 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares had risen 8.6 percent this year before
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net 
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  