-- 
Harper Promises Family Tax Breaks in Bid for Canadian Majority Government

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/harper-offers-canadian-families-split-income-tax-in-bid-to-win-a-majority.html
Prime Minister Stephen Harper
targeted his first campaign pledge at Canadian families with
children, as he seeks to boost support in a bid to form a
majority government.  Harper said yesterday his  Conservative Party  would let
families with children under 18 split up to C$50,000 ($51,250)
of their income for tax purposes, which would lower the combined
burden for 1.8 million families in a country of 34 million
people.  Harper won  Canada ’s last  two elections  after promising tax
reductions aimed at families, including tax credits tied to the
cost of public-transit passes and children’s sports fees, rather
than broad-based reductions in income tax rates favored by
previous governments. In the budget that opposition parties
rejected last week, which preceded the government’s defeat, the
Conservatives announced tax credits for children’s arts
programs.  “Harper tends to pick the policies that have a clear and
obvious benefit,” Jonathan Malloy, associate professor of
political science at  Carleton University  in Ottawa, said in a
telephone interview. Allowing couples to split income “could
certainly swing some votes, particularly in key suburban areas”
and among women, he said.  The Conservatives won 38 percent of the vote in 2008
elections, which gave them 143 seats in the 308-member House of
Commons.  After Deficit Eliminated  Income splitting wouldn’t take effect until after the
country eliminates its  budget deficit , expected by 2015. The
measure would cost about C$2.5 billion in foregone revenue a
year, Harper said.  “Since coming to office in 2006, our government has placed
lower taxes on families among its highest priorities,” Harper
said in the backyard of a suburban house near Victoria, British
Columbia. He mentioned other initiatives his party has taken,
including a monthly C$100 benefit for all children under the age
of six, and a C$2,000 tax credit for each child younger than 18
years of age. They also cut the rate of the federal value-added
tax, the Goods and Service Tax, from seven percent to five
percent.  Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  told reporters the promise
can’t be counted on because it wouldn’t occur for five years,
adding that the Conservatives are planning to continue tax
relief for companies next year.  “It’s like he’s saying to middle-class families: ‘Take a
number,’” Ignatieff said yesterday in Toronto. “That’s the
policies that you get if you put banks, insurance companies and
 oil companies  first and leave Canadian families at the back of
the line.” He did not say whether the Liberals would adopt a
similar policy.  ‘Cynical Move’  New Democratic Party Leader Jack Layton yesterday said the
delay in the tax measure wouldn’t help families dealing with
rising bills today.  “This is exactly the sort of cynical move Stephen Harper
used to denounce,” Layton said in a statement.  Opposition parties joined together March 25 to topple
Harper’s government by passing a no-confidence motion. They
rejected Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s budget last week and
said Harper’s government was in “contempt” of Parliament by
withholding the cost of some of its legislation, including plans
to buy new fighter jets and build prisons. Harper said the
election was unnecessary.  Flaherty presented a fiscal plan last week that forecast
the government may eliminate the deficit as early as 2014 if it
manages to generate savings from a review of program spending
that begins this year. The review will aim to save at least C$4
billion annually, according to the March 22  budget document.   ‘Wasteful Spending’  Ignatieff said yesterday a Liberal government would halt
Harper’s “wasteful” spending on new fighter jets and prisons
that will squeeze out money needed in the future to pay for
programs such as health care. He said he will present a platform
in the next week that will be paid for in part by rolling back
past corporate tax cuts.  “We have a great contrast to make between the fiscal
responsibility which has been the brand of the  Liberal Party ,
and the wastefulness of the Conservative government,” Ignatieff
said.  Today, Ignatieff will be in Oakville, Ontario, about 25
miles southwest of Toronto, then fly to British Columbia. Harper
will begin campaigning in Regina, Saskatchewan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 