-- 
Harry & David’s Bankruptcy Rocks Medford After LBO

-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-05T00:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/harry-david-bankruptcy-rocks-medford-after-wasserstein-s-lbo.html
In good years, DC-8 cargo planes
used to land at the airport in Medford,  Oregon , to haul away
Royal Riviera pears, Moose Munch caramel popcorn and fruit
baskets from Harry & David Holdings Inc.  The aircraft started arriving before the December holidays,
when the company shipped most of its products, said Bill Hoke,
Medford’s deputy city manager.  Hoke doesn’t recall seeing any of the cargo planes last
year. Sales at Harry & David, controlled by  New York  buyout firm
Wasserstein & Co., began to slump in 2008 as people cut back on
sending gifts during the recession. The company, whose orchards
have been a Medford fixture for more than a century, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  yesterday after failing to make interest
payments on about $200 million of debt.  The move has Hoke and other Medford residents wondering
what will become of the region’s largest seasonal employer. Each
fall, Harry & David hires 6,000 workers to help its permanent
staff of 2,000 pick, pack and send fruit around the world.  “They pay on the lower end of the scale, but a lot of
people depend on that second job,” Hoke said.  People return year after year to jobs at the company, Hoke
said, squeezing in shifts around regular jobs or helping a main
breadwinner stockpile cash for the holidays.  These days, extra cash is in short supply in Medford, a
town of 73,000 that straddles I-5 in southern Oregon. The
 unemployment rate  there stood at 12.9 percent in January,
according to the U.S. Labor Department, compared with 11.1
percent for Oregon as a whole and 9 percent for the U.S.  ‘Brutal’ Years  “The last couple of years were brutal,” said David
Thorndike, vice president of marketing at Medford Fabrication
CSC Inc., which makes metal components for  power plants  and
attachments for earthmovers and other construction equipment.
“There’s not a whole lot of positive news for industry around
here.”  Peter Buckley, a Democratic state representative whose
district includes the Medford area, places blame for the
bankruptcy squarely at the feet of Wasserstein & Co. The buyout
firm, founded by the late  Bruce Wasserstein , bought Harry &
David in 2004 from Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., then  Japan ’s
third-largest drugmaker. It paid about $230 million.  In 2005, Wasserstein sold $245 million of bonds in Harry &
David, paid off debt from the takeover, and paid an $82.6
million dividend to itself and other investors in the deal,
according to regulatory filings from the company. Later that
year, they took out another $19 million. Wasserstein and others
had put up $82 million in cash for the purchase.  ‘Unfortunate Decision’  “They recouped their investment,” Buckley said in an
interview. “They made millions. It was an unfortunate decision
for them to gamble with so many people’s lives.”  Wasserstein had no comment on the bankruptcy, said
Stephanie Pillersdorf, an outside representative of the firm at
Sard Verbinnen & Co.  Some Harry & David employees did well before the
bankruptcy, too. The company set aside $605,000 for executive
officers and “key employees” as part of a management retention
plan, according to a regulatory report filed on Feb. 24, just a
month before the company sought protection from creditors.
Selected employees will receive cash payments equal to 13
percent to 29 percent of their salaries, the company said.  Falling Sales  Harry & David’s sales for the fiscal year ended June 26,
2010, fell 13 percent to $426.8 million from the previous year.
They were down 24 percent from fiscal 2007, before the financial
crisis and recession hit.  The company’s loss widened to $39.2 million in fiscal 2010
from $20.2 million a year earlier. It earned $4.6 million in
fiscal 2008.  “It does seem like they’re the top of the discretionary
list” for consumer purchases, so Harry & David would be
vulnerable in a recession, said  Joe Feldman , a retailing analyst
at Telsey Advisory Group in New York.  Harry & David has been a fixture in town since Harry and
 David Rosenberg  took over the family pear orchards after their
hotelier father’s death in 1914. During the Depression, they
began pitching their Comice pears to business leaders as gifts,
according to the company’s website. Harry & David introduced its
 Fruit-of-the-Month Club  in 1938.  In Medford, the local baseball stadium -- a venue used by
high school players -- is called Harry & David Field.  “It’s a fantastic facility,” said Brad Hicks, chief
executive officer of the Medford/Jackson County chamber of
commerce. “Harry & David has been a cornerstone of our
community.”  Opening Stores  In recent years, the company moved away from its expertise
in fruit and began to sell wine, chocolate and flowers. It also
opened more than 100 stores and bought smaller competitors. In
2008, under Wasserstein’s watch, it took over Cushman Fruit Co.,
which started in 1945 as a single store in  West Palm Beach ,
 Florida , and grew into a mail-order shipper.  “They may have tried to get into the retail store strategy
too aggressively,” Feldman said.  Now the fate of Harry & David is in the hands of turnaround
expert Kay Hong from Alvarez & Marsal, a corporate restructuring
company in New York. Hong, a graduate of  Harvard Business
School , replaced Steven Heyer as CEO in February.  Heyer had run Harry & David for a just a year. Previously
he was president and chief operating officer at Coca-Cola Co.
and Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and was CEO of Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., which ousted him in 2007 after
he clashed with the company’s directors. He’s also a founder of
Avra Kehdabra Animation LLC, a computer animation studio
company.  Heyer didn’t return a message seeking comment that was left
at his home in Atlanta.  Hicks of the chamber of commerce is asking people in
Medford to support Harry & David as it goes through its
reorganization.  “I’m encouraging everyone in our community to go buy some
more Moose Munch,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Effinger in  Portland  at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at   wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 