-- 
Arts Council England Announces Cuts in Cultural Funding

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-03-30T14:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/arts-council-england-to-announce-cuts-in-funding-for-theatres-galleries.html
Arts Council England , the
organization that funnels U.K. government aid to the performing
arts and to some galleries, announced each institution’s
envelope for 2012-15, with London’s  Almeida Theatre  getting a
third less, and the  Serpentine Gallery , 31 percent more.  With 118 million pounds ($189 million) less cash to hand
out, the Arts Council cut grants to the  Royal Opera House , the
Southbank Centre and the  National Theatre  by 6.6 percent. The
Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) saw a 36.8 percent
decrease, and the  Whitechapel Gallery , a 25.3 percent increase.  “We’ve decided to fund fewer organizations, realistically,
and with a wider reach,” Arts Council Chairwoman Liz Forgan
said at a press briefing. “From the outset, we said we would
not be doing salami slicing,” she said, referring to the
practice of handing equivalent amounts to all.  A total of 638 funding applications got turned down,
leaving 695 organizations getting Arts Council money from 2012
onward. They include 110 newcomers.  Organizations that had funding wiped out included Riverside
Trust Ltd., a west  London  arts center, which previously got
511,000 pounds; and Visiting Arts -- a liaison between U.K. and
international arts groups -- which received 376,000 pounds. Both
are in London.  Funding Pain  “Of course there’s pain, and there are some people we
simply couldn’t fund,” Chief Executive Alan Davey said.  Explaining the Almeida Theatre’s 33 percent cut, Davey said
it left the venue with a grant of 700,000 pounds by 2014-15.
“They’re still getting an awful lot of money,” he said. “We
believe quality can be upheld in that theater.”  The Almeida took the news in stride.  “There will be no cuts to our innovative artistic policy
or to our ambitions,” Artistic Director Michael Attenborough
and Executive Director James Bierman said in an e-mailed
release. “In the coming years, we will take our work to more
people than ever before, and continue to be a leading national
cultural institution.”  At the briefing, Davey attributed the Serpentine’s 31.2
percent increase to its expansion into a new gallery, and said
“we get quite a lot of value” out of the Serpentine grant.  The Serpentine -- which is getting 883,734 pounds in the
current financial year -- will see that amount raised to 1.25
million pounds in the year ended April 1, 2015. That’s after
beating rival bidder  Damien Hirst  to a nearby Hyde Park space: a
former munitions depot known as the Magazine.  Bittersweet Boost  The gallery’s director Julia Peyton-Jones and co-director
Hans Ulrich Obrist said in an e-mailed release that they were
“very grateful for the uplift” from the Arts Council,
“although it is bittersweet news at a time of swingeing cuts to
the sector.”  As part of a nationwide austerity package, the U.K.
government in October cut the  Department for Culture ’s budget to
1.1 billion pounds by 2015. As a result, grants to national
museums will drop 15 percent by 2015, and those to  Arts Council
England , 29 percent. The Arts Council was asked to halve
administrative costs and avoid cutting regular recipients’
grants by more than 15 percent.  Days later, the Arts Council said it was halving operating
costs to 12 million pounds ($19 million) in real terms by 2015,
and phasing out grants to  Arts & Business , a nonprofit group
that promotes cultural philanthropy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 