-- 
Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Earnings Temper Goldman Sachs Cutting Japan

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-29T10:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/asian-stocks-drop-as-goldman-sachs-cuts-japan-s-economic-growth-forecast.html
Asian stocks fluctuated as better-
than-estimated earnings in China and Hong Kong offset concerns
economic growth in Japan will falter as the nation struggled to
contain a partial meltdown at a nuclear plant.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank
by market value, led declines among the nation’s biggest lenders
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for the
country’s economic growth.  Anhui Conch  Cement Co., China’s
biggest cement maker, and  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings
Ltd. (1114) , the Chinese partner of Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
climbed more than 4.7 percent after posting full-year earnings
that beat estimates. Japanese stocks pared earlier declines
after a stricken nuclear plant began pumping fresh water to a
damaged nuclear reactor.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent to 133.25 as
of 7:47 p.m. in  Tokyo , having declined as much as 0.9 percent
earlier. Almost five stocks advanced for every four that
declined in the index. The gauge had its biggest weekly gain
since November last week as Japan moved to stabilize nuclear
reactors damaged by a March 11 earthquake and as companies from
Cnooc Ltd. to Bank of China Ltd.’s earnings surpassed estimates.  “Until the reactor can be cooled automatically, the
situation remains critical and it could impact company
earnings,” said Takeshi Fukushima, who helps manage about $37
billion at Meiji Yasuda Asset Management Co. “However, we’re
starting to find out that it probably won’t become a tragedy.”  No Ocean Leak  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average swung between gains and
losses after  Tokyo Electric  Power Co., operator of the crippled
nuclear plant, said radioactive water hasn’t leaked into the sea.
The company started using freshwater to cool spent fuel in one
of the reactors, Teruaki Kobayashi, head of nuclear maintenance
at Tokyo Electric, said.  The Japanese benchmark index fell as much as 1.7 percent
after Goldman Sachs lowered its growth forecast for the
country’s gross domestic product this year to 0.7 percent from
1.3 percent previously in the aftermath of power cuts and damage
from the March 11 earthquake. It closed 0.2 percent lower after
rising as much as 0.3 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.9 percent, while
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index was little changed.  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.5 percent, while  New Zealand ’s NZX
50 Index increased 0.4 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. The index slipped 0.3 percent yesterday in  New York  as
Marriott International Inc. led consumer shares lower and
concern grew that Japan is failing to contain hazardous
materials at Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Uncertainty ‘Very Negative’  “The situation at the nuclear plant isn’t getting better,
and any improvement looks like it’ll be delayed, and that’s
weighing on the stock market,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $104 billion. “We still don’t know how much of a
negative effect it’ll have on the economy. The uncertainty is
very negative for stocks.”  Water in a tunnel outside the No. 2 reactor at the nuclear
plant in northeastern  Japan  had radiation levels exceeding 1
sievert an hour, a spokesman for plant operator Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said yesterday. A partial meltdown of fuel rods in the
No. 2 reactor probably caused a jump in the readings, Japan
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  Exposure to that dose for 30 minutes would trigger nausea
and four hours might lead to death within two months, according
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  A magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
knocked out power at the plant, forcing Tokyo Electric to dump
thousands of tons of seawater on the complex as a stop gap
cooling measure.  Tepco Pummeled  Tokyo Electric tumbled 19 percent to 566 yen at the close
of trading, the lowest on record. The stock has declined 74
percent since the last market close before the earthquake.  Government data showed Japan’s unemployment rate fell in
February and retail sales beat analysts’ forecasts, indicating
that the economy was picking up before the earthquake and
tsunami that devastated northeastern regions. Goldman Sachs said
the economy will shrink next quarter.  Mitsubishi UFJ dropped 2.8 percent to 378 yen in Tokyo.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest
lender by market value, slipped 1 percent to 2,623 yen. Smaller
rival Mizuho Financial Group Inc. declined 2.1 percent to 140
yen.  Uranium suppliers dropped amid concern the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl will crimp demand for the fuel.  Extract
Resources Ltd. (EXT) , a uranium mining company, declined 5.1 percent
to A$7.80 in Sydney, while rival Paladin Energy Ltd. decreased
2.9 percent to A$3.64.  Computer Makers Drop  In Taipei,  Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s second-biggest maker of
personal computers, slumped 6.9 percent to NT$63.1, its lowest
close since July 2009. Goldman Sachs cut its rating to “sell”
from “neutral” and Citigroup Inc. said sales of  notebook
computers  are unlikely to stage a rebound in the second half of
the year.  Compal Electronics Inc. (2324) , the world’s second largest
maker of notebook computers, slipped 2.6 percent to NT$30.  Among stocks that advanced, Anhui Conch jumped 4.7 percent
to HK$45.60. The company said full-year net income increased 74
percent to 6.2 billion yuan ($945 million) from a year ago,
beating the 5.4 billion yuan average estimate of 13 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  Brilliance  China  Automotive surged 5.3 percent to HK$7.13.
The company posted a full-year net income of 1.27 billion yuan,
compared with a loss of 1.64 billion yuan in the previous year.
That exceeded the average estimate of 1.09 billion yuan of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Philippine phone company Globe Telecom Inc. jumped 7
percent to 746 pesos, the best performer on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, on optimism industry competition will ease amid
speculation Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. may buy
Digital Telecommunications Philippines Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 