-- 
Australia Could Limit Use of Dirtiest Coal-Burning Plants to Peak Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-29T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/australia-could-limit-use-of-dirtiest-coal-burning-plants-to-peak-demand.html
Australia  can shutter carbon
intensive coal-fired power plants in Victoria state, limiting
operations to when demand for electricity surges during summer,
government climate change adviser  Ross Garnaut  said.  There are “no known technical reasons,” which would
prevent the Hazelwood and Yallourn plants from operating in a
non-baseload capacity, Garnaut said in a report today, citing
research from engineering firm Sinclair Knight Merz. The
stations can be completely shut down for “a number of months a
year,” and restarted in periods of high demand, he said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to set a carbon price
for Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, starting in
July 2012 in preparation for a trading system that could begin
as early as 2015. The Hazelwood coal-fired plant, operated by
 International Power Plc (IPR) , is the  most-polluting power station  in
the world, according to conservation group WWF.  “As new generators enter the market, supply from more
emissions-intensive” plants will be gradually reduced, Garnaut
said. Analysis shows that “even for older brown coal facilities
such as Hazelwood and Yallourn in the Latrobe Valley, it is
possible for generators to operate intermittently in the summer
months to meet demand on hot days with high prices,” he said.  Australia has set a target of generating 20 percent of its
power from renewable sources like wind and solar by 2020. The
introduction of a carbon price will lower profitability of the
most emission intensive electricity generators, like brown coal-
fired plants, Garnaut said.  The Yallourn plant is operated by TRUenergy Holdings Pty,
the Australian unit of Hong Kong-based  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  