-- 
Australia Upsets Germany 2-1 in Soccer Exhibition Game; Ghana Ties England

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-29T22:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/australia-upsets-germany-2-1-in-soccer-exhibition-game-ghana-ties-england.html
Australia  scored twice in the
second half to beat Germany 2-1 in a soccer exhibition match,
while an injury-time goal gave Ghana a 1-1 tie with England.  David Carney and Luke Wilkshire got goals three minutes
apart in Moenchengladbach to give Australia its first win over
Germany after three straight defeats, including a 4-0 loss at
last year’s World Cup.  Mario Gomez  put the home team in front in the 26th minute
last night before Carney scored in the 61st minute. Wilkshire
then won the game with a 64th-minute penalty kick after Harry Kewell was fouled by Christian Trasch.  Asamoah Gyan’s goal earned Ghana the draw at Wembley
Stadium in  London  after Andy Carroll scored his first
international goal for England just before halftime.  Sunderland striker Gyan slalomed his way through the
England defense before curling a shot past goalkeeper  Joe Hart .  Giuseppe Rossi and Alessandro Matri scored in Italy’s 2-0
win in Ukraine and Michael Krohn-Delhi’s goal in the 72nd minute
gave Denmark a 2-1 win in Slovakia. Portugal beat Finland 2-0,
with Ruben Micael scoring both goals.  First-half goals by Diego Lugano, Edinson Cavani and Abel
Hernandez led Uruguay to a 3-2 win over Ireland in Dublin. Shane
Long and Keith Fahey scored for the Irish.  France and Croatia finished scoreless in Paris, denying the
French a seventh straight victory. Greece and Poland also drew
0-0, while Bulgaria was a 1-0 winner in Cyprus.  Russia  was held to a 1-1 draw by Qatar in a matchup of the
2018 and 2022  World Cup  hosts in Doha. Qatar, which is 77 places
below Russia in FIFA’s world rankings, took a fourth-minute lead
through Mohamed Kasoula before Roman Pavlyuchenko tied it in the
34th minute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  