-- 
Lautenberg Foundation Appeals Ruling in Bid to Continue Suit of Madoff Kin

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-29T17:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/lautenberg-foundation-appeals-ruling-in-bid-to-continue-suit-of-madoff-kin.html
The charitable foundation of U.S.
Senator  Frank Lautenberg  and his children appealed a judge’s
ruling that postponed their $9 million lawsuit against the
brother of imprisoned conman Bernard L. Madoff.  Lautenberg’s son and daughter joined the foundation in
seeking to recover losses from Peter Madoff, claiming that as
chief compliance officer at Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, he was culpable for the Ponzi scheme run by his
brother.  In their appeal filed in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan 
today, the Lautenbergs asked a judge to consider “whether the
bankruptcy court erred in concluding that appellants’ action
against Peter Madoff violated the automatic stay,” or halt of
lawsuits under bankruptcy law.  They also challenged a ruling that they “seek to recover
potential estate assets that belong exclusively to the
trustee.”  Separately, trustee Irving Picard today filed his own list
of issues to be included in the appeal, including “whether the
 bankruptcy court  correctly found that it had jurisdiction over
the appellants.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  ruled last month that
the Lautenbergs and nine other Madoff clients who filed lawsuits
must wait until Picard concludes two suits seeking $244 million
from Madoff family members. All 10 who sued also asked Picard
for recoveries from the Madoff estate.  Lawsuits Halted  The ruling in Manhattan halted the lawsuit by the  New
Jersey  Democrat’s foundation in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, as well as nine other lawsuits against Madoff family
members. The other plaintiffs include the pension plans for
Fairfield, Connecticut, and Emilio Chavez Jr., who is an inmate
in a Texas prison, according to the complaint.  Picard filed his own complaints against  Peter Madoff ; his
daughter, Shana; Bernard’s wife, Ruth; and their sons, Andrew
and Mark. Mark Madoff committed suicide on Dec. 11, the two-year
anniversary of his father’s arrest.  Bernard Madoff , who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is
serving 150 years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S.
history. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard
has said. Authorities have collected almost $10 billion for
victims.  ‘Sole Jurisdiction’  Lifland ruled that the bankruptcy court has “sole
jurisdiction over the administration and distribution of estate
assets to customers and creditors.” By staying the other
lawsuits, Lifland halted the pretrial collection of evidence in
those cases.  “The notion that third-party claimants’ lawsuits should be
driving the discovery on Andrew and Mark Madoff’s alleged
complicity in the  Ponzi scheme  -- ahead of the trustee’s
discovery -- speaks volumes of the impropriety of these actions
at this time,” Lifland wrote.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corporation v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
appeal is In re Bernard L. Madoff, 11-cv-02135, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in New York
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  