-- 
Avusa Investors Said to Get Option to Retain Stakes After Capitau Takeover

-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n ,   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-29T14:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/avusa-investors-said-to-get-option-to-retain-stakes-after-capitau-takeover.html
Avusa Ltd. (AVU) , which runs a publishing
venture with  Pearson Plc (PSON)  in  South Africa , received an offer from
a group led by  Capitau Holdings Ltd.  that will allow its
shareholders to sell their stakes or retain an investment in the
company, a person involved in the talks said.  The terms of the offer, made to all shareholders including
its biggest investor  Mvelaphanda Group Ltd. (MVG) , may be announced as
soon as today, the person said, declining to be identified
because details of the proposed transaction aren’t yet public.  “We wouldn’t have launched it if we didn’t think we could
do it,” David Field, chief executive officer and co-founder of
Johannesburg-based  Capitau , said by phone today. He declined to
provide details on the terms. “Print in an emerging market
environment still has some legs. It’s still on the rise in South
Africa.”  Avusa  owns  South Africa’s largest weekend newspaper, the
nation’s biggest financial daily newspaper, a cinema chain, book
stores and a music-recording company. Avusa said yesterday it
received an unsolicited offer from a group represented by
Capitau that included  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s RMB Ventures and other
unidentified investors, without giving the terms of the offer.  Business Day  newspaper, which is part-owned by Avusa, and
The New Age, both based in Johannesburg, yesterday reported that
Mvelaphanda may make an offer for the company. Mvelaphanda owns
about a quarter of Avusa. Mvelaphanda is not involved in making
the offer, the person said.  Shares Gain  Avusa shares rose 18 percent in Johannesburg yesterday to
25 rand and fell 0.8 percent today to 24.80 rand as of 4:16 p.m.
local time, giving the company a market value of 2.57 billion
rand ($374 million). Mvelaphanda rose 7 percent to 3.20 rand,
adding to yesterday’s 5.3 percent jump.  Capitau , a closely held company, describes itself as
“leveraged finance specialists” on its website and has been
involved in transactions that resulted in South Africa’s
Foodcorp Ltd., Consol Glass Ltd. and Primedia Ltd. being taken
private. The company doesn’t plan to cut jobs if it succeeds in
taking over Avusa, Field said.  Avusa’s venture with London-based Pearson publishes
Business Day, South Africa’s biggest business newspaper, the
Financial Mail magazine and runs Summit TV, a business news
channel. Separately, Avusa publishes the Sunday Times and the
Sowetan, a daily newspaper.  Avusa has “good content and good brands,” Neville Chester, who helps manage about $32 billion at  Coronation Fund
Managers Ltd. (CML)  in  Cape Town , said in an interview. “In a country
like South Africa print is still a very big deal.” Coronation
is the third-biggest shareholder in Avusa, according to
Bloomberg data.  Prakash Desai, the CEO of Avusa, didn’t return calls made
to his office in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 