-- 
Buyout Firm Capitau Offers $393 Million For Avusa, Including Stock Option

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 
2011-03-29T16:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/avusa-investors-offered-3-79-a-share-by-capitau-or-mix-of-cash-and-stock.html
Capitau Holdings Ltd. , a South
African buyout firm, offered to buy  Avusa Ltd. (AVU)  for 2.7 billion
rand ($393 million) in a transaction that gives shareholders of
the media company the option to stay invested.  Capitau and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s private equity unit, RMB
Ventures, are offering 26 rand a share in cash for Avusa,
Johannesburg-based Capitau said in a statement today. Investors
can also choose a reinvestment option of 18 rand in cash per
security, plus preference shares at 5 rand each and stock in a
new company to be formed after the takeover, at 3 rand apiece.  The buyers are “impressed by the operations and strategy”
of Avusa and plan to work with management to grow the business,
Capitau said. The expression of interest, made to Avusa Chairman
Dumisa Ntsebeza on March 13, isn’t binding, it said, adding that
the offer doesn’t include any other investors.  Avusa runs a venture with London-based  Pearson Plc (PSON)  that
publishes Business Day, South Africa’s biggest business
newspaper, the Financial Mail magazine and Summit TV, a business
news channel. Separately, Avusa  publishes  the Sunday Times, the
nation’s largest weekend broadsheet, the Sowetan, another
newspaper, as well as a cinema chain, book stores and a music-
recording and distribution company.  ‘Very Big Deal’  Avusa has “good content and good brands,” Neville Chester, who helps manage about $32 billion at  Coronation Fund
Managers Ltd. (CML)  in  Cape Town , said in an interview before
Capitau’s announcement. “In a country like South Africa, print
is still a very big deal.” Coronation is the third-biggest
shareholder in Avusa, according to Bloomberg data.  Capitau and RMB Ventures have undertakings from
shareholders representing 59 percent of Avusa to support the
transaction, including  Mvelaphanda Group Ltd. (MVG) , which owns more
than a fifth of the company, Capitau said. Mvela Group, as it’s
known, is not bidding for Avusa, it said.  Business Day  and The
New Age, both based in Johannesburg, yesterday reported that
Mvelaphanda may make an offer for the company.  Mvela Group, which is spinning off assets, rose the most in
four months, gaining 6.4 percent to 3.18 rand. Avusa shares slid
0.8 percent to 24.80 rand, paring yesterday’s 18 percent
advance. Capitau’s announcement was made about a minute before
Johannesburg trading closed at 5 p.m. local time.  “We wouldn’t have launched it if we didn’t think we could
do it,” David Field, chief executive officer and co-founder of
 Capitau , said about the offer earlier today. “Print in an
emerging market environment still has some legs. It’s still on
the rise in  South Africa ,” he said by phone, adding that the
company doesn’t plan to cut jobs after the takeover.  Capitau , a closely held company, describes itself as a firm
of “leveraged finance specialists” on its website and has been
involved in transactions that resulted in South Africa’s
Foodcorp Ltd., Consol Glass Ltd. and Primedia Ltd. being taken
private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  