-- 
BA's Parent Would ‘Definitely’ Look at Buying Japan Air Stake, Walsh Says

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-03-30T04:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ba-s-parent-would-definitely-look-at-buying-japan-air-stake-walsh-says.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, formed from the merger of British Airways and  Spain ’s
Iberia, said it may consider investing in  Japan  Airlines Corp.
after the Asian carrier came out of bankruptcy this week.  “JAL has done a fantastic job,” IAG Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  said in an interview. “If the opportunity
arises we would definitely be looking at deepening the
relationship and we wouldn’t rule out some equity participation."  Japan Airlines completed restructuring this week after a
year in  bankruptcy protection  and Enterprise Turnaround
Initiative Corp. of Japan, the state-backed fund that led the
bailout, is aiming to sell its ownership stake by January 2013.
Rival All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest listed carrier by
sales, has said it is planning a joint venture with Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-biggest airline.  “It could potentially make good business sense in
strategic terms,” said  Peter Harbison , managing director at the
Sydney-based Centre for  Asia  Pacific Aviation. “The thing
that’s really ignited the need is Lufthansa and ANA.”  ‘Needs Consolidation’  The  airline industry  “needs consolidation,” and London-
based IAG, Europe’s third-biggest airline, is “ambitious” and
aims to expand, Walsh said yesterday in Tokyo, where he met
JAL’s president and chairman and banks after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Japan Airlines is open to talking with British Airways
about different types of cooperation, Sze Hunn Yap, a
spokeswoman at the Tokyo-based carrier, said by telephone.  JAL, which cut about one-third of its staff, retired planes
and secured new financing under bankruptcy protection, is a
member of IAG’s Oneworld global alliance and already has a code-
share deal with BA, through which the carriers sell tickets on
each other’s flights as if they were their own.  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines , along with private-equity
firm TPG, last year offered to invest $1.4 billion in JAL in an
effort to persuade the carrier to remain with Oneworld. The
Asian carrier stayed, turning down an offer from Delta Air Lines
Inc. and its SkyTeam partners including Air France-KLM Group.  JAL Joint-Venture  JAL is due to implement a venture with American next month
to cooperate on 10 transpacific routes, including New York-Tokyo
and Beijing-Chicago. The tie-up will generate sales and cost
gains of about $150 million a year for the pair as they share
expenses and coordinate fares, the Fort Worth, Texas-based
company said in January.  IAG is interested in a similar agreement between British
Airways and JAL to cover routes between Japan and  Europe  should
it be able to receive antitrust immunity, according to Walsh.  “We have had some discussions about looking at a joint
venture, an immunized relationship,” he said. “That is
something both of us are keen to pursue. Asia is a very
important market. It’s probably the fastest growing area in the
industry.”  The  International Air Transport Association  said this month
that Asia-Pacific passenger traffic could account for 30 percent
of the global total by 2014, versus 26 percent currently.  ANA will begin a trans-Pacific accord with Star alliance
partner United Continental Holdings Inc. on the same day as the
American alliance starts.  Tokyo-based ANA has also tied up Hong Kong-based investor
Victor Chu’s First Eastern Investment Group to start a discount
carrier in Japan. First Eastern will own as much as 33.3 percent
of the carrier, the maximum foreign ownership permitted in Japan.  British Airways, which has two flights between London and
 Tokyo , is “determined to maintain full services” there
following the magnitude 9 earthquake and tsunami that hit
northern Japan earlier this month, Walsh said.  The U.K. carrier is operating both flights to the capital’s
Narita airport following the quake, shifting one from Haneda,
and is having its crews stay overnight in  Seoul .  “Hopefully we will be able to get back to a normal BA
schedule as soon as possible,” Walsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  