-- 
Bank of Montreal Hiring 90 Specialists to Attract Small Business Accounts

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-29T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bank-of-montreal-plans-to-hire-90-bankers-focused-on-small-business-owners.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,  Canada ’s fourth-
biggest lender, plans to hire 90 specialists catering to small-
business owners as the company bets commercial accounts will
bolster profit.  “Small businesses are the engine for innovation and job
creation in this country, so it’s a really important segment for
us,” Cathy Pin, vice president of commercial banking, said in a
March 25 telephone interview. “We want to be the bank of choice
for all business customers in Canada.”  Building a nationwide team of small-business bankers is
part of the Toronto-based company’s strategy to help counter an
anticipated slowdown in  consumer banking . Chief Executive
Officer William Downe, 58, has said it’s “critically
important” to concentrate on commercial accounts as the economy
rebounds.  “A focus on business lending is going to be key,”  John Aiken , an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in Toronto, said in an
interview. “When you look at where Canadian banks are heading
domestically, all expectations are that retail lending growth is
going to slow, so they’re looking at other areas where they can
fill that void.”  Bank of Montreal is dedicating 150 bankers, including 60
specialists hired in British Columbia in the past nine months,
to focus on companies with annual sales of up to C$5 million ($5
million), Pin said. The 90 additional hires will fill new jobs
in  Alberta , Ontario,  Quebec  and the Atlantic provinces.  “In a period of economic expansion, we have a strong
presence in commercial banking and a terrific reputation,”
Downe said during an interview last week in  Vancouver . “As we
come out of a very difficult period there’s going to be an
initial bias on the part of clients to do business with us.”  Entrepreneurs  The focus on small-business owners helps Bank of Montreal
diversify its commercial-lending operation and gain business
from other services including payment-processing, deposits and
personal banking for entrepreneurs, Pin said.  The effort follows a pilot program with 40 specialists in
Vancouver and Victoria, British Columbia between July and
December that increased revenue beyond the bank’s expectations,
she said.  The project helped Bank of Montreal boost commercial
lending and gain market share on rivals including Royal Bank of
Canada in the province’s biggest city, according to Derral Moriyama, senior vice president of commercial for the Greater
Vancouver district.  “We’re at double-digit growth this year, both in balance
and revenues,” Moriyama said. “Vancouver has treated us very
well. We love this market, and we’re expanding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  