-- 
Banker’s Taste for Lonely Monks, Red Sunsets Revealed in Berlin

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/banker-s-taste-for-lonely-monks-lurid-sunsets-revealed-in-berlin-review.html
The sun slips behind a swampy
landscape in a sky that looks like a nasty accident with canned
tomato soup in a lurid 1848 oil painting by the long-forgotten
Berlin artist August Kopisch.  The painting, too kitschy for today’s tastes, doesn’t often
go on display at Berlin’s  Alte Nationalgalerie . It owes this
rare outing to an exhibition of the collection of the banker
Joachim Heinrich Wilhelm Wagener, which formed the basis for the
museum’s foundation 150 years ago.  At his death in 1861, Wagener bequeathed his contemporary
art collection to the  King of Prussia . His will set the
condition that the 262 artworks should be housed in a national
gallery, a project that had been debated for many years. Among
the works are some masterpieces by Caspar David Friedrich and
Karl Friedrich Schinkel -- as well as some kitsch.  It’s largely thanks to Wagener that the museum, then called
just the Nationalgalerie, ended up being built in Berlin. Other
states were vying for it, and in fragmented 19th-century Germany
-- as today -- the states’ identities made supra-regional
decisions complex. With his bequest, Wagener gave the king a
case to win over his finance minister and Prussian government.  The yearning romantic soul of 19th-century German art is on
full display here. In Friedrich’s masterpieces, which look like
old friends in the company of some of his lesser known
contemporaries, a lonely monk on the shore appeals to vast empty
skies; the blackened ruins of monasteries among gnarled trees
cast dramatic silhouettes. Schinkel’s Gothic cathedrals tower
above fantasy medieval cities.  Romantic Revolution  Wagener was excited by the whiff of revolution in the air
in the mid-1800s, and drawn to the dream of a single German
nation. His collection, which comprises artists from across
 Germany , features brigands and rebels like Theodor Hildebrandt’s
“Robber” hiding cross-legged, on guard for pursuers, one hand
clasping his gun ready for action.  Children are portrayed as excessively cute: In an 1837
painting by Julius Huebner, a dewy-eyed, creamy-skinned Christ-
child perches on a cloud, clutching a lily. Karl Friedrich
Hampe’s “Palace Courtyard With Fountain” shows an exotically
dressed black servant, a peacock and a lute-playing blond youth
caught in shards of sunlight beaming through the trees.  The show, on the third floor of the Nationalgalerie, is a
reminder that all art was contemporary once, and also that not
all art stands the test of time.  Yet Wagener did pretty well. He commissioned some works --
take Friedrich’s “Lone Tree” and “Moonrise by the Sea,” both
jewels of the Alte Nationalgalerie’s collection -- directly from
the artist. His collection still fills three museum rooms with
masterpieces. How many of today’s private collections will still
do that in 150 years?  “The Collection of the Banker Wagener -- the Foundation of
the Nationalgalerie” is showing at the Alte Nationalgalerie in
Berlin through Jan. 8, 2012. For more information, go to
 http://www.sammlungwagener.org/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 