-- 
Bank Mortgage Shortcuts Dodged $20 Billion in Costs, CFPB Says

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-03-29T15:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bank-mortgage-shortcuts-dodged-20-billion-in-costs-cfpb-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  led U.S. mortgage servicers that may have jointly
avoided more than $20 billion in costs since 2007 by cutting
corners on collections and foreclosures, confidential estimates
by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau show.  The bureau provided the analysis in a seven-page Feb. 14
presentation to state attorneys general led by Iowa’s Tom Miller, who are pressing banks to accept billions of dollars in
fines and concessions, including principal reductions on home
loans, after a probe of foreclosure practices. A $5 billion
penalty would be “too low,” and banks can afford more, the
agency found.  “Rough estimates suggest that the largest servicers may
have saved more than $20 billion through under-investment in
proper servicing during the crisis,” the bureau wrote in the
document. “A penalty based on servicing costs avoided would
have little effect on Tier 1 capital ratios,” a measure of
financial strength, it said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , both based in  New
York , are also among banks listed as saving the most money. The
estimate, spanning the period from 2007 to Sept. 30 last year,
assumes that “effective special servicing” of delinquent
mortgages would have boosted firms’ costs 75 basis points
annually. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  In talks on a mortgage servicing settlement, regulators and
state attorneys general in February floated a possible $20
billion to $25 billion penalty for banks, according to two
people briefed on the talks.  Bank Resistance  Banks are resisting the penalties on grounds that federal
agencies haven’t found widespread examples of unjustified home
seizures.  John Walsh , acting Comptroller of the Currency, told
lawmakers last month that his agency’s investigation had found
only a “small number” of wrongful foreclosures.  The presentation, with seven slides, was published on the
Huffington Post’s  website  yesterday after business hours in
Washington. Its authenticity was confirmed to Bloomberg News by
a person with knowledge of the discussions.  A bar chart in the presentation shows that Bank of America,
based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo may have each avoided about $7 billion in costs. The
graphic doesn’t specify the exact amounts. JPMorgan saved about
$5 billion, while Citigroup and Detroit-based Ally Financial
Inc. saved about half of that, it shows.  Spokesmen for Citigroup, Bank of America and Ally declined
to comment. JPMorgan spokeswoman  Kristin Lemkau  wasn’t
immediately available.  Wells Fargo  Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said
the bank has incurred various costs to keep people in their
homes, including hiring and training more than 10,000 “home
preservation staff” for a total of 16,000.  “Without seeing the CFPB’s analysis, we don’t know if the
agency has considered all of the costs involved in our home
retention efforts,” Schrettenbrunner said in an e-mail.  Miller, a Democrat, is negotiating with the biggest
servicers and key federal regulators. Federal agencies and state
 attorneys general  on March 3 delivered a 27-page settlement
proposal that would set standards for how companies would
service loans and conduct foreclosures. That document didn’t
include any estimates of potential penalties.  In a March 9 letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican
who is chairman of a Financial Services subcommittee, criticized
the role of the consumer bureau in the settlement talks,
singling out  Elizabeth Warren , the Treasury and White House
adviser charged with setting up the agency.  Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally
submitted a 15-page proposal to government officials with their
ideas on how to settle allegations of abuses in the mortgage-
servicing business, the Wall Street Journal reported today. The
proposal includes time lines for processing modifications,
third-party reviews of foreclosures and a single point of
contact for borrowers having difficulty repaying their loans,
the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 