-- 
BBVA Said to Weigh Moving 50 Bond Bankers to London in Consolidation Plan

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-03-29T09:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bbva-said-to-consider-moving-50-fixed-income-bankers-to-london.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-largest bank, plans to move about 50 bankers in
bond origination, sales and trading to London as it seeks to
compete better with firms based in Europe’s biggest financial
center, three people with knowledge of the plan said.  Ricardo Laiseca, who runs BBVA’s global markets unit, will
move from Madrid to London as part of the plan to consolidate
its wholesale operations in New York, London and  Hong Kong , said
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The moves will start in coming days, the people said.  BBVA is seeking to curb its reliance on Spain, which
accounts for about half of its profit, compared with 22 percent
at rival  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)  The bank has made investments in
China and spent $9 billion in 2007 buying Birmingham, Alabama-
based Compass Bancshares Inc. BBVA Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez 
agreed in November to pay $5.8 billion for a stake in Turkish
lender  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  to expand in emerging markets.  “If they are to be considered a serious player in that
space, moving to the main financial hubs, where information and
deal flow is located, makes a lot of sense,” said Pau Morilla,
who helps to manage about $3 billion as head of alternative
investments, equities and commodities at London & Capital Group
Ltd. “As the domestic market is expected to remain subdued for
a long time, Spanish banks have no other option but to expand
internationally.”  London is home to about 240 overseas banks, including the
European bases for JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley.
About 80 percent of  Europe ’s hedge funds and about 60 percent of
the region’s private equity firms are based in Britain. The U.K.
also accounts for about 37 percent of global foreign exchange
trading and 46 percent of all trading of over-the-counter
interest-rate derivatives, according to lobby group TheCityUK.  Paul Tobin , a Madrid-based spokesman at BBVA, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net 
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  