-- 
Belarus Devalues Currency Less Than Expected, Bonds Rally

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-29T13:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/belarus-devalues-ruble-widens-currency-trading-range-by-10-1-.html
Belarus devalued its currency less
than analysts expected, lifting its sovereign debt and stoking
the biggest rally in the country’s notes in Russian rubles since
they were sold in December.  Local lenders may sell foreign currency to companies at an
 exchange rate  that deviates as much as 10 percent from the
official rate, widening the spread from 2 percent, according to
a  statement  published on the central bank’s  website  today. Banks
including UniCredit SpA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
expected the ruble to be devalued by at least 20 percent.  The former Soviet republic, wedged between European Union
member Poland and  Russia , is struggling to keep its public
finances afloat as reserves dwindle and ratings services
downgrade the country’s debt. The government is seeking a loan
of $3 billion from Russia and other former Soviet partners.  The move aims to enable banks to “meet demand of
Belarusian companies for foreign currency, increase the
exporters’ interest in selling their foreign-currency income and
also create the conditions necessary to help grow the
government’s gold and foreign-currency reserves,” the
Natsionalnyi Bank Respubliki Belarus said in the statement.  The central bank devalued the ruble by about a fifth in
January 2009 and pegged it to a currency basket after the global
financial slowdown eroded demand for Belarusian exports like
potash and refined oil products.  Bonds Gain  Belarus’s sovereign bonds denominated in Russian rubles due
in December 2012 rose, sending the yield 106 basis points lower
to 10.690 percent. The country has more than $2 billion of ruble
and dollar debt outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Belarus’s ruble was unchanged at 3,039 per dollar today
after its biggest two-day decline in five months last week.  The yield on Belarus’s dollar bonds due in 2015 fell 28
basis points to 11.873 percent by 3 p.m. in Minsk. The notes
tumbled last week, pushing the yield to 12.374 percent on March
23, the most since they were sold in August. The country’s 2018
dollar bonds rose, sending the yield 19 basis points lower to
11.603 percent.  ‘Small’ Devaluation  Widening the ruble’s trading range is “equivalent with a
small, 8 percent devaluation,” Barbara Nestor, an emerging-
market analyst at Commerzbank AG in  London , wrote in an e-mailed
note today. The measure will lead to a 10 percent drop in the
currency, Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at RBS
in London, said by e-mail.  “A 10 percent devaluation, in effect, on its own is not
really a game changer, as the sheer size of the current account
deficit implies a fundamental and structural lack of
competitiveness of the economy,” Ash wrote. “Longer term
currency trends will be dependent on how rigorous government
efforts are at reform.”  The  International Monetary Fund  urged policy makers in
Belarus on March 9 to curb spending and boost  interest rates  to
narrow a current account deficit that reached 16 percent of
gross domestic product.  The central bank’s press service wasn’t immediately
available to comment when contacted by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 