-- 
Bernanke Says Fed Won’t Meet April Deadline on Interchange Rule

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-29T21:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bernanke-says-fed-won-t-meet-swipe-fees-deadline-july-21-is-new-target.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers today that the central bank would miss
the April deadline for a rule capping debit-card “swipe” fees,
after receiving an “extraordinary volume” of detailed comment
letters on its preliminary proposal.  “The issues raised by the comments are complex and
difficult and are significant to the payments system, its
providers and its users,” Bernanke wrote in a letter today to
House and Senate lawmakers, citing more than 11,000 letters
filed during the comment period.  Bernanke, who has suggested the rule will be difficult to
implement, said the Fed remains “committed to completing the
rulemaking” for the cap provision before the July 21 deadline
mandated by last year’s Dodd-Frank financial-regulation law.  Bernanke’s letter was sent to the chairmen and ranking
minority members of the House Financial Services Committee and
the Senate Banking Committee.  The Fed in December proposed capping debit-card  interchange
fees  charged to merchants at 12 cents a transaction, compared
with the current formula that averages 1.14 percent of the
purchase price, or about 44 cents. The proposal, which may cut
as much as $12 billion in revenue from large lenders like  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , set off a lobbying
battle between banks and retailers.  Shares of San Francisco-based  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , which set the fees and pass the money to card-issuing
banks, fell more than 10 percent after the Fed’s plan was
released Dec. 16 amid investor concern that the caps will damage
their business model.  Two-Year Delay  Bipartisan groups of Senate and House lawmakers this month
proposed legislation to prevent the rule from taking effect July
21. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat and lead proponent of
the Senate bill to delay the proposal for two years, said he’s
concerned that an exemption for banks with assets of less than
$10 billion would be ineffective.  Retail groups who favor lower interchange fees said the delay
indicates that the rulemaking process is working and should be
allowed to continue.  “ Chairman Bernanke ’s letter is proof-positive that the
Federal Reserve is approaching this rulemaking thoughtfully,”
said Brian Dodge, a spokesman for the Retail Industry Leaders
Association, a trade group representing companies like  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  “Congress should
not step in and interfere with what is clearly a thorough fact-
based process.”  Banks and credit unions said the delay suggests the
opposite, that lawmakers should postpone the rule.  Bill Cheney, president of the  Credit Union National
Association , said in a statement that “the Fed’s admission
that it cannot meet the deadline imposed on it by Congress is
further proof that Congress must take action now to postpone
this entire matter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  