-- 
Bertelsmann Returns to Profit as Advertising Revenue at RTL Unit Increases

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-29T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bertelsmann-returns-to-profit-in-2010-on-increasing-tv-advertising-sales.html
Bertelsmann AG,  Europe ’s largest
media company, returned to a profit in 2010, helped by surging
advertising sales at its RTL Group unit, Europe’s biggest
television and radio broadcaster.  Net income was 478 million euros ($675 million) after a
loss of 82 million euros in 2009, the Guetersloh, Germany-based
company said today. Sales rose 4.5 percent to 15.8 billion
euros. On March 10, RTL said its 2010 net income tripled to 611
million euros.  Closely-held Bertelsmann, which competes with  Vivendi SA (VIV) 
and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , is benefitting as consumers and companies
resumed spending following the economic crisis. The company,
which also owns book company  Random House  and Gruner + Jahr,
Europe’s biggest magazine publisher with publications such as
Stern and Neon, cut debt to 1.9 billion euros in 2010 from 2.8
billion euros a year earlier.  “We have managed to pay down our debt to a point where
significant new room for financial maneuver is emerging,”
Bertelsmann Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Ostrowski said. “We
will use these funds to strengthen our core businesses, develop
our portfolio and expand into new growth segments,” he said,
adding that the company will bolster digital offerings, e-
commerce services and corporate publishing.  RTL Group, which operates 40 TV channels and 33  radio
stations  in 10 countries, has submitted a bid for  ProSiebenSat.1
Media AG (PSM) ’s assets in Belgium, people familiar with the matter
said March 17. ProSiebenSat.1,  Germany ’s biggest private
broadcaster, has solicited bids for its channels in Scandinavia,
Belgium and the Netherlands.  Bid For  Warner Music   BMG Rights Management GmbH , the music-rights company funded
by Bertelsmann and KKR & Co., made bids for three different sets
of assets from Warner Music Group Corp., two people familiar
with the talks said March 23. One bid was for Warner Music’s
Warner/Chappell publishing business, one for selected European
music catalog assets and one for the whole company.  “We want to become a leading player in the music rights
business and we could do that with small- and medium-sized
acquisitions,” Chief Financial Officer Thomas Rabe told
reporters today ahead of the annual press conference.  Bertelsmann predicts “moderate” revenue growth in 2011,
in line with the overall development of the economy, Rabe said.
“We intend to keep the operating result stable at its current
high level and group profit will increase given lower special
items.”  Bertelsmann’s return on sales rose to 11.7 percent in 2010
from 9.5 percent a year earlier.  “The issue of debt has been dealt with for good,” Rabe
said today. “Financially speaking, Bertelsmann is ready to
invest again.”  Bertelsmann’s debt ballooned in 2006 through the buyback of
a stake from  Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB)  for 4.5 billion euros.
The purchase returned full control of the company to the Mohn
family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net ; 