-- 
Blackstone’s Ariel, Validus Said to End Talks After Quake

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-03-29T20:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/blackstone-s-ariel-validus-said-to-end-merger-talks-on-japan.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  and Bermuda
rival Ariel Reinsurance Co. ended merger talks this month after
disasters in  Japan  roiled insurance markets, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Validus had been close to an almost $1 billion stock-and-
cash deal for Ariel, owned by private-equity firms including
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Potential losses
stemming from Japan’s earthquake meant that reaching a deal
would take more time and effort than previously anticipated,
contributing to a breakdown in talks, the people said.  While global markets have mostly recovered from the selloff
in stocks that followed Japan’s magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami on March 11, insurers are still gauging costs. Companies
may face claims of as much as 2.5 trillion yen ($30 billion),
catastrophe-modeling firm AIR Worldwide said last week.  “It will be quite some time before anybody can really with
certainty state what the true loss to the worldwide reinsurance
market is,” Validus Chief Financial Officer Jeff Consolino said
today at a conference in  New York  hosted by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
He said Validus’s reinsurance business is “underweight Japan.”  Validus rose 52 cents to $31.61 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading today. The shares have climbed
3.3 percent this year.  Class of 2005  A sale of Ariel would have represented another step in the
consolidation of the so-called Class of 2005, a group of
reinsurers founded by Wall Street banks and private-equity and
hedge funds after  Hurricanes Katrina , Rita and Wilma. Jeffrey Greenberg’s Aquiline Capital Partners LLC helped set up Validus
that year, while Ariel was started with $1 billion from founders
including Blackstone, TPG Capital, and  Thomas H. Lee Partners .  Ariel’s owners paid themselves a $400 million cash dividend
in 2010 and took out $260 million this year, according to
financial statements on Ariel’s website. Ariel had book value,
or assets minus liabilities, of $1.3 billion as of Dec. 31.  Ariel Chief Executive Officer Tom Hulst didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 