-- 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance Adds Additional Summit Speakers

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-29T17:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bloomberg-new-energy-finance-adds-additional-summit-speakers.html

Press Release  Recently Confirmed Experts Include Jeff Broin, CEO of POET, Andy
Palmer, Senior Vice President of Nissan, Anil Srivastava, Senior
Executive Vice President & Chief Executive Officer of AREVA
Renewables, and Robert Zoellick, President of the  World Bank ,
April 4-7, 2011  NEW YORK -- With this year’s Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit
less than one week away, the thought-provoking agenda and list
of influential speakers continues to grow, providing an
unrivalled opportunity to connect with investors, executives,
and policy-makers. The Summit, to be held April 4-7, 2011 in  New
York City , will bring together around 400 industry leaders from
across the world, delivering an interactive and inspiring
program.  The theme of the conference is Innovate, Generate, Intergrate,
with day one of the Summit focusing on “Driving Innovation”. The
US Department of Energy will highlight key research it is
funding directly and via its national laboratories. The Obama
administration’s efforts to foster clean energy entrepreneurial
activity will also be a focus during a talk from Karina L.
Edmonds, who coordinates technology transfer for the DOE.  Day two hones in on the economics of clean energy, taking a
closer look at the current costs of generating it cleanly.  Also
on the agenda: the role that policy-makers will play in
fostering economic development and job growth in clean energy.
Day three examines how clean energy is shedding the label
“alternative” and moving into the mainstream.  Topics will
include looking at how cities, transport systems, and
electricity grids will have to change in order to keep pace, and
what sort of regulation will be needed to ensure energy markets
can respond to the unprecedented level demands on them.  On the fourth day, Thursday, April 7, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance will hold its first ever Roundtable Day on Energy Access
& Climate Change in association with UN-Energy. The event, which
will take place at the Central Park Boathouse, will now include
an additional panel on scaling up investment in  developing
countries  to be co-hosted by the  World Economic Forum . The
discussion will highlight some of the lessons learned through
the Critical Mass Initiative - a collaboration of WEF and PwC,
in partnership with the UN Foundation and the International
Finance Corporation - regarding project and programmatic
approaches to scaling up low-carbon infrastructure investment
and the role of “investment-grade” policy as catalyst for
private investment.  Roundtable Day will also feature an interactive panel that
connects participants to the second Clean Energy Ministerial in
the  United Arab Emirates . Ministers will give a read-out of the
meeting, highlight progress achieved, and contextualize it
within the discussions and subsequent findings that day from the
Summit.  Drawing on thought leadership from key figures in industry,
academia and policy, the list of recently confirmed speakers for
the Summit now includes World Bank President Robert Zoellick,
Nissan SVP Andy Palmer, POET CEO Jeff Broin and AREVA Renewables
Senior Vice President & Chief Executive Officer Anil Srivastava.
Speakers already announced for the event include:  - Dan Arvizu, Director of the National Renewable Energy Lab  -  James Cameron , Vice Chairman, Climate Change Capital  - Margaret Catley-Carlson, Chair of the Global Water Partnership  - Charles “Chad” O. Holliday, Jr., Chairman, Bank of America  - Bjorn Lomborg, author of “The Skeptical Environmentalist” and
“Cool It”  - Michael G. Morris, Chairman/CEO, American Electric Power  - Rick Needham, Director Green Business Opportunities, Google  - Dominic Waughrey, Senior Director and Head of Environmental
Initiatives, World Economic Forum  - Senator Tim Wirth, President, United Nations Foundation  “The Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit has established itself
as the leading annual discussion forum for decision makers in
the clean energy and carbon sectors,” said Michael Liebreich,
Summit Chairman and head of Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “This
year we’ve pulled together an exceptional line-up of speakers
and an insightful agenda to ignite conversations within the
community.”  Partnered with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in supporting the
Summit is AREVA, Bank of America and Lockheed Martin. Also
supporting the event as industry partners is BP, Ernst & Young,
Hudson Clean Energy and Nissan.  For an up-to-date list of thought leaders and more information
on the agenda, please visit  http://www.bnefsummit.com .  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg New Energy Finance  Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) is the world’s leading
independent provider of news, data, research and analysis to
decision‐makers in renewable energy, energy smart technologies,
carbon markets, carbon capture and storage, and nuclear power.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance has staff of more than 180, based
in  London , Washington D.C., New York,  Tokyo , Beijing,  New Delhi ,
 Singapore ,  Hong Kong , Sydney, Cape Town, São Paulo and Zurich.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance Insight Services provide deep
market analysis to investors in wind, solar, bioenergy,
geothermal, carbon capture and storage,  energy efficiency , and
nuclear power. The group offers Insight Services for each of the
major emerging carbon markets: European, Global Kyoto,
 Australia , and the U.S., where it covers the planned regional
markets as well as potential federal initiatives and the
voluntary carbon market. Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Industry
Intelligence Service provides access to the world’s most
comprehensive database of investors and investments in clean
energy and carbon. The News and Briefing Service is the leading
global news service focusing on clean energy investment. The
group also undertakes applied research on behalf of clients and
runs senior‐level networking events.  New Energy Finance Limited was acquired by Bloomberg L.P. in
December 2009, and its services and products are now owned and
distributed by Bloomberg Finance L.P., except that Bloomberg
L.P. and its subsidiaries (BLP) distribute these products in
 Argentina ,  Bermuda ,  China ,  India ,  Japan , and  Korea . For more
information on Bloomberg New Energy Finance:  http://www.bnef.com   About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations. Headquartered in  New York ,
the company employs more than 12,900 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:
Sarah Feinberg, +1 202-654-4360,  sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net 
