-- 
Merck, Novartis Blood Cancer Drugs May Shrink Child Tumors, Study Finds

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-03-29T17:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/blood-cancer-drugs-may-help-in-child-chest-tumors-study-finds.html
A family of blood cancer drugs made
by Merck & Co. and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  may help treat a rare and
incurable disease that causes large tumors to form in the chest,
head and neck of children, Harvard researchers report.  The drugs, known as HDAC inhibitors, appear to hinder a
protein that stops cells from properly maturing, leading to the
uncontrolled growth of cancer, according to studies of Zolinza,
sold by Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, and Swiss
drugmaker Novartis’s experimental medicine LBH589. The research
was reported today in the journal  Cancer Research .  The scientists say the findings, combined with an as-yet
unpublished report on  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s similar treatment Istodax,
suggest HDAC inhibitors can shrink tumors in people with the
disease NUT midline carcinoma, named for a gene that provokes
the protein. About 200 children and adults in the U.S. have the
cancer, the researchers said.  The illness “is terrifying,” said Christopher French, a
pathologist at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston  who co-wrote the
report, in a telephone interview. “It is uniformly fatal. It
metastasizes all over the place.”  The HDAC drugs work by targeting molecular codes located
deep within spools of DNA that determine which genes are
activated inside a cell, a therapeutic philosophy scientists
refer to as  epigenetics . By reprogramming the coding to alter
which genes are activated, researchers may be able to bypass
cancer-causing genes without eliminating them.  “We are tricking cells into remembering their normal
identity,” French said.  The cellular software being manipulated determines what
makes cells in various parts of the body, such as the brain or
heart, different from each other, even though they contain the
same genes, the scientists said.  ‘Extraordinary Promise’  “The promise of epigenetic drugs is extraordinary,” said
James Bradner, a chemical biologist at Harvard’s  Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute  in Boston who worked on the study with French,
in a telephone interview.  Test-tube studies were first used to confirm that the HDAC
drugs caused the abnormal cells to stop growing. LBH589, now
being developed by Novartis against Hodgkin’s lymphoma and
multiple myeloma, was then given to mice with the cancer and
Merck’s Zolinza, approved in the U.S. for cutaneous T-cell
lymphoma, was given to a 10-year-child with the disease.  While both medicines stopped or slowed growth of the
tumors, Zolinza also caused severe nausea in the patient,
causing the researchers to stop the experiment after several
weeks. The patient eventually died, the report said.  In a separate, as yet unpublished study of Celgene’s
Istodax drug, approved in the U.S. for the blood cancer
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, also showed potency against NUT
midline carcinoma cells, Bradner said.  Celgene Interest  Bradner said he is seeking to convince Celgene, based in
Summit,  New Jersey , to begin trials this year in patients with
NUT midline carcinoma. Brian Gill, a Celgene spokesman, wouldn’t
confirm whether the company was considering such a trial.  “When ultimately tested in children, we hope the FDA-
approved HDAC inhibitors will prompt an immediate anti-cancer
response,” Bradner said. “This is where much of cancer is
heading -- the identification of distinct subtypes leading to
targeted therapies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 