-- 
U.S. Budget Talks Stall Amid Inaction Charges as Shutdown Looms

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-03-30T23:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/boehner-should-choose-20-billion-in-cuts-to-avoid-shutdown-schumer-says.html
Budget talks resumed to avert a
U.S. government shutdown, with Vice President Joe Biden meeting
tonight with Senate Democratic leaders who are working to craft
a spending-cut package Republicans might accept.  Aides to Democratic and Republican lawmakers negotiating a
deal are working toward cuts totaling about $33 billion, said a
person familiar with the talks. The person cautioned, though,
that no firm agreements have been reached.  House Republicans last month passed a budget bill for the
remainder of this fiscal year that would cut $61 billion.  Jon Summers, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , said many aspects of the package remain to be worked out
and no total spending-cut figure has been agreed upon. “There
isn’t a final package,” he said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, last night
instructed aides from his office and the House Appropriations
Committee to start negotiating with Democrats on what
specifically would be cut, said another person familiar with the
talks.  Policy Disputes  A spokesman for Boehner said Republicans aren’t agreeing to
any overall amount of cuts until an accord is reached on how a
series of policy provisions the House included in its budget
bill are addressed. The dozens of so-called riders include a ban
on funding this year to implement the health-care overhaul.  “There is no agreement on a number for the spending
cuts,” Boehner spokesman  Kevin Smith  said earlier today.
“Nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to.”  An agreement is needed to extend government operations past
April 8, when a stopgap spending measure expires. House
Republicans this morning renewed their demand that the
Democratic-run Senate produce an alternative to the $61 billion
spending-cut plan the House passed last month.  The Republicans unveiled the Government Shutdown Prevention
Act in a bid to hold Democrats responsible if no spending
agreement is reached. The measure would deem the House’s
spending cuts “law of the land” if the Senate fails to take
action before the current stopgap spending measure expires,
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor told reporters.  “Perhaps that will prod the Senate into joining us in
taking care of business here, which is to get our fiscal house
in order,” said Cantor, a Virginia Republican. Republicans
conceded that the measure, which would also strip lawmakers of
pay in the event of a shutdown, was a symbolic gesture.  ‘Extreme Minority’  Reid, a Nevada Democrat who has accused House Republican
leaders of trying to placate an “extreme minority” of their
party in the budget dispute, heralded the resumption of
negotiations today.  “Much of the criticism of the process has come from people
who aren’t even at the negotiating table,” Reid said on the
Senate floor. “I am. And so is Speaker Boehner. I’m glad he’s
returned to the conversation.”  Reid said House Republicans “can’t let the Tea Party call
the shots” if they “want to move the country forward.” He
called for compromise because “neither party can pass a budget
without the other party.”  An offer by Senate Democrats and President  Barack Obama  to
accept about $30 billion in spending cuts for the 2011 budget
year “still stands,” Reid said. Democrats argue that is within
$6 billion of the level House Republican leaders initially
sought before their rank-and-file demanded deeper reductions.  Obama Threat  Obama has threatened to veto the House-passed spending
measure, arguing the $61 billion in cuts would hurt the fragile
economic recovery.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today there is
“ample reason to be optimistic” that budget negotiations will
be successful. He also signaled a willingness among Democrats to
go beyond $30 billion in cuts if House Republicans agree to drop
the policy riders from the budget measure.  “No side is going to get everything it wants,” Carney
said. “We’re willing to do more, to cut more.”  Boehner told reporters today that his discussions with the
White House had given him “no clue” what would be acceptable
to Obama. He also complained that Senate Democrats haven’t made
their position clear.  “Now the Senate says ‘we have a plan,’” Boehner said.
“Well, great. Pass the damn thing and send it over here and
let’s have real negotiations instead of rooting for a government
shutdown.”  Earlier this month, the Senate defeated the House-passed
spending measure as well as a Democratic alternative.  Previous Shutdown  The last government shutdown occurred in late 1995 and
early 1996 in a budget dispute between Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and the Republican-controlled House and Senate. In its
wake, the Republicans suffered the most political blame.  At the weekly House Republican caucus yesterday, there were
no calls by any House Republicans to shut down the government if
it comes to that, said Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma .
“Our people uniformly want to avoid a shutdown.”  Talks among lawmakers and White House officials last week
failed to bridge differences between the $61 billion of cuts in
the House  Republican bill  and the $10 billion Senate Democrats
approved as part of two separate stopgap measures that have kept
the government operating.  A new Democratic offer of $20 billion more in cuts surfaced
earlier this week and would yield $30 billion in spending
reductions.  House Republican leaders also have been reaching out to
fiscally conservative Democrats known as Blue Dogs on longer-
term spending issues, said Representative Mike Ross, an Arkansas
Democrat. He said that House Republican Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a
California Republican, met with him and other Blue Dogs for
discussions on ways reduce the government’s debt in years to
come.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer
in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net  