-- 
Bank of America Is Said to Plan Hiring New Team of Online Banking Managers

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-29T13:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bofa-said-to-plan-hiring-new-team-of-online-banking-managers.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
 U.S. bank  by deposits, is seeking to hire three executives to
improve its retail online and mobile-banking services, said two
people with direct knowledge of the search.  The bank retained Chicago-based recruiter  Heidrick &
Struggles  to find a head of business development, a sales
manager and an executive responsible for online and mobile
strategy, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the search is private. Managers with experience at rival banks
have been interviewed, one of the people said.  Financial firms are pushing deeper into services including
mobile banking as smartphones become more ubiquitous and
consumers abandon cash in favor of electronic payments. At the
same time, Bank of America is under pressure to trim costs and
close branches because U.S. curbs on overdraft and debit-card
fees could cut annual revenue by about $2 billion.  “Banks are obviously under tremendous stress from loss of
fee income,” said Robert Hunt, senior research director for
banking at Needham, Massachusetts-based advisory firm
TowerGroup. “The profitability model for banks is broken, and
Bank of America is trying to get to a future model that works,
which includes investing in lower-cost electronic channels.”  The three new positions will report to  David Owen , who is
responsible for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm’s
online and mobile accounts, as well as its fraud department. He
reports to Katy Knox, head of consumer distribution, who in turn
reports to Joseph Price, president of  consumer banking .  Mobile Banking  Bank of America has 29 million Web accounts and 6.5 million
mobile-banking users, ranking it first among U.S. lenders, Price
said at a March 8 conference. Online and mobile phone services
are increasingly important to the company as more people rely on
the  Internet  and smartphones to access checking accounts.  Expenses were “not satisfactory” and must come down,
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said during the
conference. The bank will close more than 500 of its least-
profitable branches over the next few years. Its shares fell 6
cents to $13.31 at 9:38 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The company will “continue to invest” in online and
mobile banking to better serve customers, said Anne Pace, a Bank
of America spokeswoman, who declined to comment further.  The number of U.S. mobile-banking users is expected to
surge more than 300 percent to 77.3 million by 2014, from 18
million last year, according to Boston-based consulting firm
Celent. The rise is fueled in part by the popularity of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, Celent said.  Branching Out  “We really are starting to have a lot of customers that
aren’t going to visit branches, period,” Hunt said.  American Express Co., the world’s biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases, responded to the change in consumer habits
this week by introducing a payment system for smartphones and
computers that will compete with  Visa Inc. (V) , MasterCard Inc. and
PayPal Inc.  Technical problems caused service failures for some of Bank
of America’s online users twice this year, earlier this month
and in January. Both times were the result of “routine” system
upgrades that didn’t compromise security, Tara Burke, a
spokeswoman, has said. The retail-banking website of  New York- 
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S. lender by
assets, also stalled last year.  Monthly Fees  Bank of America rolled out new consumer accounts in January
to ensure that users pay monthly fees unless they use online
services, keep minimum balances, make regular deposits or use
products including credit cards.  “Their strategy is very much to present online channels to
customers to allow them to avoid fees by lowering the bank’s
cost-to-serve,” said Bart Narter, a banking analyst at Celent.  Bank of America plans to close about 10 percent of its
 5,856 centers  over the next few years, Price said during the
March conference. New locations will be smaller, with more
automated teller machines. Last month, the company began
offering branch visitors in  Los Angeles  and the Washington,
D.C., area access to videoconference rooms where Merrill Lynch
associates offer investment advice.  The company’s branch system, second in number only to San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , was cobbled together by
Moynihan’s predecessors,  Kenneth D. Lewis  and Hugh McColl Jr.,
through three decades of acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  