-- 
Borders Liquidators Race Clock, Squeeze Cash From Doomed Stores

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/borders-liquidators-facing-deadline-try-to-squeeze-cash-from-doomed-stores.html
At the Borders Group Inc. store on
Broadway near  Wall Street , box sets of Stieg Larsson’s best-
selling “Millennium” trilogy, including the “The Girl With
the Dragon Tattoo,” sat on a table near the door last week on
sale for $69.39 -- a liquidation markdown of 30 percent.  The set costs half as much on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s website,
where it was listed for $34.58 -- with free shipping. Amazon’s
Kindle e-book editions were even less, priced at $27.97. At Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s website, the three books sold for $34.96.  Borders, the second-largest U.S. bookstore chain after
 Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy last month after
management shuffles, firings and debt restructuring failed to
combat falling book sales and competition from Amazon and Wal-
Mart. It pledged to shutter about a third of its stores.  Liquidators who agreed to pay at least $155 million for the
right to sell the contents of those locations, however, aren’t
looking to compete with the chain’s rivals. While slashing
prices to convert every book, DVD and CD into cash before their
contract expires April 30, the art of liquidation requires they
keep prices high for popular items. Once in the store, buyers
may want to get all their shopping done and spend more, said
Scott Carpenter of the liquidation firm  Great American Group
Inc. (GAMR)   “Eventually, prices will get lower if it doesn’t sell,”
said Carpenter, director of Great American’s operations for
retail.  Hilco the Liquidator  The liquidation of more than 200 of  Ann Arbor , Michigan-
based Borders’s stores is being coordinated by Hilco Merchant
Resources LLC. The Northbrook, Illinois-based firm, a retail
liquidation specialist, is a unit of Hilco Trading LLC, whose
businesses include valuation appraisals, private equity
investing, merger advisories, real estate services and debt
placements, Richard Kaye, the parent company’s executive vice
president, said in an e-mail.  A nine-hour auction last month drew 38 bids for the right
to liquidate the stores. Hilco took an equal stake in the
winning bid with Gordon Brothers Group LLC, SB Capital Group and
Tiger Capital Group LLC.  Under the contract, they assumed expenses, legal costs and
tasks including shoveling snow, emptying trash and managing
store employees. They agreed to pay Borders 85.75 percent of the
“cost value” of all merchandise, according to court papers.
The estimated cost value is between $180.6 million and $204
million.  The liquidators must sell as much as possible before their
contract expires in order to maximize profit. Afterwards, their
options are limited: They can sell stock to a non-retail
customer, hang onto it and attempt to sell it later when
liquidating other stores, or abandon it. They can’t sell to
wholesalers or bulk purchasers who may return Borders stock to
publishers, and thus Borders’s competitors.  $175 Million  David Friedman, a lawyer for Borders, said in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan Feb. 17 that the store closings
would bring in about $175 million for the chain’s creditors.  “It’s a pretty aggressive marking-down, and volumes and
traffic look pretty high,” Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst at
Morningstar Investment Services, said of the Hilco group’s
liquidation. Wahlstrom specializes in Barnes & Noble.  Carpenter of  Woodland Hills , California-based Great
American said the price at auction for liquidating the stores
rose too high for his firm to take part.  “We didn’t think you could achieve those values and make a
profit,” he said. Carpenter said Great American liquidated
video-rental chain  Movie Gallery Inc. (MVGRQ)  last year, beating out
Hilco and Boston-based Gordon Brothers for the contract.  Complex Goal  The goal of liquidators is more complex than that of a
financially healthy retail outlet, he said. Competitive data on
an item, such as what Seattle-based Amazon or Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart are charging, isn’t as important.  Hilco’s Kaye and  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for Borders,
declined to comment on the liquidation’s results to date.  Hilco and Gordon have worked together on previous retail
liquidations, including Sharper Image Corp. and Linens ‘N Things
Inc., both of which met their recovery plans, Kaye said.  Store closings help liquidators move merchandise because
shoppers know they risk missing a bargain if they wait too long.  Rob Richardson of  Brooklyn  is one of those shoppers.  “I feel like a vulture over a carcass, looking for a cheap
book,” said Richardson, as he perused the remaining stock at
the Broadway Borders last week in lower  Manhattan . He said he
was going to buy  Niall Ferguson ’s “High Financier: The Lives
and Time of Siegmund Warburg” for 40 percent off.  Scratched Oak Tables  Books aren’t the only items on sale at the store. Shelves
were tagged for about $80, and a five-tier Ghirardelli Chocolate
Co. stand was priced at $100 in the café. Scratched oak tables
went for $75 each.  Liquidators can also promote sales in a way a chain’s owner
wouldn’t.  “Borders has a color of red that is their red. It’s hard
for them to say: ‘I’m going to put this loud ugly yellow on the
sign,’” Carpenter said. If “you see the loud, garish sign,
that’s to let the customer know there is something very
different going on.”  At the Broadway Borders, yellow and red signs attached to
the store’s black marble pillars said in capital letters “Store
Closing” and “Nothing Held Back.”  Prices drop over the course of a sale based on “discount
cadences” devised by the liquidator, Carpenter said. Relying on
models, liquidators can see when and by how much to mark down
merchandise in different categories.  Michael Hammer ’s “Faster, Cheaper, Better,” a 2010
management book, was being sold 20 percent off on March 2, and
was 30 percent off on March 15. On Amazon, it was marked down 43
percent as of March 22.  Empty Third Floor  By March 21, the third floor of the Broadway store was
largely bare, with ropes across empty aisles. The remaining art
books were shelved with cookbooks, and CDs and DVDs were
spilling off racks near the checkout counter.  Borders said that, in addition to closing more than 200
stores, the bankrupt retailer will cut its most expensive
leases, expand customer reward programs and add other products
to its lineup of books. On March 19, the company slotted another
25 stores for closing.  The chain said it will use the money from the liquidators
to refurbish its 442 remaining stores and capitalize on the
shifting habits of shoppers.  One of them, Tantaniqua Potts, 34, was in the Broadway
store buying three CDs last week. Though she said liquidation
sale “deals could be better,” Potts added that she plans to
buy Borders’ Kobo e-reader, marked down to $69.99 from $139.99.  Building E-Book Business  Borders, whose market capitalization has shrunk by more
than $3 billion since 1998, said one of the changes that drove
it into Chapter 11 -- the rise of digital formats -- now offers
it a chance to use restructuring to build its e-book business.  Book sales in the U.S. peaked at $16.8 billion in 2005 and
totaled $16.5 billion last year, Wahlstrom said, citing U.S.
Census data. Books were still a $23.9 billion-a-year industry in
2009, including textbooks and e-books, he said.  E-book sales doubled to $441.3 million last year,
accounting for 8.3 percent of revenue from trade books,
according to the  American Association  of Publishers.  Michael Stone, co-founder of the Beanstalk Group, a company
that advises on brand licensing to clients including Procter &
Gamble Co. and Black & Decker Corp., said Borders missed the e-
commerce revolution.  “I’m not sure they can compete with Amazon, Barnes &
Noble, and Wal-Mart,” Stone said. “Amazon is a now a complete
powerhouse in this category.”  Eddie Edwards, 56, a former lawyer from  Ohio , walked
through the Broadway store with an armful of finance books,
including “The Futures” and “The Great American Bank
Robbery.” Still, he said, good deals were hard to come by.  “Prices are cheaper on Amazon,” he said.  Borders fell 17 cents today to close at 26 cents a share in
over the counter trading. Barnes & Noble rose 1 cent to $9.72 in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is In re  Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 