-- 
BP Denies Oil Spill Claims by Alabama Cities, Mexico States

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-29T01:48:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bp-denies-oil-spill-claims-by-alabama-cities-mexico-states.html
BP Plc (BP)  denies it should compensate
a group of Alabama cities and Mexican states that sued over lost
 tax revenue  and natural resources damages stemming from the 2010
 oil spill , saying they’re too far from where oil washed ashore.  BP was sued last year by four Alabama municipalities that
claim local businesses lost income when tourists stopped
traveling through the state to reach  Gulf of Mexico  resorts
during the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. A subsea
well owned by BP blew out off Louisiana in April, polluting
hundreds of miles of seashore and closing much of the central
and eastern Gulf to commercial fishing.  BP was also sued last year by three coastal states in
 Mexico , which claimed their fishermen suffered during the Gulf
fishery closures and tourism slumped because of fears ocean
currents would wash oil onto Mexican beaches. The Mexican
governments also sought funding for scientific studies to
monitor environmental damage from the spill.  “Given that no oil came anywhere near Mexico, the
Deepwater Horizon oil spill could not have injured or destroyed
property or a natural resource upon which the Mexican states
rely for revenue,”  Don Haycraft , London-based BP’s lead trial
lawyer, said today in a filing in federal court in New Orleans.  “The Alabama cities are located more than 100 miles from
the Alabama coast -- and their alleged damages are likewise
geographically too remote to establish proximate cause,”
Haycraft said.  ‘Entirely Derivative’  BP claims the Alabama cities’ losses are “indirect and
entirely derivative” of losses their businesses suffered from
declining road traffic that could’ve been caused by “a myriad
of possible alternative causes,” including higher fuel prices,
the economic recession or the oil spill, Haycraft said.  BP also denied liability for wildlife restoration claims
brought by eight  Louisiana  parishes suing under state laws that
forbid harassment of native animals. The company said those
claims should be brought by state wildlife officials, not local
governments.  BP faces more than 350 lawsuits from businesses and
individuals seeking damages for economic and physical injuries
related to the spill. The lawsuits are consolidated before U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  BP today asked Barbier to dismiss the lawsuits by the local
governments in Alabama, Louisiana and Mexico because the
entities haven’t yet formally presented their claims to the Gulf
Coast Claims Facility, which is processing all oil-spill damage
claims for BP. The company said the Oil Pollution Act requires
that all claims follow this path before going to court.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans )  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  