-- 
BP Is Said to Face U.S. Review for Manslaughter Charges

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-03-29T17:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/bp-managers-said-to-face-u-s-review-for-manslaughter-charges.html
Federal prosecutors are considering
whether to pursue manslaughter charges against  BP Plc (BP/)  managers
for decisions made before the Gulf of Mexico oil well explosion
last year that killed 11 workers and caused the biggest offshore
spill in U.S. history, according to three people familiar with
the matter.  U.S. investigators also are examining statements made by
leaders of the companies involved in the spill -- including
former BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  -- during
congressional hearings last year to determine whether their
testimony was at odds with what they knew, one of the people
said. All three spoke on condition they not be named because
they weren’t authorized to discuss the case publicly.  Charging individuals would be significant to environmental-
safety cases because it might change behavior, said  Jane
Barrett , a law professor at the  University of Maryland .  “They typically don’t prosecute employees of large
corporations,” said Barrett, who spent 20 years prosecuting
environmental crimes at the federal and state levels. “You’ve
got to prosecute the individuals in order to maximize, and not
lose, the deterrent effect.”  BP fell 2.2 percent in London trading to 466.55 pence, the
steepest drop since January. The shares have rebounded from a
post-spill intraday low of 296 pence on June 25.  Criminal and Civil  The Justice Department in June said it opened criminal and
civil investigations into the spill, which began after an April
20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig that London-based
BP leased from  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , of Vernier,  Switzerland . The
department filed a civil suit against BP in December and hasn’t
filed criminal charges. It’s continuing to investigate.  Authorities are examining actions by BP managers who worked
both on the rig and onshore to determine whether they should be
charged in connection with the workers’ deaths, according to the
people. Prosecutors have been looking at charges of involuntary
manslaughter or seaman’s manslaughter, which carries a more
serious penalty of up to 10 years.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP in Houston, declined to
comment.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman,
wouldn’t discuss the details of the investigation.  Committing $20 Billion  BP has committed $20 billion to settle claims by businesses
and individuals who were hurt by the  oil spill . The company has
already paid out more than $4 billion to settle such claims and
to pay state, local and federal governments for cleanup costs,
response and losses, the company said on its website.  The manslaughter investigation is focusing on decisions by
BP managers leading up to the explosion that may have sacrificed
safety in favor of speed and cost savings, one of the people
said.  David Uhlmann, a former chief of the  Justice Department ’s
environmental crimes section, said he expected that companies
involved in the spill would be charged with seaman’s
manslaughter. Making a case against individual managers would be
more difficult, he said.  “You have relatively low-level people in these companies
responsible for making bad decisions,” said Uhlmann, who now
teaches at the  University of Michigan Law School  in  Ann Arbor .
“It’s not clear they had adequate training. It’s not clear they
all knew what everyone else involved knew.”  Environmental Violations  Attorney General  Eric Holder  in June  listed  a number of
potential environmental violations under review in the criminal
and civil investigations, including of the  Clean Water Act .
Holder, in his statement, didn’t specifically mention the
possibility of manslaughter charges.  Investigators are scrutinizing e-mails and other documents
to determine what BP officials and the company’s drilling
partners knew when they testified before Congress in June and
whether they withheld information, one of the people said.  When Hayward, who lost his job after the spill, testified
before a House panel, one lawmaker said he wasn’t being
forthcoming.  “I expect you to cooperate with us,” Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, told Hayward at the hearing.
“Are you failing to cooperate with other investigations as
well? Because they’re going to have a hard time reaching
conclusions if you stonewall them.”  Hayward denied he was stonewalling and said he wasn’t
involved in decisions about the well’s operation.  Justice  Task Force   The investigation is being conducted by a task force within
the Justice Department’s criminal division following a move this
month to consolidate management of the probe. It’s being run by
John Buretta, a senior counsel in the criminal division. Until
then, the environment and natural resources division was running
the bulk of the criminal case.  Environmental lawyers and lawyers from the U.S. attorney’s
office are reporting to Buretta in the probe.  James Cole , the deputy attorney general, said he decided to
consolidate the case to ensure “we used all the resources we
had the most effective way we could.”  “I felt that the most effective way to proceed with this
case was to combine the efforts into one group,” Cole said in
an interview. “The focus of the case is the same. It’s just
under different organization.”  Before the change, the criminal division had been focusing
on whether BP made misleading statements after the spill and
company executives traded stock based on insider information,
two people familiar with the matter said. The environment
division’s criminal lawyers had been examining violations of
environmental laws, along with manslaughter, the people said.  Cole declined to discuss specifics of the probe.  ‘Lot of Investigation’  “There is a lot of investigation yet to be done,” he
said. “It’s going to head wherever the law and the facts take
it.”  Authorities are focusing on events leading up to the
explosion of the well as BP and Transocean workers were trying
to seal it. The companies wanted to move the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig and replace it with a production rig that would
pump oil and gas from the ground.  The companies had struggled with the well for months
because the rock formation surrounding the oil and gas
repeatedly cracked and collapsed on the hole they were drilling.
In the week before the disaster, BP officials made repeated
changes to the well plan, according to testimony in Coast Guard
hearings, internal documents and investigation reports.  Obama Commission  A commission appointed by President  Barack Obama  to
investigate the disaster identified 11 choices made in the
completion of the well that both saved time and increased risks.
Seven were made by BP managers on shore, the panel said.  The decisions included moving ahead with operations without
the recommended equipment, failing to run a test to ensure the
well’s stability, and misreading the results of other tests.  In the days leading up to the disaster, BP officials were
warned by  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the Houston-based company it hired to
seal the well with cement, that their design might allow the oil
and natural gas to leak to the surface.  Halliburton recommended BP use 21 centralizers that help
ensure cement is evenly distributed in the well and seals it. BP
had only six centralizers on Deepwater Horizon, according to
internal e-mails released by investigators. BP officials decided
to go ahead rather than wait for the additional 15.  They also decided to skip a test that would determine if
the cement was stable, according to testimony at Coast Guard
hearings. Then, on April 20, BP and Transocean managers on the
rig misread the results of another test to determine whether the
well’s cement seal was strong enough to hold the oil and natural
gas beneath the ocean floor, according to the president’s
commission.  In the end, the companies went ahead and removed the
drilling mud from the well, which took 2,600 pounds of weight
from atop the oil and gas reservoir. Within hours, natural gas
reached the Deepwater Horizon and touched off the catastrophic
explosion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  