-- 
Brazil Imposes 6% Tax on International Bonds Due to Curb Real Appreciation

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-03-29T17:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/brazil-imposes-6-tax-on-international-bond-sales-to-curb-real-s-advance.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
raised taxes on corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks
in a bid to contain a 39 percent gain in the real since the end
of 2008. The real erased this year’s losses and yields on
interest-rate futures rose.  Brazil  imposed a tax of 6 percent on international bond
sales and loans with an average minimum maturity of up to 360
days, according to a decree published today in the Official
Gazette. Companies had paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90
days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  “There’s a strong movement toward getting credit overseas,
for obvious reasons, as credit is much cheaper there,” Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today. “Three-month loans are not
for investments. The inflow of dollars is too strong, damaging
the  exchange rate , appreciating the real and harming exporters.
We want to avoid that.”  Countries across Latin America are buying dollars while
nations including Brazil and  South Korea  raise taxes on foreign
purchases of bonds to stem currency gains that hurt exporters.
Mantega said in September that Brazil is a victim of a
“currency war” in which nations seek export advantages by
competitively weakening their currencies.  Contain the Real  Speaking to reporters today in Brasilia, Mantega said the
increase of the so-called IOF tax on foreign borrowing aims to
avoid further appreciation of the real while reducing the
exposure of companies and banks to debt in a foreign currency.
The government may adopt new measures on loans maturing longer
than 360 days if it detects an increase in such inflows, he
said.  “The measure will restrain foreign loans,”  Luciano
Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets brokerage said.
“We were having huge inflows from companies and banks and that
partly explains why the central bank’s been trying other tools
to fight inflation and avoid an appreciation of the currency.”  The tax increase also targets banks transferring cheaper
credit to clients at a moment when the central bank is raising
interest rates and requiring higher reserves and capital levels
to slow the pace of loans in Brazil, Mantega said.  The exchange rate may not show an immediate reaction to the
higher levy as there are external factors influencing currency
inflows, Mantega said.  Rising Real  The real erased this year’s losses, rising 0.4 percent to
1.6561 per the dollar at 12:53 p.m.  New York  time. Yields on
interest-rate futures market rose for the five most traded
contracts today. The yield on the contract maturing in January
2013, the most traded today in Sao Paulo BM&F Bovespa stock
exchange, rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
12.78 percent.  The higher levy on foreign borrowing might help avoid a
further appreciation of the real “in the short term” while
failing in the medium term,  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said in a telephone interview.  “If the intention is an immediate containment of capital
flows it might have some effectiveness,” Santos said. “In the
medium term, a weak dollar in the world, strong economy in
Brazil and interest rate differential will remain to stimulate
the flow of currencies.”  Brazil inflation  Brazil’s inflation, as measured by the IPCA-15  consumer
price index , quickened to 6.13 percent in the year through mid-
March, the highest level since November 2008.  Higher taxes on foreign loans “won’t work” either to
control inflation or weaken the currency, said former central
bank President  Carlos Langoni , director of the Getulio Vargas
Foundation in Rio de Janeiro. Only raising  interest rates  will
help cool inflation, he said.  The central bank has raised borrowing costs five times
since last April, pushing the Selic to 11.75 percent, from 8.75
percent a year earlier. The benchmark rates in the U.S.,  Japan 
and  Europe  are no higher than 1 percent.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini signaled last week
that policy makers may adopt new measures to curb consumer
credit growth as part of a group of measures to contain demand
in Brazil.  The higher IOF tax on foreign loans will also reduce the
credit available in the economy by reducing liquidity, in a move
that may help contain inflation, Luiz Fernando Figueiredo,
founder of Maua Investimento LTDA and a former central bank
director, said at the Bloomberg Brazil Economic Summit in  Sao
Paulo  today.  Tripled Tax  The government tripled a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent in October as part of the effort
to stem gains in the real. The central bank has bought $18.8
billion dollars in the spot market, or 45 percent of the record
amount it purchased last year. Additionally, the bank set
 reserve requirements  on short dollar positions held by local
banks in January and bought dollars in the futures market for
the first time in 21 months.  At 5.7 percent, Brazil’s inflation-adjusted interest rate
is the highest in the Group of 20 nations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s real has gained 39 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since the end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s not time to adopt currency measures -- the
government should instead increase productivity by stimulating
the import of capital goods,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist
at Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said before the
announcement. “The real is strengthening because Brazil is
attracting capital and the country’s interest rates are high.
New measures may keep investors away from the country.”  Olympic Investment  The efforts were dwarfed by increasing foreign investment
as Latin America’s biggest economy builds roads and airports to
host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics.  Net foreign-currency inflows to Brazil from trade and
financial transactions amounted to $24.4 billion this year,
exceeding the total amount in all of 2010, according to the
central bank.  Foreign investment in Brazilian stocks and fixed-income
assets fell 91.4 percent to $206 million in January from $2.39
billion in January 2010, according to the central bank. Foreign
direct investment more than quadrupled over the same period, to
$2.96 billion, from $600 million.  “We remain very skeptical that any new measures will have
a substantial impact on the level of the Brazilian real,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities in New
York, wrote in a note to clients this month. “The major types
of inflows seen in the market are investment-driven. This is the
‘good’ type of inflows that Brazil needs to grow, and we doubt
very much that the government will do anything to curtail
them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 