-- 
Brown Halts California Budget Talks as Republicans Balk at Tax Extension

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/brown-halts-tax-referendum-talks-with-california-republicans-1-.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
broke off negotiations with Republican lawmakers for support of
a June referendum on $9.3 billion of higher taxes and fees, the
cornerstone of his deficit-cutting budget plan.  Closed-door talks during the past month have failed to win
over Republicans needed to put the  tax issue  on a statewide
ballot, Brown, 72, said yesterday. While the governor’s fellow
Democrats hold majorities in the Senate and the Assembly, they
lack the two-thirds needed to authorize the vote. The leader of
the Senate said a June referendum is now impossible.  “Much is at stake, and in the coming weeks I will focus my
efforts on speaking directly to Californians and coming up with
honest and real solutions to our  budget crisis ,” Brown said
yesterday in a statement. He didn’t say how he would proceed.  The governor took office in January on a pledge to repair
financial strains that have left California, the most populous
U.S. state, with the lowest credit rating from  Standard &
Poor’s . Brown has said his plan to let voters decide whether to
extend fee, sales and income tax increases set to end in June
was crucial to closing a $15 billion gap in his $84.6 billion
proposed budget without deep cuts to schools and public safety.  “The governor and legislative Democrats are obviously
upset and lashing out at their inability to get buyoff from
public-employee unions for the reforms that the public supports
and Republicans think are necessary to fix  California ,” Senate
Republican Leader Bob Dutton of Rancho Cucamonga said in a
statement.  Extension Package  Brown wanted voters to pass extensions of a 0.25
percentage-point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25
percent; an increase in auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage
point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and a reduction of
the state’s annual child tax credit to $99 from $309.  The governor had said he wanted a June election so he would
know the outcome before the start of the fiscal year July 1. He
has said that a rejection of the extensions would mean more
spending cuts and has publicly chastised Republicans for
opposing his plan to let voters choose which option to take.  “Denying the people of California the right to vote on
these matters of such profound importance would be nothing less
than tragic,” Brown said in a March 25 letter to Dutton.  Republican Demands  Brown proposed a statewide vote in January. Since then,
Republicans have said they would block the referendum unless
Democrats agreed to include a ballot measure on whether to
dismantle the current government pension system and replace it
with a hybrid that includes elements of a traditional defined-
benefit plan and a 401(k) defined-savings account.  Republicans also sought voter approval for a cap on state
spending. The limit they proposed would be based on a formula
tied to inflation and population change. Republicans also wanted
a referendum on rescinding environmental regulations which they
say hinder business growth.  The on-again, off-again talks faltered after Republicans
late last week presented a take-it-or-leave-it list of 53
demands, such as curbing teacher tenure and boosting funding for
county fairs, in exchange for supporting a June ballot.  “The only thing missing from their list was a pony,” said
Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from
 Sacramento . “We would have given them a pony if it meant they
would let the people have the opportunity to vote.”  Alternative Methods  The list prompted Democrats to say they were ready to
abandon the negotiations and pursue alternatives such as a
citizens’ petition for a vote in November or finding a way to
call a special election without Republican backing.  “We will use the power of our majority to aggressively
pursue a different path,” Steinberg said yesterday.  The Republican caucus in the Assembly will resist any
attempt to push through a measure authorizing an election with a
simple majority vote, said Sabrina Lockhart, a spokeswoman for
Connie Conway of Tulare, the chamber’s top Republican. She said
such a move might be illegal and would skirt the will of voters.  The delay comes as public support for the referendum has
waned. A March 24 survey by the  Public Policy Institute of
California  showed likely voters backing it fell to 51 percent
compared with 66 percent in January.  A November ballot set by a citizens’ petition also likely
would pit Brown’s tax extension against two initiatives sought
by Republican-backed groups. One would slash government pensions
and the other would limit state spending.  Cuts Made  The governor signed budget bills last week that reduced
spending by $8.2 billion and shrank the deficit by another $3
billion through loans and transfers.  Controller John Chiang has warned that California may
resort to paying bills with IOUs by July if lawmakers haven’t
passed a deficit-closing budget by then. Treasurer Bill Lockyer
has said he may not be able to sell bonds this year if the tax-
extension vote is delayed until November. Both are Democrats.  Brown’s declaration of an impasse in the negotiations dims
hopes for long-term progress toward aligning state revenue and
spending, said Gabriel Petek, an S&P analyst in  San Francisco .  California’s general-obligation debt shares a fifth-highest
A1 with  Illinois , the lowest state  credit rating  from Moody’s
Investors Service. It gets an A- from S&P, the fourth-lowest
investment-grade level and the worst for any state.  “It will continue to train our focus on the state’s
finances, liquidity and cash position,” Petek said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  