-- 
Brown to Say California's Nearly Three-Year Drought Is Over as Snow Mounts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-29T18:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/brown-to-say-california-s-nearly-three-year-drought-is-over-as-snow-mounts.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  is
ready to declare an end to an almost three-year drought that
threatened the state’s $35 billion-a-year  agriculture industry 
after a deluge of snow and rain filled reservoirs.  Brown will make the announcement tomorrow after the
 California Department of Water Resources  conducts its  final
winter survey  of the water content of snow in the Sierra Nevada
mountains, his office said. The snowpack contains 159 percent of
the water expected on April 1, the department said. Water
supplies are already more than 100 percent of average this time
of year in the most populous U.S. state.  “We are looking at a good water-supply year as we prepare
for this summer’s peak demand period,” said Department of Water
Resources Director Mark Cowin.  Former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  declared the drought
in June 2008 after two dry years dropped supplies to 67 percent
of normal. The drought threatened California’s farming, which
accounts for about 12 percent of agricultural sales in the U.S.,
according to the California Department of Food and Agriculture.  About 43 percent of water taken from lakes and reservoirs
is used for farming, according to the California Farm Bureau.  California’s previous drought lasted from 1987 until 1994,
costing the state as much as $1 billion in farming losses and
increased electricity usage, according to the Farm Bureau.  Smelt in Peril  Schwarzenegger in February 2009 declared an emergency as
the drought persisted. That order asked urban residents to
curtail water use 20 percent and allowed the state to seek
federal money to transfer water to areas facing shortages.  The  California State Water Project , a string of reservoirs
and aqueducts that supplies water to two-thirds of the state’s
37 million people and to 750,000 acres of agricultural land,
announced it can deliver 70 percent of the water that’s been
requested this year. That’s up from 50 percent last year and 40
percent in 2009.  Water destined for Southern California faucets also is
limited because of an August 2008 federal court ruling that
supplies from Northern California must be cut to protect the
Delta smelt, a 2-inch-long endangered fish killed by pumps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  