-- 
Buy Emerging-Market Put Options, Sell Japan’s, Barclays Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-29T21:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/buy-emerging-market-etf-put-options-sell-japan-s-barclays-says.html
Investors should buy put options to
sell emerging-market stocks because they may retreat amid rising
commodity prices, while selling puts on Japanese stocks, which
may rally on earthquake reconstruction,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  Maneesh Deshpande, who leads the  top-ranked  equity-linked
strategies team in Institutional Investor magazine’s 2010
survey, recommended buying January $47 puts on the iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund and selling January $9
puts on the iShares MSCI  Japan  ETF. The emerging fund rose 1.2
percent to $47.64 as of 4 p.m. in  New York  while the Japan ETF
slipped 0.2 percent to $10.29.  “Japanese gross domestic product grew at a relatively fast
rate for the next eight quarters” after the Kobe earthquake in
1995, the New York-based strategist wrote. “Against this
outlook for Japan, emerging markets face increasing headwinds on
account of mounting inflation due to increasing commodity prices
and geopolitical risks in the Middle East.”  Barclays economists expect reconstruction following the
nation’s biggest earthquake on record to be spread over the next
two to three years and to boost estimates for GDP growth over
the period, Deshpande wrote. Developing-nation stocks may
retreat amid uprisings in the Middle East and northern  Africa ,
increasing inflation because of rising commodity prices, and
 China  tightening monetary policies to slow economic growth, the
New York-based strategist said.  Implied Volatility  The Japan ETF’s implied volatility, the key gauge of option
prices, for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days is 28.63.
That’s down from 51.84, the highest in more than two years, on
March 16. The current reading compares with a median of 19.56
over the past year, according to Bloomberg data.  Higher volatility for the Japan ETF makes longer-dated puts
“an attractive sell,” Deshpande wrote. Pairing that with
buying emerging market puts “allows for expressing our
relatively bearish view on EEM equities while taking advantage
of the elevated implied volatility of EWJ,” he said, referring
to the funds by their ticker symbols.  The EEM, which tracks 771 companies, is down 1.2 percent
this year. The EWJ, which tracks 323 securities, has lost 5.6
percent.  The Nikkei dropped 7 percent from March 11 to March 25, the
biggest decline among indexes for the world’s largest equity
markets, after the earthquake and tsunami killed more than
10,000 people, razed homes and factories and crippled the
Fukushima nuclear-power station northeast of  Tokyo .  Oil is up 14 percent for the quarter and has risen 27
percent in the past year, boosted by unrest in  Libya , which has
the largest proven reserves in Africa. Crude for May delivery
settled at $104.79 a barrel, up 0.8 percent, on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  