-- 
Canada’s Ignatieff Pledges C$1 Billion a Year for Educational Assistance

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-29T18:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/canada-s-ignatieff-pledges-c-1-billion-a-year-for-educational-assistance.html
Canada ’s main opposition  Liberal
Party  proposed new funding for university and college students
as party leader  Michael Ignatieff  focused on education in his
first major campaign pledge for the May 2 elections.  Ignatieff, in a speech at a college today in Oakville,
Ontario, said a Liberal government would create a new
educational assistance program that would cost C$1 billion
($1.03 billion) a year, to be financed by the revenue gained by
canceling reductions in corporate tax rates.  The proposal comes a day after Conservative Prime Minister
Stephen Harper announced a plan to allow couples with children
to split up to C$50,000 of income for tax purposes. Opposition
parties triggered an election last week by passing a non-
confidence motion, in part because Ignatieff said business tax
reductions are coming at the expense of social programs, an
argument he made again today.  “We can do this because we aren’t going to give
corporations another  tax cut ,” Ignatieff, a former professor at
 Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in a
college library flanked by about 30 students. Corporations
already have “competitive” tax rates, while the country needs
more education to meet a challenge from nations such as  China ,
he said.  Every post-secondary student would receive C$1,000 a year
for up to four years, Ignatieff said. Money would be distributed
through existing  education savings  accounts, while students from
lower-income families would receive an extra C$500 a year.  ‘Billions of Dollars’  Asked about the announcement, Harper said the opposition
parties will announce “billions and billions and billions of
dollars” of spending to be financed by higher taxes, which
would “do a lot of damage to our economy.”  Harper started his day at a boat dealership and repair shop
in Regina, Saskatchewan, pledging to re-introduce a C$1,000 tax
credit for small companies that create jobs, saying the economy
remains fragile and too many Canadians remain out of work. The
measure was included in Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s May 22
budget, which was rejected by all three opposition parties.  Companies with fewer than 25 employees would be eligible to
receive the one-time credit aimed at offsetting increases in
employment insurance premiums. The plan would save companies an
estimated C$165 million in payroll costs, Harper said.  ‘Looking for Work’  “Still, and this is important, too many Canadians are
looking for work,” Harper said, adding businesses will need to
lead the country’s recovery so it can become “fully
entrenched.”  The opposition  New Democrats  focused on consumer issues
today, with leader Jack Layton promising to put a cap on credit
card interest rates equal to the prime rate plus 5 percent.  Layton, whose party held 36 seats in the 308-seat House of
Commons, also said he wants to “crack down on excessive
transaction charges” and legislate the voluntary code of ethics
that was introduced by the minority Conservative government.
Layton made the announcement at a campaign stop in southern
Ontario.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Oakville, Ontario, at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 