-- 
Caterpillar Said to Pay $9 Million to Resolve Tractor Suit

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-29T20:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/caterpillar-said-to-pay-9-million-to-resolve-tractor-lawsuit.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  paid more than $9
million to settle a paralyzed worker’s lawsuit over a tractor
accident that generated one of last year’s largest product-
liability verdicts, people familiar with the accord said.  Caterpillar, the world’s  largest bulldozer maker , agreed to
resolve Alfonso Lopez’s claims that he was left a paraplegic
when a defective Caterpillar earth mover suddenly began  bouncing 
up and down on a construction site, two people familiar with the
agreement said. The people spoke on the condition of anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
settlement.  A Texas jury awarded Lopez $56.3 million in a January 2010
trial over his spinal injuries, an amount cut by more than half
by the trial judge The case was on appeal when the company
decided to settle, the people familiar with the accord said.  “Caterpillar took the path of least resistance here,”
said  Carl Tobias , a law professor at the  University of Richmond 
in  Virginia  who teaches product-liability law. “They didn’t
want to spend the time and money appealing the verdict when they
had no guarantees on what the outcome would be. The settlement
provided certainty.”  Jim Dugan , a Caterpillar spokesman, declined to comment on
the accord. “The case was dismissed, and as such, we have
nothing more to add,” he said March 15 in an e-mailed
statement.  Rebounding From Slump  Caterpillar, based in Peoria,  Illinois , said last week that
North American demand for construction equipment is rebounding
from the slump that followed the crisis tied to subprime
mortgages.  The company is seeing a “slow, steady increase” in
demand, Chief Executive Officer Doug Oberhelm said.  In March 2010, Caterpillar officials persuaded a in state
court in San Antonio to cut almost $32 million from Lopez’s
award.  The jury award was the ninth-largest product-liability
verdict of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
largest was a more than $505 million verdict against  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  in
May over the anesthetic propofol, used to sedate patients
undergoing colonoscopies.  In the Texas case, Lopez contends he was using a
Caterpillar Wheel Tractor 623 G  Scraper  to help build a
subdivision north of  Dallas  in August 2006 when the machine
“suddenly and without warning began dramatically bouncing up
and down,” according to court papers.  Spinal Injuries  The scraper’s bucking caused Lopez’s seat to fail and
slammed him against the machine’s frame, the papers said. Lopez,
41, suffered spinal injuries and a punctured lung in the
accident and is now paralyzed from the waist down.  Lopez’s lawyers argued Caterpillar officials knew about
defects in the tractors that made them move erratically and
dragged their feet in addressing them.  Jurors ordered Caterpillar and  Holt Texas Ltd. , the
dealership that sold the scraper to Lopez’s employer, to pay
$15.8 million in actual damages and $40.5 million in punitive
damages.  A judge reduced that award to $24.4 million after noting
that  Texas  limits punitive-damage awards to twice any economic
damage award in a case, plus $750,000.  Claims against Caterpillar and Holt were settled last year,
people familiar with the agreements said. Howard Hicks, a
spokesman for Holt, didn’t return calls for comment on the
settlement.  Spurs Owner  Peter Holt, chairman and chief executive officer of Holt
Texas, is the majority owner of the  National Basketball
Association ’s  San Antonio Spurs .  Caterpillar rose $1.14, or 1 percent, to $110.54 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have risen 18 percent this year.  The case was Lopez v. Caterpillar Inc., 2007-CI-15864,
District Court for Bexar County, 224th Judicial District ( San
Antonio ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella  at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 