-- 
Cathay Pacific Pares Japan Flights as Demand Plunges on Nuclear Concerns

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-03-30T13:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/cathay-pacific-cuts-japan-flights-on-nuclear-plant-crisis-2-.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  cut flights to Japan as concerns about
possible radiation leaks from a crippled nuclear-power plant
deter travelers from visiting the world’s third-largest economy.  Cathay predicted “several months” of weak demand on Japan
routes as it announced plans to pare  Tokyo , Osaka and Nagoya
services for two weeks starting April 1. Qantas’s mainline unit
and its budget arm Jetstar will both reduce flights within the
next six weeks, the Sydney-based company said today.  Japan Airlines Corp.,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  China
Airlines Ltd. (2610)  have also curtailed capacity to Tokyo as engineers
struggle to repair the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, north
of the city, following a March 11 earthquake. Contamination
fears, power shortages and aftershocks have dented  travel demand ,
with flag carrier  Japan  Air reporting a 25 percent drop in
international passenger numbers through March 28.  “The real question right now is what will happen to
Japanese travelers -- will they hunker down and stay at home or
continue to travel?” said Robert Bruce, an analyst at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets. He predicted a six-month dip in demand,
which could cause a 21 percent decline in full-year passenger
numbers on Cathay’s Japan routes.  Flight Cuts  Qantas’s Jetstar will suspend four weekly Japan services
from April 1 until the end of August, while its Qantas carrier
will halt Perth-Tokyo Narita flights from May 8, it said in a
statement today. Cathay will trim its seven daily services to
Tokyo to four, and halt a flight from Osaka. Nagoya will be cut
to double-daily, it said.  “We expect several months of weakness with a recovery
toward the summer,” Tom Owen, Hong Kong-based Cathay’s general
manager for revenue management, said in a statement yesterday.
“But there are still a lot of variables out there.”  Cathay Pacific rose 1.6 percent to HK$18.64 at the close of
trading in  Hong Kong . The carrier has dropped 13 percent this
year, the worst performance in the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  Qantas rose
1.9 percent to A$2.19 in Sydney.  John Slosar takes over as Cathay’s chief executive officer
this week as Tony Tyler leaves to become head of the
 International Air Transport Association .  The airline may be able to use planes on other routes to
offset the loss of demand in Japan, said Kelvin Lau, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research. The country
accounts for about 8 percent of the airline’s sales, he said.  “It’s not a total write-off,” he said. “You can redeploy
capacity.”  ANA Services  Japan Air will reduce flights to Hong Kong, Beijing and
Honolulu, among other destinations, beginning April 6. All
Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest listed carrier, has no plans
to cut flights, spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said yesterday. The
Tokyo-based company may use smaller planes on some routes.  “Cancellations are expected when faced with such natural
disasters,” said Robert Bailey, president of Singapore-based
travel-services provider Abacus International Pte. “We noticed
high cancellations in the week following the Japan earthquake,
but observed a drop-off in cancellations just last week.”  China Airlines, Taiwan’s biggest carrier, has pared
capacity on Tokyo flights by using smaller planes rather than
suspending flights, said Hamilton Liu, a spokesman. The carrier
has canceled some charter flights to resort destinations Sapporo
and Hokkaido as tour groups change plans and is encouraging
alternative trips to China and Singapore, he said.  Asiana Airlines (020560)  Inc.,  South Korea ’s No. 2 carrier, will
pare flights to Tokyo Haneda from both Incheon airport, near
 Seoul , and Busan starting April 1 because of lower demand, it
said in an e-mailed reply to queries today.  Holiday Travel  China Southern Airlines Co., the biggest mainland carrier,
expects the quake to affect holiday traffic to Japan, said
Company Secretary Xie Bing. Japan accounts for about 2.5 percent
of capacity, he said.  “The Japan earthquake will definitely have an impact on
our operations, especially to tourist destinations such as
Sapporo,” he said.  The Japan nuclear crisis, coupled with political unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa, has made the first quarter
“very difficult” for the global  airline industry ,  Giovanni Bisignani , the outgoing head of IATA, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. Growth in global international passenger
numbers slowed to 6 percent in February from 8.4 percent the
previous month, the airline group said.  “Another series of shocks is denting the industry’s
recovery from the recession,” Bisignani said. “The tragic
earthquake and its aftermath in Japan will most certainly see a
further dampening of demand from March.”  Singapore  Air has halted a daily flight to Haneda airport
until May 8, according to a  note  on its website. The carrier
also delayed the introduction of Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos on
flights to  Los Angeles  via Narita airport. It is using smaller
aircraft on the route instead.  Extra Stops  The Singaporean carrier, along with British Airways, Air
France and Qantas, has also added extra stops on Tokyo flights
so it can change crews in another city. Power shortages have
disrupted travel within Tokyo. Most airlines are allowing
passengers to change travel plans with reduced or no charges.  Korean Air Lines Co., South Korea’s biggest carrier, is
operating Japan flights normally, Cho Hyong Chol, a spokesman
for the Seoul-based airline, said by phone yesterday. Air India
is also maintaining services, spokeswoman Shobha Nimbalkar said.  Among European carriers, International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, parent of British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia,
is “determined to maintain full services,” CEO Willie Walsh
said in an interview in Tokyo.  Finnair Oyj, which with 18 weekly flights to Japan has the
greatest exposure to that market among European carriers, is
also sticking with its timetable, spokeswoman Inka Ikonen said.  “Flights are almost full in both directions,” she said,
with 90 percent of passengers being Japanese businesspeople
traveling to and from  Europe . The company has a daily flight to
Tokyo and operates six times a week to  Osaka  and five times to
Nagoya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  