-- 
Caxton's Law Leads Macro Funds Riding Rebound as Markets Brush Off Shocks

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-03-29T14:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/caxton-s-law-leads-macro-funds-riding-rebound-as-markets-brush-off-shocks.html
At Caxton Associates LLC, an $11
billion hedge fund, Chief Investment Officer Andrew Law is
betting on rising prices for commodities including oil. Fulcrum
Asset Management LLP’s Gavyn Davies likes Japanese stocks.  Managers of macro hedge funds such as Law and Davies wager
on broad economic trends, and they say 2011 is shaping up to be
a promising year as big themes take hold, notably a pickup in
global growth and rising  interest rates  outside of the U.S.
Market volatility that stymied macro funds over the past two
years is subsiding, as are concerns caused by Japan’s 9.0
magnitude earthquake and unrest in the Middle East.  “Macro managers make money in long-duration, low-
volatility trending markets,” Davies, who uses both computer
models and fundamental analysis to select investments for his
$1.3 billion fund, said in a telephone interview from his London
office. He expects markets to be easier to navigate this year
for macro traders.  Returns by macro funds have lagged behind other strategies
since outperforming in 2008, as managers struggled to predict
the direction of markets in  Europe , the U.S. and emerging
economies after the financial crisis. The funds gained 17
percent on average from the start of 2009 through February 2011,
compared with a jump of almost 23 percent by the broader
industry index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The top-performing category was funds that trade mortgage-
backed bonds, which climbed 87 percent in the same period.  Fund Deposits  Macro managers, who attracted 12 percent of the $115.8
billion that went into hedge funds last year, got an additional
$1.2 billion in January, the most recent month for which data is
available, according to research firms TrimTabs Investment
Research and BarclayHedge.  “We had high hopes for them in 2010, and most of them
didn’t live up to our expectations,” said Pierre Merillon, head
of macro research at Paris-based Darius Capital Partners, which
helps institutions invest in hedge funds. Through February,
gains by macro funds came mostly in commodities and equities,
while currencies and fixed income were more challenging, he
said.  In a sign that investors have become more confident about
the global recovery, stocks worldwide have rebounded 5 percent
since dropping to a low for the year on March 16, five days
after  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami, which crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. Markets have also
shrugged off the impact of street protests in Bahrain and
fighting in  Libya  that sent  oil prices  surging.  Betting on Japan  Davies, 60, whose macro fund returned 6 percent in 2008 and
almost 26 percent over the following two years, said Japanese
equities could climb 20 percent from current levels during the
next 12 months, a target the former chief economist of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. calls “fairly conservative.”  Even before the earthquake and tsunami struck, initially
sending the benchmark Japanese index down 18 percent, stocks
were looking inexpensive relative to historic levels, he said.
Japanese companies that comprise the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Index are
trading at 1.2 times book value, compared with a two-decade
average of 2 times and the Standard & Poor’s 500’s current level
of 2.3 times, according to Bloomberg data.  Japanese stocks also will be helped by a weaker yen, which
Davies said may move closer to 90 yen to the dollar over the
next 12 months, from 82.32 at 10:12 a.m. New York time today.
Gross domestic product, which will probably take a hit in the
third and fourth quarters of this year in the wake of the
disaster, will rebound in 2012 as the country rebuilds areas
destroyed by the quake and subsequent tsunami. The number of
dead and missing from the earthquake and tsunami had reached
28,343 as of 9 p.m. yesterday in  Tokyo .  Commodities Prices  Law, 44, whose $6.7 billion Caxton Global Investment fund,
returned about 13 percent in 2008 and almost 16 percent over the
following two years, expects rising prices for oil, liquefied
natural gas and coal, as well as base metals and agricultural
commodities, as global growth and inflation accelerate.  “The recent events in the Middle East and Japan in many
ways reinforce the energy-price outlook as heavily skewed to the
upside,” said Law, who is based in  London . “Policy makers
around the world are tolerant of higher inflation,” he said, as
seen by the  Bank of England  allowing inflation to rise above its
target and the Chinese raising wages.  Goldman Sachs forecasts global expansion of 4.8 percent
this year, compared with an average of 3.4 percent over the past
two decades.  ‘Standout Trend’  In currencies, fund managers say they expect the  U.S.
dollar  to weaken more against the euro because the U.S. hasn’t
signaled plans to raise interest rates for at least the next
year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that the
 European Central Bank  will raise its main refinancing rate by
0.25 percentage point at its next meeting on April 7.  “The ECB will tighten first and move significantly before
the Fed, by 12 to 18 months and 200 basis points,” Davies said.
“That’s not priced in yet.”  Davies predicted the euro, which has already climbed 6.5
percent in the past three months to $1.4083, may jump to $1.50.
Law called the weakening dollar a “standout trend,” adding,
“I don’t see any Western policy maker saying this is a
problem.”  Some managers said the yen, which climbed to a post-World
War II high against the dollar in the days following the
earthquake, could prove the exception.  ‘Multiyear Devaluation’  Philippe Bonnefoy, founder of Geneva-based Cedar Partners
(Suisse) SA, which runs a short-term currency-trading fund,
expects that the yen will remain around current levels for a few
months and may even strengthen, as Japanese investors and
insurance companies repatriate money and test the resolve of the
 Bank of Japan  and other central banks to sell the currency, as
they did on March 18. The longer-term trend will be a much
weaker currency, he said.  “After this initial pressure we would expect to see a
long, slow, multiyear devaluation of the yen as the long-term
demographic and structural problems of Japan become more
evident,” Bonnefoy said. “The Japanese government has no real
ability to pay its bills,” he said, given that the number of
workers is falling and the retiree population is growing.  The move could rival the yen’s decline from 1995 to 1998,
when it went from close to 80 yen per U.S. dollar to around 145,
he said.  Fed’s Role  Managers disagree about the strength of U.S. equities this
year. Law forecasts that rising commodity prices will eventually
cut into profits of U.S. companies and put pressure on their
shares. Since the end of 2008, commodities and equities have
moved more or less in tandem, whereas previously the correlation
between the two markets had been relatively low, Law said. He
expects a return to their historic relationship, where the
correlation is as likely to be negative as positive.  David Gerstenhaber, who manages the $1.8 billion Argonaut
Management LP in New York, said U.S. stocks may suffer in the
second half of the year after the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion
asset purchase program, known as quantitative easing or QE2,
ends in June.  “There are various reasons to think that growth in the
second half may be less robust,” he said, adding that in
addition to the end of QE2, there will be less  government
spending  at the federal and state levels.  While some bankers and investors have questioned the
efficacy of quantitative easing, the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  has climbed
23 percent since Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
first said more securities purchases might be warranted.  Role of  China   Davies said he believes that China’s efforts to reduce
inflation will slow the economy there more than the world
expects, driving stocks in developing nations lower. U.S. growth
will continue and profit margins will widen, boosting equity
prices, he said. U.S. shares will go higher as long as  Brent
crude , now trading at almost $115 a barrel, doesn’t go above
$120 for nine months or more, Davies said.  China’s economic growth is forecast to slow to 8.2 percent
in 2012 from 8.5 percent this year, according to the  World Bank .  Darius Capital’s Merillon said he remains optimistic that
current markets are good for macro funds. He acknowledges he
could be disappointed again.  “Even though macro factors should be important market
drivers in 2011, the timing of these events could prove hard to
gauge,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  