-- 
Cheapest Brazil Stocks in Two Years Sends Thornburg Hunting

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-03-29T22:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/cheapest-brazilian-stocks-in-two-years-send-thornburg-hunting.html
Brazilian stocks are at their
cheapest relative values since 2009, prompting Van Eck
Associates and Thornburg Investment Management to buy builders
and retailers on bets a year of higher interest rates is ending.  The 69-share Bovespa index, heading for its worst first-
quarter performance since 2008, trades at 10.7 times analysts’
current-year earnings estimates compared with 11.5 times for
MSCI Inc.’s Emerging Markets Index, weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The discount reached 10 percent last month, the
widest level since March 2009, after  Brazil ’s measure traded at
a premium of as much as 7.6 percent in July.  The Bovespa dropped 2.7 percent in the first three months,
nearly three times as much as the developing-nation gauge, as
policy makers extended their most aggressive increase in
borrowing costs since 2005 to slow inflation. Confidence is
building that President  Dilma Rousseff ’s spending cuts will hold
consumer price gains down even as Latin America’s largest
economy expands at a 4 percent rate.  “Brazil is a good place to go hunting,” said Lewis Kaufman, who helps manage $79 billion at Thornburg in  Santa Fe ,
 New Mexico , and whose Thornburg Developing World Fund beat 96
percent of peers last year.  Bearish Investors  The Bovespa’s decline left Sao Paulo-based  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s biggest bank by market value, at the
lowest ratio of price to estimated earnings in seven months
while Porto Alegre-based Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest
publicly traded clothing retailer, fell to the lowest valuation
since May.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes (CYRE3) , the nation’s second-largest homebuilder, based in
 Sao Paulo , dropped to the lowest since July 2009.  Ed Kuczma , who helps oversee $30 billion at Van Eck in  New
York , said investors became too bearish on Brazil, whose
benchmark index rose 1 percent last year after an 83 percent
gain in 2009.  Investors have pulled 2.4 billion reais from Latin
America’s biggest equity market this year, the most for the
period since 2008, according to the  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  exchange.  Recommendations to buy Brazilian stocks fell to 37.5
percent of all ratings last month, the lowest level since at
least 1997, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Borrowed stock
accounted for 2 percent of Brazil’s total market value in
February, after reaching an all-time high of 2.4 percent in
January, according to figures from the Sao Paulo exchange.  ‘Good’ Opportunities  Brazilian stocks aren’t overvalued, said Fabio Dall’Acqua,
managing partner at Constellation Asset Management in Sao Paulo.  “The market still offers good opportunities,” Dall’Acqua
said today at the Bloomberg Brazil Economic Summit in Sao Paulo.
“Financials are a very strong story in Brazil,” he said.  “People are very bearish,” said Kuczma, who is buying
builders as he adds to the “underweight” position for Brazil
in his Van Eck Emerging Markets Fund. The fund beat 95 percent
of peers last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In terms of the interest rate cycle, we’re getting close
to the peak,” said Kuczma. “People can become more comfortable
investing in Brazil.”  Brazil’s central bank began raising the benchmark interest
rate from a record low 8.75 percent in April last year. The 300
basis points, or 3 percentage points, since then marks the
biggest jump since 2005, when policy makers completed a series
that added 375 basis points to the overnight lending rate.  Government Spending Cuts  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini will increase
borrowing costs once more this year to 12.25 percent at the
April 19-20 meeting, according to the median forecast in a
central bank survey of about 100 economists published March 28.
Annual inflation, at 6.01 percent in February, is running at the
fastest pace since November 2008.  The People’s Bank of  China  boosted its benchmark one-year
lending and deposit rates in February for the third time in four
months, while  Russia  that month unexpectedly boosted its key
financing rate from a record low. In  India , policy makers have
raised benchmark rates eight times since last year.  The Shanghai Composite Index is up 5.3 percent this year
while Russia’s Micex has advanced 5.9 percent. India’s Sensex
has tumbled 6.8 percent.  Rousseff, who took office this year, slashed 50.1 billion
reais from the 2011 budget by reducing spending on defense,
education, housing, subsidies and payroll spending. While she
spared social programs and the government’s so-called growth
acceleration plan, the budget initiative indicates inflation may
moderate, according to  Jerome Booth , who helps manage about $47
billion in emerging-markets assets as co-founder and head of
research at Ashmore Investment Management in  London .  Growth Slowing  “She’s doing the right things,” Booth said. “Going
forward you’d expect the Brazilian stock market to outperform in
real terms.”  Higher rates are taking a toll on growth. The economy will
expand 4 percent this year, from a two-decade high of 7.5
percent in 2010, according to the median forecast in the central
bank survey.  As the expansion eases, it’s too early to say Brazilian
stocks are cheap because of the prospect the government will
adopt additional measures to stem currency gains that undermine
export growth, said Samir Patel, who helps oversee $3.2 billion
in emerging markets at Hermes Fund Managers Ltd. in London.  Currency Gains  The real has gained 39 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, even after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
tripled to 6 percent in October a tax on foreigners’ fixed-
income investments, while leaving the levy on equity purchases
at 2 percent since 2009. Tombini signaled last week he may enact
further so-called macro-prudential measures to contain prices
after his predecessor raised reserve and capital requirements
for local banks in December.  Brazilian dollar bonds have returned 0.9 percent this year,
compared with an 0.8 percent gain for emerging-market debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes.  “There are definitely too many question marks,” said
Patel, who is maintaining an “underweight” position in Brazil
relative to MSCI’s developing-nation gauge. “Day by day you see
different changes being made.”  The fastest inflation in more than two years, together with
global growth concerns, also are keeping investors away from
Brazilian stocks, said Carlos Andre, who oversees 373 billion
reais as chief investment officer of Banco do Brasil SA’s asset
management unit in  Rio de Janeiro . Homebuilders and banks may
continue to suffer on prospects that the central bank will take
further steps to stem credit growth, he said.  Fixed Income  “This year seems to be a repeat of 2010, in that fixed
income is showing itself to be a more attractive alternative,”
Andre said in a telephone interview.  Young Kim, who oversees $1.1 billion in Brazilian stocks as
chief investment officer at Mirae Asset Global Investments
Brasil in Sao Paulo, said Brazilian banks and homebuilders are
too cheap to pass up after they led declines on the Bovespa this
year. Itau traded at 10 times estimated earnings last month, the
lowest level since July. Cyrela’s ratio fell to a 20-month low
of 8.7 earlier this month.  Mark Mobius , who manages $34 billion as executive chairman
of Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s Emerging Markets Group,
said last week that he’s betting on oil staying above $100 a
barrel by adding to holdings of state-controlled oil producer
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the biggest drag on the Bovespa last
year with a 23 percent slide. Petrobras raised $70 billion in a
stock sale that Mobius called an “abomination” in September.  Brazilian stocks can advance another 10 percent over
current levels, Alan Gandelman, chief executive officer at
broker ICAP Plc, said at the Bloomberg Economic Summit.  The Bovespa may rise to 75,000 this year, he said, adding
he’s “very optimistic” about the market in Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  