-- 
Chelsea Lines Up $48 Million Neymar to Replace Drogba: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-29T09:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/chelsea-lines-up-48-million-neymar-to-replace-drogba-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Blues Want Neymar  Chelsea is lining up Neymar as a 30 million-pound ($48
million) offseason signing to replace striker Didier Drogba,  the
Sun  reported.  The Blues were interested in recruiting the 19-year-old
last year but there were injury doubts over him. Now the Santos
player has proved his fitness, the Sun said.  Neymar scored both goals in Brazil’s 2-0 win over Scotland
at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium two days ago.  Chelsea’s Brazilian defender  David Luiz  urged Neymar to
join him at Stamford Bridge after the teenager said he wants to
move to  Europe , the  Daily Mirror  said.  Sneijder for United?  Inter Milan midfielder Wesley Sneijder has hinted he may be
ready to move to  Manchester United , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Dutchman turned down a move to Old Trafford last season,
opting to remain with the European champion, although now he’s
decided it’s the right time to leave the “rigid constraints”
of the Italian game, the Mirror said.  United may be prepared to pay more than its record purchase
fee, the near-31 million pounds it spent on Dimitar Berbatov,
the Mirror added.  Tottenham Eyes Klose  Tottenham is the front-runner to sign  Germany  striker
Miroslav Klose on a free transfer at the end of the season, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  He’s been on the bench recently at Bayern Munich and is set
to look for a new start abroad, the newspaper added  Ibisevic Targeted  Aston Villa  and West Brom want to sign Hoffenheim’s Bosnia
striker Vedad Ibisevic, 26, who’s rated at 6 million pounds, the  
Mail  reported.  Hull City may take German goalkeeper Dennis Eilhoff on
trial from Arminia Bielefeld, the Mail added.  Another move from Germany could involve Ruud van Nistelrooy, whom Blackburn wants to sign on a free transfer,  the
Mirror  reported. He’s out of contract at Hamburg after this
season, the newspaper added.  Man of Few Words  England manager  Fabio Capello , who’s been criticized over
his command of the English language, said he needs only 100
words to communicate with his players, the  Daily Express  said.  “If I need to speak about the economy or other things, I
can’t speak. But when you speak about tactics, you don’t use a
lot of words,” he said. “I don’t have to speak about a lot of
different things. Maximum 100 words.”  He also hit out at  Jose Mourinho  for saying he was “hours
away” from accepting the England job before Capello got it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 