-- 
Cheung Kong’s 2010 Profit Rises 35% on Contribution From Hutchison Whampoa

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-03-29T10:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/cheung-kong-s-2010-profit-rises-35-on-contribution-from-hutchison-whampoa.html
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the
developer controlled by Hong Kong’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing ,
said 2010 net income climbed 35 percent after the contribution
from its unit  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  rose and it booked profits
from property sales.  Net income increased to HK$26.5 billion ($3.4 billion), or
HK$11.43 a share, from a restated HK$19.6 billion, or HK$8.47 a
share, a year earlier, the world’s second-biggest builder by
market value said in a statement today. That beat the average
HK$20.2 billion estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Li, nicknamed “superman” by the local media for his
investing prowess, is seeking growth from Hutchison’s industries
ranging from utilities and mobile phone networks to oil in 52
countries after Hong Kong stepped up property measures in
November to ease speculation in a city where housing prices have
risen more than 65 percent since the start of 2009.  Cheung Kong 
last year also made HK$2.2 billion from the sale of a stake in a
Singapore downtown property, it said in today’s statement.  “Excluding the one-off item to the Singapore REIT, the net
income figure is actually lower than my expectation,” said
Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at MF Global Holdings
Ltd. “Other than that, there is actually no surprise in Cheung
Kong’s earnings performance. Their profit from apartment sales
is lower than expected.”  Excluding earnings from its 49.97 percent stake in
Hutchison Whampoa, profit advanced 29 percent to HK$16.5 billion
from HK$12.8 billion a year earlier, the company said.  Hutchison  Hutchison Whampoa, Li’s biggest company, said full-year
profit rose 47 percent, after boosting sales from mobile-phone
services, ports, and cosmetics in  Europe , the Americas and
China.  “Among developers we prefer Cheung Kong because
Hutchison’s contribution can help it cushion the impact from the
property market,” said  David Ng , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “It’s taking a longer time these
days for developers to sell their new units.”  Net income climbed to HK$20 billion, or HK$4.70 a share,
from a restated HK$13.6 billion, or HK$3.20, a year earlier,
Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa said in a statement today.
This exceeded the HK$16.4 billion average of nine analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Rise  Cheung Kong’s shares rose 0.5 percent to HK$122.50 at the 4
p.m. market close in  Hong Kong , before earnings were announced.
The stock has risen 2.2 percent this year and is the second-best
performer in the seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, which
has fallen 3.1 percent. It’s the world’s largest developer after
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., also based in Hong Kong.  Hutchison fell 2.1 percent to HK$88.80.  Cheung Kong, which completed and booked profit from
projects including Festival City Phase I in 2010, said earnings
from property sales rose to HK$5.6 billion from HK$5.5 billion a
year earlier. Rental profit from properties including the Center
was little changed at HK$1.1 billion.  Profits from hotel and serviced suites rose to HK$617
million from HK$360 million, the company said.  Cheung Kong will pay a final dividend of HK$2.45, compared
with HK$2.20 a year earlier.  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from  China ’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $36 billion.  Inflation Rising  Hong Kong’s government in November announced it would
impose additional stamp duties on home transactions and increase
land supply, its toughest price curbs to date. The number of
home transactions declined year-on-year in January and February
in Hong Kong.  While the government measures will affect the property
market in Hong Kong, it will remain “healthy, barring
unforeseen adverse changes,” Li said.  “Homebuyers will be okay if they’re buying homes for self-
use as inflation is getting more serious,” Li told reporters at
a briefing in Hong Kong today. Loose monetary policy in the U.S.
“is good for their economy but is causing problems in other
countries.”  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority expects continued “upward
pressure” on  home prices  in the city and inflationary pressure
will increase, the city’s de facto central bank said in its
half-yearly report today. The chances of  interest rates  rising
in the U.S. are strengthening and the outlook for global growth
is “uncertain,” said the central bank, which is unable to
conduct an independent monetary policy because of the Hong Kong
dollar’s peg to the  U.S. dollar .  Mortgage Loans  Fall  Hong Kong’s newly drawn down mortgage loans fell to the
lowest level in a year in February, the HKMA said on March 25.  The government measures probably affected sales of Cheung
Kong’s Festival City Phase II, a project in Hong Kong Tai Wai
district, which began a day after the government’s November
announcement, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit
analysts led by Karl Choi wrote in a Feb. 8 report.  The Hong Kong government is seeking a “healthy”  property
market , Victor Li, Li’s son and deputy chairman of Cheung Kong,
said at the briefing today.  Li, who arrived in Hong Kong as a refugee from China in
1940, is ranked the city’s richest man by  Forbes  magazine this
month after his net worth increased $5 billion to $26 billion,
and the world’s 11th richest.  Li forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market bubble would
burst and in 2009 predicted the rally in Hong Kong home prices.
The Shanghai Composite Index lost 65 percent in 2008, the most
among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  