-- 
China Stocks’ ‘Sideways’ Trading Nears End, BGC Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T01:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/china-stocks-sideways-trading-nears-end-bgc-says-technical-analysis.html
China’s Shanghai Composite Index is
approaching the end of a “sideways” pattern that has dominated
trading for almost two years and a break above the 3,187 level
would confirm a new uptrend, according to BGC Partners Inc.  “We are approaching the apex of the pattern as the lower
tops and higher bottoms converge,” Jamie Coutts, a technical
analyst at BGC in  Singapore , wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “It is important that investors are ready to pull
the trigger and trade in line with the direction once the break
occurs.”  The Shanghai gauge’s key support level is 2,800, while a
rise to 3,012 may allow the index to advance to 3,187, the 200-
day moving average based on weekly charts, Coutts said. The
Shanghai Composite gained 0.2 percent to 2,984.01 yesterday,
capping a 6.3 percent advance this year that has made it the
best performer among  Asia ’s biggest equity markets.  China’s stocks have climbed this year on speculation the
world’s second-biggest economy is weathering policy tightening
measures. The Shanghai Composite sank 14 percent last year, the
worst performer among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  “The 3,187 high in November 2010 is that key level,”
Coutts said. “A move beyond this pivot point would also be a
break above the 200-day moving average which is a more crucial
moving average and a much stronger signal. From there you would
find that the weekly ADX and MACD would be providing trending
signals as further confirmation.”  The ADX is an average of total price movement over a period
of time and the Moving Average Convergence/Divergence indicator
is a measure of directional trends. In  technical analysis ,
investors study charts of trading patterns and prices to predict
changes in a security.  --Allen Wan. Editors: Richard Frost, Reinie Booysen  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  