-- 
China, India to Add Nuclear Reactors Amid Quake Disaster, Bernstein Says

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T07:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/china-india-to-add-nuclear-reactors-after-quake-bernstein-says.html
China and  India , the world’s
fastest-growing major economies, may boost their share of global
nuclear power sevenfold by 2030 to meet electricity demand and
emissions goals, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The planned increase in atomic power in the Asian nations
to 30 percent of the world’s total from the current 4 percent
comes as radiation leaks from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant following Japan’s record March 11 earthquake dents
confidence in nuclear power.  “You can see rapid growth in nuclear installed capacity in
India and China, notwithstanding the events in Fukushima,” said
 Michael Parker , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bernstein, a
securities and research company. “The cheapest, most easily
scaled, cleanest, and most technologically mature source of
electricity for these economies is nuclear.”  Companies in  China  and India are throwing their weight
behind nuclear power even as regulators from Japan to Germany
order safety checks in the wake of the worst nuclear accident
since the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986 in Ukraine. Both Asian
nations use mainly coal to generate electricity and bringing
their power consumption up to developed-nation levels would
require about 22 billion metric tons of the fuel a year, or
about four times what the world consumes, Bernstein said.  China will start building a fourth-generation plant next
month that uses gases rather than water for cooling.  NTPC Ltd. (NATP) ,
India’s biggest generator, said the crisis triggered by the
March 11 earthquake, the strongest on record in  Japan , shouldn’t
hinder the South Asian nation’s atomic plans.  Finite Coal  “Asian nations will be thinking about how to meet
electricity demand, which is always rising,” Hiroshi Miyata,
Chief Executive Officer of Marubeni Power Development Co., a
builder and operator of power stations outside Japan, said in an
interview in Singapore last week. “It may slow construction of
nuclear plants, but investments will probably continue.”  China will start building a nuclear power plant next month
using new technology that may be less susceptible to a meltdown
than Japan’s damaged plant, Cui Shaozhang, deputy general
manager at Huaneng Nuclear Power Development Co., a unit of
China Huaneng Group, the nation’s largest power group, said in
an interview on March 22 in Singapore.  “There are differences between the Japanese and Chinese
reactors,” Cui said. “Japan’s Fukushima plant was using  old 
technology while Chinese reactors are more advanced.”  About 163 gigawatts of additional nuclear power capacity,
equivalent to about 43 percent of the current total, may be
built by 2030, Paris-based  Societe Generale  said in a report on
March 18. A freeze on atomic projects would mean an average
additional 280 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year
on average over the next 20 years.  China Capacity  China’s nuclear power capacity may rise to 70 gigawatts by
2020, Han Wenke, head of energy research at the National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top economic
planner, said in June. That compares with about 11 gigawatts as
at the end of 2010, according to the China Electricity Council.
China, with 14 reactors currently operating, got 81 percent of
its power from coal in 2009, with nuclear contributing 2 percent,
according to data from China Economic Information Net.  “China will probably not slow down much, as it wasn’t able
to build nukes fast enough before and has a completely different
decision-making process when it comes to sitting and dealing
with issues,” Mike Thomas, a Hong Kong-based partner at energy
consultant The Lantau Group, said in an e-mail interview.  India Plans  India needs nuclear energy to meet electricity demand and
will stick to a plan for a 13-fold increase in atomic power
capacity to 60 gigawatts by 2030, B.K. Chaturvedi, a member of
the country’s Planning Commission, said March 18.  “Coal will continue to be the major fuel in the next
couple of decades, but the mix of nuclear will increase in
 Asia ,” Nigam Sharma, Singapore-based head of marketing in Asia-
Pacific, Emerson Process Management, said by telephone March 28.
“Environment is one of the main drivers, along with demand. And
this is where nuclear comes in.”  India had 4.78 gigawatts of nuclear generation, or 2.8
percent of the country’s total installed capacity, at the end of
February, according to the website of the Central Electricity
Authority. Japan currently has about 50 gigawatts of atomic
capacity, according to the Federation of Electric Power
Companies of Japan.  “Now is not the time to enter into a withdrawal syndrome
when it comes to India’s nuclear program,” Arup Roy Choudhury,
NTPC’s chairman, said by telephone from  New Delhi  March 22. “If
we don’t continue now, we will set ourselves back and have to
start all over again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in  Singapore  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 