-- 
China Huadian Said to Plan $1.5 Billion Hong Kong IPO of Clean Energy Unit

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-03-29T05:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/china-huadian-said-to-plan-1-5-billion-ipo-of-energy-unit.html
China Huadian Corp. , the nation’s
fourth-biggest power producer, will sell shares in its
renewable-energy unit in  Hong Kong  to raise as much as $1.5
billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citic Securities International Co.
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  were hired to manage the initial public offering of
Fuxin New Energy Co., said the people, who declined to be
identified before an announcement. The Huadian unit is expected
to start trading in the second half, one of the people said.  “Since the  Japan  nuclear crisis any company connected with
the nuclear industry has been hammered and renewable companies
have traded up in Hong Kong, so there’s good  market sentiment 
for renewable energy,” said Dave Dai, an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets.  China , planning to build more nuclear reactors than any
other country, said on March 16 it has suspended approval of all
new atomic projects until a safety review is carried out. Wind-
farm operator  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916)  gained 18 percent
in Hong Kong since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan
led to the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. China
Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co. advanced 13 percent.  “The checks on safety will delay the nuclear program in
China, so the feeling is the government will give more support
to renewable energy, at least in the short term,” said Dai,
who’s based in Hong Kong.  Fuxin New Energy’s parent had 77 gigawatts of generating
capacity at the end of 2009, according to a  statement  on the
company’s website. About 18 percent of Huadian’s electricity was
produced by hydropower and about 1 percent from wind.  Hong Kong IPOs  The Huadian unit may raise at least $1 billion, the two
people said. Two telephone calls to the Beijing office of Fuxin
New Energy went unanswered.  Hong Kong IPOs have raised $2.1 billion so far this year,
compared with $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hilong Holding Ltd., a
Chinese provider of oilfield services, postponed its $190
million IPO in the city because of “unforeseen adverse market
conditions,” the company said on March 17.  Far East Horizon Ltd., the financial leasing unit of
 Sinochem Group , pushed ahead with its Hong Kong IPO, which
raised $660 million. It will start trading tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 