-- 
China Evergrande’s 2010 Profit Rises Sevenfold on Diversification Strategy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T08:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/china-evergrande-profit-jumps-sevenfold-on-home-sales-outside-main-cities.html
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
China’s second-biggest developer by sales volume, posted a
sevenfold increase in 2010 profit as the company diversified
away from major cities.  Net income climbed to 7.6 billion yuan ($1.2 billion), or
0.5 yuan a share, from 1.1 billion yuan, or 0.07 yuan a year a
year earlier, the company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange
statement today. That’s higher than the 5.9 billion yuan average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue jumped
eightfold to 5.7 billion yuan.  Evergrande’s earnings soared as the company, based in the
southern city of Guangzhou, expanded to smaller cities, where
higher demand for homes helped offset the government’s property
curbs targeted at speculators, who are mostly in major cities.
Property measures last year included a ban on third mortgages
and the first interest rate increase in three years.  “The company’s positioning is at prime locations of
second- and third-tier cities,” said Kevin Gin, a Hong Kong-
based property analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. “The core is
still location, location and location. They cater for end-user
demand in those cities and not speculators.”  The shares fell 1 percent to HK$4.00 at the close in  Hong
Kong , reversing a gain of as much as 4.5 percent earlier.  Core Business  Earnings from its so-called core business rose 19-fold to
5.5 billion yuan, less than the 5.7 billion yuan average
estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Core earnings
exclude the gains on investment properties and reversals of
financial guarantees.  Evergrande entered nine new markets last year including
Changshan in central China, Xian in the northwest and the
southern city of Kunming.  “Third-tier cities are generally less affected by the
macro adjustment and control policies,” the company said in a
statement. “The demand and growth potential for housing are
immense.”  The company had the second-highest property sales volume in
the country last year after  China  Vanke Co. Evergrande’s
contracted sales rose 40 percent to 7.9 million square meters
(85 million square feet), based on data from China Real Estate
Information Corp., which tracks 40 publicly traded developers.
It had 112 projects in 62 cities by the end of last year, with
95 percent of those developments in so-called second- and third-
tier cities.  Higher Sales  Evergrande plans a 39 percent increase in contracted sales
this year to 70 billion yuan, it said. Sales in February jumped
to 4.5 billion yuan from 1.2 billion yuan last year, the company
said on March 15. Developers typically sell homes before they
are built and book revenue from the properties as construction
progresses.  First-tier cities include wealthier Shanghai, Beijing and
 Guangzhou  in southern China, according to China’s National
Bureau of Statistics. The second tier includes provincial
capitals such as Chengdu and Wuhan and the third includes
smaller cities.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  