-- 
China Cosco Predicts 32% Bulk-Cargo Slump as Global Fleet Outpaces Demand

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-30T02:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/china-cosco-predicts-32-bulk-cargo-slump-as-global-fleet-outpaces-demand.html
China  Cosco Holdings Co.,  Asia ’s
largest shipping company by market value, forecast a 32
percent drop in dry-bulk traffic this year as expansion in
the global fleet outpaces demand.  Commodity shipments will slump to 959 billion ton-
nautical miles this year from 1.42 trillion last year, the
Tianjin, China-based shipping line said in a statement late
yesterday. Container volumes will rise 9.4 percent to 6.8
million, it said.  Global dry-bulk capacity will expand 14 percent this
year, outpacing a 6 percent rise in demand, the shipping line
said, after China financed orders for new vessels during the
global recession to help prop up shipyards. The capacity
increase has caused the Baltic Dry Index, a commodity-
shipping rates benchmark, to drop 47 percent in the past year.  “There are simply too many bulk ships on order right
now,” said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co.
in  Seoul . “The Baltic Dry Index could remain at current
levels for about four years unless there’s a spike to
demand.”  Traffic for the company’s dry-bulk fleet last year was
little changed, trailing a 19 percent jump in container
volumes as rebounding  consumer spending  in the U.S. and
Europe revived demand for shipments of Asian-made goods. The
company’s container-shipping revenue was 43 percent higher
than its dry-bulk sales in 2010 after being almost the same a
year earlier.  Container Gains  The container pick-up helped China Cosco, operator of
the nation’s largest cargo-box fleet, post a 2010 net income
of 6.9 billion yuan, compared with a year-earlier loss of 7.5
billion yuan, according to the statement. The company was
expected to post a profit of 6.8 billion yuan, according to
the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Shipping Container Lines Ltd., the nation’s
second-biggest cargo-box carrier, separately reported a
profit of 4.2 billion yuan last year, compared with a loss
6.49 billion yuan a year earlier, in a Shanghai stock
exchange statement.  This year, the container-shipping market will “maintain
its equilibrium due to the increase of cargo volume and
reasonable management” of capacity industrywide, China Cosco
said.  Europe , Transpacific  The company’s container-shipping revenue surged 68
percent last year to 46.3 billion yuan, with sales on Asia-
Europe and transpacific routes both almost doubling because
of increased volumes and higher rates. The company, with 150
container ships at the end of last year, will receive six
this year and 32 more in the next two years.  China Cosco’s dry-bulk fleet totaled 450 vessels at the
end of last year. It has 18 ships on order through 2014.  The company, controlled by China Ocean Shipping (Group)
Co., dropped 0.5 percent to HK$8.05 as of 10:29 a.m. in  Hong
Kong . The stock has fallen 2.3 percent this year, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  climbed 1.3 percent.  The Baltic Dry Index dropped 41 percent in 2010 to end
the year 1,773. The index has fallen 11 percent this year
because of an oversupply of vessels and slowing demand in
China.  Bulk Backlog  The backlog of on-order bulk ships is equal to 43
percent of the current global fleet by deadweight tons
compared with a 25 percent rate for  container ships ,
according to data on the Bloomberg terminal.  Iron ore imports by China, the world’s biggest buyer,
may also fall for a second year in 2011 as record high prices
spur output from domestic mines, according to Mysteel
Research Institute. Shipments into the country fell 1.4
percent last year, the first decline since 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  