-- 
China Stocks Decline for First Time in Three Days Amid Tightening Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T07:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/china-s-stocks-rebound-as-banks-earnings-top-estimates-steelmakers-rally.html
China  stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index down for the first time in three days, as
investors speculated the government will raise borrowing costs
to cool inflation.  Beiqi Foton Motor Co. sank 4.3 percent and  Gree Electric
Appliances Inc. (000651)  dropped from a record high, pacing declines
among consumer-related companies, after the China Securities
Journal said the central bank may boost interest rates as early
as next month. China XD Electric Co. plunged the most on record
after earnings trailed estimates and a brokerage cut its rating.
Industrial Bank Co. rose to an 11-month high after net income
beat analyst forecasts.  “The central bank has made it clear about the need for
further measures to control inflation,” said Wu Kan, a  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.
“That adds to the uncertainty in the market. Banks are rallying
because of better-than-expected profit growth.”  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 25.93, or 0.9 percent, to
2,958.08 at the 3 p.m. close. The measure has added 5.3 percent
this year after sinking 14 percent in 2010. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
slid 1 percent to 3,257.98 today.  Policy makers have boosted borrowing costs three times
since the start of 2010 while raising banks’ reserve
requirements nine times, including an increase on March 18.
Annual inflation reached 4.9 percent in February, slowing from a
two-year high of 5.1 percent in November.  Inflation Concern  The central bank may increase  interest rates  in April or
the middle of this year as inflation continues to exceed the
government’s target, the China Securities Journal said in a
front page editorial today. Consumer prices may increase by 6
percent in June and July, the editorial said.  The People’s Bank of China said yesterday that controlling
inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major economy remains
its main task.  A gauge tracking companies reliant on consumer-
discretionary spending sank 2 percent. Beiqi Foton, China’s
biggest commercial-vehicle maker, tumbled 4.3 percent to 23.52
yuan. Gree Electric, the largest maker of home air-conditioners,
dropped 3.6 percent to 23.20 yuan, paring its annual advance to
28 percent.  China XD Electric, the nation’s biggest maker of power
transmission and distribution equipment, slumped 9.6 percent to
7.59 yuan, its biggest decline since it began trading in January
last year. The company’s 2010 per-share earnings missed
consensus estimates, Li Xiaoguang and Qi Qi, analysts at Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co., wrote in a report. They cut the stock’s
rating to “outperform” from “buy.”  China Radiation  China detected trace amounts of radioactive iodine-131 in
the atmosphere above coastal areas yesterday, as the country
monitors for contamination from the nuclear accident in  Japan .  The isotope was first found above Heilongjiang province in
the northeast, and later over Jiangsu, Shanghai, Zhejiang,
Anhui, Guangdong and Guangxi in the southeast, the Ministry of
Environment said in  statements  on its website yesterday.  The effects of Japan’s earthquake, coupled with higher  oil
prices , may worsen inflation in China, according to Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch. China’s inflation rate may rise to as
high as 5.5 percent in March, Ting Lu, economist at Bank of
America, said in a report.  Shanghai Electric Group Co. fell 2 percent to 7.85 yuan
after the  South China Morning Post  said its nuclear power
projects may be delayed. Miao Deming, a deputy director of
Shanghai Electric’s nuclear power management department, said
yesterday a government review of nuclear  power plants  prompted
by Japan’s nuclear crisis might delay some of its projects, the
paper said.  Fu Rong, a spokeswoman at Shanghai Electric, couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  Banks Advance  A gauge of financial stocks rallied 0.6 percent, the only
increase among 10 industry groups. Industrial Bank, which is
part-owned by a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, gained 2.7 percent to
29.39 yuan. Net income rose to 18.5 billion yuan last year,
higher than the average 17.3 billion yuan of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. jumped 2.2 percent to 5.63
yuan. China’s banks will have another record year for earnings,
Mike Werner, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television today.  --Irene Shen. With assistance from Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen
Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  