-- 
CLOs Are at ‘Bargain’ Prices as Leveraged Loans Rally, Babson Capital Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-29T22:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/clos-are-at-bargain-prices-as-leveraged-loans-rally-babson-capital-says.html
Collateralized loan obligations
offer investors a “bargain” as relative yields on the notes
fall amid a rally in leveraged debt, according to Babson Capital
Management LLC.  There’s an opportunity “to pick up what are fundamentally
strong assets at bargain prices,” Matt Natcharian, head of the
structured credit team at Babson, which manages $133.1 billion
of assets, said in an interview. “If you can afford a little
bit of illiquidity, you can pick up significant spread.”  The extra yield offered by the highest-rated portion of
CLOs narrowed to 175 basis points more than the benchmark London
interbank offered rate this month, from 215 basis points on Dec.
30, according to Morgan Stanley data. Spreads on the notes
surged to 725 basis points in April 2009 amid the global credit
freeze, from a low of 23 in 2007, the data show.  Moody’s Investors Service may change the way it rates CLOs
-- a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return
-- possibly leading to rating upgrades of as much as five
levels, it said in a March 22 report.  Prices of leveraged loans, rated lower than Baa3 by Moody’s
and below BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , rose 61 percent to an
average 95.41 cents on the dollar as of March 28 from a low of
59.2 cents on Dec. 17, 2008, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index. They reached 96.48 cents on Feb. 14,
the highest level since November 2007.  ‘Significantly’ Cheaper  While CLOs have rallied along with the underlying loans,
they are still “significantly” cheaper, Springfield,
Massachusetts-based Natcharian said in a phone interview from
 Melbourne , where he was visiting Australian clients.  “The sum of the CLO tranches should trade at an equal
price to the sum of the bank loan assets that directly back
those tranches, but they don’t,” he said.  Blackstone Group LP’s GSO Capital Partners LP and Apollo
Global Management LLC are among investment firms that have been
able to raise CLOs since losses on subprime mortgage securities
cut investor demand for so-called structured products that
contributed to more than $2 trillion of losses at financial
firms amid the credit crisis.  During the leveraged-buyout boom in 2007, $91.1 billion of
CLOs backed by syndicated loans were sold in the U.S., with
issuance tumbling to $1.22 billion in 2009.  Australian Fund  REST Industry Super , an Australian pension fund with more
than A$18 billion ($18.5 billion) of funds under management,
started investing in bank loans and structured notes in 2008 on
the prospect of “equity-like returns” over a three to five-
year period, according to Chief Executive Officer Damian Hill.  “The sharp rebound in credit markets that began in early
2009 has resulted in very strong returns from our investments in
this area,” Sydney-based Hill said in an interview. CLOs “will
continue to be an attractive proposition,” he said.  REST has about 6 percent of assets under management
invested in bank loans and structured securities, Hill said. The
fund has 1.9 million members, more than any other Australian
pension fund, according to its website.  “CLOs are a valid asset class, as long as the individual
making the  investment decision  understands the risks and has the
skills to analyze them,” said Scott Rundell, head of credit
research at ING Investment Management in Sydney, which manages
about $15 billion of fixed-income assets. “It’s all about the
risk-return trade off and understanding all the moving parts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 