-- 
G-20 Criticism of Fed May Be Muted as Japan Crisis, Portugal Slow Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-30T10:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/criticism-of-fed-easing-so-yesterday-as-g-20-prepares-to-meet-in-nanjing.html
Chinese criticism of the  Federal
Reserve  for flooding the world with money may get little
traction among Group of 20 finance chiefs meeting in China as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and Japan’s disaster take precedence.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, French
President Nicolas Sarkozy, Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan and
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet will gather
in Nanjing for a one-day seminar on the international monetary
system tomorrow. A Chinese state economist called for an end to
the dollar’s dominance in a  paper  posted on a website yesterday,
blaming the U.S. for fueling inflation.  A 9.0-magnitude earthquake in Japan, armed NATO
intervention in  Libya , and the heightened prospect of a bailout
of  Portugal  are among developments since Sarkozy proposed the
meeting seven months ago. At the same time, the Fed plans to end
its $600 billion of Treasury purchases in June and officials
have signaled that additional quantitative easing is unlikely as
the American economy is showing signs of strengthening.  Criticism of U.S. monetary policy is “so yesterday,” said
 Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ in  New York . “World leaders and monetary
officials have a lot more important things on their plate.”  Xu Hongcai, an official at the  China  Center for
International Economic Exchanges, revived complaints in his
paper, saying U.S. monetary policies boosting global liquidity
are the root cause of surging oil and commodity prices. His
organization is helping to host the Nanjing event.  Capital Flows  Officials including French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  will discuss topics including “shortcomings in the
international monetary system” and dealing with volatile
capital flows, according to the schedule for the conference in
Nanjing, a city on the Yangtze River about 170 miles (270
kilometers) from Shanghai.  German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said the
event isn’t intended to deliver short-term fixes and is part of
preparing for a G-20 meeting in Cannes in November that should
yield more substantive results. He spoke in an interview
yesterday en route from Berlin to Beijing.  The latest meeting comes after Portugal’s 10-year bond
yield advanced to a euro-era record, unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa pushed crude oil over $100 a barrel, and the
Group of Seven nations this month triggered the biggest fall in
 Japan ’s yen in more than two years. A weaker currency may help
Japanese exporters to weather a disaster spanning nuclear leaks
and the annihilation of northeastern towns.  Currency Intervention  Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management
International, said it will be “fascinating” to see how a
Chinese delegation including central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan reacts to any discussion of the G-7 move. China itself
intervenes to limit gains by the yuan, drawing criticism from
trading partners including the U.S.  The currency traded at 6.5604 per dollar as of 10:23 a.m.
in Shanghai today after touching a 17-year high of 6.5552 on
March 22. Germany’s Asmussen said a more flexible currency would
be in China’s interest and “this clearly is what they are very
carefully pursuing.”  China has been one of the biggest critics of U.S. monetary
policy, blaming it for driving up commodity prices and stoking
inflation, which reached a 28-month high of 5.1 percent in China
in November.  The Fed, which sets monetary policy independent of
Geithner’s Treasury Department, has initiated two rounds of
quantitative easing to support growth after the financial crisis.  Commodity Costs  “Some countries have further eased their monetary policies
in order to spur economic recovery and that has caused rising
global commodity prices,” Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told chief
executives gathered on March 21 at the Great Hall of the People
in Beijing.  In an interview this week, Goldman’s O’Neill asked whether
the Fed’s critics would rather see a permanently damaged
American economy or a U.S. recovery where “one of the
consequences might be higher commodity prices.”  O’Neill, who will speak in Nanjing in a panel on liquidity
management moderated by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, said he expects possible changes to the  International
Monetary Fund ’s Special Drawing Rights to be discussed. In 2009,
Zhou suggested in a policy paper that SDRs may be the basis for
a new global currency.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
that he expects “quite some movement” this year in the
discussion of exchange-rate issues and said talks may move from
the G-7 to the G-20, or a sub-group consisting of the G-7 plus
Brazil, Russia,  India  and China. He spoke to reporters as he
travelled to Beijing.  Sarkozy’s Agenda  While French officials said there will be no group
statements or decisions, Sarkozy’s own agenda in China includes
pushing industrial projects such as  Areva SA (CEI)  nuclear-power
plants, Airbus SAS planes and  Alstom SA (ALO)  high-speed trains.  Tomorrow’s event also reflects the French leader’s desire
to organize a new “Bretton Woods” during his presidency of the
G-20 to address what he has called imbalances in the global
monetary system. He first raised the possibility of such a
meeting in August and pressed the Chinese to act as hosts.  Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, was the site of a 1944
meeting which led to the establishment of the  World Bank  and
International Monetary Fund.  “I think in some sense maybe the axis of discussion for
this G-20 is going to be helping the Chinese assume a bit more
prominence at the global table,” said Cliff Tan, head of
emerging-markets research at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  --Michael Forsythe. With assistance from  Rebecca Christie  in
 Washington  and James Hertling, Zheng Lifei and Rainer Buergin in
Beijing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  