-- 
Crude Oil Advances as Equities Increase Amid Signals Economy to Recover

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-29T20:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/crude-oil-futures-decline-to-lowest-level-in-week-on-libyan-rebel-advance.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days in  New York  as an advance in U.S. equities signaled the
economic recovery may accelerate.  Crude gained 0.8 percent, erasing an earlier drop, as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased amid advances in consumer
stocks and St. Louis Federal Reserve President  James Bullard 
said the Fed may be able to cut about $100 billion from its plan
to buy Treasury securities as the economy rebounds.  “We’re seeing equities move higher, and that’s giving a
little bit of positive sentiment toward crude,” said  Matt Smith , a commodities analyst for Summit Energy Services Inc. in
Louisville,  Kentucky . “The remarks by Mr. Bullard indicate the
potential for the economy is looking a little better.”  Crude for May delivery gained 81 cents to settle at $104.79
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil has risen 28
percent in the past year.  Prices pared gains after the settlement when the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles increased 5.69 million barrels last week to 356.4
million. May oil rose 54 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $104.52 a
barrel in electronic trading at 4:31 p.m.  Brent crude for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose 36 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$115.16 a barrel.  The  S&P 500  gained 0.7 percent to 1,319.44 and the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  rose 0.7 percent to 12,279.01.  If uncertainties in the global economy are resolved, the
Fed could “pull up a little bit shy of our total of $600
billion,” in planned purchases of Treasury securities, a
measure known as quantitative easing, Bullard told reporters
today in  Prague , where he was attending a financial conference.  Saudi Drilling  Oil also advanced after Simmons & Co. International and
 Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  said Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as Aramco,
was planning to boost its drilling rigs by as much as 30 percent
to maintain its spare capacity after making more oil available
to compensate for shortfalls in Libyan production.  “Some people are seeing that as a bullish thing that
they’re starting to worry about their spare capacity,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures in New York.  The kingdom, the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 8.43 million barrels a day
in February out of total capacity of 11.5 million, based on
Bloomberg News estimates.  Saudi Arabia  will increase its drilling rigs to 118 by the
end of this year from 92, Chad Deaton, chief executive officer
of Houston-based Baker Hughes, said in a speech at the Howard
Weil Inc. conference in  New Orleans  today. Baker Hughes, an
oilfield services provider, compiles and publishes international
rig counts. An Aramco spokesman declined to comment.  Capacity Increase  The Saudi move is “we assume for the purpose of
increasing/maintaining its productive capacity,” Bill Herbert,
a Houston-based analyst for Simmons, said in a report today.
Simmons was founded by the late Matthew R. Simmons, a leading
proponent of the “peak oil” theory that asserts the world is
running out of crude.  Libyan output has dwindled to a “trickle” because of the
conflict, according to the International Energy Agency. Libya
was Africa’s third-largest oil producer before the conflict.  Oil fell as much as 1.2 percent in earlier trading as
rebels advanced against Libyan troops loyal to Muammar Qaddafi,
which dug in near his hometown of Sirte, and as international
leaders met in  London  to forge a postwar blueprint for  Libya .  ‘Trading Sideways’  “The market’s just kind of trading sideways waiting for
some other piece of information, either news that the economy is
worse or is going to get better or some other shoe to drop on
the production side, such as will some other country become
involved,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank in  Washington .  Futures in New York have climbed 24 percent since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 in Libya. The market may see
little room for further gains in the near future, according to
Glen Ward, head of retail derivatives of London Capital Group.  “All these long positions have to be got out of at some
stage, so it’s time for the market to have a correction,” Ward
said. “What you have seen is basically profit-taking.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 402,405
contracts as of 3:35 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 386,621
contracts yesterday, 52 percent below the average of the past
three months and the lowest level since Dec. 31. Open interest
was 1.52 million contracts.  Stockpiles of crude in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil-
consuming country, probably climbed to the highest level since
early December last week as imports surged before gasoline
demand rises before the summer vacation season, a Bloomberg News
survey showed before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels from 352.8 million
in the week ended March 25, according to the median estimate of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Imports reached a seven-
week high in the seven days ended March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 