-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near One-Week Low in New York as Libyan Rebels Make Gains

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-03-29T12:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/crude-oil-trades-near-one-week-low-in-new-york-as-libyan-rebels-make-gains.html
Crude oil dropped to the lowest
price in a week in  New York  as the advance of Libyan rebels
against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops spurred hope that the conflict
in Africa’s third-largest oil producer may end soon.  Futures fell as much as 1.2 percent after Libyan government
troops prepared to block advancing rebels at Sirte, Qaddafi’s
hometown. Crude extended losses after St. Louis Federal Reserve
President  James Bullard  indicated that the Fed may tighten
monetary policy soon, fanning speculation demand growth may
falter in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer.  “The fairly disappointing news hurt market sentiment for
risk appetite and pushed crude  oil prices  lower,” said Myrto
Sokou, a London-based research analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd.  Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as $1.28 to $102.70 a barrel, the lowest price
since March 22, and was at $103.28 at 1:34 p.m. London time.
 Brent crude  for May settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange was down 59 cents at $114.21 a barrel.  President Barack Obama yesterday defended his decision to
involve U.S. forces in the war. Military intervention “stopped
Qaddafi’s deadly advance” and helped prevent a massacre of
civilians that would have “stained the conscience of the
world,” Obama said in a speech at the National Defense
University in Washington late yesterday.  U.S. Monetary Policy  The U.S. Federal Reserve may need to decide on when to
tighten  monetary policy  before the outlook for the global
economy clears up later this year, Bullard said today in Prague.  A reduction in the Fed’s asset-purchase, or “quantitative
easing,” program may begin if the  U.S. economy  is strong and
global uncertainties are resolved, he said. A cut in the $600
billion program could be “on the order of $100 billion,”
Bullard told reporters today following a presentation at a
banking conference in Prague.  The volume of futures contracts trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange declined to 433,173 on March 25, the lowest
since Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil rose
4.3 percent last week to $105.40 a barrel.  “As governments around the world continued to take actions
in response to the recent events, the oil market took a wait-
and-see approach,”  David Greely  and  Jeffrey Currie , analysts at
Goldman Sachs, said in a report dated yesterday.  Hedge Fund Positions  Lower trading volumes are accompanied by high speculative
net-long positions. Hedge-fund managers and other large
speculators, betting that prices will rise, increased their net-
long positions in futures by 5.9 percent to 286,812 futures in
the seven days ended March 22, according to Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data.  “We are in a situation where the speculative long positions
are at very high levels but market liquidity at very low levels.
This makes for a clear  liquidity risk ,”  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of Geneva-based consultants Petro matrix, said in a
research note.  Futures in New York have rallied 22 percent since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 in Libya. The market may see
little room for further gains in the near future, according to
Glen Ward, head of retail derivatives of  London  Capital Group.  “All these long positions have to be got out of at some
stage, so it’s time for the market to have a correction,” Ward
said. “What you have seen is basically profit-taking.”  Stockpiles of crude in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, probably gained for a fourth week as imports rose
ahead of the peak gasoline demand season, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. The Energy Department publishes its weekly
inventory report tomorrow. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  releases its supply data today.  Commercially held inventories climbed 2 million barrels in
the week ended March 25, according to the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed. Supplies previously increased to 352.8
million, the highest since December, as imports reached a six-
week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 