-- 
CSN Says Usiminas Link to Strengthen Brazil’s Steel Industry

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-03-29T20:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/csn-says-usiminas-link-to-strengthen-brazil-s-steel-industry-2-.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional, the
steelmaker that aims to reach a 10 percent stake in competitor
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , said any tie-up with its
rival may strengthen the Brazilian  steel industry .  Brazilian authorities shouldn’t view any ties as negative,
CSN Chief Financial Officer Paulo Penido said in a conference
call today, responding to concerns that antitrust regulators may
veto the stake. CSN bought voting shares of Usiminas between
Jan. 26 and March 21 to increase its stake to 8.62 percent from
5.03 percent, the company said late yesterday in a  document  on
its website.  “If we do something in Usiminas it is to make the
Brazilian steel industry stronger, so that’s nothing that the
authorities may find negative,” Penido said, adding that the
goal of reaching a 10 percent stake in its rival “may take some
time.”  “We are not in a hurry, it’s a careful movement,” he
said.  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker said in a Jan. 27
statement it had acquired 5 percent of Usiminas and may boost
its stake to a level that could alter the rival’s management or
control structure. Since then, CSN has been responsible for
about 42.5 percent of the total traded value of Usiminas voting
stock, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Rodolfo De Angele in
Sao Paulo said in a note today.  ‘Announced Goal’  “We have a goal, the announced goal of 10 percent,”
Penido said during the call. “We consider Usiminas a strategic
investment that has a very good value for us.”  Rio de Janeiro-based CSN, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, is not in talks with Usiminas and is buying shares
of its rival at market prices, Penido said later in a conference
call with reporters.  CSN, which yesterday posted a 39 percent decline in fourth-
quarter net income, expects to produce about 40 million metric
tons of iron-ore next year, Penido also said.  Voting shares of Usiminas rose 39 centavos, or 1.4 percent,
to 29.20 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading at 4:10 p.m. New York time
after earlier jumping as much as 4.6 percent. CSN gained 30
centavos, or 1.1 percent, to 26.85 reais.  Usiminas is Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker by output,
behind Gerdau SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  