-- 
Delta Air Lines Seeks $2.6 Billion in Refinancing Loans

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-03-29T18:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/delta-air-lines-said-to-seek-2-6-billion-in-loans-to-help-refinance-debt.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
second-largest carrier, is seeking $2.6 billion in loans to
refinance debt, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the bank arranging the financing,
will host a lender call on March 31 at 11 a.m. in New York, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the deal is
private.  The Atlanta-based company is seeking loans as prices for
the debt recover after four straight weeks of losses, which
forced companies last week to cancel $3.12 billion of loan
transactions for refinancings. The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan
Index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, rose 0.44 cent last week to 95.28 cents on
the dollar on March 25.  The Delta financing will replace debt obtained in 2007 that
supported the company’s exit from bankruptcy, including a
revolving  credit line , a first-lien synthetic line of credit and
a second-lien  term loan , the person said.  Richard Anderson, chief executive officer, didn’t
immediately return a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.
Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for Delta, couldn’t immediately
comment.  The new first-lien debt includes a $1.225 billion, five-
year revolving credit line and a $1.375 billion six-year term
loan B, the person said.  First-lien debt is repaid first in a bankruptcy or
liquidation, second-lien debt is repaid next. A term loan B is
sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds . A term loan
A is sold mainly to banks. In a revolving credit facility, money
can be borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it
can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  