-- 
Designer Von Furstenberg Plans Web Sales to Win China Consumers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/designer-von-furstenberg-plans-web-sales-to-win-china-consumers.html
Fashion designer Diane von Furstenberg, who made marketing her clothes in  China  a New Year
resolution, plans to sell products online as part her efforts to
win more customers in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Online sales in China, home to more than 450 million
Internet users, “will be impossible not to do,” Von
Furstenberg, chairman and founder of Diane Von Furstenberg
Studio and the wife of media mogul Barry Diller, said in an
interview in Shanghai. “I haven’t really gotten into it yet,
but I will,” she said.  Growing wealth in China, where the economy more than
doubled in the five years through 2010, has fueled demand for
products sold by companies including  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA. The Greater China
region, comprised of China,  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan , will become
the world’s biggest market for luxury goods by 2020, CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets said in February.  “I wanted very much to be known in China,” said Von
Furstenberg. She was born on New Year’s Eve in 1946 and always
gives herself “big” New Year’s resolutions, which this year
was China. “Ever since I designed, I always thought I would
love to sell in China, clearly because there are so many people
and because Chinese women are beautiful.”  Before starting online sales of her clothes, Von
Furstenberg has already signed up for an account on Sina Corp.’s
weibo microblog service, which is similar to the service offered
by Twitter Inc. The designer, with one store in  Shanghai  and two
in Beijing, has more than 16,000 Chinese Internet users who
follow her entries on the service.  -- Margaret Conley in Shanghai and  Michael Wei  in Beijing.
Editors: John Liu, Stephanie Wong.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  