-- 
DiBenedetto, U.S. Investors Group Agree to Acquire AS Roma Soccer Club

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-03-30T07:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/dibenedetto-u-s-investors-group-agree-to-acquire-as-roma-soccer-club.html
A group of U.S. investors agreed to
acquire AS Roma  soccer club , which would result in their
becoming the only foreign owner in  Italy ’s top league.  The group, led by Thomas DiBenedetto, a Boston Red Sox
partner, which also includes hedge fund manager James Pallotta
and as many as four other investors, will acquire 60 percent of
the team and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  will hold the remainder, Italpetroli
SpA, DiBenedetto and UniCredit SpA said in a joint statement
yesterday. The agreement follows negotiations to buy the three-
time Serie A champion from the Sensi family and UniCredit,
Italy’s biggest lender.  As Roma’s new owners, the investors would join a league
with clubs struggling to fill stadiums and boost sales. Most
Serie A teams, including publicly traded Roma and European
champion  Inter Milan , are unprofitable. Italian club owners
include Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  at league leader AC
Milan, while a Libyan state holding company holds a 7.5 percent
stake in  Juventus Football Club SpA. (JUVE)   Roma, which last won the Italian title in 2001, was put up
for sale in July because the Sensi family accumulated debt of
more than 300 million euros ($423 million) with Milan-based
UniCredit. The bank agreed to swap the debt for equity and
jointly owned a 67 percent stake in the team with the Sensi’s
oil company Italpetroli SpA.  Roma shares were down 4.2 percent as of 9:12 a.m. in Milan,
their first decline in seven days.  The signing of the agreement is expected within 20 days,
which will give the U.S. investors enough time to fulfill the
commitments agreed on yesterday, according to the statement.
UniCredit may sell part of its stake to “Italian strategic
investors” under the accord, the statement also said.  ‘Best Clubs’  In an  interview  with Gazzetta dello Sport newspaper on
March 28, DiBenedetto said his partners would help make Roma
“one of the best clubs in the world.” He cited Pallotta’s
sports experience as an owner of the  Boston Celtics , and the
investment acumen of Michael Ruane of Boston property company TA
Associates Realty. Richard D’Amore of Venture Partners in
Waltham,  Massachusetts , “is an expert in new media and will
help develop that area,” DiBenedetto said.  Roma, which rents the Stadio Olimpico, generated 8.7
million euros from ticket sales last year -- a tenth of English
team Arsenal’s at its Emirates Stadium in  London . The Italian
arena was only 56 percent full for Roma last season and 50
percent for city rival Lazio, according to  league statistics .  Roma posted a net loss of 21.9 million euros on sales of
118 million euros for the fiscal year ended June 2010. The
company’s stock has gained 9.6 percent in Milan since Jan. 1,
giving it a market value of about 153 million euros.  ‘Balance Sheet’  DiBenedetto’s business plans call for increasing revenue to
185 million euros, daily  Il Messaggero  reported yesterday. He
told Gazzetta his first priority will be to get Roma’s “balance
sheet in order” and in line with UEFA’s financial fair-play
rules, which will require clubs to at least  break even .  While  England ’s top league has lured foreign investors such
as Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich and  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Italy isn’t as appealing because no
top-flight club owns its own stadium, and they haven’t developed
sponsorship or apparel sales, said Patrizio Pazzaglia, a money
manager in  Rome  at Bank Insinger de Beaufort NV.  DiBenedetto was cited by Gazzetta as saying he wants to
build “an English-style” stadium and a team that consistently
competes for the Serie A title. He also said he wants to bring
in five or six new players. Roma is currently in sixth place in
the league under interim coach Vincenzo Montella, 12 points
behind Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 