-- 
Dodd-Frank, JPMorgan, Sprint, Berkshire Hathaway: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-03-29T11:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/dodd-frank-hp-jpmorgan-sprint-berkshire-hathaway-compliance.html
The Dodd-Frank financial regulation
law may require the federal government to spend almost $1
billion and hire or transfer more than 2,000 employees in the
months ahead, according to the Government Accountability Office.  The 11 agencies implementing the law, including the
Treasury Department,  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., told the GAO they would need as much as $973
million to establish the new rules. The agencies, which provided
the GAO with their Dodd-Frank-related costs for either the 2011
calendar year or for fiscal 2012, said that most of the expense
would be recurring, according to a GAO slide presentation sent
to U.S. House Republicans and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Taxpayers are likely to bear only part of the
implementation costs. While three of the 11 agencies are at
least partly funded by congressional appropriations, six are
funded fully or partly by assessments on industry, one fully by
federal budget offsets and one, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, by transfers from the Federal Reserve.  The consumer bureau, which has been targeted by Republicans
for structural changes and funding cuts, may require $329
million in fiscal 2012 and more than 883 new employees, the GAO
said.  Republicans requested the GAO report in advance of a
Financial Services subcommittee  hearing  on Dodd-Frank this week.
Republican lawmakers have proposed several changes to the law,
which was enacted last year when Democrats held majorities in
the House and Senate. Democrats still control the Senate and
White House.  Compliance Action  Sprint Asks U.S. to Block AT&T’s ‘Anticompetitive’ Purchase  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless
provider, claimed that  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s planned $39 billion takeover
of  T-Mobile USA  will damage industry competition and called on
the government to block it.  Sprint said in a statement that the industry would be
dominated by two carriers, the combined AT&T-T-Mobile and
Verizon Wireless. “We think the anticompetitive nature of the
transaction simply will not allow it to pass,” Charles McKee, a
Sprint vice president of government affairs, said yesterday in
an interview. “This is really an important transaction to
stop.”  Sprint had also held talks with Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom
to buy T-Mobile, people with knowledge of the matter said this
month. McKee declined to say whether Sprint had held discussions
with T-Mobile over a possible merger.  McKee said Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint would voice
its objections throughout the regulatory process, which AT&T
said could take 12 months. Dan Hesse, Sprint’s chief executive
officer, said last week that the carrier planned to file
objections to the U.S. Congress when it begins its review.  AT&T said March 20 it agreed to buy T-Mobile from parent
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , pending government approval. The deal would
combine the second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless providers.
AT&T expects regulators will require it to divest wireless
spectrum and subscribers to win approval for the acquisition, a
person with knowledge of the situation said last week.  Mike Buckley, an AT&T spokesman, said the acquisition
“will improve quality for consumers, provide a solution to
impending spectrum exhaust” and bring so-called fourth-
generation service to more Americans.  Reid Walker , a spokesman for T-Mobile in Bellevue,
Washington, and Jeff Nelson, a Verizon Wireless spokesman,
declined in e-mails to comment. Robert Kenny, a spokesman for
the Federal Communications Commission, the phone-industry
regulator, also declined to comment.  Berkshire Wrote Down U.S. Bancorp, Swiss Re After SEC Query  Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  wrote down the
value of holdings in U.S. Bancorp,  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  and Swiss
Reinsurance Co. after a query from the Securities and Exchange
Commission over valuations.  The adjustments to the equity stakes were made to
Berkshire’s fourth-quarter results in its annual Form 10-K
report, according to a Feb. 4 letter from Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire to the regulator. The letter was filed yesterday on
the SEC’s website.  “As a result of our discussions, we recognize that the
staff” of the SEC believes that impairments on the investments
may be required according to generally accepted accounting
principles, Berkshire Chief Financial Officer Marc Hamburg
wrote.  Berkshire, which held  $61.5 billion  of equities as of Dec.
31, was asked by the SEC in January for more information about
stockholdings that traded below the prices paid by the company.
The firm recorded equity impairments of $938 million in the
fourth quarter. Berkshire told the SEC that it wasn’t writing
down its holdings of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and Wells Fargo & Co.
because it expects the stocks recover.  Unrealized losses of more than 12 months on equity
investments narrowed to $531 million on Dec. 31 from $2.7
billion a year earlier, Berkshire said in its annual report. The
Wells Fargo stake accounted for $384 million of that unrealized
loss, Berkshire said.  In the Courts  Hewlett-Packard Investor Can’t Get Hurd Report, Judge Rules  A Hewlett-Packard Co. investor isn’t entitled to a law
firm’s confidential report about sexual-harassment allegations
that led to Mark Hurd’s ouster last year as chief executive
officer, a judge ruled.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons on March 25
denied Hewlett-Packard Co. shareholder Ernesto Espinoza’s
request for the report, which was prepared for the HP board by
lawyers at Covington & Burling LLP, court records show.  Espinoza sued HP Nov. 18 seeking company books and records
as a part of his investigation into possible wrongdoing by
directors. The board granted Hurd a severance package worth as
much as $40 million “rather than terminate him for cause” with
no payment, according to court filings.  Shareholders have sued Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-
Packard in Delaware and California claiming that the computer-
maker’s officials should be held liable for wasting company
assets on Hurd’s severance.  Mylene Mangalindan, a Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the ruling. Felipe Arroyo, one of Espinoza’s
lawyers, didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  The Delaware case is Espinoza v.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The California
case is Levine v. Andreessen, 10-3608, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Chase Sues Florida Foreclosure Law Firm Over Files  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sued the Florida law firm of Ben-Ezra
& Katz to force it to return files of foreclosure cases in which
the firm represented the bank.  JPMorgan said in a complaint filed March 25 in Miami that
the files include thousands of original promissory notes,
mortgages and other documents that “evidence and secure” loans
worth more than $400 million. The New York-based bank seeks a
court order forcing  Ben-Ezra  to return the files and unspecified
damages.  The Florida attorney general’s office is investigating law
firms in the state that handle residential foreclosure cases on
behalf of lenders. The probes focus on whether the firms were
“fabricating and/or presenting false and misleading documents
in foreclosure cases,” according to the attorney general’s
website.  On March 25, the attorney general said she had reached a $2
million settlement with one of the firms, the Law Offices of
Marshall C. Watson. Ben-Ezra, based in Fort Lauderdale, is one
of four law firms still under investigation, the office said.  JPMorgan terminated Ben-Ezra on March 8, according to the
complaint. The law firm refuses to return the files because it
claims it is owned $5 million, according to the complaint.  Mark Sell, a spokesman for Ben-Ezra, had no immediate
comment on the suit.  In a separate suit, the law firm of David J. Stern sued
Chase Home Finance, claiming the firm was owed $398,979.95.
Stern’s firm is also under investigation by the Florida attorney
general’s office.  The case is JPMorgan Chase Bank v. Ben-Ezra & Katz,
11-60655, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami.)  Syncora Wins Partial Judgment Against JPMorgan’s EMC in Suit 
Syncora Guarantee Inc. won part of its case against JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMC Mortgage Corp. over the securitization of
9,871 home equity line of credit loans.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in  New York  ruled March
25 that Syncora, a New York-based insurer, notified EMC of 1,300
mortgages with defects and asked EMC to cure them. EMC agreed to
cure only 20 of the mortgages.  The transaction in dispute began with the purchase of the
home equity lines of credit or HELOCs, which in turn served as
collateral for the issuance of $666 million in publicly offered
securities, Syncora said in court papers.  Syncora claimed in the 2009 suit that EMC sold the loan
pool to the entity that issued the notes and contracted with
Syncora to provide financial-guaranty insurance protecting
investors.  The insurer alleged that after it hired consultants to
investigate poor loan performance, “it learned that more than
85 percent of a randomly selected pool of loans contained
defects that breached the loan-level warranties,” Crotty wrote.  Syncora notified EMC of these claimed breaches, Crotty
wrote. EMC agreed to repurchase certain loans and disputed
others “because Syncora misinterpreted the representations
relied upon or because the loans were not defective,” the judge
wrote.  Crotty separately rejected a bid by Syncora to add JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s Bear Stearns & Co. to the lawsuit. The insurer
said it had uncovered new evidence to support claims of fraud
and interference. The request wasn’t filed in a timely fashion,
the judge said.  “Syncora gave no indication of its intention to file an
amended complaint, add a new party or assert additional claims
until September 2010, approximately fourteen months after the
amendment deadline had passed,” Crotty said. He added later,
“Syncora has failed to demonstrate the good cause necessary to
permit this late amendment.”  Michael Corbally, a spokesman for Syncora, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to a message.  The case is Syncora Guarantee Inc. v. EMC Mortgage Corp.,
1:09-cv-03106, U.S. District court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Ex-Goldman Programmer Aleynikov Denied Bail During Appeal  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  computer programmer Sergey Aleynikov must remain in jail while appealing a 97-month prison
term for stealing the firm’s computer code, a federal judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote , after sentencing Aleynikov
March 18, rejected a request by his lawyer,  Kevin Marino , to
free the defendant during an appeal. Aleynikov was convicted by
a Manhattan jury in December of violating the Economic Espionage
Act and the Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act.  “The facts that caused Aleynikov’s remand prior to his
sentencing have not changed,” Cote said in a ruling yesterday.
“His sentence of roughly eight years’ imprisonment
substantially increases his incentive to flee and he has not
shown by clear and convincing evidence that he is not likely to
do so.”  Cote said that in papers filed seeking Aleynikov’s release,
Marino repeated prior arguments that she previously rejected.
She also said the defense “largely conceded” that the amount
of loss to Goldman Sachs as a result of Aleynikov’s actions was
properly calculated at more than $7 million.  The judge said her sentence was on the lowest end of the
guideline range for such a crime and that Marino had failed to
show that the term would be reduced on appeal.  Marino argued, as he had during the trial, that Aleynikov
only took open-source code he had written at Goldman Sachs and
that nothing he took was proprietary, Cote said.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Enron Broadband Executive Sentenced for Insider Trading  Former Enron Broadband Services executive Rex Shelby was
sentenced yesterday on an insider trading charge linked to the
investment fraud that destroyed the world’s largest energy
trader 10 years ago.  Shelby, 59, pleaded guilty to one count of insider trading
and was sentenced to three months in a federal halfway house and
three months of house arrest. Shelby will also forfeit about
$2.6 million in profits from the illicit trade.  Shelby’s lawyer Ed Tomko told a judge that Shelby has also
agreed to forfeit another $1 million to resolve related
Securities and Exchange Commission charges. He faced a maximum
of 10 years and a fine of $1 million on the one count before
reaching his plea deal. He’ll be in probation for two years,
including the six months of combined confinement.  “I take full responsibility for my actions and all the
decisions I made at Enron,” Shelby told the judge yesterday.
“No one forced me to do those things.”  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Gilmore sentenced Shelby to
half the number of  months  confinement that he’d agreed to in a
plea deal. “Mr. Shelby’s actions ultimately did not cause the
downfall of Enron,” she said. “Only a few individuals at the
pinnacle of Enron knew of the fraud.”  Gilmore said she moderated the sentence to fit Shelby’s
role and the punishments given to others in the Enron fraud
scheme. She said the fact Shelby has for the last eight years
devoted himself exclusively to working on his defense, in
“self-imposed home confinement’’”, was also a consideration in
her decision.  Shelby and six other EBS executives were indicted in 2003
on charges they helped the parent company’s senior management,
including Enron’s former Chairman Kenneth Lay and Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Skilling, deceive analysts and
investors about the unit’s capabilities and financial
performance.  The executives were accused of misrepresenting EBS at a
January 2000 analysts’ conference, where they portrayed it as
one of Enron’s “core” units, worth about $50 billion. In
reality, the division struggled to launch products and never
earned a profit.  Shelby had long maintained he sold the shares to diversify
his portfolio and not based on any inside knowledge of an
alleged conspiracy to inflate Enron’s stock price. To avoid a
trial on broader conspiracy and fraud charges, which had been
set to begin this past January, Shelby pleaded guilty to one
count of insider trading in November.  The case is U.S. v. Shelby, H-03-093, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Fake Hedge Fund Operators Sentenced to 87 Months in Prison  Two men who in December admitted to defrauding investors of
more than $7 million though bogus hedge funds were each
sentenced to 87 months in prison, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said.  Igor Levin, 41, of Brooklyn, New York, and Yevgeny
Shvartsshteyn, 40, of Belle Harbor, New York, each pleaded
guilty last year to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and
wire fraud. The two said they operated A.R. Capital, a general
partner of A.R. Capital Global Fund LP, which they told
investors was a hedge fund that invested primarily in equity of
international real estate companies, and in oil, gas and other
commodities, according to a statement from Bharara’s office.  The U.S. said that in reality, there were no such
investments. The defendants instead wired more than $7 million
of investor funds to bank accounts in the Ukraine. Levin and
Shvartsshteyn received the proceeds from these illegally
obtained investments, prosecutors said.  “My client wanted to get this sentence behind him,”
Joseph Mure, a lawyer for Shvartsshteyn, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Andrew Frisch, a lawyer for Levin, declined
to comment.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York imposed the
sentences upon the two men on March 25, Bharara’s office said.  The case is U.S. v. Levin, 10-CR-00031, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deutsche Bank, Standard & Poor’s Must Face Anschutz Claims  Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Standard & Poor’s must
face claims in a lawsuit brought by the  Anschutz Corp.  seeking
damages over its purchase of auction-rate securities, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  in San Francisco has
refused to throw out Anschutz’s claims of market manipulation
and fraud against Deutsche Bank and negligent misrepresentation
against S&P, according to a March 27 ruling.  Banks running periodic auctions abandoned the $330 billion
market for the securities in 2008 amid the fallout from the
subprime market slump. Investors were stuck with the products.
Denver-based Anschutz in 2007 bought $40 million of the
securities underwritten and rated by the defendants, the ruling
said.  “The case is without merit and we will defend ourselves
vigorously,” Edward Sweeney, a spokesman for S&P, said in a
statement.  In a separate lawsuit over auction rate securities, a
federal judge in San Francisco yesterday conditionally granted
Deutsche Bank Securities’ request to dismiss claims by Louisiana
Pacific Corp. while giving the building products company an
opportunity to revise its lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White gave Nashville,
Tennessee-based Louisiana Pacific until April 29 to amend its
case or face dismissal of most of the lawsuit, which seeks to
recover damages from its $300 million purchase of auction-rate
securities, according to a court filing.  Elizabeth Frolich, an attorney for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, had no immediate comment.  The first case is Anschutz v. Merrill Lynch, 09-3780, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).
The second case is Louisiana Pacific v Money Market 1
Institutional Investment Dealer, 09-3529, U.S. District Court,
San Francisco.  BofA Board Sued by Holders Over Mortgage Recording Paperwork  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s board and some officers were sued
by shareholders claiming they were hurt by false and misleading
statements that hid defects in mortgage recording and
foreclosure paperwork.  Bank of America “did not properly record many of its
mortgages when originated or acquired, which severely
complicated the foreclosure process when it became necessary,”
according to the complaint filed yesterday in New York state
Supreme Court in Manhattan. The suit also claims that the bank
also concealed that it didn’t have adequate personnel to process
the large numbers of foreclosed loans in its portfolio.  The bank’s stock traded at inflated prices, reaching a high
of $19.48 on April 15, 2010, and fell almost 42 percent after
the problems were disclosed, according to the complaint.  The directors and officers also hid the bank’s involvement
in “dollar rolling,” omitting billions of dollars in debt from
its balance sheet, according to the complaint. Bank of America
later admitted it wrongly classified the transactions as sales
when they were secured borrowing, according to the complaint.  In October, after news of improprieties at Bank of America
and other large banks, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
lender temporarily halted foreclosures and admitted to possible
irregularities.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, had no
immediate comment.  The case is Thomas O’Hare v. Brian T. Moynihan,
103729/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulators Weigh Rules Clarifying Risk in Securitization  U.S. regulators, including the Federal Reserve, said
they’re considering proposed rules this week under a law
requiring companies to retain part of the risk when they
securitize and sell loans.  “All of the agencies participating in this joint
rulemaking process are expected to consider the rule this week
and a detailed announcement will be made when this process is
complete,” the regulators said yesterday in a statement in
Washington, citing section 941 of last year’s Dodd-Frank Act
overhauling financial regulation.  The agencies include the Fed, Department of Housing and
Urban Development, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Federal
Housing Finance Agency, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and Securities and Exchange Commission.  Private Equity May Lose as U.S. Reconsiders Tax Break for Debt  As lawmakers working on a rewrite of the U.S. tax code
examine the treatment of debt financing, the private-equity
industry could face a challenge to its business model.  An overhaul of the U.S. tax code, which is in the early
stages of discussion, could lessen the preference for debt that
fuels both private-equity deals and financing strategies in
other industries. That incentive is caused by the contrast
between deductible interest payments and non-deductible
dividends.  Changes to the value of the interest deduction would affect
all companies that use debt. Private-equity firms such as
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co. would experience the effects
most directly because they borrow to finance corporate takeovers
as part of an industry that manages $2.5 trillion in assets,
according to research firm Preqin Ltd.  While private-equity firms might benefit from the lower
corporate rate that lawmakers propose in a new tax system, they
would have to shift their business model, said Steven Kaplan, a
professor of entrepreneurship and finance at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business.  “If you can’t fully deduct your interest, then you want
less of it,” he said.  The two top tax writers in Congress, Senator  Max Baucus  and
Representative Dave Camp, have asked congressional analysts for
a study of the preference toward debt financing.  They are holding hearings on the tax code and say they want
to overhaul the system. Neither Baucus, a Montana Democrat who
heads the Senate Finance Committee, nor Camp, a Michigan
Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means panel,
has released a detailed proposal.  “The bias toward debt financing in this country led --
maybe slightly, but led nonetheless -- to the economic
collapse,” Baucus said March 15.  Officials from Blackstone and KKR declined to comment.
Private-equity firms pool investors’ money to buy companies,
financing the purchase mostly with debt, with the intention of
later selling the companies at a profit.  The magnitude of changes to the private-equity industry
would depend on the shape of the broader tax legislation, said
Doug Lowenstein, president of the  Private Equity Growth Capital
Council , the industry’s trade association in Washington.  For more, click here.  Large Banks Gain Over Smaller Rivals Under New Overdraft Rules  The  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  is set to begin
enforcing rules this summer aimed at reducing overdraft fees, a
move that may cut into retail banking revenue at companies such
as  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ,  Synovus Financial Corp. (SNV)  and  Ameriana Bancorp. (ASBI)   The new rules may increase pressure on other U.S. banking
regulators, including the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, to impose industrywide overdraft rules, said Jeremy
Rosenblum, vice chairman of the consumer financial services
group at the law firm Ballard Spahr in Philadelphia.  “If you don’t comply by July 1, you are really asking for
problems in the examination process,” Rosenblum said. “The
guidelines are going to really cut into overdraft revenues.”  Banks and credit unions were set to earn about $38 billion
from overdraft fees in 2011, according to a Sept. 15 estimate by
Lake Bluff, Illinois-based Moebs Services. About 10 percent of
the revenue was expected to come from customers with 10 or more
overdrafts per year.  Additional rules imposed by the consumer bureau would hit
nationally chartered institutions such as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The FDIC rules come atop industrywide regulation approved
by the Federal Reserve last year requiring banks to obtain
customers’ permission to enroll them in overdraft programs.
Since the FDIC rules do not apply to nationally chartered banks,
FDIC-regulated banks argue the guidance will skew competition.
For more, click here.  Speeches/Interviews  Levitt, Former Head of the SEC, Calls for Merger of SEC And CFTC  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Arthur Levitt says because of “overlap,” the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodities Futures Trading Commission
“should merge immediately.”  Levitt talks with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene and Barry Ritholtz,
chief executive officer at Fusion IQ, on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  To hear the interview, click here.  Chilton Says ‘Race to the Bottom’ at Risk in Global Swaps Rules  U.S. and European financial regulators would risk a “race
to the bottom” if they proposed different rules governing the
$583 trillion global swaps market, said Bart Chilton,
commissioner at the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  “We shouldn’t open the door for regulatory arbitrage or
trading migration to the least or most poorly regulated trading
environments,” Chilton said in a speech prepared for delivery
yesterday in London at a Goldman Sachs Global Commodity
Conference.  Regulators are drafting rules for the derivatives market
after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission 
are leading U.S. efforts required under the Dodd Frank Act,
signed into law by President Barack Obama last July. The law
seeks to reduce risk and boost transparency by having most swaps
guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other
platforms.  The EU’s focus only on derivatives traded away from
exchanges may lead to gaps in regulation in the region compared
with the U.S.,  Gary Gensler , chairman of the CFTC, said in
Brussels on March 22. U.S. lawmakers have tasked regulators with
determining whether other nations should be recognized as having
rules that are “comprehensive and comparable” with those in
the U.S., Gensler said.  Differences in trading regulations may lead banks and other
market participants to shift where they conduct business,
according to a Feb. 18 report from a technical committee of the
 International Organization of Securities Commissions .  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to a stock, bond, currency or event, such as a company default.
The global swaps market was $583 trillion as of last June,
according to the Basel-based  Bank for International Settlements .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  