-- 
Double-Dippers Earning Pensions Plus Paychecks Are Targeted by U.S. States

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/double-dippers-earning-pensions-plus-paychecks-are-targeted-by-u-s-states.html
Bill Treacy retired as executive
director of the  Texas   Public Accountancy Board  in 2003. Rehired
to the same job a month later, he’s been pulling down both a
government paycheck and a pension ever since.  “The job has to go to somebody and if you get someone with
experience, you don’t have to train a newcomer,” Treacy, 68, a
40-year state employee who makes an annual salary of $120,000,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s an injustice to say that
this is taking advantage of the system.”  With U.S. unemployment averaging 8.9 percent, so-called
double-dipping by tens of thousands of government workers
nationwide is drawing increasing scrutiny. Lawmakers from coast
to coast are taking steps to curb the practice as states face
combined deficits projected at $112 billion and unfunded pension
liabilities of as much as $3 trillion.  Arkansas banned double-dipping by state workers last month,
while bills to curb it are pending before lawmakers in Olympia,
Washington, and Trenton,  New Jersey .  “It just drives people absolutely crazy that some public
employees can draw a six-figure salary and still collect a very
generous pension,” said Adam Braun, a spokesman for New Jersey
Senator Jennifer Beck, a Red Bank Republican. Beck has backed a
bill to limit double dipping in the state, which has almost $54
billion in projected unfunded pension liabilities.  ‘Sensible Rules’  “If we had sensible rules that government employees
couldn’t collect a pension until age 65 or receive pension
payments of more than $100,000 per year, we’d go a long way
toward solving our state fiscal crises,” said economist  Dianna
Furchtgott-Roth , a  Hudson Institute  senior fellow in Washington.
The nonprofit research group focuses on promoting “global
security, prosperity and freedom,” according to its website.  In Olympia, where lawmakers face a $5.1 billon budget gap
for the fiscal biennium that begins in July, the Senate passed a
measure to restrict double-dipping this month. The state’s
unfunded pension liability is about $7 billion, Governor
Christine Gregoire said in a statement Dec. 13.  “We simply cannot afford to be paying employees twice
while we’re struggling to fund our schools and critical services
for our most vulnerable citizens,” Senator Mike Hewitt, a Walla
Walla Republican who leads his party in the chamber, said March
7. The bill is pending in the state House of Representatives.  More than 5,600 California state retirees were double-
dipping in 2009, up 57 percent from a decade earlier, according
to the Los Angeles Times. The Golden State’s rules permit the
practice as long as the retiree works 960 hours or less a year,
said Adam Summers of the Los Angeles-based  Reason Foundation .  Buckeye Cost Shift  About 32,000 state- and local-government employees in  Ohio 
received more than $1 billion in pension payments in 2009 on top
of their paychecks, according to an  analysis  of public records
by eight of the state’s largest newspapers, published in June.  About a quarter of Ohio’s 613 school superintendents were
double-dipping in 2009, the newspapers said. Districts can save
money through the practice, as some benefits they normally pay
would be covered by the State Teachers Retirement System.  Treacy is far from alone in Texas, where about 6,100 state
employees got a combined total of about $400 million in pay and
pensions in the past fiscal year, Comptroller Susan Combs has
said. Another 22,000 public school and university workers also
received payment from public pension and government funds,
according to the Texas Association of School Boards.  Experience Pays  The experience Treacy brings to the job pays off for the
state, Gregory Bailes, an Austin accountant who heads the
governing board that rehired Treacy, said by telephone. Bailes
joined the license-granting authority in 2005.  “His agency is one of the best-run organizations I’ve seen
in my 31 years in the industry,” Bailes said of Treacy. The
board licenses and oversees certified public accountants.  “Most of the impetus behind the issue of return to covered
service by state employees is due to the unfavorable
publicity,” said Ronald Snell, the Washington-based director of
state services at the  National Conference of State Legislatures .
“The impression in the public’s mind is that this is the way
public employees cheat the system.”  Public anger about double-dipping should be directed at
boards and lawmakers who approved contract terms or wrote the
laws rather than individuals who get the benefits, according to
Bill Raabe, the  National Education Association ’s director of
collective bargaining and member advocacy in  Washington .  10 States Act  At least 10 states changed laws in 2010 dealing with
government retirees who go back to work on public payrolls while
still collecting pension checks, up from six in 2009, according
to Snell’s reports. Most, such as  Utah , enacted or extended
waiting periods before re-employment can occur without
penalties, Snell said in a telephone interview.  Double-dipping workers mushroomed in Utah from 125 in 1995
to 2,166 in 2008, the Pew Center on the States said in February
2010, citing a legislative report. Last year, lawmakers in  Salt
Lake City  limited the practice, the state legislatures group
said. The changes included requiring a one-year waiting period
before a covered employee can return to government work and
continue to receive public pension payments.  Arkansas  lawmakers banned double-dipping following news
reports in 2009 on eight elected local officials who were
getting both sorts of payments, said Jay Wills, general counsel
of the Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System. Each of the
eight either resigned or was later voted out of office, he said.  “The public has really been outraged about this,” Wills
said, citing “the duplicity in not revealing that they were
doing this.” Since 2009, Arkansas officials have identified
fewer than a dozen state employees who also engaged in the
practice, he said.  Working the System  “It’s the culture of the public-employment sector to work
the system in your favor,” said Arkansas Representative Allen Kerr, a Little Rock Republican who sponsored a bill to end
double dipping.  “I can’t think of a reason why anyone would think they
should have this kind of benefit,” Kerr said.  In Texas, about 1,500 employees of the Criminal Justice
Department received both a pension payment and a salary from the
government in fiscal 2010, Combs, the comptroller, said in a
report. The Health and Human Services Commission had 704 double
dippers, while the Aging and Disability Services Department had
620. In Combs’s office there were 240, according to the report.  The Lone Star state’s criminal justice agency has about
38,000 employees and runs 112 prisons and other correctional
facilities, according to Michelle Lyons, a spokeswoman.  Hard to Find  About 60 percent of those returning to jobs at the Aging
and Disability Department are in “difficult-to-fill
professional positions or in laundry and food service
positions,” said Allison Lowery, an agency spokeswoman.  Lawmakers in Austin passed a bill to permit double dipping
in 2003, expecting to save money by rehiring retired employees
at a lower salary, said Talmadge Heflin, a Republican who served
as a state representative for 22 years.  “We did it to be employee-friendly and save money at the
time, but it appears that some of the rehires weren’t at as much
of a reduced rate as we thought,” Heflin said in a telephone
interview. He is an adviser to the Texas Public Policy
Foundation in Austin, a research group that advocates for
limited government.  Texas pension benefits are set when an employee retires. If
a retiree returns to government work, the agency employer must
contribute to its pension fund at the same rate as for other
employees, said Mary Jane Wardlow, a spokeswoman for the
Employee Retirement System of Texas. The re-employed worker
doesn’t earn greater benefits, she said.  At least one Texas lawmaker, Representative Kenneth Sheets,
a Dallas Republican, wants to prohibit double dipping to
preserve jobs for younger workers.  “When people retire, they should retire,” Sheets said.
His bill in the  House of Representatives  would ban the practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  