-- 
Dying Banks Kept Alive Show Secrets Fed's Data Will Reveal for First Time

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-03-29T17:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/dying-banks-kept-alive-show-secrets-fed-s-data-will-reveal-for-first-time.html
U.S. regulators closed Chicago-
based  Park National Bank  in October 2009 when it owed $345
million to one of the lowest-cost lenders in town: the  Federal
Reserve ’s discount window. Park National had been a constant
customer at the window for more than 18 months before it failed,
records show.  That glimpse into the loan program, gleaned through the
Freedom of Information Act, will be expanded this week with an
unprecedented view of the secret lifelines the Fed extended to
hundreds of banks. Officials plan to release documents that
amount to more than 6,000 pages, according to court records.
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, and News
Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC requested the records under FOIA,
then sued after the central bank refused to release them.  Without identifying them as of yet, Fed officials say all
the discount window loans made during the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s have been repaid with interest. Cases such as
Park National’s show how the lending amounted to a secret public
subsidy, with few questions asked.  “Solvency is the big issue,” said Arthur Wilmarth, a
professor at George  Washington  University Law School in
Washington. “Was the Fed keeping banks alive when they should
have died?”  Banks were able to tap the window for loans at rates below
the market after subprime mortgage defaults contributed to
record losses for them and credit markets began to seize up.  Inexpensive Funding  “The Fed really provided an inexpensive source of
funding,” Daniel Watts, the former executive vice president at
Park National in charge of all business lines, said in a
telephone interview. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
estimates Park National’s closure  cost  its insurance fund $656
million. The FDIC typically repays discount window loans in the
process of resolving a failed bank.  The Fed is expected to release this week documents related
to discount window lending from August 2007 to March 2010,
including the peak month of October 2008, when loans hit $111
billion.  The disclosures, the first of their kind for a lending
program that dates to 1914, will provide the fullest view yet of
which banks needed the most public help during the crisis. From
now on, data about the program will be available only after a
two-year lag, under provisions in the  Dodd-Frank financial
regulatory law  that Congress adopted last year.  Prospective Audits Only  Dodd-Frank also exempted past discount window lending from
an audit by the  Government Accountability Office  that’s
examining much of the central bank’s other crisis-era programs.
Discount window loans are also generally beyond the scope of the
Fed’s Office of Inspector General.  Charles Young, a spokesman for the GAO, says the Dodd-Frank
Act gives the agency authority to audit the discount window’s
operational integrity and controls “prospectively only.”  “It’s surprising that the Congress didn’t say they wanted
the GAO to confirm that discount window borrowers were
solvent,” said Wilmarth, the George Washington University law
professor.  For more than two years, the Fed resisted releasing the
information that’s due to come out this week. It argued that its
lending records shouldn’t be subject to the open-records law
known as FOIA in part because revealing which banks were tapping
the discount window might attach a stigma to those banks and
stir depositor runs or roil markets.  Former House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , for whom the legislation is named, said the measure
exempted discount window data from FOIA to prevent timely
releases of information about any bank’s borrowing. Such
disclosures might have “a negative market effect,” he said.  Two-Year Delay  “If people saw the data the next day, they come to the
conclusion that the bank must be in trouble,” Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in an interview. Releasing it after
a two-year delay “means a significant gain in public
information.”  Lobbying in the Senate successfully exempted past discount
window lending from audit and disclosure requirements that Dodd-
Frank applied to other crisis-era Fed lending programs. The Fed
released details about $3.3 trillion worth of assistance from
those facilities in December.  “We had a lot of support,” said Warren Gunnels, senior
policy adviser to Senator  Bernard Sanders , the Vermont
independent who wrote some of the bill’s Fed transparency
language. “But then we were getting calls, and senators were
hearing from other senators that they were concerned” about
including the discount window in the disclosure requirements.  Echoing Arguments  Objections that poured into Sanders’ office, as Gunnels
described them, echoed arguments the Fed advanced as it fought
the media lawsuits: If a bank was known to be a borrower at the
discount window, that could raise suspicions about its health
and cause a run, some senators told Sanders and his staff.  That’s not a concern when the borrowing bank has  already
failed . Eight banks closed in 2009 with outstanding discount
window loans, according to a list Bloomberg obtained through a
separate FOIA request. Interviews with executives who managed
some of these banks provide a partial view of how the discount
window worked during the crisis.  Ordinarily, the discount rate is set at a penalty, or above
market rates, to prevent overuse of government credit. It was 1
percentage point higher than the federal funds rate -- that is,
the overnight lending rate for banks -- for most of 2007. When
default rates on subprime mortgages began to increase that year,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the Board of
Governors in Washington reduced the discount rate.  Cutting Spread  They  cut its spread  over the federal funds rate by half on
August 17, 2007. Loan terms were extended to 30 days from
overnight.  As the cost of Fed credit fell, discount window borrowings
rose to $1.1 billion by Sept. 19, 2007, from just $4 million on
Aug. 15, 2007, before Fed officials cut the rate. By the first
week of December, they totaled $2.1 billion.  “By increasing the liquidity of the banking system,
discount window lending helped prevent an even broader banking
crisis and thereby reduced the resolution costs to the” FDIC,
William Nelson, deputy director in the Fed Board’s Division of
Monetary Affairs said in an e-mailed statement.  After the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. in March 2008, the
Fed’s Board of Governors in Washington continued to slash the
spread. On March 16, 2008, Fed governors  cut it  to a quarter-
point over the federal funds rate and extended the term of the
loans to 90 days.  Below Market Rates  By December 2008, the discount rate stood at just 0.5
percent, below the market rates paid by many banks for funds.
The average 3-month consumer deposit rate that banks were paying
at that time was 1.44 percent, according to Bankrate.com. The
cost of borrowing dollars for three months in  London , or the 3-
month Libor rate, averaged 1.48 percent in the last two weeks of
the year.  The discount rate amounted to a public subsidy -- and as
such, the loans need to be disclosed, said Robert A. Eisenbeis,
a former Atlanta Fed research director who is now chief monetary
economist at  Cumberland Advisors Inc. , an investment management
firm based in Sarasota,  Florida .  “When it comes to openness and transparency, it is
incumbent for the Fed or any agency for that matter that is
providing subsidies with taxpayer monies to be accountable for
their actions,” he said.  The discount window “was so much cheaper than the consumer
deposits at the time,” said Watts, the former Park National
executive who is now president of Forest Park National Bank &
Trust Co. in Forest Park,  Illinois .  Borrowing $1 Billion  As it was borrowing at the window, Park National’s total
assets rose from $4.6 billion in June 2008 to $4.9 billion in
December. The bank’s discount window borrowings rose to $1
billion by the end of 2008, Watts said, noting government
filings. That was about 23 percent of total liabilities.  “Park was not using the advances to originate new deals,”
said Watts. The discount window provided “substantial
liquidity” for the bank and allowed Park National to acquire
assets of sister banks that were shrinking to increase  capital
ratios , he said.  Bank regulators recognized that Park National had “serious
troubles” as of July 2009, according to testimony that Jennifer
Kelly of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency gave the
House Financial Services Subcommittee in January, 2010.  Negative Trends  “Absent a dramatic -- and unforeseen -- reversal of its
trends and current condition, it was evident that grounds would
soon exist for” closing the bank, Kelly, the OCC’s senior
deputy controller for Midsize and Community Bank Supervision,
told the panel.  Watts said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News that he disagrees
with the OCC’s characterization of the bank. “Park’s capital
levels were more than adequate,” Watts said. “Liquidity was
sufficient and building.”  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago spokesman Douglas Tillett
declined to comment on Park National.  First Bank of Idaho  in Ketchum established its discount
window borrowing program with the San Francisco Fed in May 2008,
according to Peter Minford, the former chief financial officer.
He said the program “was very easy to administer.”  “Basically, once the line was established, no questions
were asked when draws were requested,” said Minford, now
president of Data Informatics LLC, a Ketchum, Idaho-based firm
that provides accounting software to community banks.  No Delivery Required  The central bank’s procedures for primary credit borrowers,
the Fed’s term for healthy banks that can borrow at the lowest
discount rate, meant that the  Idaho  lender didn’t even have to
physically deliver the collateral to the San Francisco Fed to
get credit. San Francisco Fed officials accepted certified
statements by management that the loans existed, Minford said.  Regulators closed First Bank of Idaho on April 24, 2009,
with an outstanding discount window credit of $72 million,
records show. A follow-up  report  by the  U.S. Treasury ’s
Inspector General criticized the bank’s “unstable funding
structure” that produced a reliance on federal borrowings.  “The Fed kept the tap running and that kept the bank
running. That is the whole issue,” said  Mark Williams , an
executive in residence at  Boston University School of Management 
and a former Fed bank examiner. “What is the Fed’s role here --
to protect risky banks or taxpayers and the overall economy?”  The FDIC estimates that First Bank of Idaho’s failure cost
the  deposit insurance  fund $176 million. The San Francisco Fed
hasn’t experienced a loss from its discount window lending, said
spokeswoman Carol Eckert.  “Our discount window lending to institutions in declining
or in poor financial condition is temporary, heavily
administered and well-secured,” Eckert said. “Our overarching
principle is that discount window lending be in the public
interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 Ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in  New York  at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 