-- 
East Asian Local-Currency Bond Growth Slows in Fourth Quarter, ADB Says

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-29T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/east-asian-local-currency-bond-growth-slows-in-fourth-quarter-adb-says.html
Growth in East  Asia ’s local-
currency bond market slowed in the fourth quarter as central
banks favored administrative measures over bill sales to curb
inflation, according to the Asian Development Bank.  The value of outstanding debt in the region’s emerging
markets increased 13.6 percent to $5.2 trillion as of Dec. 31
from a year earlier, compared with a gain of 17.2 percent in the
third quarter, the Manila-based lender said in its Asia Bond
Monitor  report  today. The ADB classified emerging-market East
Asia as  China , Indonesia,  South Korea , Malaysia, the  Philippines ,
 Singapore , Thailand and Vietnam.  Most Asian central banks have been raising interest rates
as overseas funds flowing into the region, which has the fastest
growth rates in the world, fuel currency appreciation. The
political turmoil in the Middle East, which has pushed  oil
prices  past $100 a barrel, is making the job of tackling
inflation more difficult for policy makers.  “The major risks to the region’s outlook at present are
rapidly rising prices for food, oil and commodities, and the
possibility that central banks will continue to raise their
policy rates in 2011,” the ADB said. “Most emerging East Asian
economies have continued to grow rapidly.”  Total sales of local-currency notes in emerging-market East
Asia fell 20.4 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier
to $747 billion, according to the report. Government debt
offerings fell 23.7 percent to $600 billion, while issuance from
companies dropped 3.1 percent to $147 billion, the ADB said. The
total value of outstanding sovereign debt was $3.59 trillion
compared with $1.62 trillion in corporate debt.  Indonesia ’s local-currency bonds led gains among Asia’s 10
biggest sovereign debt issuers in the past year, returning 14.1
percent followed by the Philippines on 8.9 percent, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Chinese notes returned
the least at 0.7 percent.  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
this year and next, more than triple the 2.5 percent annual
growth in developed nations, according to International Monetary
Fund estimates published on Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 