-- 
EDF Power Price Will Be ‘Fair’ Cost Assessment, Besson Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-29T13:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/edf-power-price-will-be-fair-cost-assessment-besson-says-1-.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson said the price at which Electricite de  France  SA will
have to sell nuclear power to competitors under a law to
overhaul the power market may be announced mid-April.  Asked at what level the rate will be set, he said: “The
data are on the table. In the coming days or weeks there will be
a meeting with President Sarkozy concerning that.”  The wholesale price will be a “fair assessment” of EDF’s
costs for generating power from existing reactors and investment
needed to prolong their operating lifetimes, Besson said at an
energy conference in Paris organized by The Economist. “It’s a
question of the assessment of these costs.”  The price will also ensure that French consumers continue
to benefit from relatively cheap power from nuclear reactors, he
said, adding that there is emphasis being placed on “how we can
limit French consumers’ energy bills.”  The law will open up the power market by forcing EDF,
operator of the country’s 58 reactors, to sell as much as a
quarter of its output to competitors such as GDF Suez SA. The
wholesale price will determine whether rivals can compete in
France’s regulated market, the second biggest in  Europe  after
 Germany . The law is due to take effect July 1.  A report on how to set the wholesale rate by Paul Champsaur
will be ready “imminently,” Besson said.  The power law is “relatively simple” in that the
wholesale price must be in line with an existing Tartam rate and
includes complete historic costs of nuclear power, he said.  “There is on the one hand the consideration of the fair
price for the investments made, that is the total costs, and on
the other hand is purchasing power,” he said.  EDF has said production costs are 45 euros a megawatt-hour.
The state-controlled utility has set 2011 financial targets
based on obtaining government approval to sell wholesale power
in France at 42 euros a megawatt-hour. Rival  GDF Suez (GSZ)  is pushing
for 35 euros a megawatt hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  