-- 
Egypt’s Dollar Bond, Stocks Rise After Date for Vote Is Set for September

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-29T16:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/egypt-s-dollar-bond-stocks-rise-after-date-for-vote-is-set-for-september.html
Egypt ’s 10-year dollar bond rose,
sending yields to a two-month low, after the ruling military
council set September as the date for the first parliamentary
election after the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  The yield on the 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020
dropped 41 basis points, or 0.41 percentage point, to 6.15
percent at 4:58 p.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg composite
prices. The yield is at the lowest level since Jan. 26, the day
after a revolt that unseated Mubarak started. The EGX 30
benchmark stock index gained for the third day.  “This is reflecting the positive political developments we
saw yesterday with the announcement of parliamentary elections
and a new parties law, especially when you compare the
developments here to other countries in the region,” said
Moustafa Assal, head of the fixed-income unit at Cairo-based
Beltone Financial. “The fact that the bourse has been able to
reopen successfully is also contributing significantly to the
rise in investor confidence.”  The military council eased rules governing the
establishment of political parties and said the election won’t
be held under the decades-old state of emergency now in place.
Major General Mamdouh Shahine, a member of the Supreme Council
of the Armed Forces, indicated that presidential polls would be
held after the legislative vote. Mubarak ceded interim authority
to the council on Feb. 11 after weeks of protests demanding
political freedoms.  Two-Month Suspension  The Ministry of Finance said in a statement today it will
redeem the $1 billion dollar-denominated bonds maturing in July
on time. Five-year credit default swaps rose 4 basis points to
341 today, paring the decline this month to 30 basis points,
according to CMA London prices.  The unrest that toppled  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Mubarak this year has spread to countries including
Yemen, Bahrain, Syria and Oman. In  Libya , which borders Egypt,
 Muammar Qaddafi  is fighting rebels who want to end his four-
decade rule.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  jumped 3 percent to 5,409.43 at the 1:30
p.m. close in Cairo. The gauge is down 24 percent this year,
making it the world’s worst performer. Egypt’s bourse resumed
trading on March 23 after nearly a two-month suspension due to
the turmoil that accompanied the anti-Mubarak revolt.  Shareholder Vote  Orascom Construction Industries, the nation’s biggest
publicly traded builder, surged 5 percent in Cairo to 237.63
Egyptian pounds, the highest level since Jan. 26. The company is
in talks to buy BASF SE’s nitrogen-fertilizer unit, two people
with knowledge of the matter said. BASF spokeswoman Jennifer
Moore-Braun and Orascom’s Omar Darwazah declined to comment on
the sale.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, North Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone operator by subscribers, climbed 5.2 percent to 4.43
pounds. The Cairo-based company said today shareholders will
vote April 14 to double its capital to 14 billion pounds ($2.4
billion) and refinance its debt to facilitate a merger with
Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd. The global depositary receipts advanced
0.8 percent to $3.80.  Egyptians voted on March 19 on a set of constitutional
amendments. About 77 percent endorsed the changes, which include
 term limits  for presidents, fuller judicial oversight of voting
and fewer restrictions on presidential candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Ahmed A Namatlla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  