-- 
Heineken Submits Highest Bids for Ethiopian State-Owned Brewing Companies

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-29T12:29:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/heineken-submits-highest-bids-for-ethiopian-state-owned-brewing-companies.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
largest brewer, submitted the highest offer for an Ethiopian
brewery being sold by the government and is the only bidder for
a second one, the country’s privatization agency said.  Heineken offered $85.2 million for Bedele Brewery SC,
Wondafrash Assefa, spokesman for the Private and Public
Enterprises Supervising Agency, said in an interview today in
 Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital. The Amsterdam-based company
is also prepared to pay $78.2 million for Harar Brewery SC and
there are no competing bids, he said.  “Our bids were the highest and we look forward to engaging
formally with the Ethiopian government once it has completed its
review of the detailed bid documentation,” Heineken spokesman
John-Paul Schuirink said in an e-mailed statement. The company
was told that process may take “up to 120 days,” he said.  Ethiopia  is selling state-owned companies to private
investors as it seeks to diversify its economy. The Horn of
Africa nation, the continent’s biggest coffee producer, relies
on agriculture to generate 43 percent of its economic output,
according to the  CIA World Factbook .  The government plans to sell 50 companies by mid-2015,
including agricultural, food and printing businesses, according
to Wondafrash.  Communist Regime  Most of Ethiopia’s private businesses were nationalized in
the 1980s under the former Communist Derg regime. That
government was toppled by the current ruling  Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front , a party with Marxist roots that
has shifted toward a market-based economy since it came to power
in 1991.  “The private sector is more efficient than the public
sector,” Wondafrash said.  Bedele, situated in western Ethiopia, has the capacity to
produce 300,000 330-milliliter (0.7-pint) bottles of beer per
day, according to the agency’s website. Harar Brewery can
produce 200,000 hectoliters (5.28 million gallons) of the
beverage annually, it said.  Among other bidders for Bedele were SouthWest Development
Plc of Ethiopia, which bid $70 million; Carlsberg A/S, the
Copenhagen-based beer maker, which offered $68 million; and BGI
Ethiopia, a unit of French brewer and vintner Groupe Castel,
which bid $64 million, Wondafrash said.  “It’s good to see the big companies interested,” he said.
“And it’s also good for them, as these breweries have a lot of
resources.”  Growing Consumption  BGI Ethiopia, Ethiopia’s biggest brewer by sales, accounted
for about half of the 300 million liters of beer sold in the 12
months to July 7, 2009, in  Africa ’s second-most populous nation,
 Access Capital , an Addis Ababa-based research group, said in
May. Beer consumption is expected to grow by about 15 percent
every year for five years, it said.  “With its large, growing population, political stability,
improving economy and rapidly growing beer market, Ethiopia is a
promising, long-term growth market for Heineken in Africa,”
Schuirink said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 