-- 
Emaar Advances to Six-Week High on Plan to Pay First Dividend Since 2008

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-03-29T13:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/emaar-advances-to-six-week-high-on-plan-to-pay-first-dividend-since-2008.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s
biggest property company, surged to the highest in six weeks
after agreeing to investor demands for the first dividend payout
since 2008.  Emaar, builder of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
closed 0.3 percent higher at 3.19 dirhams. At a meeting marked
by sharp exchanges between shareholders and management,
investors yesterday approved a cash dividend for 2010 equal to
10 percent of the stock’s par value of 1 dirham a share, for a
total of more than 600 million dirhams ($163 million).  “It’s good for retail-investor sentiment, but I’m not sure
it’s the wise thing to do,” said Fadi Al Said, a senior manager
at ING Investment Management in Dubai, which oversees about $518
billion worldwide. “I prefer Emaar keeps its cash to help meet
obligations rather than maybe going to the market later.”  ING Investment didn’t expect a dividend payout, he said.  Emaar Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar , who hadn’t initially
proposed a dividend, told shareholders at the general assembly
meeting that a payout may leave the company ill-prepared to face
emergencies. Investors had demanded as much as 30 percent in
cash.  “If we pay what you are asking of us, we would be in
automatic default and we would breach our covenants with banks,
which stipulate the company’s needed cash position and other
requirements” Alabbar said.  Combative Meeting  The combative tone of the meeting was unusual for Emaar,
where motions have generally been adopted with little
discussion. Investors expressed their distrust in the company’s
board and in management decisions on investments, fundraising
and international operations.  Alabbar rebuffed the criticism, telling shareholders the
company’s operations have been successful overall, even if some
failed or performed below the company’s forecasts.  Emaar, which spearheaded Dubai’s construction boom along
with Nakheel PJSC, reported fourth-quarter profit that missed
analyst estimates on writedowns related to troubled lenders
Amlak Finance PJSC and Dubai Bank. Annual earnings rose to 2.45
billion dirhams from 327 billion dirhams in 2009 as the company
handed over apartments in the 200-story Burj Khalifa.  Shareholders rejected the chairman’s proposal to pay a 500
million-dirham cash dividend and a 5 percent bonus share with a
total value of 1.4 billion dirhams, before agreeing to the 10
percent payout.  “I think Emaar’s management went to the meeting ready to
bargain, and this may be interpreted as a positive signal that
the company is positive on the future,” said Al Said, whose
fund has an “overweight” rating on the stock. “Emaar’s
hospitality and retail units are doing well and the dividend
payment isn’t an amount that will break the company,” he said.  Emaar said in January that it sold $500 million in Islamic
bonds, and the company raised the same amount in December to
repay short-term loans. The developer plans to raise $2 billion
in total. The developer has 3.7 billion dirhams in debt due next
year, Bloomberg data shows. It has an additional 3.85 billion
dirhams due in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 