-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Gain as Earnings Overshadow Japan, Mideast Concerns

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-29T21:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/emerging-market-stocks-gain-as-earnings-overshadow-japan-mideast-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks gained,
trimming this year’s decline, as better-than-forecast earnings
reports from  China  outweighed concern that  Japan ’s nuclear
crisis and Middle East unrest may curb global growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.4 percent to
1,142.56 as of 4:45 p.m. in  New York . The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index increased 0.2 percent and  India ’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index jumped 0.9 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa
index rose 0.3 percent.  South Korea ’s won and Brazil’s real led
gains in developing-nation currencies.  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. (1114)  and Anhui Conch
Cement Co. rallied after reporting profits that topped analyst
estimates. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for
economic growth in Japan, where radiation levels that can prove
fatal were detected outside the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant’s
reactor buildings. Libyan troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  dug in
to block rebels advancing on his hometown of Sirte.  “Investors are gradually becoming tolerant to the crisis
in Japan and turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa, and
have more leeway to focus on corporate earnings,” said Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for equities at ING Investment
Management Korea Ltd., which oversees $17.6 billion.  The MSCI emerging-market index has declined 0.8 percent
this year, heading for its first quarterly retreat since the
period ended June. The MSCI World Index of developed-nation
shares has increased 3.4 percent. Companies in the emerging-
market gauge are valued at 11.5 times estimated profit, compared
with a multiple of 12.8 times for the MSCI World, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Earnings  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 5 basis points today to 2.56
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  Brilliance China Automotive climbed 5.3 percent. Net income
was 1.27 billion yuan ($194 million) in 2010, compared with a
loss of 1.64 billion yuan the previous year, the company said
yesterday. Anhui Conch gained 4.7 percent in  Hong Kong . Gome
Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd., China’s second-biggest
electronics retailer, advanced 2.8 percent after saying profit
rose 39 percent from a year earlier.  Brazilian stocks rebounded from yesterday’s loss as the
nation’s credit expansion bolstered the outlook for economic
growth. The central bank said total credit grew 1.3 percent in
February. The Bovespa index has slid 2.7 percent this year, the
biggest three-month decline since the quarter ended June 2010.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA increased after
larger rival Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA said it may seek
control of the company.  Egypt Rally  Egypt’s 10-year dollar bond rose, sending yields to an
almost two-month low, after the ruling military council set
September as the date for the first parliamentary election after
the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  The yield on the 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020
dropped 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.19
percent, according to Bloomberg composite prices. The yield is
at the lowest level since Feb. 7. The EGX 30 benchmark stock
index gained 3 percent.  Brazil ’s real strengthened 1 percent against the dollar
even after President Dilma Rousseff raised taxes on corporate
loans and banks’ debt-selling abroad in a bid to curb currency
gains.  Brazil imposed a tax of 6 percent on international bond
sales and loans with an average minimum maturity of up to 360
days, according to a decree published today in the Official
Gazette. Companies had paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90
days and no tax when the operation exceeded three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  