-- 
Lennar CEO Says Spring Home Selling Season Yet to Signal Start of Recovery

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-29T20:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/lennar-ceo-says-spring-home-selling-season-yet-to-signal-start-of-recovery.html
Home sales haven’t recovered for
the U.S. spring selling season, usually the busiest time for
buyers,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  Chief Executive Officer Stuart Miller said.  “The long-awaited selling season of 2011 has not yet
defined itself as the beginning of a recovery cycle,” Miller
said during a conference call with investors today. “While we
continue to see promising signs that a recovery is forming and
that housing will rebound, there continues to be negative
pressure on volume and sales prices.”  Miami-based Lennar, the third-biggest U.S. homebuilder,
fell 68 cents to $19.07 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares gained 7.9 percent in the
12 months through yesterday, compared with a 10 percent decline
in the 12-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
index.  U.S. homebuilders face competition from lower-priced
foreclosures and weak demand as unemployment hovers around 9
percent.  New home sales  fell to an annual pace of 250,000 in
February, an all-time low in records dating to 1963, the
Commerce Department reported March 23.  Home prices  fell an average 3.1 percent from a year earlier
in January in the 20 cities tracked by the S&P/Case-Shiller
index, the biggest year-over-year drop since December 2009, the
group said today in New York.  Washington  and  San Diego  were the
only cities where prices rose from a year earlier.  Home Orders Down  Lennar reported net income of $27.4 million, or 14 cents a
share, for the three months ending Feb. 28, as the builder
booked a lawsuit settlement, increased profit in its distressed
asset division and cut homebuilding costs. Revenue fell 3
percent to $558 million and orders dropped 12 percent to 2,267
new homes, the company said in a statement today.  “The big takeaway is orders are down,” Jack Micenko, an
analyst with Susquehanna Group LLP in  New York , said in an
interview after the report. “There’s no big spring.”  The year-ago home orders were boosted by government tax
credits valued at as much as $8,000 for first-time homebuyers.
The incentive was originally set to expire in November 2009 and
later was extended for contracts signed by April 30.  The company sold more homes in January and February
compared with December, Miller said. The second half of the year
will show improvement compared with the same period a year
earlier, when demand plunged following the tax credit
expiration, Miller said.  Market Confidence  “The comparisons should be better,” Miller said during
the conference call. “And as soft a data point as this is, I
think it is relevant that people start to see comparisons that
are favorable and they start to get a little bit of confidence
about the housing market in general.”  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , a Scottsdale, Arizona-based builder
that sells mostly to entry-level buyers, has experienced a
“lukewarm” spring selling season, analysts with Wells Fargo
Securities said in a note to investors today.  “We believe February softened somewhat,” said the note by
Adam Rudinger in  San Francisco  and Matthew Lambdin in New York.
The month “was likely slightly disappointing relative to most
builders’ expectations,” the note said.  Lawsuit Settlement  Lennar recorded $29.5 million of income from a legal
settlement tied to a dispute with Nicolas Marsch III, a San
Diego-area developer who had entered joint ventures with Lennar.
Marsch, who sued Lennar after the ventures lost money, hired
Barry Minkow, an ex-convict and founder of a fraud-detection
firm who released a report in January 2009 that called Lennar
“a  Ponzi scheme .”  Minkow was accused by federal prosecutors in a March 25
charging document of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud 
against Lennar for spreading false and defamatory information
about the company. Marsch was the unnamed Conspirator A in the
charging document, according to Lennar attorney  Daniel
Petrocelli .  Lennar’s Rialto Investments unit, which manages and trades
distressed real estate assets, contributed $11 million in
operating income for the quarter. That compared with a $1
million loss a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 