-- 
Lenta Investor August Meyer Rebuffs TPG, VTB’s Auction Offer

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-29T14:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/lenta-investor-august-meyer-rebuffs-tpg-vtb-s-auction-offer.html
Lenta LLC’s largest shareholder,
August Meyer, said he won’t pursue an offer by rival investors
TPG Capital and VTB Capital to participate in an auction for the
company.  TPG and VTB Capital, which jointly own 30.8 percent of the
 St. Petersburg , Russia-based retailer and have been leading a
fight against Meyer over its control, proposed that they and
Meyer compete in an auction for all the grocer’s shares, Meyer
said in a phone interview today.  The auction would go in increments of $50 million, with a
starting price valuing the company at $2 billion, said a
spokesman for Luna Inc., the TPG and VTB venture that owns a
stake in Lenta. Moscow-based newspaper Vedomosti reported the
offer earlier today.  “We’re not pursuing it,” Meyer said.  The proposal is the latest development in an almost
yearlong dispute pitting Meyer against investors including  Fort
Worth , Texas-based TPG and VTB Capital, the investment arm of
 Russia ’s second-largest bank, over who should run the retailer.
The parties have failed to agree on a chief executive officer
and have been fighting in courts in Russia and  London .  TPG and VTB jointly invested in Lenta in 2009. The  European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development , which owns 11 percent
of the retailer, has sided with TPG and VTB in their fight
against Meyer. Lenta was founded in 1993 as a cash-and-carry
store with two checkout desks and now owns 37 stores across
Russia, mostly selling food.  Meyer’s Offer  Luna’s latest offer follows Meyer’s proposal this month to
buy its stake for $806 million. TPG and VTB are requesting Meyer
extend the proposal to the other shareholders, Meyer said,
adding he doesn’t see why he would buy out the other
shareholders.  “Our dispute is with Luna,” he said. “I am trying to
solve that by making a very fair proposal to them.”  Meyer said he would consider selling his shares for more
than what he’s offered to TPG and VTB for their stake.  Richard Wallis, a spokesman for the European Bank for
Reconstruction in Moscow, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Berlin at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  