-- 
Tepco Plunges by 19% Daily Limit Amid Speculation It Will Be Nationalized

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   D r e w   G i b s o n
-- 
2011-03-29T06:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/tepco-plunges-by-19-daily-limit-amid-speculation-it-will-be-nationalized.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. fell 19
percent after speculation the government is considering
nationalizing the utility in the wake of its nuclear accident.  The stock slumped for fifth day, dropping by the maximum
allowed to 566 yen by the market close in Tokyo. Tepco, as the
utility is known, has plunged 74 percent since the March 11
earthquake and tsunami crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant.  “It is possible that the government is discussing
nationalization,” said Reiji Ogino, an analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. “Tepco can’t take the initiative.
The next steps will all be based on political decisions --
Tepco’s future, the amount of tax money to be spent, power
supply in Tepco’s service areas, and compensation. These
questions won’t be answered in terms of rational economics.”  Koichiro Gemba,  Japan ’s national strategy minister, told
reporters today a government takeover of Tepco is something to
be discussed. “Naturally, there will be a debate on how Tepco
should exist or be,” he said. “Containing the situation is
necessary more than anything else.”  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano denied a
report by the Yomiuri newspaper saying the government may buy a
majority stake in Tepco so that the company can pay for damage
related to the accident.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said for the first time today that
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant’s tsunami defenses were inadequate.  Tepco’s sea wall, designed to withstand a 5.5-meter (18-
foot) wave, was breached by a surge estimated by the government
to be almost three times higher following the magnitude-9
earthquake. Back-up diesel generators for cooling systems, which
could have prevented the nuclear disaster, were positioned in a
basement swamped by the wave.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net  