-- 
Merrill's Fakahany Has Most of $70 Million Pay Claim Denied in Arbitration

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-30T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/merrill-s-fakahany-has-most-of-70-million-pay-claim-denied-in-arbitration.html
Merrill Lynch & Co. former
Co-President Ahmass Fakahany, who oversaw risk management as
losses began to mount on subprime mortgages and bonds in 2007,
was denied most of his demand for $70 million in compensatory
damages, an arbitration ruling shows.  Fakahany will instead get $1.2 million, three arbitrators
at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority wrote in a March
24 order on the brokerage-regulator’s  website . He had pressed
the firm to pay him for work and make good on promises, the
document shows. The order doesn’t explain the panel’s reasoning.  Fakahany’s  attorney , John Orsini in New York, disputed the
$70 million figure that arbitrators listed on the order, saying
in a phone interview yesterday that it’s “totally incorrect.”
He declined to elaborate or to comment on the ruling.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
acquired Merrill in January 2009 after losses surged at the New
York-based brokerage. Fakahany, 52, had announced his
resignation a year earlier. In an interview last year, he said
Merrill had enhanced risk oversight before mortgage losses
eroded its capital.  “This was a compensation matter that predated Bank of
America’s acquisition of Merrill,” said  Bill Halldin , a company
spokesman. He declined to comment on the panel’s ruling.  Fakahany was promoted to co-president in May 2007 by
Merrill’s then-chief executive officer, Stanley O’Neal. O’Neal
was ousted in October 2007, and the company later posted a $9.8
billion loss for that quarter. He filed the arbitration claim in
December of 2008, also naming Bank of America among defendants,
according to the panel’s order.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  