-- 
Eskom Bond Yield Lowest to South Africa Spark Credit Suisse `Underperform'

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-29T14:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/eskom-bond-yield-lowest-to-south-africa-spark-credit-suisse-underperform-.html
Eurobonds of Eskom Holdings Ltd.,
 South Africa ’s power utility, are trading at the lowest yields
relative to government debt since the credit crisis in 2008,
sparking Credit Suisse Group AG to initiate coverage with an
“underperform” rating.  The yield on Eskom’s 500 million euros ($704 million) of
bonds due 2013 has dropped to 3.4 percent from as high as 3.75
percent last month, reducing the spread over similar maturity
government debt to 12.8 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a decline from
as much as 408 basis points two years ago.  Credit Suisse also began coverage on bonds of Transnet
Ltd., South Africa’s rail and ports company at the same
“underperform” rating because the premium investors receive to
hold the bonds relative to government debt is lower than the
pickup for other emerging-market utility bonds. Bonds of NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy, Ukraine’s state-run energy company, yielded an
average  59 basis points more than equivalent maturity
government debt, according to Credit Suisse.  “We feel that these premiums are somewhat modest in the
absence of the explicit government guarantees,” Oleksiy Soroka,
London-based head of emerging-market credit research at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a research note e-mailed today.  Both Transnet and Eskom tapped international debt markets
this year, taking advantage of low borrowing costs in the U.S.
and  Europe  to fund capital expansion projects in South Africa.  Eskom is spending 485 billion rand ($71 billion) over seven
years to plug a capacity shortfall that shut mines and plants
and blacked out homes in 2008 and said it may sell bonds
overseas again. Transnet said it needs to borrow 41 billion rand
over the next five years to pay for a 93.4 billion-rand capital
investment program.  Transnet is rated A3 at Moody’s Investors Service, its
fourth-lowest investment-grade rating, and one step weaker at
BBB+ at  Standard & Poor’s , equal to South Africa’s ratings by
the companies.  Eskom is ranked at Baa2 at Moody’s, two steps below
Transnet and South Africa’s assessment, and BBB+ at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 