-- 
Ethiopian Denies Arrest of Opposition Party Activists

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T04:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ethiopian-government-denies-arrest-of-opposition-party-activists-in-oromia.html
(Corrects abbreviation in fourth paragraph of story
originally published on March 29.)  Ethiopia’s government denied claims
by the opposition that political activists in state of Oromia
have been arrested in recent weeks as part of a crackdown to
pre-empt potential anti-government protests.  Since the detentions began on March 14, 64 members or
supporters of the Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement and Oromo
People’s Congress remain imprisoned in the capital,  Addis Ababa ,
OFDM Deputy Chairman Bekele Gerba said in a phone interview
today from the city. As many as four people have
“disappeared,” he said.  Those arrested were members of the Asmara, Eritrea-based
Oromo Liberation Front, government spokesman  Shimeles Kemal  said
in a phone interview. “They have been trained and sent here
from Eritrea a few months back,” he said. “They have been sent
out to carry out terrorist activists and have been
apprehended.”  Oromos are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia, though
national politics in the country have been dominated for
centuries by politicians and feudal lords from the smaller
Amhara and Tigrayan ethnic groups. The outlawed  OLF  has waged a
38-year campaign for autonomy in Oromia, the largest of
 Ethiopia ’s nine federal states.  The action by the federal police has been taken to
neutralize the risk of anti-government protests similar to those
sweeping North Africa and the Middle East from erupting, Bekele
said. Activists have been detained by policemen who sometimes
used vehicles without registration plates, in towns including
Jimma, Nekemte, Burayu, Holeta and Sebeta, he said.  Demonstrations  No anti-government demonstrations are planned because any
violence is “not in the interests of our people,” Bekele said.
“We know who the army belongs to.”  Shimeles said the government arrested 200 rebels, who have
been denied bail and are being detained while evidence is
collected to prosecute them.  The government has been arresting members of legal
political organizations and suspected members of the OLF, the
rebel group said in a March 27 e-mailed statement from Asmara.  “It is clear that the current alarming mass arrest of the
Oromo individuals is a sign of desperation of the TPLF regime,”
it said.  Oromos make up 34.5 percent of Ethiopia’s population of
90.9 million people, according to the  CIA World Factbook .  The detainees, who include students, teachers and former
parliamentary candidates, are being held in Central Prison
without access to lawyers, or being allowed to receive visitors,
according to Bekele.  “The very existence of these organizations is testimony
that political pluralism exists in Ethiopia,” Shimeles said.
“No-one will be prosecuted for pursuing different political
policies to the ruling party.”  The ruling Ethiopian People’s Democratic Revolutionary
Democratic Front, led by Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi , and allied
parties won all but three of 547 parliamentary seats in a May
election. Security forces killed at least 193 people protesting
the results of Ethiopia’s 2005 elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 