-- 
Euro Becomes Swiss Focus as Franc Cedes Ground to Germans

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-30T07:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/euro-for-switzerland-becomes-focus-as-inflated-franc-helps-german-exports.html
Thierry Stern, chairman of Swiss
watchmaker Patek Philippe SA, says his home nation may be better
off adopting the euro as the franc’s appreciation hurts exports.  “It’s a nightmare for everybody,” Stern said during a
March 24 interview in Basel. “We have to adapt. Something will
come. I don’t know when, but one day it will happen.”  Swiss exports are lagging behind German goods sold abroad
as companies from watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  to chemicals
supplier  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  struggle with the franc’s ascent against
the euro and dollar. While both nations benefit from global
demand for their products, the euro’s weakness has helped
bolster sales and economic growth in Germany.  The franc gained 10 percent over the past year against the
euro as investors sought a haven from the European debt crisis.
The  currency markets  help explain why analysts are estimating
that the Swiss economy will expand 1.95 percent this year,
trailing the predicted 2.6 percent growth rate for Germany.  Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said as
recently as March 18 that the franc’s advance is among the
“considerable risks” to the economy. Exports, which account
for about half of the nation’s gross domestic product, rose 7.1
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier. In  Germany ,
sales abroad jumped 15 percent in the same period.  Euro Membership  “Swiss exporters would be much better off now if the franc
hadn’t appreciated that much over the past two years,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich.
“They would be as successful as their German counterparts as
both countries’ export sectors are similarly positioned.”  The Swiss remain opposed to adopting the single currency,
and just one of five government-coalition parties supports
opening membership talks with the EU. The government was forced
to negotiate a set of bilateral treaties with the EU after
voters rejected a proposal in 1992 for membership in the
European Economic Area. That has allowed the nation of 7.8
million to enjoy some of the advantages of membership without
giving up any sovereignty.  Joining the euro region is “out of question for the
foreseeable future,” said Georg Lutz, a political scientist at
the University of Lausanne. “No party would suggest that as
they know that voters want to stick to the franc.”  ‘Catastrophic’ Gains  Swatch Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek, whose Biel,
Switzerland-based company generates 25 percent of its total
sales in European countries excluding its home market, has
called the strength of the franc “catastrophic.” Lonza, a
supplier of chemicals to drug companies, said March 21 that the
franc’s ascent reduced full-year earnings by 28 million francs
($30 million) before interest and taxes.  While the  Swiss National Bank  tried to stem the franc’s
gains in the 15 months through June 2010 by purchasing foreign
currencies, it has since ended those intervention attempts. SNB
Governing Board member Jean-Pierre Danthine said March 24 that
influencing exchange rates is only “temporarily” feasible.  Forty-seven percent of Swiss companies said the currency is
weighing on orders, according to an SNB survey conducted in
January and February. Swiss freight company Kuehne + Nagel
International AG has considered changing the currency in which
it reports financial results to euros from francs, Chief
Financial Officer Gerard van Kesteren said in a March 24
telephone interview.  Lost Revenue  “Last year, the translation from foreign currencies cost
us around 6 percent of our revenue,” he said. “We have to
compensate for that with more business and accelerated growth.”  Only the  U.S. dollar  performed worse than the euro in the
past 12 months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which measure the performance of the world’s 10 most-
widely traded currencies against each other. The euro dropped
3.3 percent as Greece and Ireland required financial rescues
from the EU and International Monetary Fund.  The franc traded at 1.3000 against the euro at 9:12 a.m. in
Zurich, down from 1.2986 yesterday. Versus the dollar, it was
little changed at 92 centimes. The median of at least 30 analyst
estimates in Bloomberg surveys is for the currency to weaken to
1.35 per euro by year-end, and to 97 centimes per dollar.  Swiss stocks are trailing their counterparts in Western
Europe. The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  has fallen 0.6 percent
this year, compared with a 1.4 percent gain of Germany’s DAX
Index and the 5.7 percent increase of  France ’s CAC 40 Index.  Health Program  Norbert Walter, former chief economist of Deutsche Bank AG,
told Aarau, Switzerland-based Aargauer Zeitung newspaper in
January that there’s no quick solution for Swiss exporters.  “Only the all-encompassing fix might help, namely joining
the euro,” he said.  “Swiss exporters had to constantly adapt to the franc’s
appreciation by becoming more efficient,” said Alexis Bill
Koerber, an economist at BAK Basel Economics research institute.
“In that sense, the franc has been a health program. We are a
victim of our own success.”  Switzerland ’s economy expanded at an average annual rate of
about 1.6 percent in the decade through 2010, compared with 0.9
percent for Germany. The SNB raised its 2011 estimate for Swiss
gross domestic product growth on March 17 to 2 percent from a
previous forecast of 1.5 percent.  “Generally, you enter a monetary union if you have a
credibility problem,” said Rudolf Minsch, chief economist at
Zurich-based business group  Economiesuisse , which represents
about 30,000 Swiss companies. “But with the euro area, it’s the
other way round. Compared to that, the franc’s strength is a
minor issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  