-- 
Euro Faces Decline If It Closes at Key Level, RBC Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-29T19:39:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/euro-faces-decline-if-it-closes-at-key-level-rbc-says-technical-analysis.html
The euro has failed to rise above a
key technical level versus the dollar and will likely drop in a
“significant correction” if it closes below $1.3994 today, Royal
Bank of Canada said, citing  technical analysis .  While the shared currency has traded above $1.40 since
March 18, it hasn’t breached the $1.4280 level reached in
November, a pivot for greater gains, wrote  George Davis , chief
technical analyst for fixed-income and currency strategy in
Toronto, in a note to clients. The $1.3994 level is the base of
an ascending channel in which the euro has moved since January.
The base will be at $1.4012 tomorrow.  “It’s a growing risk right now,” Davis said in a
telephone interview. “The euro got very close to, but failed to
get above, the high from last November, a warning sign that a
correction is due.”  The euro was little changed today at $1.4095, fluctuating
after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered sovereign credit ratings on
Portugal and  Greece , highlighting concern the region’s debt
crisis may slow the global recovery.  A European Central Bank member, Jozef Makuch, said at a
press conference in Bratislava it’s “highly probable” policy
makers will raise  interest rates  on April 7 at their next
meeting. He declined to comment on how much rates might be
boosted or whether more moves would follow. The ECB has kept its
benchmark at a record low of 1 percent since May 2009.  “The market has priced in prospects of an interest-rate
hike at the ECB meeting,” Davis said. “The support the euro is
getting from the interest-rate side is going to erode. There’s
still a lot of issues pertaining to what’s going on in Ireland,
what’s going on in  Portugal , Spain, and serving as a bit of a
headwind.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  