-- 
Ex-Galleon Employee Says Firm Used Insider Tips for ‘Edge’

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-29T18:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ex-galleon-employee-smith-tells-jurors-firm-used-insider-tips-for-edge-.html
Adam Smith , a former Galleon Group
LLC analyst and portfolio manager, testified that the firm used
insider tips as an “edge” in a strategy to make money when
company revenue figures differed from the Wall Street consensus.  Smith, 39, told jurors in the criminal trial of Raj Rajaratnam today that part of his job was “getting the number”
-- learning revenue figures before they became public -- from
insiders at publicly traded companies including  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the
world’s largest semiconductor maker, and  Intersil Corp. (ISIL)   “Research is sort of doing your homework ahead of time,”
Smith told jurors. “Getting the number is more like cheating on
the test.”  Smith has pleaded guilty to two criminal counts and is
cooperating with prosecutors. Today he told federal court jurors
in Manhattan that he continued trading on inside information
after leaving Galleon, including after the October 2009 arrest
of Rajaratnam.  Rajaratnam, 53, the billionaire co-founder of Galleon, is
the central figure in the biggest insider trading investigation
targeting  hedge funds . He denies wrongdoing and claims he based
his trading on legitimate research.  Intel Tips  Smith, who started working for Galleon as an analyst in
2002, told jurors how the firm signed a consulting agreement
with one of his contacts, Michael Tomlinson, who worked in the
Intel department that makes capital investments.  Tomlinson’s brother, who also worked for the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company, could get him secret financial data,
Smith said. Tomlinson was to be paid to deliver tips on the
company’s revenue and growth figures, Smith testified.  “I proposed that we strike the deal,” Smith said.
Rajaratnam agreed, Smith told jurors.  In a March 2005 e-mail shown to jurors, Smith told
Rajaratnam that Tomlinson was “having trouble quantifying the
outlook” for the quarter because his brother had been
reassigned.  “They’re trying an alternative, but I got the feeling
we’re not going to get a specific number before Thursday,”
Smith wrote to Rajaratnam. “This is disappointing. I’ve told
him he needs to do better.”  Rajaratnam and Smith abandoned the arrangement with
Tomlinson after his information, spanning two financial quarters
at Intel, proved inaccurate, Smith said.  Chuck Mulloy , an Intel spokesman, said Tomlinson is no
longer an employee of the company and declined to comment
further.  Intersil Source  Smith testified he was able to get advance revenue figures
from Intersil, a semiconductor maker, from a Taipei, Taiwan-
based Intersil engineer named Jason Lin. Lin told Smith that he
got the information from an unnamed “senior member of the
team” in Taiwan, Smith said in court.  Adam Latham, a spokesman for Milpitas, California-based
Intersil, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Smith earned a bachelor’s degree at  Harvard University  and
an MBA from  Harvard Business School . He told jurors he
telephoned others at the request of FBI agents to help them
gather evidence to use in the investigation. He said he may be
sentenced to as long as 25 years in prison and hopes his
cooperation will help him get a lighter sentence.  McKinsey Phones  Smith’s testimony was preceded by that of Carolann Shields,
an official at McKinsey & Co. Inc. who testified that the firm’s
phone records show  Rajat Gupta , then the managing partner and a
member of the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board, telephoned
Rajaratnam within seconds of participating in Goldman Sachs
board discussions.  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
testified March 23 that, at those meetings, the board discussed
earnings and a $5 billion investment in the firm by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in 2008.  Separately, prosecutors suffered legal setbacks this
morning when the judge barred the government from offering
evidence that Rajaratnam’s brother, Rengan Rajaratnam, removed
Raj’s notebooks from Galleon offices immediately after his
sibling’s arrest.  The judge also said that Smith can’t testify about
statements that Rengan Rajaratnam made to him later about taking
the notebooks.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 