-- 
Giambi Brothers, Randy Velarde Testify Bonds's Trainer Gave Them Steroids

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-30T23:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ex-yankee-jason-giambi-may-testify-today-at-barry-bonds-s-perjury-trial.html
Colorado Rockies baseball player
Jason Giambi and his brother Jeremy told jurors at  Barry Bonds ’s
perjury trial that they got performance-enhancing drugs from the
former San Francisco Giants outfielder’s trainer.  Jason Giambi, called as a prosecution witness yesterday,
said he began working with Bonds’s trainer, Greg Anderson, after
meeting him in November 2002 at an all-star game in  Japan . After
a drug test that Anderson arranged showed Giambi tested positive
for the steroid Deca, Anderson sent a kit of testosterone,
syringes and a calendar, said Giambi, then a player for the  New
York Yankees . A second shipment arrived a month later, he said.  “In the second shipment was some white pills, some yellow
pills and the Clear and the Cream,” said Giambi, referring to
so-called designer steroids that an expert last week told the
jury were undetectable and helped athletes who had taken
steroids beat drug tests.  Marvin Benard, a former Giants player, testified yesterday
and former New York Yankee Randy Velarde told jurors today that
they, too, received performance-enhancing drugs from Anderson.
While prosecutors had said in court documents that they may call
other athletes, including former Giants players Benito Santiago
and Armando Rios, today they told U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  that their next witnesses were Bonds’s personal shopper,
his doctor and a sports anti-doping expert.  ‘Some Stuff’  Velarde, an infielder who played for the Yankees from 1987
to 1995 and again in 2001 as part of a 16-year career with four
teams, said he met Anderson in 2002 through a teammate who said
“he could get me some stuff through Greg.”  “What did you understand ‘stuff’ to mean?” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Matt Parrella asked.  “Human growth hormone,” Velarde said. “Steroids.”  Bonds, 46, who holds  Major League Baseball ’s home run
record, is on trial in federal court in San Francisco for
allegedly lying when he told a federal grand jury in 2003 that
he never knowingly took steroids provided by Anderson. His
lawyers say Bonds truthfully testified that he received
performance-enhancing substances from the trainer, while not
knowing what they were because they were so new.  Cris Arguedas, Bonds’s attorney, questioned both Giambi
brothers about their understanding of what Anderson gave them.  “Did he say to you that the Clear and the Cream had
steroid-like effects without being steroids?” Arguedas asked
Jason Giambi, reading from testimony he gave to a grand jury.  ‘It’s Undetectable’  “I said, yeah, yeah, it’s undetectable,” said Giambi, the
first player to testify against Bonds since the trial started
March 21.  Bonds patted Giambi’s arm as he passed him in the courtroom
after returning from a break in the trial.  Jeremy Giambi, who said he received testosterone, the Cream
and the Clear, said under cross-examination by Arguedas that
Anderson never told him the Cream was a steroid or testosterone-
based. Anderson said it was “an alternative to steroids,”
Giambi said.  “Based on your conversations with  Greg Anderson , was there
any doubt in your mind what the injectable testosterone was?”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow asked Jeremy Giambi.  “No, I understood what it was,” Giambi answered. “A
steroid.”  Anderson, who pleaded guilty in 2005 to distributing
steroids, has refused to testify about his dealings with Bonds.
Illston told the jury that the testimony of the Giambi brothers
and other athletes was offered to show the manner in which
Anderson distributed steroids. Jurors can’t infer that Bonds
received steroids because other ballplayers did, she told them.  Paid About $10,000  Jason Giambi said he paid Anderson about $10,000 for the
substances he received and that twice he received packages with
false names on them, including that of retired Cincinnati Reds
catcher Johnny Bench.  “I took it as very secretive to get your hands on it and be
quiet about it,” said Giambi, 40, who in 2009 joined the
Rockies in Denver.  He said he stopped taking the drugs in 2003. He said the
Clear and the Cream didn’t have much effect on him.  Giambi played for the Yankees from 2002 to 2008. Before
that, he played for the  Oakland Athletics , where he was the
 American League ’s most valuable player.  ‘Undetectable Steroids’  Jeremy Giambi said he met Anderson through Jason in 2002.
He testified that he had his blood and urine tested through
Anderson, who told him he had some “alternative, undetectable
steroids.”  Jeremy Giambi testified that he then received packages from
the trainer containing testosterone, human growth hormone, the
Cream and the Clear, syringes and calendars.  Jeremy Giambi, 36, last played in the major leagues in 2003
with the  Boston Red Sox . He spent parts of six seasons with the
 Kansas City Royals , Oakland Athletics,  Philadelphia Phillies  and
the  Red Sox .  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  