-- 
Faberge May Be Worth More Than $1 Billion in Three Years, Gilbertson Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-29T09:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/faberge-may-be-worth-more-than-1-billion-in-three-years-gilbertson-says.html
Brian Gilbertson, former head of
BHP Billiton Ltd. and investor in  Faberge , expects the value of
the Russian jewelry brand to jump sixfold to exceed $1 billion
in about three years, with “relatively little” investment.  Gilbertson’s  Pallinghurst Resources Ltd. (PGL) , part of a group
that acquired Faberge in 2007, has spent about $60 million
developing the brand, the entrepreneur said in an interview in
Johannesburg yesterday. Pallinghurst values its 49 percent stake
at $86.6 million, which would make Faberge worth $173 million.  “In two or three years’ time, we will have delivered the
kind of value that luxury brands are worth, with relatively
little expenditure,” said Gilbertson, chairman of Guernsey,
U.K.-based Pallinghurst. “Luxury brands with great names are
worth billions -- I can’t think of one that’s below a billion.”  Gilbertson has introduced two Faberge collections since
August 2009, including jewelry items of as much as $7 million
each, and opened a shop in Geneva. Founded in  St. Petersburg  in
1842 by Gustav Faberge, a goldsmith of French descent, the House
of Faberge became  Russia ’s largest and most prestigious jewelry
maker under his son, Carl, who took over the business in 1872.  “The value of this brand has increased dramatically,”
Pallinghurst Chief Executive Officer Arne Frandsen told
investors in Johannesburg yesterday. “Coming into 2011, we’re
now seeing our best performing months,” he said.  Highest Potential  The difference between the amount of investment in Faberge
and its potential value gives the brand the most potential among
Pallinghurst’s businesses, Gilbertson said. Pallinghurst also
invests in platinum, gemstones,  iron ore  and manganese in
southern  Africa  and  Australia .  Gilbertson, who stepped down as BHP’s CEO in 2003, set up
Pallinghurst in 2007 with son Sean to revive Faberge and invest
in mines. The 67-year-old was also president of OAO Sual Group
before it merged with OAO Russian Aluminium.  Pallinghurst is considering an Australian coking-coal
“opportunity” that may involve an acquisition, Gilbertson also
said yesterday, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  