-- 
Facebook Removes Page Calling for New Palestinian Intifada Against Israel

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-29T21:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/facebook-removes-page-calling-for-new-palestinian-intifada-against-israel.html
Facebook Inc. said it took down a
page promoting a new Palestinian intifada against  Israel  because
it made “direct calls for violence,” in violation of policies
set forth by the social-networking site.  The administrators of the page, which Israeli officials had
asked to be taken down earlier this month, initially removed
comments that promoted violence, Debbie Frost, a spokeswoman for
Facebook, said in an e-mail. The page’s administrators
themselves later joined in the calls for violence, she said.  “We continue to believe that people on Facebook should be
able to express their opinions, and we don’t typically take down
content that speaks out against countries, religions, political
entities or ideas,” Frost said. “However, we monitor pages
that are reported to us and when they degrade to direct calls
for violence or expressions of hate -- as occurred in this case
-- we have and will continue to take them down.”  The move spotlights the challenge facing Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook as it becomes a forum for political
activism and social movements worldwide. The site, along with
Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, took center stage in
uprisings in Tunisia,  Egypt , Bahrain and  Libya  -- with
organizers using them to spread news and coordinate protests.  Uprising Sought  The page calling for a new intifada -- an Arabic word
meaning uprising -- was removed after administrators received
repeated warnings about posts that violated Facebook policies,
the company said. The first Palestinian intifada began in 1987,
marked by rioting and rock throwing in the  West Bank  and  Gaza
Strip  -- two disputed territories captured by Israel in 1967.
The second intifada, which erupted in 2000, spread to cities
across Israel.  Facebook also is removing copycat pages on the same topic,
the company said. Contact information for the original page’s
administrators couldn’t be found.  The site included remarks and video clips that called for
the killing of Israelis and Jews, as well as the “liberating”
of Jerusalem and  Palestine  through acts of violence, said Israel
Public Diplomacy and Diaspora Affairs Minister Yuli Edelstein.  “The news that the page has been removed demonstrates that
the heads of Facebook understood that the page constitutes
blatant misuse of freedom of speech for the purpose of wild
incitement to violence,” Edelstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  