-- 
Farmers May Plant Corn at Expense of Soybeans, Oil World Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-29T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/farmers-may-plant-corn-at-expense-of-soybeans-oil-world-says.html
Farmers in the U.S. and  China  are
likely to plant more corn and cotton for harvesting this year,
partly at the expensive of soybeans, industry forecaster Oil
World reported.  China’s Ministry of Agriculture expects soybean plantings
to slide 11 percent this year, while U.S. soybean sowing may be
similar to last year’s record, compared with “sizeable” gains
for corn and cotton, the Hamburg-based company said.  “There is concern that soybean plantings in the Northern
Hemisphere will not be large enough this spring to facilitate
the required recovery of soybean stocks in the 2011-12 season,”
Oil World said. “Farmers are shifting acreage to more
attractively priced corn and cotton.”  Corn prices have climbed 89 percent in  Chicago  in the past
12 months and cotton futures more than doubled in  New York ,
compared with a 40 percent gain for Chicago soybeans.  Relatively low stocks for oilseeds mean there is
“very little cushion” for poor weather or yield losses in the
upcoming growing season for oil crops, Oil World said.  Brazil  may suffer further soybean crop losses this season
if rainfall continues to disrupt the harvest in the next one to
two weeks, according to Oil World.  Quality problems are a “major concern” in Brazil as beans
are being harvested with moisture content of 30 percent to 40
percent, causing “huge discounts” in prices for farmers as
well as rejection of soybeans at crushing plants, Oil World
said.  Germany, Poland  The outlook for part of this year’s rapeseed crop is
disappointing, with “quite poor” conditions in Germany and
 Poland  that may reduce the average yield, Oil World said. The
EU needs “favorable weather” or the bloc’s 2011 harvest may
drop below last year’s 20.5 million metric tons, it said.  World rapeseed stockpiles at the end of June will fall to
5.56 million tons from 7.18 million tons a year earlier, Oil
World forecast.  Canadian farmers may plant a record amount of rapeseed, or
canola, this spring in response to “attractive prices,” Oil
World said. Wetter-than-usual fields may delay planting of
spring crops including canola, the forecaster said.  World palm-oil production is forecast to rise to
48.5 million tons in 2011 from 45.6 million tons. Output in
 Indonesia  may climb to 23.8 million tons from 22 million tons
and  Malaysia ’s harvest is forecast to advance to 17.7 million
tons from 17 million tons, Oil World said.  Sunflower seed production in  Argentina  in 2010-11 will
climb to 3.4 million tons from 2.8 million tons the previous
year, while global output of the oilseed is seen at 32.7
million tons compared with 32.8 million tons a year earlier, the
forecaster said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 