-- 
FBI Must Forge Business Ties to Head Off Terrorism, Bureau Official Says

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-03-29T21:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/fbi-must-forge-business-ties-to-head-off-terrorism-bureau-official-says.html
The  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
needs to work more with private industry to share information to
prevent terrorist attacks, a bureau counterterrorism official
said.  The bureau needs to share warning signs to watch for --
“tripwires” and “threat indicators” -- with companies to
prevent attacks such as the one in Mumbai in 2008, said  Brenda
Heck , deputy assistant director in the FBI’s counterterrorism
division. In that assault, 10 terrorists with rifles, grenades
and explosives killed 166 people in  India ’s financial capital.  A hotel takeover with small arms in the U.S. like the one
in Mumbai might first appear to be simply a violent crime, she
said.  “It may not be understood that that is actually a
terrorist attack,” Heck told attendees today at the  Government
Security Conference & Expo  in  Washington .  Last month’s arrest of a 20-year-old Saudi student in  Texas 
on terrorism charges shows how sharing information with private
companies can be successful, she said. A chemical supplier
alerted authorities to the suspect’s attempt to buy concentrated
phenol, which can be used to make explosives.  “Tripwires worked,” said Heck, who next month will become
head counterterrorism officer of the Washington field office.
“Because of the relationships that already existed in those
field offices in those territories, phone calls were made.”  The FBI historically did little sharing with private
industry, tending to reach out to companies when it needed
information, Heck said. Those times are changing, she said.  “They are going to be the targets,” she said of
companies. “This is a world where soft targets are the name of
the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 