-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says QE2 Exit Debate Likely ‘Key’ 2011 Issue

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-29T10:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/fed-s-bullard-says-qe2-exit-debate-likely-key-2011-issue.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve may need
to decide on when to tighten monetary policy before the outlook
for the global economy clears up later this year, St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  said.  “The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins,
will still leave unprecedented policy accommodation on the
table,” he said according to a statement on remarks he was to
deliver at a financial forum in Prague today. “The FOMC may not
be willing or able to wait until all global uncertainties are
resolved to begin normalizing policy.”  Recent remarks by several regional bank presidents have
highlighted the difference of views that has emerged since the
Fed’s March 15 meeting, when policy makers kept in place the
plan to buy $600 billion in  Treasury securities  while concluding
the recovery is on “a firmer footing” and the labor market is
“improving gradually.”  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday that
high unemployment and low core inflation mean record monetary
support is still necessary. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
said he believes data suggesting a more sustainable recovery
won’t prompt an alteration in the bond-purchase program.  Bullard said last week that he wants a review of the bond
program, while  Charles Plosser  of the Philadelphia Fed laid out
a strategy to sell holdings in conjunction with raising interest
rates.  ‘Natural Debate’  Noting the improved economic outlook since the plan was
implemented, “the natural debate is how and when the exit
should begin,” Bullard said. “However, additional uncertainty
has clouded this picture.”  He said four areas in particular are raising
“macroeconomic uncertainty.” These included turmoil in the
Middle East and north  Africa , the natural disaster in Japan,
“the U.S. fiscal situation and the possibility of a government
shutdown,” and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Fed officials have purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The Fed’s second round of purchases has come under
fire from Republican leaders in Congress who say it risks
inflating asset-price bubbles and stoking inflation.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication the central
bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through June to
spur economic growth and reduce 8.9 percent unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  