-- 
Fed Presidents Say Economy Still Needs Support From Bond Purchase Program

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T15:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/fed-presidents-say-economy-still-needs-support-from-bond-purchase-program.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents voiced support for the completion of the central
bank’s $600 billion Treasury securities-purchase program through
June, saying it’s too soon to remove stimulus from the economy.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday that
high unemployment and low core inflation mean record monetary
support is still necessary. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans
said he believes data suggesting a more sustainable recovery
won’t prompt an alteration in the bond-purchase program.  “It could be that $600 billion is just about the right
number,” Evans told reporters before a speech in Columbia,
South Carolina. “I won’t be surprised if that in fact is the
decision. I still think it is a high hurdle to stop short of
$600 billion. So far I haven’t seen it.”  Their remarks highlight the difference of views that has
emerged since the Fed’s March 15 meeting, when policy makers
kept in place the plan to buy bonds while concluding the
recovery is on “a firmer footing” and the labor market is
“improving gradually.”  Regional Fed President  James Bullard  of St. Louis said
today that a decision on when to tighten monetary policy may
need to be made before the outlook for the global economy clears
up later this year.  ‘May Not Wait’  “The process of normalizing policy, even once it begins,
will still leave unprecedented policy accommodation on the
table,” Bullard said, according to a statement on remarks he
was to deliver at a financial forum in  Prague  today. “The FOMC
may not be willing or able to wait until all global
uncertainties are resolved to begin normalizing policy.”  Fed officials have purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The Fed’s second round of purchases has come under
fire from Republican leaders in Congress who say it risks
inflating asset-price bubbles and stoking inflation.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication the
central bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through
June to spur economic growth and reduce 8.9 percent
unemployment.  Charles Plosser  of the Philadelphia Fed this month
laid out a strategy for withdrawing stimulus by selling holdings
in conjunction with raising  interest rates .  ‘Not Yet Satisfied’  “Despite clear signs of progress, I am not yet satisfied
with the pace of improvement,” Evans said in his speech.
“Unemployment will remain uncomfortably high for too long
relative to our employment objective. So accommodative monetary
policy continues to be warranted to address this part” of the
Fed’s congressional mandate, he said.  While a recent rise in energy prices may damp household
spending, Evans said he was confident overall inflation would
stay low.  “Current measures of underlying inflation are subdued and
are running lower than what the FOMC judges to be consistent
with long-run  price stability ,” said Evans, who was a professor
at the University of South Carolina before joining the Chicago
Fed. “To be sure, we see some increase in headline inflation
due to higher food and energy prices, but we do not expect these
to materially boost underlying inflationary trends.”  Core Inflation  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier in February, the
most since October, the Commerce Department said today. Core
inflation has undershot Fed members’ target of 1.6 percent to 2
percent for 11 consecutive months.  “Overall, the core rate of inflation is quite low, that’s
what gives us the latitude to continue to have more
accommodative policy for both fiscal and monetary policy,”
Rosengren said yesterday in a panel discussion hosted by the
Boston Globe.   The Fed must “be concerned about the fact that core
inflation is still low,” he said.  Crude-oil futures in  New York  have gained 30 percent in the
past year and 23 percent since anti-government protests began
Feb. 15 in Libya. The unrest in Libya, holder of Africa’s
largest crude reserves, helped push gasoline up 22 percent from
Feb. 15 to March 25.  U.S. stocks have gained since November, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising more than 9 percent. The  S&P 500  was up
0.2 percent at 1,312.62 at 10:51 a.m. in New York today.  Increased Spending  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, led by a jump in  consumer spending , the Commerce
Department said last week. The revised increase in gross
domestic product compares with a 2.8 percent estimate issued
last month.  Americans increased spending more than forecast in February
as incomes climbed. Purchases rose 0.7 percent, the most since
October, after advancing 0.3 percent the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington .  The Labor Department will report this week that the U.S.
economy added 190,000 jobs in March and the  unemployment rate 
held steady at 8.9 percent -- the 24th consecutive month at that
level or higher -- according to the median estimates of a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  “Right now there’s an awful lot of slack in the economy,”
Rosengren said. “We have plenty of room before we have to
remove that accommodation.”  Rosengren, 53, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985, and became the bank’s president in 2007. Fed presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in
2013.  Evans, 53, has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and
is a voting member this year of the FOMC.  The regional bank chief has been among the FOMC’s strongest
supporters of monetary stimulus since last year. He represents a
five-state region that includes Iowa and most of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Columbia,  South Carolina  at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  