-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says $100 Billion Should Be Cut From Buying Plan on Recovery

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   A l a n   C r o s b y
-- 
2011-03-29T17:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/fed-s-bullard-says-100-billion-may-be-cut-from-asset-buying-amid-recovery.html
The  Federal Reserve  may need to
trim about $100 billion from its plan to buy $600 billion in
 Treasury securities  because the U.S. recovery has gained
strength, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said.  “We are still feeding the fire at this moment, so I think
we have to start thinking about turning this around in the near
future,” Bullard said to reporters at a financial conference in
Prague today. “If the economy is as strong as I think and hope
it will be in 2011, I think it will be time for us to start to
reverse our ultra-aggressive and ultra-easy monetary policy.”  Bullard’s view differs from those of at least three other
Fed regional bank leaders who yesterday urged completion of the
purchases. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said reports
showing a more sustainable recovery don’t justify reducing
support, while Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said high
unemployment makes Fed aid necessary. Atlanta Fed’s  Dennis Lockhart  reiterated he expects the Fed to finish the purchases.  “We could pull up a little bit shy of our total of $600
billion,” Bullard said. “I think it could be on the order of
$100 billion less than what we initially thought.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose six
basis points to 3.489 percent at 1:35 p.m. in New York trading.
Yields have risen more than 1 percentage point since October
amid reports of a stronger U.S. recovery.  ‘The Right Number’  “It could be that $600 billion is just about the right
number,” Evans said to reporters yesterday in Columbia,  South
Carolina . “I still think it is a high hurdle to stop short of
$600 billion. So far I haven’t seen it.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication the
central bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through
June to spur economic growth and reduce 8.9 percent
unemployment.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said March 15 that the
recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor market is
“improving gradually.” Policy makers reiterated plans to buy
$600 billion in Treasury securities to bolster growth.  “One of the things that I am concerned about is that the
policy is so easy right now, that we have to get started on the
process of going back to normal because it will take a long time
to do that,” Bullard said.  His call for a review of the policy has been echoed by
 Charles Plosser  of the Philadelphia Fed, who last week laid out
a strategy to sell holdings in conjunction with raising  interest
rates .  ‘Inflation Hawks’  In July, Bullard, who calls himself the “north pole of
inflation hawks,” called for Treasury purchases as a way to
avert what he said was the rising possibility of Japan-style
deflation. Policy makers in November approved the $600 billion
purchase plan.  Bullard also spoke out on policy in November 2009, saying
history suggested the Fed wouldn’t raise its target federal
funds rate until 2012, two years later than expected by private
economists. The consensus has caught up with him, with the
median of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month
expecting an increase in the first quarter of 2012.  Bullard’s views haven’t always gained traction. Since March
2010 he has raised concerns about the Fed’s commitment to keep
interest rates near zero for “an extended period,” arguing
that the central bank should use more flexible language that
lays out the specific conditions that would prompt a policy
change. The phrase “extended period” continues to be in Fed
statements.  Small Adjustments  Bullard has also said the central bank should consider
altering the size of asset purchases at every policy meeting
rather than commit to a total purchase amount by a certain date.
Such an approach would be similar to making small adjustments to
the federal funds rate, he said.  Bullard, 50, has rotated this year into an annual non-
voting position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research
department in 1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  Fed officials have purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The Fed’s second round of purchases has come under
fire from Republican leaders in Congress who say it risks
inflating asset-price bubbles and stoking inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  