-- 
Fiesta Bowl Fires CEO Junker After Investigation Into Compensation Issues

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T00:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/fiesta-bowl-fires-ceo-junker-after-investigation-into-compensation-issues.html
Fiesta Bowl  President and Chief
Executive Officer John Junker was fired following an independent
investigation into campaign contributions and executive
compensation.  Junker, who was placed on administrative leave in February
after failing to cooperate with the  investigation  by a special
committee, was terminated with cause effective immediately, the
Fiesta Bowl’s board of directors said today in a news release.  “We are extremely disappointed and angered by the findings
of the special committee’s investigation,” Duane Woods,
chairman of the Fiesta Bowl’s board, said in a statement.
“While the special committee final report speaks for itself, I
must say that the actions undertaken and orchestrated by John
Junker and others are shocking and completely unacceptable.”  The Arizona Republic first reported in December 2009 that
current and former bowl employees said they were encouraged to
make contributions to certain politicians and then were
reimbursed those funds. Such practices would be a violation of
Arizona and U.S. campaign finance laws.  Lawyer’s Response  Stephen Dichter, an attorney for Junker, in an e-mail
directed Bloomberg News to the notes from two interviews Junker
gave to the special committee’s lawyers that “provide the best
and most accurate rendition of Mr. Junker’s responses to the
subject matters.”  “We are in the process of reviewing the report and may
have additional comments at a later date,” Dichter said in the
e-mail.  The independent probe by the special committee is separate
from an Arizona attorney general’s probe into possible criminal
wrongdoing involving political contributions by Fiesta Bowl
employees.  The Fiesta Bowl, founded in 1971, is a non-profit
organization that annually hosts college football’s Fiesta Bowl
game, as well as the Insight Bowl. The Fiesta Bowl game is a
part of the Bowl Championship Series that crowns a national
champion, and BCS officials released a statement on their
 website  saying the Fiesta Bowl must “demonstrate why it should
remain a BCS bowl game.”  “If the bowl remains a part of the BCS, its handling of
this matter will be closely monitored going forward,” Graham Spanier, chair of the BCS Presidential Oversight Committee, and
Bill Hancock, executive director of the BCS, said in the
statement.  Unanimous Vote  The Fiesta Bowl’s special committee, which was formed Oct.
8, found “an apparent scheme to reimburse at least $46,539 in
improper campaign contributions;” a flawed initial
investigation and “apparent conspiracy to conceal the
reimbursement scheme;” and unauthorized and excessive
compensation, non-business and inappropriate expenditures, and
inappropriate gifts, the release said.  The 22-member board, which voted unanimously to fire
Junker, also adopted new measures to ensure additional levels of
transparency, including additional reviews of compensation and
expense reimbursement, as well as a comprehensive whistleblower
policy.  “The board placed too much trust in a single executive
without proper oversight, and has already acted to put into
place new bylaws, policies and controls that will ensure such
activities do not happen again,” Woods said.  The organization is committed to recouping money lost
because of the violations, Woods said.  “The Fiesta Bowl is legally bound and highly motivated to
recover money that was misappropriated and will be examining all
of our options to do so,” Woods said. “The Fiesta Bowl will
continue its full cooperation with the Arizona attorney
general’s investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  