-- 
Gasoline, Heating Oil Gain on Mideast Unrest, Supply Projection

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-29T16:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/gasoline-heating-oil-gain-on-mideast-unrest-supply-projection.html
Gasoline and heating oil advanced
amid speculation that unrest in  Libya  and the Middle East will
be extended, disrupting oil shipments, and that U.S. fuel
supplies fell last week.  Futures gained as the Associated Press reported that troops
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  drove back rebels advancing on his
hometown of Sirte. Syria’s government resigned in the wake of
protests. Gasoline and distillate inventories probably declined
in the week ended March 25, according to the median estimate of
15 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.  “People feel that Libya is going to become a stalemate,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston. “And if you see unrest in Libya and Syria, it’s not
hard to see it spreading to  Iran .”  Gasoline for April delivery gained 1.56 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.043 a gallon at 11:50 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The unrest in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest crude
reserves, helped push gasoline up 22 percent from Feb. 15 to
March 25.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad accepted Prime Minister
Muhammad Naji Otri’s resignation, state television reported.
Assad asked the government to run affairs until a new Cabinet is
formed, the state news agency said.  “People are trying to figure out what’s going to happen
next over there,” said Peter Beutel, president of trading
advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,
Connecticut. “Is this going to continue spreading?”  Brent Rises  Brent crude  for May settlement gained 57 cents to $115.37 a
barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Product futures
are vulnerable to changes in Brent because refineries supplying
fuel to New York Harbor, the delivery point for heating oil and
gasoline futures, process crude grades priced relative to the
European benchmark.  U.S. gasoline inventories probably fell 2 million barrels
last week, according to the survey. Stockpiles in the week ended
March 18 sank 5.32 million barrels to 219.7 million, the fifth
straight drop and the lowest level in 11 weeks, according to
Energy Department data.  Supplies of distillates, including heating oil and diesel,
dropped 1 million barrels last week, according to the survey,
after gaining 7,000 barrels to 152.6 million the prior week. The
Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s inventories
at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.3 cent to $3.587 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its
website. That’s the highest price since Oct. 2, 2008.  Heating oil for April delivery rose 2.01 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.045 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  