-- 
General Electric Agrees to Buy Converteam for $3.2 Billion

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-29T20:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ge-to-buy-most-of-converteam-from-barclays-lbo-france-for-3-2-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to buy
most of  Converteam  from Barclays Private Equity Ltd. and LBO
France for $3.2 billion to add equipment that helps electricity
flow to the  power grid  from devices such as  wind turbines .  The transaction covers 90 percent of Massy, France-based
Converteam and should close in the third quarter, GE said today
in a statement. Converteam’s senior management will retain a 10
percent stake that GE said it will acquire over two to five
years at a price that shouldn’t exceed about $480 million.  Buying the closely held company brings Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s spending on energy acquisitions to more
than $11 billion since October as he targets oil and gas
exploration, renewables like wind and solar, and rising demand
for steady power in emerging markets such as Brazil and  China .  Converteam had $1.5 billion in sales and $239 million in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
last year, GE said. The price is about 15 times Converteam’s
Ebitda, lower than the median multiple of 21 times Ebitda in 32
acquisitions of power-conversion equipment companies worldwide
in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  “We’ve picked up a great asset,” said John Krenicki, CEO
of GE Energy Infrastructure, which will run Converteam through a
separate unit inside the group of energy businesses. “We’ve
been hunting this for a long time.”  Earnings Boost  Orders at Converteam rose 36 percent in 2010, according to
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE. The company, whose products
include motors used in gas pipelines and equipment to convert
electricity from wind, thermal and hydro sources into “grid-
quality” power, has 5,300 employees. It will add to GE earnings
“immediately” within the first year, Krenicki said.  Some of Converteam’s operations are on the same grounds as
GE’s natural gas turbine operations in Balfort,  France ,
fostering a relationship that facilitated the purchase, he said.
GE has about 10,000 employees in France, which also benefited
the relationship.  The acquisition should produce $250 million in benefits
annually within five years, according to GE’s statement. Much of
that will come from savings on materials and manufacturing in
areas where both companies have customers, Krenicki said.  The deal also gives GE expansion in the growing mining and
marine industries, he said.  GE Benefit  The so-called  energy efficiency , electrification and
automation industry is a $30 billion market that’s growing
faster than the global economy, GE said. About 25 percent of the
world’s electricity is used to power motors, and Converteam’s
products reduce consumption by one-third, GE said.  GE is the world’s biggest maker of power-generation
equipment, and its Energy Infrastructure division provided $37.5
billion of the parent company’s $150 billion in sales last year.  “We welcome deals in the Energy Infrastructure unit as
historically, deals have been well-executed here,” Julian Mitchell, a New York-based analyst with Credit Suisse AG who
rates GE shares ‘outperform,’ wrote in a note to clients today.
“GE should focus on this business, given its growth
opportunities and existing strong platforms.”  Buying Converteam gives GE products to compete with
 Switzerland ’s  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE)  as the world’s
electricity grids are upgraded and expanded to accommodate
rising power demand.  Nuclear Power  Any decline in the nuclear industry following radiation
leaks at a Japanese nuclear power plant damaged during this
month’s earthquake and tsunami may prompt companies such as GE
to consider broadening their product range, analysts said
earlier this month.  GE’s nuclear venture with Hitachi Ltd. yields sales of
about $1 billion a year for the company.  “What I think it’s going to confirm is diversification,”
Krenicki said. “We’re in the nuclear business. We’re committed
to the nuclear business. But we’re a big player in natural gas,
we’re a big player in renewable energy. And the power portfolio,
if you look at the acquisitions we’ve done in the last six
months, they have a real natural-gas bent to them.”  GE is continuing to put the “full-force” of its employees
and engineering teams into supporting Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
which runs the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, said Krenicki,
who called the situation in  Japan  “tragic.” The facility’s
reactors are based on a four-decade old design from GE.  Power Conversion Equipment  Converteam was the power conversion unit of Alstom SA,
which sold it to Barclays Private Equity amid a November 2005
state bailout led by then-Finance Minister  Nicolas Sarkozy .
Buyout firm LBO France acquired a third of the company in July
2008. The deal is the second-largest among power-conversion
equipment companies since March 2006, according to Bloomberg
analysis of purchases whose financial terms were disclosed.  “We view this deal as consistent with GE’s strategy of
building out its infrastructure capability as well as re-
engaging with industrial end markets and so will be viewed
positively by investors,” said Nigel Coe, a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in  New York  who has a “hold” rating on the shares.  Last month, GE agreed to buy the well-support division of
John Wood Group Plc for about $2.8 billion, adding equipment
that helps extract more oil and gas from mature fields. GE had
already invested about $5 billion on energy-related
acquisitions, including Lineage Power and Dresser Inc., both of
which have technologies that fit across GE’s equipment and
service product lines.  New Unit  Krenicki, who said GE Energy Infrastructure will now
concentrate on integrating its acquisitions, didn’t rule out
further small purchases.  He also said the company may consider building a separate
unit under the GE Energy banner that would target mining or
metals, similar to the way GE assembled its oil and gas division
in the past five years, because of Converteam’s products.  “There’s no reason we can’t have a GE Mining or a GE Metal
similar to what we’ve done in oil and gas,” Krenicki said.  GE rose 11 cents to $19.86 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 8.6 percent
this year so far compared with a 4.9 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Immelt is investing some of the cash GE hoarded during the
financial crisis. He raised the dividend twice in 2010, is
resuming stock buybacks and spending on acquisitions as he bulks
up non-financial businesses, especially in infrastructure units
such as energy, health care and aviation. GE ended 2010 with $79
billion in cash, $19 billion at the parent company’s level.  GE was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  as well as the law firm of  Allen & Overy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  