-- 
German Bund Yields Near 14-Month High on Inflation, Rate-Increase Concern

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-29T11:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/german-10-year-bond-yields-approach-14-month-high-before-inflation-report.html
German 10-year bonds fell, pushing
the yield within three basis points of the most in 14 months,
before data that’s forecast to show inflation stayed at a two-
year high and may bolster the case for tighter monetary policy.  Two-year German yields approached a three-week high.
Italian bonds fell as demands increased and yields dropped at a
sale of 1.73 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of inflation-linked
debt. Portuguese bonds fluctuated amid speculation the nation
will soon seek an international bailout.  “The market is focusing on the prospect of higher  interest
rates , and yields are likely to be given an upward pressure in
coming days and weeks,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “Core bond yields have
been unjustifiably low, partly because they were distorted by
safe-haven demand.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro-region’s benchmark
government security, rose two basis points to 3.31 percent as of
11:50 a.m. in London. It climbed to 3.335 percent on March 4,
the most since Jan. 13, 2010. The 2.5 percent security due
January 2021 traded at 93.36. The two-year note yield was two
basis points higher at 1.75 percent.  German inflation, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, was unchanged at 2.2 percent in March, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will probably say today, the
median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg shows.
Six German states have already reported today that consumer
prices rose in March after  oil prices  surged. German services
growth unexpectedly accelerated in March,  Markit Economics  said
last week.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said March 3 that policy
makers may raise the key rate from a record low of 1 percent at
their April 7 meeting to contain inflation. Last week, he said
he had “nothing to add” to that statement.  Consumer Sentiment  Bund yields have risen from 2.96 percent on Dec. 31 and are
set for a second quarterly advance. The two-year note yield is
up 23 basis points since the end of February.  German  government bonds  have lost investors 2 percent this
year while  U.S. Treasuries  gave a zero return after reinvested
interest, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.
Italian debt has returned 0.9 percent, while Portuguese
securities lost 6.7 percent.  Recovery ‘Intact’  “The global recovery remains intact despite significant
external shocks,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , an Edinburgh-based
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker
for banks and investors. “This should benefit risk markets at
the expense of core sovereign bonds.”  German bonds underperformed Spanish debt today, with the
10-year yield spread narrowing one basis point to 188 basis
points. The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year
Irish debt instead of benchmark German bunds rose six basis
points to 683 basis points.  Portugal’s two-year notes fluctuated, with the yield
dropping four basis points to 7.39 percent, after being as high
as 7.49 percent, the most since before the euro’s 1999 debut.
The 10-year yield increased one basis point to 7.93 percent. The
Irish two-year note dropped 21 basis points to 9.71 percent.  Portugal , Italy  The Portuguese 10-year yield has jumped from 7.49 percent
on March 22, the day before Prime Minister  Jose Socrates 
tendered his resignation after lawmakers rejected his planned
budget cuts. Portugal should seek a European Financial Stability
Facility bailout,  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said today.  “At this stage it makes sense for Portugal to go into the
EFSF and take up official loans in order to refinance its
upcoming maturities,” Munich-based Bosomworth said on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” in an interview with Francine
Lacqua. “What’s happening in the political circles in Portugal
now seals the fate.”  The Italian sale of inflation-linked securities maturing in
September 2016 attracted bids equivalent to 1.53 times the
amount on offer, up from 1.47 times at an offering in January,
 Bank of Italy  data showed today. The notes were priced to yield
an average 1.66 percent, down from 2.21 percent in January.  The Italian 10-year yield increased for a third day, rising
two basis points to 4.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  