-- 
Germany’s Schaeuble Sees Bigger G-20 Currency Role by Year-End

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-29T17:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/germany-s-schaeuble-sees-bigger-g-20-currency-role-by-year-end.html
Exchange-rate talks will move to
the Group of 20 from the Group of 7 as the bloc’s members step
up cooperation that aims to enhance the resilience of the world
economy, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  “We’ll see at the end of the year that there’ll be quite
some movement” in the discussion of exchange rates, he told
reporters today as he traveled to a G-20 seminar in Nanjing,
 China . “Sure, we won’t return to  Bretton Woods , but there is
some movement after all.”  Schaeuble said “we need to strengthen our efforts to bring
more stability to the world currency system.” The topic may be
discussed in the G-20 as a whole or in a sub-group consisting of
the G-7, Brazil, Russia,  India  and China, the so-called BRIC
states, he said.  At last month’s meeting in Paris, G-20 finance officials
agreed to closer monitoring of global economic imbalances in a
step toward smoothing the trade and investment distortions that
pitched the world into crisis. Under  France ’s G-20 leadership,
the bloc has pledged to make progress by the end of the year.  Members of the G-20 face growing pressure to fulfill the
pledges given to their peers on topics such as debt reduction
and fostering economic growth, Schaeuble said. Improving global
governance is an “arduous process, but we’re making progress.”  The G-20 seeks to promote the creation of local capital
markets to lessen the risk of emerging economies “falling
victim to speculative capital inflows and outflows,” Schaeuble
said. “As regards capital flows, we’ll have to try to write an
improved rule book.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Beijing at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  