-- 
Six German States Say Consumer Prices Increased in March

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-29T11:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/german-states-of-saxony-nrw-report-slower-inflation-in-march.html
Six German states said consumer
prices rose in March after  oil prices  surged.  Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bavaria, Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia
and Brandenburg said prices climbed 0.5 percent from February,
while Hesse reported a 0.4 percent increase. Inflation slowed in
three of the states, quickened in one and held steady in two.
Economists expect German harmonized inflation to stay at 2.2
percent, according to the median of 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. That report, based on data from the six states, is
due from the Federal Statistics Office later today.  Rising energy and food costs are fanning inflation in
 Europe ’s largest economy, increasing pressure on the  European
Central Bank  to raise  interest rates . Officials have signaled
the impact of the Japanese earthquake will not deter them from
lifting borrowing costs for the first time in almost three years
next month.  “Underlying inflation pressures in  Germany  and across the
euro area are certainly increasing and the ECB is right to be
concerned,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “The inflation threats are real.”  In Saxony, prices for heating oil surged 32.1 percent from
a year earlier, while fuel was 12.6 percent more expensive.
Hesse said fuel prices rose 4.9 percent in the month.  Crude oil prices have increased 37 percent in the past six
months, surpassing $100 a barrel amid political tensions in the
Middle East and North Africa.  Booming Economy  Adding to inflation pressure is Germany’s booming economy,
with companies increasing hiring and spending to meet export
orders. German business confidence held close to a record high
this month, the Munich-based Ifo institute said last week.  German inflation could quicken to 2.8 percent by the third
quarter, according to Dekabank economist Marina Nikiforow.  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
on March 25 that risks to  price stability  are “very much on the
upside” and that the central bank should remain “strongly
vigilant,” a phrase officials use to signal a rate increase is
imminent.  
