-- 
German GfK Consumer Confidence Set to Drop in April on Inflation

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-29T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/german-gfk-consumer-confidence-set-to-drop-in-april-on-inflation.html
German  consumer confidence  will
decline for the first time in 10 months in April as soaring
energy and food prices hurt income expectations and increase
uncertainty over the economic outlook, GfK AG said.  The Nuremberg-based market research company today forecast
that its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will fall to 5.9 next month from 6 in March.
Economists predicted a decline to 5.8, according to the median
of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Political unrest in North Africa and the Middle East has
pushed  oil prices  above $100 a barrel, fanning inflation and
curbing household purchasing power. At the same time,  Germany ’s
economy is booming as companies increase investment and hiring
to meet export orders.  The “more uncertain international environment and growing
fears of inflation” overshadowed favorable conditions for
consumers, “such as growth in jobs and incomes,” GfK said in a
statement. “The potential impact of the natural and
environmental disaster in  Japan  has not yet been taken into
account as the survey had already been carried out by the time
the devastating earthquake and its repercussions hit,” it
added.  GfK’s measure of households’ economic expectations declined
to 49.5 in March from 57.1 in February. A gauge of income
expectations fell to 40.5 from 42.9, and an index of consumers’
willingness to spend dropped to 34.3 from 38.9.  Economists expect German inflation to stay above the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit for a third month in
March. The Federal Statistics Office will release that report
later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  