-- 
German Inflation Rate Held Steady at Two-Year High in March

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-29T12:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/german-inflation-rate-held-steady-at-two-year-high-in-march-1-.html
German inflation stayed at a two-
year high in March after energy prices surged.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, remained at 2.2 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the highest since October
2008 and in line with the median of 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. In the month, prices rose 0.5 percent.  Rising energy and food costs are fanning inflation in
Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, increasing pressure on the
 European Central Bank  to raise  interest rates . Officials have
signaled the impact of the Japanese earthquake will not deter
them from lifting borrowing costs for the first time in almost
three years next month.  “If the inflation rate stays much above 2 percent, then
there will be higher wage demands this year,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “That’s
exactly what the European Central Bank fears.”  Wage increases to compensate for higher energy prices may
entrench faster inflation. Crude  oil prices  have increased 33
percent in the past six months, surpassing $100 a barrel amid
political tensions in the Middle East and North Africa.  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation stayed at 2.1
percent in March, also a two-year high.  Euro-Area Inflation  The ECB aims to keep inflation in the 17-nation euro region
just below 2 percent. Euro-area inflation probably stayed at 2.4
percent this month, according to another survey of economists.
That report is due from the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg
on March. 31.  Adding to inflation pressure is  Germany ’s booming economy,
with companies increasing hiring and spending to meet export
orders.  Business confidence held close to a record high this month,
the Munich-based Ifo institute said last week. Still,  consumer
confidence  will decline for the first time in 10 months in April
as inflation erodes household purchasing power, market research
company GfK AG said today.  The Bundesbank expects the economy to grow 2.5 percent this
year after it expanded a record 3.6 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  