-- 
Getty Returns Nazi-Looted Painting to Heir of Amsterdam Dealer

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-29T08:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/getty-returns-nazi-looted-painting-to-heir-of-amsterdam-dealer-goudstikker.html
The  J. Paul Getty Museum  in  Los
Angeles  agreed to return a 17th-century Dutch painting to the
heir of a Jewish  art dealer  who was forced to flee the
Netherlands when the Nazis invaded.  Jacques Goudstikker left about 1,400 artworks in his
gallery when he escaped Amsterdam in 1940 on a cargo boat with
his wife and baby son. He died during the crossing. His gallery
was looted by Reichsmarschall Hermann Goering weeks later. In
2006 the Dutch government returned 202 works from the national
collection to Goudstikker’s sole heir, Marei von Saher.  The Getty’s return of “Landscape With Cottage and
Figures” by the Dutch artist Pieter Molijn is the first
restitution to von Saher by a U.S. museum, according to a
statement sent by e-mail late yesterday by her New York-based
lawyers,  Herrick, Feinstein LLP .  “It is always encouraging to see an important cultural
institution like the Getty Museum decide to do the right thing
for Holocaust victims and their heirs,” von Saher was quoted as
saying in the statement. The J. Paul Getty Museum’s press
department didn’t immediately respond to a phone call or an e-
mailed request for comment after office hours.  Paintings that Dutch museums returned to von Saher, who is
the widow of Goudstikker’s son, include works by Salomon van
Ruysdael, Filippo Lippi and Jan Steen. She also has recovered
more than 30 artworks from museums in other countries, including
Germany and  Israel , her lawyers said.  Von Saher is embroiled in a court battle with the  Norton
Simon Museum  in  Pasadena ,  California , over her claim for two
Lucas Cranach the Elder masterpieces, “Adam” and “Eve,” the
attorneys said in the statement.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  