-- 
Ghost Haunts an Unraveling Mind in ‘Other Place’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-29T11:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ghost-haunts-an-unraveling-mind-in-other-place-jeremy-gerard.html
Telling a loved one that she isn’t
dying from  brain cancer  has never been delivered as forebodingly
as it is in Sharr White’s engrossing new drama,  “The Other
Place.”   It isn’t that Ian, an oncologist, wants his wife Juliana, a
geneticist, to be ill. But he knows that dementia, the real
cause of her symptoms --  memory loss , an inability to summon the
names of objects or the conversation she held just a few minutes
earlier -- is even less treatable.  It’s also the source of Juliana’s dramatic personality
change, which has ravaged the lives of these successful, middle-
aged Bostonians played with riveting empathy by Laurie Metcalf
and Dennis Boutsikaris.  Ian and Juliana already have survived a child’s long ago
disappearance from their “other place” on Cape Cod. That
central event has been tearing the fabric of their marriage;
Juliana’s illness leaves it in tatters.  “You know, what surprises me almost more than anything
else,” Ian tells Juliana when their latest conversation has
turned ugly, “is how cruel this thing has made you.”  Juliana, especially as captured with febrile intensity by
Laurie Metcalf, is used to being in control. She’s a research
scientist who develops drugs to treat the illness she
uncomprehendingly is succumbing to.  The one-act play begins with Juliana recalling her most
recent sales trip (she’s dropped the pretense of calling them
lectures). In the throng of male doctors, she spots a young
woman in a yellow string bikini. She begins peppering her talk
with offhand jabs at this intruder who eventually disappears.  Cruel Love  When a disorienting lapse stops her cold, Juliana ends up
in a hospital. She returns home to the care of the man who, she
tells her neurologist, is soon to be her ex-husband. As Ian
struggles to cope with Juliana’s deterioration, he finds himself
jagging between empathy and anger on an emotional trampoline
that Dennis Boutsikaris negotiates with appealing nuance.  The final scene is set at the “other place.” It’s a
confrontation that reminded me of that moment in “A Beautiful
Mind” when the full extent of the Nobel Prize-winning
mathematician John Forbes Nash’s disconnect with reality is
revealed.  Eugene Lee’s set, a freeform panel of white rectangles that
eventually yields to a realistic living room, lends spatial form
to Juliana’s confusion. John Schiapa and especially Aya Cash are
superb in multiple roles. Director Joe Mantello imbues a
fragmented work with a sense of fluidity.  At the center is Juliana, a woman who will not go gently
into the darkness. Like Ian, we are forced to consider the
challenge of an illness that so brutally transforms the beloved.  Through April 24 at the Lucille Lortel Theatre, 121
Christopher St. Information: +1- 212-279-4200;
 http://www.mcctheater.org  Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 