-- 
Godzilla Hedge Fund Fannie Mae Was ‘Guaranteed to Fail’: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-03-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/godzilla-hedge-funds-fannie-mae-freddie-were-guaranteed-to-fail-books.html
A number, like a picture, can be
worth 1,000 words. In  England , 1066 means the Norman Conquest.
The world over, 3.14159 screams pi.  For  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the figure to remember is
79.9 -- the percent ownership that the  U.S. Treasury  took in
each when it seized control in 2008. If the stakes were 80
percent, the mortgage companies would land on the federal
budget, as we’re reminded in “Guaranteed to Fail,” a valuable
book on how two quasi-public companies became “the world’s
largest and most leveraged hedge funds.”  Kiss all the political posturing about the U.S. public debt
ceiling goodbye: With Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s debts tacked
on, the total would lurch to $15.84 trillion, well over the
current limit of $14.29 trillion, the authors say.  Books written by committee usually leave me cold. This one,
by four professors at New York University’s  Stern School of
Business , is different. A balanced study, it rises above a clash
between partisans on the right -- who call the companies
“ground zero” in the meltdown -- and those on the left who
blame deregulation and Wall Street excess.  “There is probably a little truth to both views,” the
authors say. “But these arguments are beside the point.”  For decades, Democratic and Republican presidents alike
have used housing subsidies as a cynical tool for combating
ever-rising  income inequality  with easy credit. “Let them eat
credit,” as economist Raghuram G. Rajan jokes.  Timely Prescription  The Obama administration is proposing to wind down Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac , making the timing for this book -- by Viral V. Acharya, Matthew Richardson, Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh and
Lawrence J. White -- opportune. Part primer, part policy
prescription, the text explains in simple language what these
entities are, how they got so big, and why we must fix them.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were once a fairly minor
presence in residential mortgages. As publicly traded companies,
though, they expanded their market share, from 4.4 percent in
1970 to 41.3 percent at the time the financial crisis hit, the
authors say.  By then, the two government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs,
held combined mortgage portfolios of $1.43 trillion plus $3.5
trillion in guarantees on mortgage-backed securities. They had
morphed into Godzilla  hedge funds  with government backing, the
authors say.  Who needs such monsters? Many countries with far less
government involvement in mortgages enjoy comparable home
ownership rates and affordable housing, they show.  Instant Advantages  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s growth reflected astonishing
advantages they had over private rivals. They paid lower taxes,
could borrow at cheaper rates and were required to hold less
capital. How much less? When they guaranteed the credit risk of
mortgage-backed securities, or MBS, the  capital requirement  was
0.45 percent -- just 45 cents per $100 of guarantees, the
authors say; when they invested such securities, the buffer was
2.5 percent, or $2.50 per $100.  A federally insured bank, by contrast, faced a capital
requirement of 4 percent for holding residential mortgages --
unless it held GSE MBS. In that case, the requirement fell to
1.6 percent, creating perverse incentives for banks to originate
mortgages, sell them to the GSEs for securitization and buy them
back as GSE MBS. Same risk, less capital.  Leveraged Bets  A race to the bottom was on -- a competition to churn out
increasingly dicey mortgages -- only now it pitted Godzilla
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac against King Kong banks deemed to
have “a too-big-to-fail government guarantee,” the authors
say. Here was “a highly leveraged bet on the mortgage market by
firms that were implicitly backed by the government with
artificially low funding rates.” America, the bastion of free
markets, became anything but when it came to mortgages.  Once Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac collapsed, the  Federal
Reserve  stepped into the breach by purchasing more than $1.4
trillion in GSE debt and mortgage-backed securities. This marked
the Fed’s biggest foray during the crisis, the authors say --
far bigger than its role in the rescues of Bear Stearns Cos.,
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Citigroup Inc.  It also created a conflict of interest, they say: If the
Fed at some point needs to raise rates to head off rising
prices, it would harm the value of the securities on its own
balance sheet. Given how the public and politicians might
perceive losses, the Fed could be tempted to let inflation grow.  Bad Bank  Ultimately, the only solution for the two mortgage
companies is to wind them down, the authors say. For starters,
they should stop investing in mortgage assets: Their $1.71
trillion portfolio could be gradually liquidated through a “bad
bank” resembling the Resolution Trust Corp., the agency that
mopped up after the savings-and-loan crisis in the late 1980s
and early 1990s.  That leaves the trickier question of what to do about
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s second main function -- to
guarantee mortgages against default. Here, the authors conclude
that the insurance should be preserved through a public-private
partnership in which private insurers would decide which
guarantees to provide, price them and insure a slice of the
total, say 25 percent. The government would cover the rest.  This proposal gives me pause. Taken as a whole,
“Guaranteed to Fail” suggests that public and private parties
rarely consort without making secret accords at the taxpayer’s
expense. Still, the professors argue the case in convincing
detail, and one can only admire their pragmatism.  “Guaranteed to Fail: Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the
Debacle of Mortgage Finance” is from  Princeton  (222 pages,
$24.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 