-- 
Greek, Portuguese Notes Drop After Rating Cuts; Bunds Decline on Inflation

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-29T16:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/greek-portuguese-notes-drop-after-rating-cuts-bunds-decline-on-inflation.html
Greek and Portuguese two-year notes
slumped, leading the securities of  Europe ’s most indebted
countries lower, after Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services cut
the nations’ credit ratings.  Bunds declined, pushing the yield to the highest since
January 2010 as German inflation stayed at a two-year high. S&P
cut Greece’s ranking to BB- from BB+, citing concern the country
may have to restructure its debt. The company reduced  Portugal ’s
rating for the second time in four days, saying the nation will
probably need an international bailout. Italian five-year bonds
dropped for a third day as demand increased and yields dropped
at a sale of 1.73 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of inflation-
linked debt maturing in 2016.  “In the short run Portugal’s spreads are likely to widen
and now they don’t have any other chance than” asking for a
financial rescue, said  Glenn Marci , a strategist at DZ Bank AG
in  Frankfurt . “For Greece, everyone knows that they are in
heavy trouble, but the announcement is still a surprise that
there might be more cuts.”  Portugal’s two-year note yield surged 30 basis points to
7.73 percent as of 5:04 p.m. in London, after reaching the most
since before the euro’s 1999 debut. The 10-year yield increased
seven basis points to 7.99 percent after climbing above
8 percent for the first time since Bloomberg started collecting
the data in 1997. The Greek two-year yield was 42 basis points
higher at 15.36 percent.  Lower Rating  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro-area’s benchmark
government security, rose four basis points to 3.33 percent,
after being as high as 3.34 percent. The two-year yield was four
basis points higher at 1.78 percent.  The Portuguese 10-year yield has jumped from 7.49 percent
on March 22, the day before Prime Minister  Jose Socrates 
tendered his resignation after lawmakers rejected his planned
budget cuts. S&P cut Portugal to the lowest investment-grade
rating of BBB-. The country should seek a European Financial
Stability Facility bailout,  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said today.  “At this stage it makes sense for Portugal to go into the
EFSF and take up official loans in order to refinance its
upcoming maturities,” Munich-based Bosomworth said on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” in an interview with Francine Lacqua. “What’s happening in the political circles in Portugal
now seals the fate.”  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Portuguese sovereign debt rose 13
basis points to 553, approaching the record closing price of 555
basis points on Jan. 10, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps. Contracts on  Greece  rose 6.5 basis points to 972.  The economy will shrink 1.4 percent this year and expand
0.3 percent in 2012, following estimated growth of 1.4 percent
last year, the Bank of Portugal said in its spring economic
bulletin today. On Jan. 11, the bank forecast GDP would contract
1.3 percent in 2011 and expand 0.6 percent in 2012.  Germany ’s inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, remained at 2.2 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the highest
since October 2008 and in line with the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said March 3 that policy
makers may raise the key rate from a record low of 1 percent at
their April 7 meeting to contain inflation. Last week, he said
he had “nothing to add” to that statement.  Italian Sale  Bund yields have risen from 2.96 percent on Dec. 31 and are
set for a second quarterly advance. The two-year note yield is
up 26 basis points since the end of February.  German  government bonds  have lost investors 2 percent this
year while  U.S. Treasuries  gave a zero return after reinvested
interest, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.
Italian debt has returned 0.9 percent and Portuguese securities
lost 6.7 percent. Spanish notes made 2.9 percent.  The Italian sale of inflation-linked securities maturing in
September 2016 attracted bids equivalent to 1.53 times the
amount on offer, up from 1.47 times at an offering in January,
 Bank of Italy  data showed today. The notes were priced to yield
an average 1.66 percent, down from 2.21 percent in January.  The Italian conventional five-year yield increased six
basis points to 3.84 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  