-- 
Guangdong Nuclear Tests Sentiment After Fukushima With Hong Kong Listing

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-03-29T09:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/guangdong-nuclear-tests-sentiment-after-fukushima-with-hong-kong-listing.html
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group
is set to gain a  Hong Kong  listing for its uranium assets,
testing investor sentiment toward the industry as  Japan  tries to
contain its worst atomic accident.  China Uranium Development Co., a unit of Guangdong Nuclear,
agreed to pay more than HK$984 million ($126 million) for
control of drug supplier  Vital Group Holdings Ltd. (1164) , according to
a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday.  The acquisition gives Guangdong Nuclear access to investors
in a financial center that it supplies with electricity from
atomic plants 50 kilometers (31 miles) away. Uranium prices and
stocks have plunged since the March 11 disaster in Japan
prompted countries worldwide to review or halt nuclear power
programs pending safety checks.  “Buying a company like this gives them a quick way to get
a backdoor listing and access to funds to buy uranium
resources,” said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy research
at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong. “Despite the Japan
crisis, China will expand its nuclear power program after
initial safety checks and this is a good time to get bargains
securing uranium resources.”  The stock exchange filing didn’t detail China Uranium’s
plans for Vital. Guangdong Nuclear spokesman Liu Kaixin didn’t
answer three calls during office hours. Three calls to Vital
executive director James Liu during office hours weren’t
answered.  “Strict Regulations”  The transaction may be treated by Hong Kong regulators as a
takeover if Guangdong Nuclear doesn’t try to inject large
amounts of assets into Vital, according to  Katherine U , a
partner at legal firm Minter Ellison in Hong Kong.  “The stock exchange does have strict regulations about
circumventing the listing rules. If the company changes the
focus of the business, but doesn’t try to roll in assets from
the existing business, it’s not a backdoor listing,” she said.
“These kind of takeover deals are quite common in Hong Kong.”  Reverse takeovers are treated as initial listings, the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange says on its website. The transaction needs
approval by the Securities and Futures Commission, Vital said in
its statement yesterday.  Three years ago, CNNC Nuclear International Uranium Corp.,
a unit of the nation’s biggest atomic power plant operator,
China National Nuclear Corp., purchased a stake in Hong Kong-
listed aluminum and zinc die-casting company United Metals
Holdings Ltd. and changed its name.  The renamed CNNC International Ltd. in 2009 bought Canada-
listed Western Prospector Group, which explores for uranium in
Mongolia. It acquired uranium assets in Niger from its parent
last year, the  China Daily  reported.  Approvals Suspended  China has the world’s biggest nuclear program, with 26
reactors under construction and 28 planned, according to the
 World Nuclear Association . The government suspended approval of
new projects on March 16 pending safety checks of existing
plants as Japan tried to prevent a meltdown at Fukushima Dai-
Ichi, the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  Germany  said on March 15 it will close seven nuclear
reactors for safety review. India said on March 14 it will
examine its 20 atomic plants.  Guangdong Nuclear owns the Daya Bay and Ling Ao nuclear
power stations in southern China, according to its website. Daya
Bay, which supplies about a quarter of Hong Kong’s electricity,
discovered a radiation leak in October which it said was in a
contained area.  36 Percent Discount  China  Uranium will buy 1.67 billion Vital shares for 23
cents each, a 36 percent discount to the last traded price. It
will pay HK$600 million for the bonds, which are convertible at
the same price per share. Vital shares surged 33 percent in two
days before they were suspended on March 4.  Initial details of the transaction were published on the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange website on March 22. Vital suspended
trading on March 4 pending a possible restructuring. It said on
Jan. 25 that a supplier had lost the Chinese import license for
one of its main drug products.  Vital has 779 employees in mainland China, Hong Kong and
Macau, according to its 2010 earnings statement released
yesterday. Its shares traded at 36 Hong Kong cents on March 3.
They will remain suspended until a further announcement on the
Guangdong Nuclear deal, according to yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  