-- 
Li Ka-Shing Turns Phone Unit to Profit After Seven-Year, $20 Billion Loss

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-30T09:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/li-turns-high-speed-wireless-unit-to-profit-after-7-years-and-20-billion.html
Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest
man, said his high-speed mobile-phone business has turned a
corner, posting its first profit after losing HK$157 billion
($20 billion) over seven years.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which has invested an estimated $30
billion in its mobile-phone operations in Europe and  Australia ,
said yesterday annual net income rose 47 percent to a three-year
high of HK$20 billion, beating estimates. Li said the company’s
phone business will make a “positive contribution” from now on
after losses through 2009.  Hutchison shares jumped the most in almost two months as
the company said it will increase dividends after overcoming the
biggest drag on earnings in the past decade. The 3G investment
has tested the reputation of the 82-year old Li, nicknamed
“Superman” by the  Hong Kong  media for his investing prowess.  “Not losing more money in 3G is good news, but this
business never really became the cash-earner that they had
expected when they first went into it,” said Kalai Pillay, a
senior director at  Fitch Ratings  in Singapore, who assesses
Hutchison’s debt.  3 Group, Hutchison’s division that offers 3G, or third-
generation, mobile-phone services in seven markets in Europe and
Australia, had HK$157 billion of losses before interest and tax
between 2003 and 2009, according to Bloomberg News calculations
from company filings to the stock exchange. Hutchison spokesman
Hans Leung said he couldn’t immediately verify the amount.  Best Performer  Hutchison shares rose 5.1 percent to close at HK$93.35 in
Hong Kong trading, the biggest gain since Feb. 2. The stock’s 65
percent gain in the past year makes it the best performer in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Cheung Kong  increased 4 percent to
HK$127.40 today.  The 3G division earned HK$2.93 billion before interest and
tax last year, compared with a loss of HK$8.9 billion in 2009,
Hutchison said in a statement yesterday. This included a one-
time gain of about HK$1.5 billion from operations in  Italy , in
addition to a one-time gain from the U.K., the company said.  Hutchison’s investment in the mobile-phone operations
reached about HK$240 billion, Morgan Stanley said in February
last year.  “We don’t need to put much money into 3G now,” Li said.
Hutchison’s 3G businesses can expand into higher-speed services,
or so-called 4G, by financing them with existing resources,
without much input from the parent, Li said.  Hutchison contributed 38 percent of net income at  Cheung
Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the world’s second-largest developer by
market value, last year. Cheung Kong, which owns 49.97 percent
of Hutchison, said yesterday that annual profit rose 35 percent.  ‘Healthy’ Market  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
tied to  China ’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices. He built
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $36 billion.
His empire now spans ports, real estate, hotels, retailing,
infrastructure and energy.  The 82-year-old, ranked 11th in Forbes magazine’s annual
global rich list this month with wealth of $26 billion,
yesterday said that the Hong Kong property market will remain
“healthy, barring unforeseen adverse changes.”  “Homebuyers will be okay if they’re buying homes for
self-use as inflation is getting more serious,” Li told
reporters at a briefing in Hong Kong yesterday when asked about
whether it was a good idea to invest in Hong Kong real estate.
Loose monetary policy in the U.S. “is good for their economy
but is causing problems in other countries.”  Li is seeking growth from industries ranging from utilities
and phone networks to oil after Hong Kong stepped up measures
aimed at cooling the  property market . Housing prices have risen
more than 65 percent since the start of 2009.  Beating Estimates  Hutchison’s net income rose to HK$20 billion, compared with
a restated HK$13.6 billion, which included a one-time gain of
HK$7.9 billion, the Hong Kong-based company said. The profit
exceeded the HK$16.4 billion average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company raised full-year payout 11 percent, including a
proposed HK$1.41 final dividend.  Cheung Kong’s full-year net income of HK$26.5 billion beat
the average HK$20.2 billion estimate of 12 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The company will pay a final dividend of HK$2.45.  Hutchison’s port unit, the biggest contributor to earnings,
boosted profit before interest and taxes 12 percent to HK$11.6
billion last year. The property and hotel business, the second-
biggest, posted a 40 percent gain, the statement said.  The Hong Kong company this year listed some of its port
assets in a trust in a $5.5 billion share sale in  Singapore .
Hutchison will report a gain of $5.65 billion in its 2011
results from the offering, it said.  “3G is now a push, not a drag,” Managing Director Canning Fok said yesterday. “The work on 3G is not finished, it’s only
the beginning. We have to work to bring the baton home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  