-- 
TIAA-CREF to Invest $1 Billion in New Investment Group Aimed at Nonprofits

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-03-29T18:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/tiaa-cref-to-invest-1-billion-in-new-investment-group-aimed-at-nonprofits.html
TIAA-CREF, the largest U.S. manager
of pensions for teachers and academic researchers, will provide
$1 billion in capital to a new unit that will oversee
investments for endowments.  Covariance Capital Management, based in Houston, will
provide services to nonprofit groups with assets under
management of $100 million or more, New York-based TIAA-CREF
said in a statement today. In addition to the seed capital,
Covariance will invest client money in stocks and bonds, as well
as private equity, real estate and  hedge funds , the firm said.  Scott Wise, the former investment chief of  Rice University 
in Houston, joined TIAA-CREF last year to start Covariance, as
the company expanded into investment management for nonprofit
groups, following similar moves by New York-based  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport
Beach ,  California . The companies are courting endowments and
foundations as they assess their investments following record
losses in the aftermath of the financial crisis.  “One of the strengths we have is being part of CREF, which
already has relationships with many of the institutions we’d be
interested in managing capital for on the endowment side,” Wise
said in an interview. “The introductions they make with their
client base can give us the opportunity to jump-start the
business.”  The $1 billion seed money from TIAA-CREF will be invested
across asset classes in a similar way to client money, Wise
said. Covariance, which will start investing capital in the
third quarter, is meeting with potential clients, Wise said. The
firm will charge clients based on the size of their assets.  The firm has hired executives including Michael Jawor,
previously the chief investment officer at Man Group’s Glenwood
Capital Investment Group LLC hedge fund, and Daniel Feder, a
former manager at Sequoia Capital in  Menlo Park , California, and
Princeton University’s endowment. The firm plans to customize
investments for its nonprofit clients, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  