-- 
Woodward First Woman to Command U.S. Air Attack in Libya ‘No-Fly’ Mission

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/libya-airstrikes-make-woodward-first-woman-to-lead-u-s-air-war.html
The U.S.  Air Force  general
directing the airstrikes over Libya has flown aerial tankers
into battle and commanded the pilots of Air Force One -- and is
now the first woman to lead a combat air campaign.  Major General  Margaret Woodward , 51, was in charge of the
17th Air Force, a unit that supports humanitarian and
peacekeeping missions in  Africa , when she was ordered to set up
the United Nations-sanctioned no-fly zone over Libya.  In the 11 days since, U.S. and coalition aircraft have
flown more than 1,400 sorties. They have bombed Muammar Qaddafi’s air defenses and helped push Qaddafi’s army back
from the edge of Benghazi in eastern Libya to his hometown of
Sirte, 570 kilometers (340 miles) to the west. Only one allied
plane, a  Boeing Co. (BA)   F-15E , was lost -- to equipment failure.
Both fliers in the jet ejected and were rescued.  That the execution looks smooth is no surprise, said
Michael M. Dunn, a retired Air Force lieutenant general who is
president and chief executive officer of the  Air Force
Association , a Washington-based nonprofit organization that
promotes air power and looks after the interests of Air Force
veterans.  “Look at her background,” he said, noting how Woodward
has flown in wartime and commanded two Air Force wings and an
operations group. “She’s battle-tested. And those were tough
wings.”  Banned from Combat  A 1982 graduate of  Arizona State University , Woodward
earned advanced degrees at the National War College in
 Washington  and Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in  Daytona
Beach ,  Florida . When she entered the Air Force in 1983, women
were banned from flying in combat. After earning her pilot’s
wings, she became an instructor on the  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
 T-38 , a plane used to train future F-15 and F-16 fighter pilots.
Her husband,  Dan , who retired two years ago as an Air Force
brigadier general, also served as a T-38 instructor.  “I was still smarting under the fact that I couldn’t go
fly a fighter and women couldn’t fly in combat. Thankfully, that
changed over time,” Woodward told the Tampa Tribune in a 2005
interview. “Generally, you’re accepting of it, but there are
times when it just all piles up on you, and you kind of lash out
against it.”  Aerial Refueling  Woodward soon moved to the Boeing KC-135 tanker, an aerial
gas station. She refueled warplanes in flight during the 1989
invasion of  Panama  and the 1999 campaign against Serbian forces
in  Kosovo  and commanded refueling missions for the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars. She has accumulated nearly 4,000 hours of
flight time.  “Maggie was always very proud to be a tanker person”
since that allowed her fly in combat, retired Air Force
Lieutenant General William Welser III said in a interview. He
was Woodward’s commander when she was selected to run  MacDill
Air Force Base  in Tampa, Florida.  “My heart smiles every time I look at a KC-135,” Woodward
told the St. Petersburg Times in a 2005 interview. “Sort of
like people looking at a 1957 Chevy.”  At MacDill, Woodward led the 6th Air Mobility Wing, one of
the Air Force’s main transportation and refueling units, from
2005 to 2007. She went on to command the  89th Airlift Wing ,
which ferries top government officials around the globe and
includes Air Force One. She could often be seen on television
welcoming President  George W. Bush  back to Andrews Air Force
Base in  Maryland .  Odyssey Dawn  “Her success in a male-dominated world comes because she
is a smart operator,” said Dunn, who served at the Pentagon
when Woodward worked in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
“She understands air power, and her forte is she gets along
with people -- the human element of command can be one that’s
difficult for some to master.”  As the Joint Forces Air Component Commander for Operation
Odyssey Dawn, Woodward is in charge of carrying out the United
Nations mandate to protect Libyan civilians and enforce a no-fly
zone over the country. She and liaison officers from allied
countries choose targets and synchronize operations, said
Lieutenant Colonel Dave Honchul, an Air Force spokesman at
 Ramstein Air Base , near Kaiserslauten,  Germany .  Woodward’s command center is at Ramstein and most of the
U.S. planes flying in the operation are based at Aviano Air
Base, in northern  Italy , Honchul said in an interview. The
overall operation in  Libya  is run by U.S. Navy Admiral  Samuel
Locklear III , who is based on the USS Mount Whitney in the
 Mediterranean Sea .  Lifelong Ambition  Woodward’s dreams of flight started at a young age, her
brother Mark Maslowski told the Tampa Tribune in 2005. She spent
part of her childhood in India and  Pakistan , where her father
worked for the U.S. Agency for International Development, the
government’s foreign aid and development arm, and the family
later moved to  Palo Alto ,  California .  Woodward and her husband have sometimes been posted
together and sometimes apart, according to their service
biographies. They have no children.  “She and Dan are a very unique married couple,” Welser
said. “What makes them tick is their dedication to country, to
mission and to each other. They each made it on their own, and
they both made it together.”  When Woodward’s role was discussed recently on a blog on
the  website  of Foreign Policy magazine, some commenters wondered
whether a woman was capable of running a military campaign.  “She has proven herself through many years, and has the
experience and the credentials and certainly the savvy to be
doing the job she’s doing, because of her time in air mobility
and her experience in combat,” Welser said. “They probably
couldn’t have a better person than her doing that job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  