-- 
Libyan Rebels Forced Into Retreat Near Sirte as Obama Considers Direct Aid

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-30T18:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/libyan-rebels-forced-to-retreat-as-western-nations-seek-qaddafi-s-ouster.html
Libyan rebels retreated under fire
from Muammar Qaddafi’s troops as U.S. President  Barack Obama 
and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said they may consider
sending arms to the opposition forces.  “We will be providing them direct assistance,” Obama
said in an NBC “Nightly News” interview yesterday. Asked if
this meant sending weapons to the rebels, Obama said: “I’m not
ruling it out. But I’m also not ruling it in.”  Cameron echoed Obama when answering questions in
Parliament in London today. “We do not rule it out, but we
haven’t taken the decision to do so,” he said.  Rebels,  after advancing toward Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte, withdrew in the face of artillery and rocket attacks as
pro-Qaddafi forces retook control of the oil port of Ras Lanuf.
The  BBC  and New York Times, citing reporters near the Libyan
frontline, said rebels are streaming away from Brega and
heading northeast, back toward Ajdabiya.  Allied forces carried out an air strike against troops
loyal to Qaddafi several kilometers west of Ajdabiya today,
 Agence France-Presse  reported.  “There’s little indication that Qaddafi’s forces were
driven back by the rebels,” Nate Hughes, director of military
analysis at the Austin, Texas-based geopolitical advisory firm
 Stratfor , said in a telephone interview. “The rebels are no
match for Qaddafi’s forces.”  Libyan Advance  Qaddafi’s advance shows he retains military capacity after
almost two weeks of U.S.-led bombing that has targeted his air
defenses, armor and army installations. In London, leaders of
the anti-Qaddafi coalition pledged yesterday to continue
military action against  Libya  until he complies with United
Nations resolutions demanding an end to attacks on civilians.  Six F-16 fighter jets from the Netherlands are deploying
over Libya with  NATO forces , the Dutch Defense Ministry said
today in a statement. The Netherlands has also sent a KDC-10
in-flight refueling tanker and the mine-hunting ship HNLMS
Haarlem, the ministry said.  “In two weeks from now, if the rebels haven’t taken
Tripoli and Qaddafi is still in charge, I see a second UN
mandate for ground troops,” Florence Gaub, a North Africa
expert at the NATO Defense College in  Rome , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not a question of if Qaddafi is going to go,
but when. It will definitely happen in April.”  New Ambassador  Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann, a former foreign minister of
 Nicaragua ’s socialist Sandinista government and one-time
president of the  United Nations General Assembly , has been
named by Qaddafi’s regime as Libya’s ambassador to the UN.  Venezuela President  Hugo Chavez  said today Qaddafi told
him he isn’t leaving Libya and that his exile is “not
foreseen,” after he was asked by a journalist if he would give
the North African leader asylum. Chavez was speaking on state
television during a visit to Uruguay.  There are signs that some of Qaddafi’s associates are
abandoning him, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said.  “On the political front, one can see the first defections
around Qaddafi in Tripoli,” Juppe said during question time in
parliament in Paris today, without providing further details.  The six-week conflict in Libya, that began as a popular
anti-regime protest movement of the kind that unseated leaders
in Egypt and  Tunisia , has divided the international community,
with Russia and  China  refusing to support the UN-backed
intervention. As many as 12,000 people may have died in the
fighting, according to rebel estimates.  Rebels Sell Oil  Crude oil futures extended declines after a U.S.
government report showed a larger-than-forecast increase in
inventories. Crude oil for May delivery declined 22 cents to
$104.57 a barrel at 1:06 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  At the  London  conference, Qatar, which was the first Arab
nation to send jets to join the coalition enforcing the Libyan
no-fly zone, offered to facilitate oil sales from rebel-held
parts of the country and use the proceeds for humanitarian aid.  Before being forced back yesterday, the rebels had
advanced along the coast and recaptured Ras Lanuf and the
neighboring oil port of Brega, helped by U.S.-led air strikes
on government positions.  In western Libya, forces loyal to Qaddafi used tanks and
armored vehicles to storm the city of Misrata from several
locations, Sadoon al-Misrati, a member of the opposition
forces, told Al Arabiya television. He said the allies hadn’t
adopted military tactics to “neutralize this direct threat”
to Libya’s third-biggest city.  Ugandan Exile  Obama, in an interview with the CBS Evening News, said the
“noose has tightened” around Qaddafi and that “it may at
some point shift to him figuring out how to negotiate an
exit.” Qatar’s prime minister, Sheikh Hamad Bin Jabr Al Thani,
said the Libyan leader should quit now before an offer to let
him go into exile -- which he didn’t detail -- is taken away.  Uganda  would consider a request by Qaddafi for political
asylum in the East African nation, though he hasn’t submitted
an application, said Henry Okello Oryem, minister of state for
foreign affairs.  “Qaddafi’s plan B would be to flee to an African
country,” said the NATO Defense College’s Gaub. “But the
problem is that the regime isn’t just him. His sons are even
more determined to cling to power.”  Diplomats Expelled  Britain has expelled five Libyan diplomats, including the
military attache, from London, Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said. “Were these individuals to remain in Britain, they could
pose a threat to our national security,” he told lawmakers in
the House of Commons today.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Syrian President Bashar al- Assad said he won’t be rushed into making political changes
aimed at quelling the worst unrest since he inherited power
from his father in 2000.  Assad said his Baath Party has prepared a draft for
amending the country’s emergency and political party laws. He
declined to say when those changes may be implemented.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  