-- 
Microsoft Is Said to Plan Mobile Payments in Phone Software

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-30T20:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/microsoft-is-said-to-plan-mobile-payments-in-next-windows-phone.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is working on a
version of its Windows Phone software that will let users buy
merchandise with a flick of the handset at a checkout counter,
two people familiar with the plans said.  Microsoft plans to include mobile-payment technology in new
versions of its operating system for smartphones as part of an
effort to narrow  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s lead in handset software, said
the people, who asked to remain anonymous because the features
aren’t public. The first devices boasting these features may be
released this year, the people said.  The company joins a growing list of software providers
aiming to benefit from rising demand for ways to purchase
products and services on the go. Mobile payments may be used in
$245 billion in transactions in 2014, up from $32 billion in
2010, according to  Gartner Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is under pressure to regain mobile-software market share
lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone, and Google’s Android.  The phones running Microsoft’s new software will be based
on so-called Near Field Communication, which lets devices
communicate wirelessly with objects immediately nearby. NFC
technology enables payments and also lets consumers use a
handset for other tasks, such as redeeming coupons and loyalty
points at local merchants.  Microsoft rose 12 cents to $25.61 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped 8.2
percent this year.  Widening Support  Mobile-software providers are weaving NFC support into
their operating systems. Google has made NFC part of Android for
mobile devices and in December introduced the first Android
phone with NFC capabilities. Apple is said to be working on
adding the feature to its mobile operating system, people
familiar with the company’s plans said in January.  Having NFC features may be crucial to Microsoft’s efforts
to boost shrinking market share. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft is expected to hold about 5.5 percent of the mobile
operating system market this year, compared with 39.5 percent
for Android, 15.7 percent for Apple’s IOS, and 14.9 percent for
Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry, according to IDC, a
consulting firm in Framingham,  Massachusetts .  Microsoft is likely to get support in its mobile payments
effort from Nokia Oyj, the handset maker that recently said it
will use Windows Phone software on its devices. Nokia said it
will make NFC a standard feature of its 2011 smartphones based
on the Symbian operating system.  The number of phones with NFC will double in 2012, from 35
million shipped in 2011, consultant  ABI Research  estimated. In
2014, 340 million global wireless users will use mobile
payments, according to research firm  Gartner .  Microsoft holds 14 patents referencing NFC, most recent of
them awarded on March 22, according to the U.S. Patent Office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in  Seattle , at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 