-- 
Time Warner Sells $2 Billion of Debt After Increasing Buyback

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-29T22:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/time-warner-plans-10-30-year-debt-in-first-sale-since-july.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of the
Warner Bros. film studio, sold $2 billion of debt in its first
offering since July after increasing the size of its stock-
repurchase program.  The company issued $1 billion 4.75 percent 10-year notes
that yield 140 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $1 billion of 6.25 percent 30-year securities at
a 180 basis-point spread, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes,
including mergers and acquisitions, share repurchases and to
produce content, according a statement today from  Fitch Ratings .  Time Warner, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes ,
joins Home Depot Inc. in issuing debt in part to fund share
repurchases. The home-improvement retailer yesterday sold $2
billion of bonds to refinance existing debt and buy its own
stock. New York-based Time Warner increased its share repurchase
program in January to $5 billion from $1 billion at the end of
2010, according to a Feb. 2 statement.  “Such returns to shareholders are within current ratings,
given the company’s strong credit and liquidity profile and free
cash flow generation,” Fitch said in its statement today.  Time Warner issued $3 billion of bonds in its last sale,
including a $1 billion slice of 4.7 percent notes that mature in
January 2021 and yielded 175 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The notes sold today are rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and an equivalent BBB by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch,
according to Bloomberg data.  The issue was managed by units of Bank of America Corp.,
BNP Paribas, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, and  Wells Fargo &
Co ., according to a statement from Time Warner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 