-- 
Innkeepers Wins Court Extension of Time as Sole Writer of Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-29T15:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/innkeepers-wins-court-extension-of-time-as-sole-writer-of-bankruptcy-plan.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  won an
extension of time to control its reorganization, as it continues
to hear offers for seven independent hotels that aren’t part of
a deal with Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  New York  today
approved an extension to June 30 of the bankrupt hotel company’s
exclusive right to file a Chapter 11 plan. Innkeepers, whose
parent owns 72 hotels, has a deal to auction most of them under
a deal with Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC
that values the properties at $970.7 million.  The so-called stalking-horse offer from the unit of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ; Connecticut-based asset manager Five
Mile;  Midland Loan Services , a division of PNC Bank; and  Apollo
Investment Corp.  was revised earlier this month to exclude seven
hotels.  “It sounds like things are still on track,” Chapman said,
after hearing that the company continues to hear offers for its
independent hotels.  The agreement calls for unsecured creditors to get a
distribution as high as 65 percent of their claims.  The parent of Innkeepers, with hotels in 20 U.S. states, is
managed by an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC, Leon Black’s private-equity firm. The hotels include Residence Inns
by Marriott and Hampton Inns,  Lehman Ali helped Apollo finance the buyout of the  Palm
Beach , Florida-based hotelier with a $1.2 billion loan.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 