-- 
Ireland May Give Update on Cost of Bailing Out Anglo Irish Bank

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-29T15:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ireland-may-give-update-on-cost-of-bailing-out-anglo-irish-bank.html
Ireland may give an unexpected
update on the cost of bailing out  Anglo Irish Bank  Corp., the
first of the country’s lenders to be nationalized, when it
publishes the results of stress tests on the rest of the
nation’s banks, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  The government said in September that  Anglo Irish  would
need between  29.3 billion euros  ($41.2 billion) and as much as
34.3 billion euros. The central bank is discussing updating
investors on Anglo Irish’s capital position even though the
lender isn’t part of this week’s stress tests, said the people,
who declined to be identified before a final decision is made.  “We assume Anglo needs 34.3 billion euros, its adverse
scenario requirement,” said  Emer Lang , an analyst at Dublin-
based securities firm Davy, in a note to clients on March 23.  The state has already injected 29.3 billion euros into
Anglo Irish, as loan losses soared after the domestic commercial
real-estate bubble burst in 2007. Anglo Irish Chairman  Alan Dukes  said on Feb. 8 the cost of bailing out the lender will be
“towards the lower end” of the 29.3 billion-euro to 34.3
billion-euro range estimated in September.  The bank generated further 1.6 billion euros of capital
late last year by swapping subordinated bonds at an 80 percent
discount to face value. This still leaves 3.4 billion euros that
may have to be pumped into the lender, according to Davy’s Lang.  Anglo Irish posted a pretax loss of 17.6 billion euros in
2010, the largest shortfall in the nation’s history, according
to unaudited figures issued on Feb. 8. The lender will publish
its final audited accounts for the year on March 31.  Officials at the central bank, which is overseeing the
stress tests, the  finance ministry  and Dublin-based Anglo Irish
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  