-- 
Irish Life Plunges on Concern of Possible State Control

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-29T16:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/irish-life-slides-on-concerns-of-possible-state-investment.html
Irish Life  & Permanent Plc, the
nation’s only government-guaranteed lender to avoid a bailout so
far, fell 45 percent in Dublin trading on concern that the state
may be forced to take a stake in the company after stress tests
results are revealed this week.  The Dublin-based company fell 34 euro cents to 41 cents and
traded at 40 cents in Dublin, giving it a market value of 109.9
million euros ($154.8 million). The Irish government may take
majority control of the lender after stress tests reveal capital
needs, Dublin-based broadcaster RTE  said  today, without saying
where it obtained the information.  Irish Life may require more than 1 billion euros to
recapitalize its banking unit to stand outside the company’s
life and pension business,  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with
Dublin-based securities firm Goodbody Stockbrokers, said in a
note to clients today. The central bank’s stress tests of the
country’s lenders, due to be published March 31, “may drive
this base figure higher again.”  Irish Life spokesman Ray Gordon declined to comment.  Ireland’s government, which has injected 46.3 billion euros
into its loss-making lenders over the past two years, is
carrying out a third round of tests as investors remain
concerned that they face further losses. The main focus of this
year’s tests is on home loan portfolios, after lenders were
forced to sell 72.3 billion euros of risky commercial real-
estate loans to the state last year at an average discount of 58
percent.  The state may have to inject 27.5 billion euros into the
lenders after stress tests are published, according to a survey
of 10 analysts and economists by Bloomberg News. This would
exhaust about 80 percent of a 35-billion euro bank fund set up
last year as part of Ireland’s international bailout. The fund
includes 17.5 billion euros from Ireland’s own resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  