-- 
Irish Stress Tests May Leave State in Control of All Banks

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-30T13:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/irish-stress-tests-may-leave-government-in-control-of-all-country-s-banks.html
The Irish government may be forced
to take controlling stakes in Bank of Ireland Plc and Irish Life
& Permanent Plc, the last of the country’s biggest lenders to
escape state control, following tomorrow’s stress tests.  “They’ve clearly got most to lose,” said  Oliver Gilvarry ,
head of research at Dublin-based Dolmen Securities, who has
“sell” rating on both banks. “It’s difficult to see how
either will end up less than 50 percent owned by taxpayers.”  The Irish Central Bank will publish its third round of 
stress tests at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow. The results will determine 
whether the two can avoid joining four of the country’s biggest 
banks in majority state ownership after they all logged record 
losses as the country’s decade-long real estate bubble burst.  Ireland may require banks to raise an additional 27.5
billion euros ($39 billion) of capital, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
government has pledged to provide that money if banks fail to
raise it themselves from a 35 billion-euro fund set up under the
country’s international bailout in November. Shares of the two
lenders have declined by more than 50 percent since that rescue.  Shares Decline  Irish Life , whose shares fell 45 percent in Dublin trading
yesterday to 40 euro cents, has sought a temporary suspension in
trading in its stock until April 1, after the results of stress
tests are revealed, it said in a statement today. The assessment
is “not completed and the quantum of capital that may be
required by the group, and the source of that capital, is not
yet finalized,” it said.  Bank of Ireland’s shares fell as much as 2.6 euro cents, or
10.5 percent, in Dublin trading to 22.1 cents, marking its
lowest level since March 17, 2009. They were down 5.3 percent at
23.4 cents at 1:56 p.m.  Spokesmen at Bank of Ireland, the central bank and  Finance
Ministry  in Dublin declined to comment.  The government has already taken control of Anglo Irish
Bank Corp.,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , EBS Building Society and
Irish Nationwide Building Society after injecting 46.3 billion
euros into the industry over two years.  Niall O’Connor, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, expects the government to take a stake of about 60
percent in Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender.  Capital Shortfall  “It’s struck me for some time that the bank would find it
very difficult avoiding this,” he said. “Still, government
control is not necessarily a bad thing as it aligns the
interests of government with that of investors in looking to
generate a profit.”  Even before the latest stress tests, the regulator ordered
Bank of Ireland, already 36 percent state-owned, to raise about
1.4 billion euros, more than its market value of 1.3 billion
euros today.  Irish Life, the only government-guaranteed lender to avoid
a bailout so far, was ordered to raise 243 million euros in
November. That’s now equivalent to twice its market value today.  The Dublin-based company may require more than 1 billion
euros to allow its banking unit to operate without support from
the company’s life and pension operations,  Eamonn Hughes , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Goodbody Stockbrokers,
said in a note to clients yesterday. The stress tests “may
drive this base figure higher again,” he said.  Asset Sales  Both Bank of Ireland and Irish Life, the country’s largest
life-assurance and pensions company, will “fight hard” to
avoid falling under government control, said James Forbes,
director of investment solutions at Dublin-based securities firm
Bloxham, which manages about 1 billion euros of assets.  “A pragmatic and likely solution would be for the
government to give both companies a certain period of time to
sell further assets and raise equity, while pledging to support
them if they are not successful in raising money privately,” he
said.  Irish Life is weighing the sale of its profitable life-
assurance and investment-management units, three people with
knowledge of the situation said today. The government is pushing
for the sale of the two businesses to limit the amount of money
it will need to inject into Irish Life’s unprofitable banking
arm, said the people, who declined to be identified because a
decision is yet to be made. The units are worth a combined 1.75
billion euros, said Goodbody’s Hughes.  Gerry Hassett, chief executive officer of Irish Life &
Permanent’s Irish Life retail unit, said the group would do
whatever it can to minimize cost to the state of recapitalizing
the bank. If that meant the life assurance part of the company
was sold, “so be it,” he said in an interview today with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE Radio, adding that a “range of
outcomes” are being discussed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 