-- 
Ivory Coast Rebel Forces Seize East and West Towns, Eye Key Cocoa Ports

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-29T17:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ivory-coast-rebel-fighters-seize-eastern-town-of-bondoukou-resident-says.html
Ivory Coast  rebels backing  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of the Nov. 28
election, said they had seized four towns, gaining access to a
highway leading to a main cocoa-exporting port.  The Republican Forces insurgents are planning to move south
to the port cities of  San Pedro  and Abidjan, the commercial
capital, said Meite Sindou, spokesman for Guillaume Soro, the
prime minister and defense minister appointed by Ouattara.  Ouattara draws support from the rebel group that has its
roots in an uprising of mutinous military officers in 2002.
While  Laurent Gbagbo , the incumbent who refuses to hand power to
Ouattara, retains the loyalty of the security forces, the gains
by the rebels will further limit his access to income from
exports.  “Militarily, Gbagbo is weak,” said Rinaldo Depagne, a
Dakar-based analyst for  International Crisis Group . “If he
wants to stay, he’s got to put all the forces he has in Abidjan
and he’s got to try to stop the progression of rebels inside
Abidjan. Inside the army you’ve got mass desertions and mass
divisions.”  The Republican Forces have stepped up their military
campaign in the past month, mainly in the western cocoa-
producing  region , taking the towns of Duekoue, Guiglo and Daloa
in the past few days, Sindou said. “Except in Duekoue, there
was no real resistance,” he said. The fighters also seized
Abengourou, 240 kilometers (149 miles) from Abidjan, and the
central-west town of Zuenoula, Sindou said late today.  UN Helicopter  Rebel forces fired on and missed a  United Nations 
helicopter that was flying over the area yesterday, the
peacekeeping mission in the country said in an e-mailed
statement. The UN “strongly condemns this attack against its
peacekeepers, which could be considered a war crime,” the
statement said.  The insurgents mistook the UN helicopter for one belonging
to security forces, said Lass Com, spokesman for the rebels.
“There was a lot of confusion,” he said by phone today from Man.  Duekoue controls access to parts of northeastern  Liberia 
that have supplied militiamen and arms to Gbagbo’s forces,
Depagne said. “The aim is to close the entrance for Liberian
mercenaries and to cut the cocoa road to San Pedro,” Depagne
said in a telephone interview. “They are putting pressure on
Gbagbo.”  Cocoa for May delivery fell to its lowest since Jan. 18,
dropping $183, or 5.6 percent, to $3,065 per metric ton by 5:18
p.m. in  London .  Eurobonds Rise  Fighting also spread east for the first time since the
disputed vote. Gbagbo’s security forces have fled from the town
of Bondoukou toward Ivory Coast’s border with  Ghana , Philippe
Digbeu, a resident, said in a phone interview. “They even left
unused ammunition on the road.”  Ivory Coast’s defaulted dollar-denominated bonds rose to
their highest in more than two months, rallying 4.2 percent to
39.875 cents on the dollar, as of 5:08 p.m. in London, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield dropped 31 basis points
to 8.6 percent. The West African nation missed a $29 million
interest payment Feb. 1 on its $2.3 billion notes due 2032.  The incumbent leader’s soldiers “aren’t really putting up
a fight in these towns, so we can’t say it’s decisive yet,”
said Henri Boshoff, a military analyst for the South Africa-
based Institute for Security Studies, in a phone interview today
from Brussels. “Gbagbo will make his last stand in Abidjan.
That’s where he really has most of his military might.”  Burned Alive  Security forces opened fire on “innocent civilians,”
killing about 12 in the Williamsville area of the city
yesterday, the United Nations said. Pro-Gbagbo youth burned a
man alive in Riviera neighborhood and two staff members of the
UN’s mission in  Ivory Coast  were “savagely attacked,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  “With the increase in human rights violations and barbaric
practices, there are grounds for wondering whether President
Gbagbo is still in charge of his forces and supporters,” the UN
said.  Rebels also entered Daloa, about 90 kilometers (56 miles)
west of the capital Yamoussoukro, Ibrahima Coulibaly, a resident
of the town, said today in a telephone interview.  “They are everywhere, they are wearing camouflage clothes
and carrying Kalashnikovs,” he said. “They have stopped
shooting as they have captured the town.”  The  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  said more
than 10,000 people have fled into neighboring Liberia in the
past week as fighting intensifies.  “We are bracing for further arrivals as refugees tell us
that many more civilians are en route to Liberia,” the UNHCR
said in a statement today. “Several people say they left family
members behind in their panic, including children.”  Ivory Coast, the world’s largest cocoa producer, has been
split between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since 2002. The election was meant to end that division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 