-- 
Ivory Coast Eurobonds Rise to Seven-Week High on Rebel Offensive

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-29T14:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ivory-coast-eurobonds-rise-to-seven-week-high-on-rebel-offensive.html
Ivory Coast’s  defaulted dollar-
denominated bonds rose to their highest in seven weeks  as
rebels said they had seized four towns, adding to speculation of
an end to a political stalemate from disputed Nov. 28 elections.  The West African nation’s bonds rallied 2.9 percent to
39.375 cents on the dollar, the highest price since Feb. 7, as
of 3:13 p.m. in London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield dropped 22 basis points to 8.7 percent.  The rebels, who support the internationally recognized
election winner Alassane Ouattara, captured the towns of
Duekoue, Guiglo, Daloa and Bondoukou, according to residents and
Meite Sindou, spokesman for Ouattara’s Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro . Incumbent ruler  Laurent Gbagbo  has refused to cede power.
 Ivory Coast  missed a $29 million interest payment Feb. 1 on its
$2.3 billion notes due 2032.  The rebels’ “decisive move in recent days has changed the
overall political outlook,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based
emerging-market strategist at Standard Bank Plc, said in an e-
mailed reply to questions today. There is “more upside
potential should Gbagbo be unable to repel pro-Ouattara
forces.”  The Eurobonds have lost 35 percent of their value since
they were issued in April last year as Ivory Coast reneged on an
interest payment due by the end of January after the nation’s
disputed elections.  Ivory Coast, the world’s largest cocoa producer, has been
split between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since 2002. The election was meant to end that division.
Instead, the rebels are moving south.  Rebels now plan to head toward the cocoa-exporting port of
 San Pedro  and the commercial capital, Abidjan, said Sindou.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  