-- 
Japan Reactor Crisis is Becoming More Stable, U.S. NRC Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-29T15:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japan-reactor-crisis-is-becoming-more-stable-u-s-nrc-says-1-.html
Japan ’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant “continues to further stabilize,” said Bill Borchardt, the executive director for operations at the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  The three operating reactors at the six-unit plant appeared
to have been damaged after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami,
which resulted in the release of radiation, Borchardt said today
during a briefing for the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee in  Washington .  Cooling systems lost power and backup generators failed,
allowing radioactive fuel rods in reactors and storage pools to
overheat after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami disabled
the reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant.
Utility workers and government officials have used helicopters
and fire trucks to douse the plant with water to avert a
meltdown.  Radioactive water found in the basement of a turbine
building that serves one of the reactors is “a result of the
water that they’ve been injecting” to keep nuclear fuel rods
cool, Borchardt said.  “The water is the result of the ‘bleed and feed’ process
that they have been using to keep water in the reactor cores and
in the containment of the units,” he said. “The exact flow
path of that leakage has not been determined.”  U.S. officials may keep granting 20-year license extensions
to nuclear  power plants  after Japan’s reactor crisis, Borchardt
said.  “There’s no technical reason that I’m aware of that this
would impact the license-renewal process,” he said.  If U.S. reactors need better protection from natural
disasters, the NRC would require those changes “without
hesitation,” independent of a license renewal, Borchardt said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  