-- 
Japan to Expand West-East Power Grid Links to Reduce Shortages After Quake

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-03-29T00:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japan-to-expand-west-east-power-grid-links-to-reduce-shortages.html
Japan’s government is in talks with
utilities to add equipment to channel more electricity from the
country’s west  to ease shortages  in the east, including Tokyo,
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami shut nuclear plants.  The trade ministry has started talks with companies
including Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic station, to add transformers to help
overcome differences in operating frequencies between the two
regions, said Noriyuki Mita, a director for policy planning
division at the ministry’s electricity and gas division.  The ministry wants the conversion capacity to be added
within two years, while utilities have said in discussions it
may take longer, said another ministry official familiar with
the talks, who asked not to be named because he isn’t authorized
to speak to the media. Who will bear the cost of building the
frequency converters is yet to be decided, the official said.  The utility known as Tepco supplies  Japan ’s most
industrialized and populous region and lost 40 percent of its
generation capacity in the disaster that killed at least 10,900
people and triggered the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in
1986. Japan’s three existing transformers are capable of
converting 1 million kilowatts, or about 12 percent of the
shortfall Tepco has forecast this summer.  Land, Power lines  Discussions with Japanese utilities include proposals for
increasing the capacity of the existing converters and building
new ones, Mita said. Land will need to be bought for new
transformers and transmission lines, he said.  Building a 300,000 kilowatt frequency converter may cost as
much as 20 billion yen ($245 million), according to an official
at the Electric Power System Council of Japan, the country’s
distribution regulator, who asked not to be named as he is
involved in the talks with the ministry and utilities.  Companies including Tepco and Tohoku Electric Power Co.
transmit power to the eastern grid at a frequency of 50 hertz,
while the rest of Japan uses 60 hertz, according to Federation
of Electric Power Companies.  German generators with a frequency of 50 hertz were the
first to be used in Japan, and were introduced in the late
nineteenth century in the eastern part of the country, according
to the power federation’s website. Subsequently, U.S. equipment
with a different frequency was installed in other parts of
Japan.  Idled Plants  Japan’s three frequency converters are located west and
northwest of  Tokyo  and have a combined capacity of 1 million
kilowatts, said Satoshi Kurokawa, spokesman at the federation.
The transformers are owned by Tepco, Chubu Electric Power Co.
and Electric Power Development Co, known as J-Power.  Tepco could supply 38.5 million kilowatts of electricity as
of March 24 and plans to boost its capacity to 46.5 million
kilowatts by the end of July through buying supply from other
utilities and opening idled thermal plants, it said in a
statement on its website last week. The utility expects a
shortage of 8.5 million kilowatts this summer as it estimates
seasonal demand will peak at about 55 million kilowatts.  Tepco has been battling to prevent a catastrophic release
of radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north of Tokyo
after it was struck by Japan’s strongest earthquake on record
and the ensuing tsunami. Radiation levels that can prove fatal
were detected outside reactor buildings yesterday for the first
time, complicating efforts to contain the country’s worst
civilian nuclear crisis.  The utility serves 28.62 million customers in Tokyo and
eight surrounding prefectures in Japan’s Kanto region, according
to its website. The region, which includes the cities of Chiba,
Yokohama, Kawasaki and Omiya, accounts for 35 percent of Japan’s
population and 39 percent of its gross domestic product,
according to Cabinet Office figures from 2007, the most recent
data available on prefectures and regions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  