-- 
Japanese Stocks Decline on Nuclear-Plant Situation, Goldman Sachs Forecast

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-29T07:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japanese-stocks-decline-on-concern-over-struggle-to-contain-nuclear-crisis.html
Japanese stocks pared declines on
optimism progress was being made to contain a crisis at a
crippled nuclear-power station where potentially lethal levels
of radiation were detected yesterday.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co., the plant operator, tumbled 19
percent. Kandenko Co., the engineering company affiliated with
the utility, dropped 4.8 percent. Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.,
Tokyo Electric’s No. 2 shareholder, sank 4 percent. Shares also
retreated after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for
Japan’s economic growth almost in half.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.2 percent to 9,459.08
as of the close of trading in Tokyo, recovering from a 1.7
percent slump after Tokyo Electric said radioactive water at the
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant hasn’t leaked into the sea and
that the utility will begin using fresh water to cool the spent-
fuel pool of the No. 2 reactor today.  “Until the reactor can be cooled automatically, the
situation remains critical and it could impact company
earnings,” said Takeshi Fukushima, who helps manage about $37
billion at Meiji Yasuda Asset Management Co. “However, we’re
starting to find out that it probably won’t become a tragedy.”  The Nikkei’s 7 percent drop since the quake made it the
worst performer among indexes for the world’s largest markets,
after the temblor and tsunami killed more than 10,000 people,
razed homes and factories and crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant northeast of Tokyo.  The broader Topix index lost 0.9 percent to 850.21 today,
with about nine stocks declining for every seven that advanced.  Radiation Risks  Tokyo Electric Power, also known as Tepco, tumbled 19
percent to 566 yen, the biggest decline on the  Nikkei 225 .
Kandenko dropped 4.8 percent to 457 yen, its fifth day of
declines.  Water in a tunnel outside the No. 2 reactor at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant had radiation levels exceeding 1
sievert an hour, a spokesman for plant operator Tokyo Electric
said yesterday. A partial meltdown of fuel rods in the No. 2
reactor probably caused a jump in the readings, Japan Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  Exposure to that dose for 30 minutes would trigger nausea
and four hours might lead to death within two months, according
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  A magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
knocked out power at the plant, forcing Tokyo Electric to dump
thousands of tons of seawater on the complex as a stopgap
cooling measure.  ‘Negative Effect’  “The situation at the nuclear plant isn’t getting
better,”  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at
Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about $104 billion,
said this morning. “We still don’t know how much of a negative
effect it’ll have on the economy. The uncertainty is very
negative for stocks.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank, dropped 2.8 percent to 378 yen, the
heaviest drag on the Topix, followed by Mizuho Financial Group
Inc., which lost 2.1 percent to 140 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. slumped 1 percent to 2,623 yen. Mitsubishi
UFJ was the most-active stock by value traded today in Japan.  The country’s gross domestic product will rise 0.7 percent
in the 2011 fiscal year, less than the previous expectation of
1.3 percent, Goldman analysts including Tokyo-based Naohiko Baba
and Chiwoong Lee said in a report today.  Economic Outlook  The disaster may cause Japan’s gross domestic product to
shrink by as much 12 percent on an annualized basis in the
second quarter, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. has said.  “The issue of radioactive contamination from the nuclear-
power plant just doesn’t seem to settle down,” said Yasushi Noguchi, a strategist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Friend Securities Co.
“Even though there are expectations that there will be huge
demand for reconstruction following the earthquake disaster, the
radioactive pollution could delay the recovery.”  Dai-ichi Life Insurance, Japan’s largest life insurer,
retreated 4 percent to 118,400 yen.  Insurers also declined after an industry group said policy
holders will be covered for payouts following the earthquake.
Tokio Marine Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest property and
casualty insurer, fell 1.6 percent to 2,216 yen.  Holders of earthquake insurance policies in the “total
loss area” affected by the earthquake and tsunami will be fully
covered for damage, the General Insurance Association of Japan
said yesterday.  The Topix Fishery, Agriculture & Forestry Index had the
second-biggest drop among the Topix’s industries, losing 3.7
percent.  Plutonium in Soil  Tepco found plutonium in soil samples taken near the
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant a week ago, the
company said. Also radioactive iodine in seawater collected near
the No. 5 and 6 reactors was 1,150 times the legal limit,
 Japan ’s nuclear safety agency said.  “The nuclear issue has the biggest direct effect on
agriculture, as well as factories that are based there and
distribution, since there are railroads that pass through the
area,” said Daiwa Asset’s Nagano.  Also, in Japan, about 2,500 companies went ex-dividend
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That means
investors who buy the stock today won’t be entitled to receive
the latest dividends.  The Nikkei 225 has fallen 7.5 percent this year, the
biggest drop among indexes for the world’s largest equity
markets. Shares in the gauge traded at 16.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 18 times at the end of last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 