-- 
Japan Factory Output Rose in February, Evidence of Resilience Before Quake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-30T01:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japanese-industrial-production-rose-in-february-before-earthquake-struck.html
Japan’s industrial production
unexpectedly rose in February, another sign that the economy was
recovering before the nation’s strongest earthquake this month
shut factories and caused power shortages.  Factory output climbed 0.4 percent from January, the fourth
consecutive gain, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 0.1 percent drop.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has fallen about 9 percent
since the March 11 disaster because of the government’s failure
to end radiation leaks at a nuclear plant and concern the nation
will sink back into a recession. The unemployment rate fell by
the most in a year in February and the Bank of Japan’s Tankan
survey this week may show companies were optimistic about the
economy before the temblor killed more than 11,000 people.  “Until February we saw output was rebounding and the
economy was on a path to recovery buoyed by exports,” said
Hiroshi Shiraishi, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo.
“But the disaster changed everything and the economy is faced
with huge supply constraints now.”  Japanese stocks rose 0.4 percent to 9498.62 at 9:58 a.m. in
 Tokyo  on speculation global growth will boost earnings. The yen
traded at 82.47 against the dollar and has weakened more than 5
percent since surging to a postwar high earlier this month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this week that Japan’s gross
domestic product will shrink next quarter and lowered its growth
forecast for the year starting April 1 to 0.7 percent from 1.3
percent.  Companies Optimistic  The central bank’s quarterly Tankan survey of business
confidence will probably show on April 1 sentiment among large
manufacturers was at 5 points in March, unchanged from December,
according to the median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. A positive reading means optimists outnumber
pessimists.  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 4.6 percent from
January’s 4.9 percent, the statistics bureau said yesterday. The
number of available jobs rose to the highest level in two years,
and retail sales increased last month.  Manufacturers said they plan to increase output 1.4 percent
in March and cut production 1.3 percent in April, a government
survey included in today’s output report showed. The forecasts
were compiled before the earthquake.  Economic Recession  “It’s apparent that the level of production has declined
sharply since the earthquake as the disaster has caused power
shortages and disruptions to the supply chain,”  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo, said
before the report. “There’s high chance that  Japan ’s economy
will fall into a recession.”  The government last week estimated that damage from the
disaster, which left more than 27,000 people dead or missing, at
as high as 25 trillion yen ($306 billion).  The magnitude-9.0 earthquake and an ensuing tsunami
crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic
plant, triggering the world’s worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl in 1986. That limited the supply of electricity to the
country’s most industrialized area, as the utility company began
rolling blackouts in Tokyo and surrounding areas.  Companies are still struggling to bring factories back
online. Toyota Motor Corp. said it has lost output of 140,000
vehicles, and Honda Motor Co. has seen a production loss of
46,600 cars and trucks and 5,000 motorcycles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  