-- 
Japan’s Nuclear Lessons Will Get Applied Right Away, U.S. Regulator Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-29T17:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japan-s-nuclear-lessons-will-get-applied-right-away-u-s-regulator-says.html
Nuclear-power plant regulators will
apply lessons from  Japan ’s reactor crisis immediately without
delaying until licenses are renewed, the head of operations at
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said.  “We won’t wait” to order fixes at the 104 U.S. reactors,
Bill Borchardt, the executive director for operations, said
after briefing the  Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee 
on the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Borchardt told
senators there was “no technical reason” that the crisis in
Japan would affect license renewals.  Licenses for commercial U.S. reactors were limited to 40
years “based on economic and antitrust considerations,” not
because of technology, according to the NRC’s  website.  Under
U.S. law, the NRC may extend licenses by 20 years if the
operator shows the unit can be operated safely.  The agency has approved  license  extensions for 63 reactors,
or 60 percent of the fleet. Applications for licenses at 19
existing reactors are under review, according to NRC data.  The commission’s safety study that started last week will
examine whether operators should be required to improve the
capabilities of batteries that keep cooling systems running when
electricity is lost, Borchardt said.  Cooling systems lost power and backup generators failed,
allowing radioactive fuel rods in reactors and storage pools to
overheat after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami disabled
the reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant.
Workers used helicopters and fire trucks to douse the Japanese
plant with water to avert a meltdown.  Restoring Cooling System  Peter Lyons, the acting assistant secretary for nuclear
energy at the U.S. Energy Department, said cooling systems
hadn’t “been adequately restored” in Japan.  Radioactive water found in the basement of a turbine
building that serves one of the reactors is “a result of the
water that they’ve been injecting” to keep nuclear fuel rods
cool, Borchardt said.  “The water is the result of the ‘bleed and feed’ process
that they have been using to keep water in the reactor cores and
in the containment of the units,” he said. “The exact flow
path of that leakage has not been determined.”  Borchardt said the situation at Fukushima “continues to
further stabilize” as workers reconnect the damaged plant to
the  power grid .  “I think it’s headed in the right direction,” Borchardt
told reporters.  Evacuation Planning  A U.S. recommendation that Americans living within 50 miles
(80 kilometers) of the damaged plant leave was a prudent
decision based on a Nuclear Regulatory Commission assessment of
dangers, and fear that the fuel was damaged and the pools
holding spent rods were empty or low on cooling water, he said.  Borchardt said the U.S. will evaluate its own emergency
response procedures, including evacuation plans, during the
reactor review. U.S. law requires a plan for moving residents
living within 10 miles of a nuclear plant in an emergency.  Regulations setting the capability of back-up batteries
vary by site, Borchardt said. Batteries at U.S. plants last from
4 hours to 8 hours. Regulators will review whether the Japan
experience warrants a stricter requirement, he said.  The U.S. should freeze license renewals and permits for the
construction of new nuclear reactors, the  U.S. Public Interest
Research Group  said today in a report.  Nuclear  power plants  pose “inherent dangers” that can’t
be overcome with safety measures and the U.S. “must move away
from nuclear power and toward safer alternatives,” such as
solar panels and  wind turbines , the Boston-based advocacy group
said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  