-- 
Japan Tankan Survey May Show Companies Were Optimistic Before Earthquake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-29T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japan-tankan-survey-may-show-companies-were-optimistic-before-earthquake.html
The Bank of  Japan ’s Tankan survey
this week will probably show large manufacturers were optimistic
about the economy’s recovery before the nation’s most powerful
earthquake on record struck the northeast region.  The quarterly index of sentiment for large manufacturers
was at 5 points in March, unchanged from December, according to
the median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The bank’s soft deadline for the survey was March 11, the day of
the magnitude-9.0 quake and ensuing tsunami. More than half of
companies surveyed typically respond by the first deadline and a
positive reading means optimists outnumber pessimists.  The natural disaster has killed more than 10,000 and
spurred power shortages and radiation leaks, curbing growth in
an economy that had just started to show signs expanding after
contracting last quarter. Toyota Motor Corp. and Sony Corp. are
among manufacturers that have halted production because of the
quake, whose damage is estimated by the government to swell to
as much as 25 trillion yen ($306 billion).  “We don’t think this survey will fully reflect the impact
of the earthquake,” said Ryohei Kasahara, an economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research in  Tokyo . “The actual state of corporate
sentiment is weaker than what the Tankan will show.”  The survey, conducted Feb. 24 to March 31, will be released
at 8:50 a.m. on April 1 in Tokyo. Forecasts by analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News ranged from minus 3 to 8.  A positive reading adds to evidence that the economy was
rebounding, which may cushion the impact of the disaster.
Reports yesterday showed the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
declined to 4.6 percent in February from 4.9 percent and
sentiment among small companies rose to 49.5 in March, close to
a four-year high.  More Momentum  “These figures pre-date the full impact of the earthquake
but they do suggest that the economy may have had a bit more
positive momentum before the disaster than we had thought,”
said  Julian Jessop , chief international economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London .  The temblor has caused a plunge in Japanese stocks and sent
the yen to a post-World War II high against the dollar,
prompting the first coordinated currency intervention by Group
of Seven nations in more than a decade. The BOJ also doubled its
asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen on March 14,
increasing the funds injections into the financial system.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government is considering
scrapping corporate tax cuts for the year starting April 1 to
raise funds for reconstruction efforts.  Sentiment to Fall  The Tankan survey will show large manufacturers forecast
confidence to fall to 2 in June, analysts predict. The outlook
reading would be at minus 26 points if the impact of the
earthquake and the tsunami were fully reflected, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG, a level not seen since 2009 after the
global financial crisis.  “Even if production is expected to recover eventually on
reconstruction demand, anxieties forego optimism as it’s still
unclear to what extent production facilities have been damaged
and when power supply will be restored,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse in Tokyo.  Auto sales in Japan’s eastern region may have dropped as
much as 40 percent after the earthquake and tsunami that forced
companies to halt production, Toshiyuki Shiga, the chairman of
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said on March 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  