-- 
Japan Oil Ports Still Open to Biggest Supertanker Operator After Tsunami

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-03-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japanese-oil-ports-still-open-to-world-s-biggest-operator-of-supertankers.html
Frontline Ltd., the world’s biggest
operator of supertankers, said it will still travel to the  ports 
of Tokyo Bay, joining other shipping companies in judging the
area to be safe for crew and vessels.  Nippon Yusen KK (9101) , Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and  Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  also said yesterday they were maintaining
normal services to Japan and five of the six biggest container
shippers are doing likewise. All ships are avoiding an exclusion
zone around the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant 220 kilometers
(135 miles) to the north of Tokyo.  Five kinds of radioactive materials were found in the sea
around the Fukushima plant, which was damaged by a magnitude-9
earthquake and 23-foot tsunami on March 11. The  International
Maritime Organization , a United Nations agency, said on March 21
there was no medical basis for restricting shipping and the U.S.
Navy said March 28 any radiation on vessels can be scrubbed off
with soap and water and isn’t harmful to people’s health.  “This shouldn’t cause problems for  Tokyo  Bay,” said Jack Edlow, president of Washington-based Edlow International Co.,
which ships radioactive materials. “I don’t think this is going
to be a major issue.”  Frontline, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , will also be
avoiding the exclusion zone around Fukushima and each charter is
“being monitored on a case by case basis with agents/ports,”
Jens Martin Jensen, Singapore-based chief executive officer of
the company’s management unit, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Shipping Lines  The Baltic and International Maritime Council, representing
two-thirds of the world’s merchant fleet, said March 28 it had
not been informed by any shipping line that they were avoiding
Japan because of the threat of radiation. Japan has more than
200 commercial ports.  The Liberian Registry, which represents about 11 percent of
the world’s merchant fleet, lifted its recommendation that ships
stay 100 nautical miles away from a section of  Japan ’s east
coast. Captains should now follow the guidance of the Japanese
government, which is to stay 30 kilometers away from the
Fukushima plant, the registry said in a March 25 notice.  The U.S. Coast Guard advised all ships to stay 50 miles
away from the Fukushima plant, the U.S. Department of
Transportation said in a notice March 18. Any U.S.-bound ship
passing through this limit should submit the information to the
U.S. Coast Guard, according to the notice.  Largest Tankers  “I can’t find that the accident has any implications for
the largest tankers,” said Per Mansson, a shipbroker at Nor
Ocean Stockholm AB in the Swedish capital. “All the signs so
far are business as usual.”  There were 66 oil ports and  terminals  operating normally in
Japan as of March 29, with five closed and three partially open,
according to  Inchcape Shipping Services , which handles as many
as 4,000 port calls in Japan every year.  Tokyo Bay ports are safe and don’t pose a safety threat,
Andrew Linington, a spokesman for Nautilus,  Europe ’s largest
union for shipping officers, said March 23. The union took
advice from the U.K.’s Maritime and Coastguard Agency.  Nippon Yusen, Japan’s largest shipping line by sales, has
maintained normal shipping services for liquefied-natural gas,
oil or dry bulk commodities, Jun Katayama, a spokesman, said by
phone yesterday. Mitsui O.S.K., operator of the world’s largest
merchant fleet, has also made no changes to its services in LNG,
oil and bulk shipping, according to Eiko Mizuno, a spokeswoman.
Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha, Japan’s third-largest shipping line, is
doing the same, said Makoto Arai, a spokesman.  Evergreen Marine   A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA
CGM SA, the three biggest container shipping lines, said they
are maintaining routes to Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan’s two
busiest container ports. The fourth biggest, Hapag-Lloyd AG, is
diverting vessels to docks in the south of the country.  Evergreen Marine Corp., the fifth-largest container line,
is serving Tokyo and Yokohama as usual, and Neptune Orient Lines
Ltd.’s APL unit, the sixth-biggest, is doing so for Yokohama.  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , owner of the world’s second-biggest fleet of LNG
tankers, sent at least eight vessels to Japan since the country
was struck by the earthquake, ship-tracking data show. Hanim
Hamdan, a spokeswoman in  Kuala Lumpur , didn’t answer calls made
to her office and mobile phone and didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment yesterday.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company and the
fifth-largest owner of LNG tankers, is “actively delivering
cargoes,” London-based spokesman Kim Blomley said by phone
yesterday. “In terms of getting energy into Japan and
supporting the country, we see the provision of energy as key.”  Shell is assessing daily changes in the situation at
Fukushima, he said.  Owners who send carriers to Japan are  not insured  if their
crew or vessels are affected by radiation, according to
information on the website of the U.K. P&I Club, which insures a
fleet drawn from more than 50 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 