-- 
Japan Unemployment, Retail Sales Show Signs Economy Reviving Before Quake

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-03-29T02:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/japan-s-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-falls-to-4-6-.html
Japan ’s unemployment rate fell in
February and retail sales beat analysts’ forecasts, signs that
the economy was picking up before the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami that devastated northeastern regions.  The jobless rate unexpectedly slid to 4.6 percent from the
previous month’s 4.9 percent, the statistics bureau said today
in  Tokyo . The median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for the rate to be unchanged. Retail sales
rose 0.1 percent from a year earlier, beating forecasts for a
0.5 percent drop, the Trade Ministry said in a separate report.  Japanese stocks fell as authorities struggled to prevent a
nuclear crisis at a stricken plant from worsening after
potentially fatal levels of radiation were detected. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. today said the economy will shrink next quarter
and lowered its growth forecast for the year starting April 1 to
0.7 percent from 1.3 percent.  “It’s encouraging to see Japan was on a solid recovery
trend until February, but that’s hardly enough to make us
optimistic about the outlook,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief
economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo, who also
forecasts gross domestic product will contract in the three-
month period from April. “The economy will be in the lull at
least until September as production slows drastically because of
the power shortage.”  Nikkei Falls  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.4 percent to 9,342.33
at 10:51 a.m. in Tokyo. It has lost about 10 percent since the
temblor. Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bond yield dropped
2.5 basis points to 1.22 percent.  The economy added 370,000 jobs in February, the third
monthly increase, today’s report showed. The seasonally adjusted
figures show more people also returned to the  labor force .  Export growth accelerated to 9 percent in February from 1.4
percent in the previous month, evidence that overseas demand was
driving a rebound in the world’s third-largest economy. A report
tomorrow will probably show industrial production fell 0.1
percent after rising for three months, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Household spending fell 0.2 percent after a 1 percent
decline in January, the statistics bureau said. The job-to-
applicant ratio rose to 0.62, indicating there were 62 positions
for every 100 candidates in February, the highest since January
2009, the Labor Ministry said.  Quake Impact  “We look for employment indicators to continue showing
gradual improvements in the months ahead, but believe there
could be some temporary fluctuations due to the impact of the
earthquake,”  Kyohei Morita , Tokyo-based chief economist at
 Barclays Capital , said before the data was released.  Today’s jobless figures don’t include data from Iwate,
Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures, where data collection was
disrupted by the magnitude-9.0 earthquake that struck the Tohoku
region, the statistics bureau said.  The government estimates damage from the disaster, which
left more than 27,000 people dead or missing, at as high as 25
trillion yen ($306 billion).  Separately, South  Korea ’s current-account surplus widened
to $1.18 billion in February from $154.7 million in January,
boosted by export growth, according to Bank of Korea data
released today. The current account is the broadest measure of
trade, tracking goods, services and investment income.  The surplus may increase further in March due to “robust”
exports, and Japan’s quake may also bolster it by prompting
South Korean manufacturers to produce parts domestically, Yang Jae Ryong, a director of the monetary and financial statistics
division at the  Bank of Korea , told reporters in  Seoul  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  