-- 
Jefferies Said to Hire Moody’s Yavorsky for Financial Institutions Group

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-29T15:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/jefferies-said-to-hire-moody-s-alexander-yavorsky-for-investment-bank-unit.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the
investment bank that’s expanding its advisory and trading units,
hired former  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  senior analyst Alexander Yavorsky as
a managing director in its financial institutions group.  Yavorsky, 33, begins April 4 with the investment bank unit
of the New York-based firm, according to a person familiar with
the move. He’ll advise banks on tapping capital markets and on
balance-sheet strategies, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the decision hasn’t been made public.  Jefferies is luring Wall Street bankers as it wins an
increasing share of mergers and acquisitions business. The bank
ranks as the 16th most-active adviser in deals this year, up
from 24th in all of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its  investment-banking  revenue gained 21 percent to
$239.1 million in the first quarter from a year earlier,
Jefferies said last week.  Michael Adler , a Moody’s spokesman, confirmed Yavorsky’s
departure and declined to comment further. Tom Tarrant, a
Jefferies spokesman, declined to comment.  Yavorsky covered equity and derivatives exchanges at
Moody’s, including NYSE Euronext, CME Group Inc. and Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. and analyzed changes in the over-the-counter
derivatives market for how regulation would affect
creditworthiness of companies.  Jefferies hired Blackstone Group LP’s David Bradley as
global head of investment banking for industrial companies, it
said in a March 1 statement. Last month, the firm said Steffen Doyle of Bank of America Merrill Lynch joined as head of
European lodging and gaming investment banking. Wachovia Corp.’s
Tim Monnin was hired as a managing director in the business
services investment-banking group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 