-- 
Kazakhstan Says Growth in Uranium Production Will Slow Next Year

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-03-29T08:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/kazakhstan-says-growth-in-uranium-production-will-slow-next-year.html
Kazakhstan , the world’s biggest
uranium producer, plans to increase production of the nuclear
fuel by about 2 percent in 2012, compared with 10 percent this
year, according to state-owned company Kazatomprom.  Long-term growth in the central Asian nation’s uranium
production may be affected by the crisis in  Japan , Industry and
New Technologies Deputy Minister Duisenbai Turganov said today
in Astana. The ministry has drafted a bill seeking “to regulate
uranium output,” he said in an interview, without elaborating.  Countries including  China , Germany and the U.S. are
reviewing atomic energy plans after the world’s worst nuclear
emergency since Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986. The disaster in
Japan has spurred speculation that construction of nuclear
generating capacity may slow, and with it demand for uranium.  Kazakhstan plans to produce almost 20,000 metric tons of
uranium next year, Serik Kozhakhmetov, chief executive officer
of Kazatomprom’s Institute of High Technologies, told reporters
in Astana today. Kazatomprom CEO Vladimir Shkolnik said last
month Kazakhstan’s uranium output would rise by 10 percent this
year to 19,600 metric tons. The country can boost uranium
production by as much as 30 percent in the short term if demand
warrants, Kozhakhmetov said. Current plans are to produce 27,000
to 28,000 tons of uranium by 2020, he said.  Kazakhstan is followed by Canada and Australia as leading
uranium producers, according to the  World Nuclear Association .
Kazakhstan has 15 percent of the world’s reserves of the metal,
trailing Australia with 23 percent, according to the
association’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 