-- 
Kirk Says South Korea Pact Will Win Strong Support in Congress

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-03-29T17:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/kirk-says-south-korea-pact-will-win-strong-support-in-congress.html
Congress is likely to pass a long-
stalled free-trade agreement with  South Korea  with strong
backing, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said.  “Korea has more broad-based support than any free-trade
agreement we have done in recent years,” Kirk said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Washington. “We are
confident it should get very strong support when Congress moves
that forward.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration reworked provisions
in the pact in response to the concerns of automaker  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and the United Auto Workers union. The changes picked up
support for the deal from previous critics, such as
Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat.  The Korea deal is forecast by the U.S. International Trade
Commission to boost U.S. goods exports by $11 billion a year,
making it the biggest U.S. free-trade pact since the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994. Obama hasn’t sent the
legislation implementing the South Korea accord to Congress for
approval yet, and Levin today in Washington called on the
administration to do so “immediately.”  Republicans such as Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah say they
will hold out for action on the deals with Panama and Colombia
if Obama tries to move the pact with Korea on its own. While
Levin said today that the deals shouldn’t be linked, Kirk said
he is pushing ahead talks with Colombia, trying to garner
further labor protections so that deal can be approved as well.  “We’re making good progress,” Kirk said of the talks with
Colombia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  