-- 
Koch-Backed Group Targets California Republicans in Tax Fight

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-29T20:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/koch-backed-group-targets-california-republicans-in-tax-fight.html
A pro-Republican group backed by
billionaire  David Koch  is paying for radio ads criticizing two
California Republican state senators who’ve negotiated with
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  on a proposed tax referendum.  The Koch-backed advocacy group  Americans for Prosperity 
began running the ads today in the Central Valley farming
districts represented by Tom Berryhill of Modesto and Anthony Cannella of Merced. The  ads  urge listeners to call the senators
and tell them to oppose Brown’s plan.  Brown is seeking legislative approval for a June referendum
on extending sales, income and vehicle-tax increases set to
expire that month. The tax plan is a linchpin of Brown’s effort
to eliminate what was a $26.6 billion  budget deficit  projected
through June 2012. Berryhill and Cannella are among five
Republican senators who have been negotiating with him.  “The governor and the Legislature here in  California  are
trying to pass tax increases and we want to make sure that
legislators in certain areas understand that they need to stand
up for taxpayers,” said Meredith Turney, a spokeswoman for
Americans for Prosperity California, which is based in
Camarillo. Americans for Prosperity supported  Wisconsin ’s
Republican governor,  Scott Walker , in his drive to curb
collective bargaining for most unionized government workers.  Koch Industries  David Koch is executive vice president of Koch Industries
Inc., a closely held energy and chemical company based in
Wichita,  Kansas . He is the chairman of the Americans for
Prosperity Foundation, according to 2009 Internal Revenue
Service records posted on the website of  GuideStar , an
organization that compiles information on nonprofit groups.  Koch Industries and its employees and subsidiaries spent
$1.2 million in the last election helping to elect Republican
governors, according to  Common Cause , a Washington-based
advocacy group.  “Senator Cannella’s first and foremost commitment is to
serve and represent his constituents in the 12th Senate
District,” his spokeswoman, Jessica Hsiang, said in a statement
about the ads’ criticism. “The votes he casts as their
representative in Sacramento will be reflective of their shared
priorities:  job creation  and economic growth.”  Nicole Mazur, a spokeswoman for Berryhill, declined to
comment.  Brown has said he’s not raising taxes, just asking voters
to keep higher taxes in place for five more years to close a $15
billion budget gap without deeper cuts to services including
education and public safety. He and Democrats already approved
$8 billion of cuts and $3 billion of loans and transfers to help
ease the deficit.  While Democrats control both chambers of the California
Legislature, they fall short of a two-thirds majority to put the
measure on the ballot. Brown would need to coax at least four
Republicans into supporting his plan to reach that
supermajority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  