-- 
Won Climbs to Six-Week High as Overseas Investors Buy South Korean Stocks

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-03-29T09:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/korean-won-retreats-from-5-week-high-on-japan-radiation-risk-bonds-gain.html
South Korea ’s won rose to its
strongest level in more than six weeks as overseas investors
bought stocks on bets that the economy will weather the impact
of  Japan ’s earthquake and radiation leaks at a nuclear plant.  The currency pared earlier losses after official data
showed that the current-account surplus widened to $1.18 billion
in February, from $154.7 million in January. Foreign investors
bought more Korean equities than they sold for the ninth
straight day, exchange data showed. The Kospi stock index rose
0.8 percent to close at its highest level since Feb. 7.  “Asian currencies, including the won, rebounded due to a
recovery in risk appetite and we can see that in the stocks as
well,” said Ho Woei Chen, an economist at United Overseas Bank
Ltd. in  Singapore . “The current account surplus was strong.”  The won climbed 0.4 percent to 1,110.25 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the strongest level since Feb. 10. The
currency earlier slipped as much as 0.2% after radiation levels
that can prove fatal were detected outside reactor buildings at
Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, signaling a partial fuel
meltdown and complicating efforts to contain the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl.  “Lingering Japan radiation worries are weighing on the
won,” said Ko Kyu Youn, a currency dealer at Korea Exchange
Bank. “Declines are limited because of exporters waiting to
sell dollars at the end of the month and the current-account
surplus.”  South  Korea  detected small traces of radioactive iodine and
cesium in the atmosphere, the state-run Korea Institute of
Nuclear Safety said today.  The government’s benchmark three-year bonds rose, pushing
the yield on the 3 percent note due December 2013 three basis
point lower to 3.70 percent, according to prices from the Korea
Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Bank of Korea’s six-member board voted four-two in
favor of keeping borrowing costs unchanged at 2.75 percent in
February, according to minutes of the meeting released today.
The central bank lifted the policy rate to 3 percent at its
latest meeting this month.  “The minutes were a non-event as BOK later lifted rates at
the next meeting which was in March,” Ho of United Overseas
Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at   skim7@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Lui at   plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  