-- 
National Oilwell, Nabors Expect a Rise in Onshore Rig Orders

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-03-29T12:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/national-oilwell-nabors-expect-a-rise-in-onshore-rig-orders.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and
 Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  are expecting a surge in orders this year
for onshore rigs to meet demand for drilling deeper into dense
rock to reach oil and natural gas.  The new rigs, which can cost $10 million to $50 million and
sometimes take a year to deliver, are faster and easier to build
than the deep-water rigs, which drill beneath more than 2 miles
(3 kilometers) of water, cost ten times as much to build and
take three years to deliver.  “I think onshore will pick up dramatically,” Pete Miller,
chief executive officer of Houston-based National Oilwell Varco,
said yesterday in an interview at the Howard Weil conference in
 New Orleans .  The number of active U.S. rigs on land has climbed 21
percent in the past year according to Baker Hughes Inc., which
tracks rig activity. Customers will seek to build new rigs
rather than restart idle ones as a way to replace aging oilfield
equipment and better tap newly discovered shale formations that
have crude deposits, said Miller, whose company is the world’s
largest oilfield equipment provider.  Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken
apart using injections of water, sand and chemicals to release
oil and gas.  Gene Isenberg, CEO of Nabors, the world’s largest owner of
land rigs, said he agrees with Miller.  “It’s going on right now,” he said. “The pace doesn’t
seem to be abating.”  Ordering Rigs  Nabors, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , is so confident in the
need for new rigs that it’s continually keeping about seven new
land rigs on order. As one is delivered, it will order another
one to keep its new supply coming, Isenberg told analysts and
investors on a Feb. 16 conference call.  The driller has ordered a total of 29 new rigs during the
past year,  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities
in Houston, wrote in a Feb. 16 note to investors.  “With more rigs destined for areas like the Permian,  Eagle
Ford , Granite Wash, Cana, Bakken, and Niobrara, we expect
overall land drilling activity to continue to demand more,”
with Nabors likely to be a major supplier, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  