-- 
NATO Allies Look to Tripoli Residents to Topple Qaddafi in Libyan Endgame

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-29T09:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/nato-allies-look-to-tripoli-residents-to-topple-qaddafi-in-libyan-endgame.html
The U.K. and  France  are banking on
Libyans in the capital Tripoli to give them an exit strategy as
they try to work out how to topple  Muammar Qaddafi .  With the rebels advancing on Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte,
about 570 kilometers (355 miles) from their Benghazi base,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  are exhorting Libyan officials to undermine the regime
from within.  “Ideally, everybody wants the Libyan rebels to topple
Qaddafi in Tripoli,” said Florence Gaub, a North  Africa  expert
at the NATO Defense College in  Rome . “Regime change is what
it’s all about, even if the UN resolution doesn’t say this.”  The push to oust Qaddafi is restricted by a United Nations
mandate that limits military activity to protecting civilians.
While the 28-member North Atlantic Treaty Organization said on
March 27 that it was  taking charge  of the mission, the allies
say they won’t send in ground forces, leading to speculation
they want him eliminated by his own people in  Tripoli , a city of
1.1 million.  “There are two options: either Qaddafi leaves the country
or is killed,” said Mats Berdal, a professor in the Department
of War Studies at  King’s College London . “And he’s not likely
to leave Libya.”  The move toward Sirte, near where Qaddafi was born in 1942,
follows a rebel advance along Libya’s coast that saw opposition
forces recapture the oil ports of Brega and Ras Lanuf, helped by
U.S.-led aerial bombardment of Qaddafi’s forces.  Sirte  is about
450 kilometers from Tripoli, roughly halfway from Benghazi.  ‘Walk Away’  “Walk away from your tanks,” Cameron said March 25.
“Give up on this regime because it should be over for him and
his henchmen.” Sarkozy said a day earlier that Qaddafi’s
“entourage” needs to know that there’s a “way to get out.”  The allied hope is that “the noose will tighten so much
around the regime that there will be defections or that actions
will be taken against him from someone close to him,” Charles
Gurdon, a  Libya  expert who is managing director of  Menas
Associates , a political-risk advisory group in London, said in
an interview.  Allied strikes began after a UN Security Council resolution
on March 17 granting military authority to the U.S. and its
allies to protect Libyan civilians and population centers
threatened by Qaddafi’s forces. Libya’s death toll so far may be
between 6,000 and 12,000, according to a human rights group.  Crude Falling  The war in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest crude
reserves, has pushed  oil prices  up about 25 percent since it
began last month. Oil fell for a third day yesterday as the
rebels advanced, trading near the lowest in a week in  New York 
amid speculation that territorial gains made against Qaddafi’s
forces may speed up a resolution to the conflict.  With the allied strikes inflicting “meltdown,” the
military “is increasingly seeing there’s nothing in this for
them,” said Berdal of King’s College  London .  The most likely outcome “is that the tribal chiefs decide
that Qaddafi has become such a pariah that their interests are
best served by kicking him out,” said Gilles Kepel, a Middle
East expert at the SciencesPo Centre for International Studies
and Research in Paris. “The chiefs will then have to work out
how to divide the oil receipts.”  Fighting in Libya comes as unrest spreads throughout the
Middle East, with deadly clashes between protesters and regime
supporters in Syria, Yemen, Bahrain and Jordan following the
ouster of oppressive regimes by popular movements in Egypt and
 Tunisia .  Swept Away  The revolutions in North Africa swept the rulers of Tunisia
and  Egypt  from power after they were unwilling or unable to use
massive military force to halt popular protests. More than 100
people were killed in Tunisia and 365 died in Egypt prior to
regime change.  For Qaddafi, fighting to retain his grip on power after
almost 40 years, the endgame may be approaching as soon as next
month, said Gaub of the NATO Defense College.  “That there hasn’t been a coup against Qaddafi so far
indicates his grip on the armed forces is still strong,” Gaub
said. All the same, “It’s not a question of if Qaddafi is going
to go, but when.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  