-- 
Sri Lanka Reaches Cricket World Cup Final in Muralitharan’s Last Home Game

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-29T18:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/new-zealand-totals-217-against-sri-lanka-in-world-cup-semifinal-in-colombo.html
Sri Lanka overcame a late challenge
from  New Zealand  to win by 5 wickets and reach the Cricket World
Cup final as Muttiah Muralitharan added to his record one-day
wicket total in his last match on home soil.  Muralitharan took two wickets, including that of the Kiwi’s
top-scorer Scott Styris (57) with his last ball, and was
applauded before and after the match yesterday by the sellout
crowd at the 36,000-capacity Premadasa Stadium. Lasith Malinga
and Ajantha Mendis each claimed three wickets as New Zealand was
restricted to 217 in  Colombo . Sri Lanka scored 220-5 with 13
balls remaining as Thilan Samaraweera hit the winning runs with
a boundary off Andy McKay.  “It’s my last game and I got a wicket with my last ball,”
Muralitharan said as he left the field with figures of 2-42.
“The same thing happened to me in Test cricket so I’m very
happy.”  Sri Lanka , the 1996 champion, moves to the final in Mumbai
on April 2, where it will meet the winner of today’s match
between archrivals  India  and  Pakistan  in Mohali, India.  “It’s nice to absorb all of this but it’s crucial we
understand we haven’t won anything yet, we’ve just qualified for
the final,” Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara said in the
post-match ceremony. “Whoever comes along, we’ll do our best.”  Same Wicket  Sri Lanka was playing on the same wicket where it
humiliated England by 10 wickets in the March 26 quarterfinal.
New Zealand captain Daniel Vettori won the toss and elected to
bat, and the match was decided by the Sri Lankan bowlers, who
restricted the Black Caps. In the build-up to the match Vettori
said the decision to play on the same surface would be to his
team’s disadvantage.  His worries were well founded as New Zealand, surprise
winner over  South Africa  in the final eight, lost wickets at
regular intervals as the batsman struggled with the pitch.
Styris’s 57 lead the team, with Martin Guptill adding 39 and
Ross Taylor getting 36.  “We set up a great platform but ruined it by losing too
many wickets at the end,” Vettori said in an onfield interview.
“Unfortunately we probably let ourselves down the last 10 overs
with our batting.”  Ahead of yesterday’s game, Sri Lanka supporters crowd
hoisted banners, blew horns and cheered Muralitharan’s arrival
onto the field. The man with 800 Test and 534 one-day wickets
will quit after the World Cup.  There had been doubts that the 38-year-old spinner would
play because of a hamstring injury. “Murali, thank you for the
memories,” read one banner hailing the country’s most
recognized sportsman.  “He’s an icon of Sri Lanka,” Sangakkara said. “As a
champion, a human being and a cricketer, I don’t think there’s
anyone that can match him.”  Crowd Chants  Muralitharan got his 67th  World Cup  wicket when he had
Jesse Ryder caught behind for 19 and capped his last match in
front of his own fans when he had Styris trapped leg before
wicket. That sent the crowd wild and chants of “Murali,
Murali” reverberated from all sides of the ground.  The bowling of Mendis and Malinga was too much for the
batsmen. A highlight came when Malinga clean-bowled Guptill with
a vicious inswinging yorker, a delivery he practices regularly
by placing a pair of shoes where the batsman usually stands.
Mendis ended the innings with 7 balls still left to play when he
got Tim Southee and Andy McKay.  In reply,  Upul Tharanga , who along with opening partner
Tillakaratne Dilshan scored an unbeaten century against  England ,
scored a quick 30 before Ryder completed a one-handed catch off
Southee.  His dismissal didn’t trouble Sri Lanka, for whom Dilshan
and Sangakkara batted steadily, putting on 120 for the second
wicket. Dilshan, whose 100 against England came in about as many
balls, took 71 deliveries to reach his 50, then was dismissed by
another catch by Ryder off Southee on 73.  New Zealand’s hopes of an unlikely fightback were stirred
when Mahela Jayawardene was LBW to Vettori for 1 and Sangakkara
(54) was caught, to leave the score on 169-4. Chamara Silva was
bowled by McKay for 13, bringing in Angelo Mathews, who combined
with Samaraweera for 35 runs to win the match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Premadasa Stadium via the London newsroom on
   celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  