-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Purchase Faces Scrutiny by N.Y. Authorities

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-29T18:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/new-york-attorney-general-to-review-at-t-t-mobile-acquisition.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
purchase of T-Mobile USA will undergo a “thorough review” by
New York authorities for possible anti-competitive impact, state
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said.  AT&T said March 20 that it agreed to buy T-Mobile from
 Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  The acquisition would combine the second-
and fourth-largest U.S. wireless providers. The deal may take a
year to win government approval, as U.S. regulators determine
whether the transaction will reduce customer choice.  “Affordable wireless service and technology, including
smartphones and next-generation handheld devices, are the bridge
to the digital broadband future,” Schneiderman said today in an
e-mailed statement. “We want to ensure all New Yorkers benefit
from these important innovations that improve lives.”  Schneiderman said the potential impact of the merger may be
greater in Upstate cities such as Rochester,  Albany , Buffalo and
Syracuse, where there are fewer wireless options, than in  New
York City . He said he is also concerned about the impact on
consumers who have T-Mobile as a “low-cost option.”  The attorney general’s review will weigh the benefits to
New Yorkers against the anti-competitive risks. Schneiderman
said he will “closely scrutinize” AT&T’s argument that the
merger may be beneficial because of expanded coverage of the
company’s next-generation wireless network to underserved rural
areas with poor service.  AT&T Response  “We look forward to sharing information with the AG’s
office and remain excited about the significant consumer and
competition benefits that this transaction will provide,
including improved  customer service  and expanded high-speed LTE
wireless coverage to additional residents and areas across  New
York  State and the rest of the U.S.,” Mike Buckley, an AT&T
spokesman, said by e-mail.  C. Evan Stewart, an antitrust lawyer and managing partner
of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP in New York, said it’s unusual for a
state attorney general to get involved in a matter that may be
reviewed by the Federal Communications Commission and the
 Justice Department .  “What the New York attorney general is going to bring to
that process that the Justice Department is not going to bring
to bear is unclear to me,” Stewart said a telephone interview.
“The more appropriate and traditional way to handle this is to
let those folks whose expertise is in these areas weigh in on
the appropriateness of it before anyone else makes things more
difficult or more easy.”  The state review will slow the process, the lawyer said.  “Now the AT&T folks are going to have a different
regulator to convince on the merits of this as opposed to the
two they already have,” he said.  Schneiderman’s review was “not surprising” considering
the state interest in consumer protection, said  Larry Freedman ,
a partner at Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP, which focuses on
telecommunications. “‘Most folks here in  Washington  believe the
heart of the action will be at the  Department of Justice  and the
FCC.”  Robert Kenny, a spokesman for the FCC, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment. Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the
Justice Department, declined to comment. Hernan Daguerre, a
spokesman for T-Mobile, did not immediately return a call for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 