-- 
NFL Players Union Won’t Hold Competing Draft Night Event in New York City

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-29T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/nfl-players-union-won-t-hold-competing-draft-night-event-in-new-york-city.html
The National Football League
Players Association said it will hold a three-day event for
rookies that won’t conflict with the televised broadcasts of the
league’s draft on April 28-29.  NFL owners locked out players March 12 after federal
mediation failed to produce an agreement on how to divide $9
billion in revenue -- the most of any U.S. sports league.  The NFLPA, which dropped its status as a union to allow
players to file an antitrust suit against team owners, was
considering an event for top prospects that would be held at the
same time as the draft at a different location in  New York , ESPN
reported.  The players’ association said yesterday on  NFLLockout.com 
that it will hold a reception and dinner for draft prospects on
April 28 at 4 p.m. New York time. The festivities will conclude
before the start of the first round of the NFL draft starts at 8
p.m. at Radio City Music Hall.  The NFLPA also will hold events on April 29 and 30.  “The entire weekend is a celebration of legacy -- of past,
present and future pro football players making the journey from
prospect to professional,” the NFLPA said in a statement on
NFLLockout.com.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the players, said on
Twitter yesterday that the NFLPA “is not asking players or
agents to boycott the  NFL draft .”  University of  Alabama  wide receiver Julio Jones, projected
by ESPN as a top-10 pick, said he wants to be at the draft to
shake NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell’s hand on national
television after he’s selected.  “I want an opportunity to go to New York and be able to
experience that,” Jones told WQXI in Atlanta yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  