-- 
NHN Sees ‘Me2DAY’ Beating Twitter, Facebook in South Korea

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-30T07:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/nhn-says-its-me2day-service-is-beating-twitter-facebook-in-south-korea.html
NHN Corp. (035420) , owner of South Korea’s
largest search engine, forecast that subscribers to its social-
networking site would more than double this year, surpassing
Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc. in  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy.  The  me2DAY  site, a network similar to Twitter that lets
users share 140-character messages, is likely to have 10 million
subscribers by year’s end, compared with 4 million at the end of
2010 and about 5 million now, Suman Park, head of the service at
the Seongnam, South Korea-based company, said in a phone
interview.  “Breaching the 10 million mark is significant in the
Korean market,” Park said yesterday. “The number of
subscribers, as well as monthly active users, is on an upward
trend, and we aim to be the first to get there.”  The number of me2DAY users has surged more than 100-fold
since 2009, when the site was bought by NHN, according to Park.
Its target of 10 million subscribers is equal to one-fifth of
the nation’s population.  NHN controls about 70 percent of online queries in  South
Korea  with its Naver search engine, according to the company.  Its shares rose 1.9 percent to 190,500 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Seoul, extending their advance during the
past 12 months to 5.3 percent.  Smartphone Functions  NHN will further boost the user base by targeting new
smartphone buyers, highlighting functions that allow them to
share photos on the move, he said.  Facebook, available in more than 70 languages, has about 4
million users in South Korea, according to market researcher
 Socialbakers . Twitter is estimated to have 3.2 million local
subscribers, according to  OikoLab , which tracks the data daily.  As the number of users grows, NHN plans to improve privacy
protection in the second half of the year and make the service
available in multiple languages between July and August, Park
said. He didn’t say which languages would be used.  The company also aims to introduce a feature similar to
Facebook’s Places, designed to make it easier for users to share
their whereabouts with other people, he said.  NHN may buy more local companies offering Web-based
services and applications this year, he said. NHN has been
contacting acquisition targets, he said without elaborating.  “There are a lot of discussions on the table,” he said.
“There were a lot of talks in 2010, but nothing materialized.
In 2011, some deals may come out.”  NHN paid 2.24 billion won ($2 million) to buy all of me2DAY
and completed the acquisition in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 