-- 
NNPC of Nigeria's Oil Refineries at 30% of Capacity Amid Supply Disruption

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-29T10:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/nigeria-national-petroleum-plants-running-at-30-capacity-1-.html
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.’s
four oil refineries are running at about 30 percent of installed
capacity because of interruptions in the supply of crude, a
company official said.  “We should be operating at 60 percent in all of the
refineries,” Philip Chukwu, group executive director
responsible for refining at the state-run company, told
reporters today at a  African Refiners Association  conference in
 Cape Town . “We are capable of doing that. The problem we have
is the feedstock. We have problems with the lines sometimes.”  Nigeria’s refineries have the capacity to process 445,000
barrels of crude a day. Oil supplies have been intermittently
disrupted by attacks on the pipelines by militants in the
southern Niger River delta. NNPC has used ships to transport
crude to its 125,000 barrel-per-day Warri Refinery to decrease
its reliance on piped oil.  All four refineries are undergoing routine maintenance,
while equipment is being procured to undertake “extraordinary”
maintenance that should enable the plants to operate at 60
percent of capacity by the end of next year, Chukwu said.  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s top oil producer, relies on fuel imports
to meet its domestic fuel needs that can’t be supplied by
domestic plants.  NNPC and China State Construction Engineering Corp. agreed
in May to seek $23 billion in funding to build three new oil
refineries and a petrochemical complex in the West African
country.  “We are just at the conceptual stages” and no funding
agreements have been concluded, Chukwu said. He was unable to
say when construction of the new plants is expected to begin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 