-- 
No One Cries for Argentina Embracing 25% Inflation of Fernandez

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 3 3 6 9 2 9 2 ]   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-29T04:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/no-one-cries-for-argentina-embracing-25-inflation-as-fernandez-leads-boom.html
As an immigrant to  Argentina  in
1992, Zheng Jicong had to learn Spanish and adapt to local
customs. As he’s built a chain of three supermarkets in Buenos
Aires, he’s still adapting to inflation that’s about six times
the rate in his native  China .  Zheng, 35, says he has to change prices in his stores daily
as suppliers send him new lists, with increases on some products
ranging from 5 percent a month to as much as 5 or 10 percent in
a single week.  “If I didn’t change the prices, maybe I’d end up selling
goods at a price below the new costs,” Zheng says. “In
Argentina, you have to get used to this.”  A decade after it defaulted on $95 billion of bonds
following a four-year recession, Argentina is again witnessing
an upsurge in inflation, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its May issue. While official numbers put the rate at about 11
percent, independent economists estimate that the number may be
about two and a half times as high.  That would place Argentina second only to  Hugo Chavez ’s
 Venezuela , where the  International Monetary Fund  estimated in
October that prices rose 33.3 percent last year, the highest in
the world.  Accelerating Spending  Accelerating spending by President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government is stoking prices, economists say. Outlays
on everything from highway construction to pensions climbed 37
percent last year from 2009 -- and increased 39 percent in
January of this year alone. Fernandez’s largesse is made
possible in large part by the global commodities boom.  Foodstuffs such as soybeans, wheat and flour accounted for
about 70 percent of the country’s export revenue in 2010,
according to Agritrend SA, a Buenos Aires-based research
company.  Export tax revenue, led by a 35 percent levy on soybeans,
rose 11.2 percent in February from a year earlier to 3 billion
pesos ($740 million).  Argentina’s 40 million people are spending, too -- as a way
to protect themselves from rising prices. They’re buying
everything from flat-screen televisions to cars and even
property. Sales of such goods as home appliances, toys and
clothing soared 39.5 percent in December from a year earlier,
the biggest increase for that month since at least 1998. Auto
sales gained 43.3 percent in unit terms, the most since 2004.  Wages Increased  Demand for construction supplies such as cement, steel and
paint was up 20 percent in December. Consumption helped push
economic growth to 9.2 percent last year from 0.9 percent in
2009. Fueling that growth -- and inflation -- is government
support for annual wage increases of 30 percent or more.  Prices -- and wages -- have been rising so fast that in
November and December, the  Central Bank of Argentina  was unable
to print enough money to meet the demand for cash from consumers
and companies trying to cover year-end salaries and bonuses. As
Argentines lined up at empty ATMs in the middle of a heat wave,
the central bank took the unprecedented step of hiring  Brazil ’s
mint to crank out 160 million 100-Argentine-peso notes, so that
there would be enough cash for individuals eager to buy holiday
gifts and start their summer vacations.  “If we have an inflation rate of 25 percent to 30 percent,
that means an important monetary expansion,” says Roque Fernandez, a former president of the central bank and an economy
minister in the 1990s. “What we didn’t know until then was that
there were problems with issuing that amount of bills.”  Central Bank Response  In most countries, scenarios like that would strike fear in
the hearts of policy makers and consumers. Not in Argentina.  Inflation is a result of companies being unable to meet
consumer demand and should be resolved by boosting loans for
production, Mercedes Marco del Pont, the current central bank
president, says. She plans to increase the  money supply  by 28
percent this year to accommodate economic growth, a move she
says won’t affect inflation.  “The price problem doesn’t have monetary roots,” the Yale
University-educated central banker, 51, says. “The conditions
that could cause inflation to accelerate don’t exist in
Argentina.”  In fact, Marco del Pont says, the global economic slump of
the past few years has shown how central bank intervention can
play a role in developing the country’s economy. “The bank has
a goal of stability not only in the financial system but also in
the real economy,” she says.  ‘We Had It Much Worse’  Many ordinary Argentines, who remember the days in 1989
when the annual inflation rate exploded to 5,000 percent, are
taking today’s numbers in stride, too.  “We had it much worse,” says Carlos Roberto Acosta, a 35-
year-old taxi driver from Avellaneda, on the outskirts of  Buenos
Aires . “I was a teenager working in a store when we had
hyperinflation,” Acosta says. “I remember the owner coming up
to me one day and saying ‘Don’t sell anything’ because we didn’t
know how much it would cost to replace it.”  Much of the country’s economy is geared toward coping with
inflation. “It’s all about adaptation,” says Marcos Katz, who
runs a fabric store in General Guemes, a town of about 30,000
people in the northwestern province of Salta. He says he visits
bigger cities such as Cordoba or Buenos Aires once a month to
look at the prices in larger stores. “I try to keep up with
their pace,” he says. “That’s what a lot of small-business men
do.”  ‘Banks Are a Dreadful Thing’  Katz, who’s been in business since 1974, says he’s learned
to work mainly without banks after living through bouts of
hyperinflation. “Banks are a dreadful thing,” he says. “You
get a lot of financing from your suppliers.”  One consequence of Argentina’s long history of inflation is
that people often pay in cash for even the largest purchases,
such as homes or cars.  “It’s easy for Argentines to remember how to face
inflation,” says Claudio Loser, an Argentine who led the Western
Hemisphere Department at the  International Monetary Fund  during
the 2001 crisis. “They defend themselves against inflation by
investing.”  Eduardo Costantini knows that well. In four days during
October, the head of Buenos Aires-based real-estate and asset
management group Consultatio SA says he sold 900 lots in an
undeveloped housing project outside Buenos Aires for a total of
$75 million, without even advertising.  Costantini, 64, says Argentines are wary of investing
abroad because of financial turmoil and are unsatisfied with
near-zero interest on dollar bank deposits -- not to mention the
negative real  interest rates  on peso deposits.  Nowhere to Invest  “If you buy dollars, you are dead,” says Costantini, an
art collector who founded the  Museum of Latin American Art in
Buenos Aires . “If you invest abroad, you don’t know what will
happen because of the uncertainty, and if you deposit money in
banks, they pay nothing.”  The construction boom has boosted business for  Ceramica
Fanelli SA , a brickmaker in Buenos Aires that’s investing 5
million euros ($7 million) for equipment from  Italy  that will
increase its output by 50 percent this year.  “Production is being outpaced by demand,” says Claudio
Moretto, the company’s commercial director. “It’s incredible,
the pressure I’m getting from our clients.”  There’s a dark side to the increased demand, says Moretto,
50, who estimates inflation was 25 percent last year and
forecasts a similar leap in 2011. “We can’t pass on to clients
all of our cost increases, so the company’s margins are
narrowing,” he says.  Inflation’s Dark Side  Rampant inflation threatens the whole country’s long-term
economic health, says Roberto Lavagna, who as economy minister
for Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner ,
led the country’s debt restructuring in 2005.  Argentina, Latin America’s third-biggest economy, has sunk
to sixth in the region as a destination for foreign direct
investment. It  attracted  just $2.2 billion in the first six
months of 2010, according to the  United Nations , compared with
$17.1 billion for Brazil, $12.2 billion for  Mexico  and $8
billion for  Chile .  “There’s a combination of a satisfactory situation
regarding economic growth on the one hand but with imbalances
that are reflected in high inflation and an investment rate that
is below what the country needs on the other hand,” Lavagna
says.  Costs for Importers  Inflation in Argentina is putting a lot of pressure on
costs for importers, says Hector Trevino, chief financial
officer of Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, Latin America’s largest soft-
drink bottler. The Mexico City-based company saw its Argentine
freight costs jump almost 70 percent and salaries climb 35
percent during the fourth quarter of 2010, he said in a
conference call with analysts in February.  “The impact that we have had in freight cost in Argentina
and salaries is tremendous,” he said.  Companies with employees in Argentina, which raise wages to
keep pace with inflation, feel a similar pressure.  “In 2010, payroll costs in Argentina were up about 20
percent in dollar terms,” Antonio Brufau, chief executive
officer of  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s biggest oil company, said in a
Feb. 24 news conference in  Madrid . In 2011, those costs will
rise as much as 25 percent in pesos, he added.  After presidential elections in October, the next
government will have to make hard decisions on whether to
tighten fiscal and monetary policy, says Lavagna, who now runs
the Institute of Applied Economics and Society in Buenos Aires.  Fernandez Leads Polls  Fernandez hasn’t yet announced whether she’ll seek a second
term. According to a Jan. 24 to Feb. 3 survey by pollster
Management & Fit, Fernandez would win 27.1 percent of the votes
in a presidential election, followed by opposition leader
Ricardo Alfonsin, son of former President Raul Alfonsin, with
6.6 percent, and Buenos Aires Mayor Mauricio Macri, with 5.4
percent. About 38 percent of those polled were undecided or
didn’t say whom they’d vote for.  Fernandez, 58, owes her lead in the polls partly to her
continuing many of the policies of her husband, whom she
succeeded in December 2007. She has kept the peso weak, so local
goods have remained cheap and exports have been strong. Since
Fernandez took office, the Argentine peso had fallen 22.4
percent as of March 24, the most among major Latin American
currencies. As a result, unemployment tumbled to 7.3 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2010 from 22 percent in 2002.  Kirchner, who died of a heart attack in October, also
created or kept price caps on everything from electricity to
beef. And he threatened foreign investors who stepped out of
line, calling for a national boycott of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
for raising fuel prices in 2005. The company backed down.  Index Underreported  And when inflation remained stuck at about 10 percent in
2006, Kirchner replaced the officials in charge of the CPI
report. Since then, Lavagna says, the government has
underreported the  consumer price index . The bureau says prices
rose just 10.9 percent last year, while research firm Ecolatina,
which Lavagna founded 30 years ago, says the gain was 26.6
percent.  “What we said when we took office is that consumption
ensures an active market, ensures growth,” says Lavagna, who
left Kirchner’s government in 2005 and finished third in the
2007 presidential race. “But consumption that generates
investment is one thing. Consumption that generates inflation is
another thing.”  Fernandez last year invited the IMF to visit the country to
help create a national inflation index. In February, her
government began threatening independent research institutes,
including Ecolatina, with fines of as much as $125,000 for not
revealing how they calculate their CPI estimates. Jorge Todesca,
a former deputy economy minister who heads Finsoport, one of the
firms that received letters from the government, said the move
is aimed at intimidating researchers and the companies they talk
to.  Beef Prices Double  Threats or not, there are increasing signs that Fernandez
won’t be able to use artificial means to hold off inflation. The
price of beef -- a sacred staple in a country that’s the No. 2
consumer of meat per capita in the world -- more than doubled as
ranchers couldn’t meet demand from depleted herds. Argentina’s
trade surplus shrank to $241 million in December from $1.2
billion a year earlier. Despite the economy’s growth, it’s
failing to attract enough investment to meet consumer demand,
Loser says.  “The first effect of any inflationary process is euphoria,
because people go out and spend,” Lavagna says. “But later come
the costs of that policy.”  Once the party ends, Argentina’s next president will have
to tally those costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net 
or  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  