-- 
Nokia Files Second Complaint Against Apple in Patent Fight

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-29T16:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/nokia-files-second-itc-complaint-against-apple.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  filed a second complaint
with the U.S. International Trade Commission over claims that
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and other products copied its technology,
less than a week after Apple won a ruling in a similar case.  The new complaint involves seven patents that Nokia said
Apple is using “to create key features in its products in the
areas of multi-tasking operating systems, data synchronization,
positioning, call quality and the use of Bluetooth accessories,”
the Espoo, Finland-based handset maker said today.  The companies have been embroiled in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Apple of
infringing 10 patents and demanding royalties on the millions of
iPhones sold since the device’s introduction in 2007. Each
company has since accused the other of infringing an increasing
number of patents, covering key areas such as user interface,
sound and camera technology.  “Our latest ITC filing means we now have 46 Nokia patents
in suit against Apple, many filed more than 10 years before
Apple made its first iPhone,” Paul Melin, vice president for
intellectual property at Nokia, said in today’s statement.  Market Growth  The commission is an independent agency that has the power
to block imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents. The
Nokia complaint, filed yesterday in  Washington , seeks to halt
imports of Apple electronics including the iPhone, iPod Touch,
iPad tablet computer and the MacBook computer. Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for Apple, said the company had no comment on the
new complaint.  Cupertino, California-based Apple won a ruling from an ITC
judge on March 25 that it wasn’t violating Nokia’s rights on
five patents. The six-member commission will announce in two
months whether it will review that decision. Apple’s claims
against Nokia were split into two cases.  One of those cases was combined with patent allegations
Apple filed against phonemaker HTC Corp. A hearing on that case
is scheduled to begin April 18, with the judge expected to
release his findings by Aug. 5. The judge in the case where
Nokia is the only defendant is scheduled to release his findings
on June 24, according to the ITC’s  website .  At stake is the global market for portable devices, where
Apple reaped more than $38 billion in sales for the iPhone, iPod
and iPad during its financial year ended in September. That
compares with about 28.8 billion euros ($40.5 billion) for
Nokia’s devices and services businesses in the same period.  Market Growth  Shipments of pocket-sized smartphones capable of surfing
the Internet and downloading music and movies may gain 49
percent this year to more than 450 million units globally,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher International Data
Corp. said in a report today.  Six of the patents in the complaint are new to the ongoing
dispute and one is also covered in a court case in  Delaware ,
Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, said in an e-mail. Companies
run lawsuits in parallel with ITC complaints in order to seek
cash compensation for past infringements, as the ITC can only
order products excluded from the U.S. market. The civil suits
are usually put on hold until the ITC completes its
investigation.  Apple has claimed infringements on a total of 29 patents in
its actions against Nokia, Durrant said.  The Apple products are assembled in  China , according to
Nokia’s ITC complaints.  Nokia fell 1.5 cents, or 0.2 percent, to close at 6.17
euros in Helsinki. Apple added 8 cents to $350.52 as of 12:23
p.m. in  New York .  The new complaint is In the Matter of Electronic Devices,
including  Mobile Phones , Mobile Tablets, Portable Music Players
and Computers, Complaint No. 2792, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington). The civil suit is Nokia Corp. v.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , 11cv259, U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  