-- 
Nomura Americas Chief Schiffman to Leave, Replaced by Denaut

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-03-29T00:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/nomura-americas-chief-schiffman-to-leave-replaced-by-denaut.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said the head
of investment banking in the Americas, Glenn Schiffman, plans to
leave the firm and James DeNaut will replace him, effective
immediately.  Schiffman, 41, led the Americas business for the past year
and joined the Tokyo-based company through its acquisition of
parts of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Nomura said in a memo
yesterday. DeNaut joined from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  last year and has
spent most of his career advising oil and gas companies.  DeNaut “brings to the role an exceptional track record of
building successful businesses,” Nomura said in the memo.  Schiffman worked at Lehman for 17 years and ran Asia-
Pacific investment banking when the firm went bankrupt in
September 2008. Nomura acquired Lehman’s Asian and European
 investment-banking  businesses, and Schiffman returned to the U.S.
to help build an Americas banking operation last year.  Nomura Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe said last
year that he aims to make the brokerage a global financial firm.
Nomura is investing 250 billion yen ($3 billion) to expand in
the U.S. and plans to offer research on 600 companies.  Peter Truell , a Nomura spokesman, declined to comment.  Nomura said in February net income rose 31 percent to 13.4
billion yen in the three months ended Dec. 31. In  Europe , the
firm posted a 3.4 billion yen loss before taxes and in  Asia  it
lost 2.4 billion yen. In the U.S., the bank recorded profit of
2.7 billion yen, down from 6.3 billion yen a year earlier.  DeNaut’s replacement of Schiffman follows other key
personnel shifts announced by Nomura this month.  Joint head of global equities Rachid Bouzouba will step
down to be replaced by Benoit Savoret. European Chief Executive
Officer Tarun Jotwani was named global markets head, overseeing
the bank’s equities and fixed income units.  Jesse Bhattal will become chief executive officer of
Nomura’s wholesale businesses, which include investment banking
and global markets, the company said this month. Hong Kong-based
Bhattal, who is currently the division’s chief operating officer,
will also become deputy president of the holding company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 