-- 
Obama’s Policy on Libya Is Tailored to Events: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-03-29T16:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/obama-s-libya-policy-is-tailored-to-events-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
President  Barack Obama  made a
convincing case for his Libya policy last night. But his speech
touched only briefly on the question of double standards in
launching humanitarian missions. Why intervene in Libya and not
Syria, Yemen or  Ivory Coast ? Shouldn’t any foreign-policy
doctrine be based on consistency?  Actually, no. For all its surface appeal, the double-
standard argument has always been fallacious, a residue of
 Washington ’s unhealthy habit of judging politicians by whether
they are consistent rather than by whether they are right.  Ralph Waldo Emerson doesn’t get much attention anymore
outside of New England liberal-arts colleges, but he made a good
point: “A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
Adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines.”  He might have added “little” journalists and cable
yakkers.  Some of the early criticism of Obama was on target. I
was hardly alone in thinking he was a week late in delivering
his speech. When you are president, you have got to go before
the nation and explain yourself. Taking the country to war (or
“kinetic military action,” in a White House euphemism that
brought ridicule) shouldn’t be done as an aside at a press
conference with the president of  Brazil .  It turns out Obama and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
were at first so intent on this seeming like a multilateral
mission that they weren’t forthcoming about the initial attack.
Instead of policemen of the world, they were acting like
policemen at the scene of an accident who say, “Nothing to see
here, folks. Move along.”  U.S. Tomahawks  “We did not lead this,” Clinton said in Paris on March
19. Except that we did. French President Nicolas Sarkozy pushed
for the action but the 112 Tomahawk cruise missiles used in the
early hours of the operation were American.  By the time of his speech yesterday, Obama apparently
realized that war by committee didn’t look good to a U.S. public
that expects strong leadership. So from the top he said this was
about “an international effort we have led in  Libya .” Gone
were Clinton’s references of a week before to “they” and
“them” -- allies whom we would “assist” in the enforcement
of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973.  Even as Obama listed the other nations in the coalition and
explained that we are turning over most of the operation to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, he placed the U.S. once
again where most Americans expect the nation to be -- leading
from the front.  Comparing to Charlotte  From Germans bayoneting Belgian babies in 1914 to  Saddam Hussein  gassing Kurds in 1988, U.S. presidents have often used
atrocity stories, real and imagined, to build support for war.
In that tradition, Obama conjured “Americans killed by Libyan
agents” and  Muammar Qaddafi  promising to “show no mercy” and
go house to house in Benghazi killing his own people.  To explain the threat to Benghazi, Obama said it was a city
of 700,000, which is “the size of  Charlotte .” When White House
speechwriters scrolled through American cities of that size it
wasn’t a coincidence that they chose one in  North Carolina , an
important 2012 swing state.  That’s not to say there was cynical calculation here. Obama
is a reluctant warrior, fully aware that he is taking a risk.
But there are also risks to inaction, some practical (Libyan
refugees streaming into Tunisia and  Egypt  could undermine the
democratic revolutions there) and some a matter of conscience.  Remembering Genocide  As a senator, Obama was so taken by Samantha Power’s “A
Problem From Hell: America and the Age of Genocide” that he
brought her to Washington as an adviser. The book explains how
the U.S. failed to stop genocide in  Rwanda  in 1994, a decision
that  Bill Clinton  has often said was the worst of his
presidency. The late Illinois Senator Paul Simon, a major
influence on Obama, is quoted anguishing over the unwillingness
to act.  Power, who called Hillary Clinton a “monster” during the
2008 primaries, now is in complete agreement with her on Libya.  The best remembered line in Obama’s speech will probably
be: “I refuse to wait for images of slaughter and mass graves
before taking action.”  The problem for him is that any time images of civilian
deaths at the hands of a dictator are televised and the U.S.
doesn’t intervene, the president will be depicted as a
hypocrite.  Confronting politicians on live television with their old,
seemingly contradictory words is a relatively new journalistic
technique, first used extensively by Tim Russert on “Meet the
Press” and now made easy by Google. It’s often a useful line of
questioning but has become too narrow a lens through which to
view the news.  Policy to Fit  Imagine how today’s cable analysts would have reacted to
 Winston Churchill  changing parties twice, or  John F. Kennedy 
intervening in  Vietnam  but not Laos, or  Ronald Reagan  having
presided over huge tax increases and a record number of
abortions as governor of  California . Politics and global
leadership have always been situational. One size has never fit
all. And customizing foreign policy to fit specific
circumstances is not a betrayal of principle.  The test of an intervention is not whether it’s consistent
with other interventions but whether it is right at the time. To
insist that presidents intervene in every humanitarian crisis or
none is, as Obama put it, “a false choice.”  “Events are in the saddle and tend to ride mankind,”
Emerson said. Presidents are largely at the mercy of those
events and so must pick their battles. That may not make for a
tidy “doctrine,” but it is, yes, consistent with the realities
of this messy world.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a national correspondent for  Newsweek 
and author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  