-- 
Obama Says ‘Days Are Numbered’ for Qaddafi's Regime to Keep Power in Libya

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-30T04:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/obama-says-noose-has-tightened-around-libya-s-qaddafi.html
President  Barack Obama  said Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s reign is nearing its end under pressure
from sanctions and the intervention of an international military
force.  The “noose has tightened” around Qaddafi as “people
around him are starting to recognize that their options are
limited and their days are numbered,” Obama said on the “CBS
Evening News,” one of three interviews he gave to broadcast
networks yesterday.  “We’ve got to ratchet up our diplomatic and our political
pressure on him,” Obama said. “So that at some point he makes
a decision to leave.”  Obama’s network interviews follow a March 28 nationally
televised address in which he said the U.S. committed its armed
forces to a United Nations-backed mission in  Libya  to protect
civilians from troops loyal to Qaddafi, who has been battling
opposition groups for control of the country.  In the interviews with the news shows on ABC and NBC, along
with CBS, Obama said the criteria he outlined for military
involvement in Libya cannot be compared with the situation in
 Syria , another site of anti-government protests, or elsewhere in
a region that has been swept by anti-government protests.  ‘Unique Situation’  “Each country in this region is different,” Obama told
NBC. “Libya was a unique situation.”  In the interview with ABC, Obama said it is time for
Qaddafi to show that he understands he has lost legitimacy in
the eyes of the Libyan people, and that it would then be up to
the international community to help determine how he should
leave power.  “I certainly will be supporting him being removed from
power, and we’re going to have to examine what our options are
after that,” Obama said. “The process of actually getting
Qaddafi to step down is not going to happen overnight.”  On NBC, Obama said the U.S. and its allies are still
assessing the  individuals and groups  leading the revolt against
Qaddafi. He said he has neither ruled in nor ruled out the
option of arming the rebels.  “We’re not taking anything off the table at this point,”
he said.  London  Meeting  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  was in London
yesterday meeting with representatives from other nations that
are trying to forge a postwar blueprint for Libya as troops
loyal Qaddafi dug in to block rebels advancing on his hometown
of Sirte.  Clinton today is to be among the administration officials
giving U.S. lawmakers classified briefings in  Washington  about
the military mission in Libya. Republicans and Democrats alike
have raised questions about the operation’s costs, goals and
time frame.  Obama taped all three interviews in  New York , where he was
attending a dedication of the U.S. mission to the  United
Nations , named for former Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown.  In his remarks at the building’s dedication ceremony Obama
said that “our conscience and our common interests” compelled
the U.S. and allies to act in Libya and uphold the
responsibility of all nations to promote peace and protect human
rights.  “History teaches us that nations are more secure and the
world is more peaceful when nations meet these
responsibilities,” he said. “That’s what we’re doing in
Libya.”  While in New York, Obama attended two events for the
 Democratic Party . He helped raise $1.5 million at a dinner for
the  Democratic National Committee  and then thanked about 250
donors at a separate event.  At the first event, Obama told supporters the U.S. was
going through “a challenging time,” and that he wouldn’t be
able to do his job as president “if I didn’t know that I have a
lot people rooting for me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  