-- 
Obama Should ‘Immediately’ Send Korea Trade Deal to Congress, Levin Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-03-29T16:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/obama-should-immediately-send-korea-trade-deal-to-congress-levin-says.html
Democratic Representative Sander Levin urged President  Barack Obama  to send a pending free-trade
agreement with South Korea to Congress “immediately,” and not
wait for accords with  Colombia  and Panama.  While Republicans such as Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah say
they won’t approve the Korea agreement unless the other two move
ahead as well, Levin of Michigan said it’s a mistake to link the
different deals.  “The administration should hold its ground and insist on
movement of each of the various pieces of the trade agenda only
as they are ready for action,” Levin, the top Democrat on the
House Ways and Means Committee, said today in prepared remarks
for a speech at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  The Obama administration is waiting for  Panama  to ratify
tax and labor changes it says are necessary before that pact can
be approved. The U.S. Trade Representative’s office is also
negotiating labor-rights provisions with Colombia.  The three agreements, signed under President  George W.
Bush , have stalled while the administration and Democrats in
Congress worked out changes they said were necessary.  South Korea is the biggest prize for U.S. companies, as
 trade  with that nation topped $87 billion in 2010. The South
Korean deal would increase exports of U.S. goods by $10.9
billion a year when the agreement is in full effect, while the
accord with Colombia would boost exports by $1.1 billion,
according to the  U.S. International Trade Commission .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  