-- 
Obama Says ‘Conscience’ Compels U.S., Allies to Act in Libya

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-29T22:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/obama-says-conscience-compels-u-s-allies-to-act-in-libya.html
President   Barack Obama  said that
“our conscience and our common interests” compelled the U.S.
and allies to act after Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  violated
the basic rights of his people.  “We believe in fundamental human rights, in the dignity
and worth” of people everywhere, Obama said in  New York  today.
“Violations of these core principles must have consequences.”  After a nationally televised speech yesterday citing the
importance of diplomacy in preventing humanitarian crises, Obama
traveled to the United Nations to dedicate a building at the
U.S. mission named for former Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown.  “Ron Brown understood America’s unique role in the
world,” Obama said. “We need to show the way.”  Brown, who served under President  Bill Clinton , died in a
plane crash in Croatia on an official trade mission in 1996.  “He was a great diplomat and he was an extraordinary role
model,” said  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN.  In his speech yesterday on U.S. actions in Libya, Obama
said that because of U.S. military forces and “our dedicated
diplomats, a coalition has been forged and countless lives have
been saved.”  In his remarks today, he said all of the world’s nations
have a responsibility to promote peace and protect human rights.  “History teaches us that nations are more secure and the
world is more peaceful when nations meet these
responsibilities,” he said. “That’s what we’re doing in
 Libya .”  ‘American Leadership’  “In Libya we are showing what’s possible when we find our
courage,” he added. “I think that’s the essence of American
leadership.”  Foreign ministers from more than 30 countries met today in
London to discuss the international response to the fighting in
Libya between troops loyal to Qaddafi and rebel forces.  Later today, the president is scheduled to attend two
Democratic Party events in New York.  The first is a dinner at the Red Rooster restaurant in
Harlem at which the  Democratic National Committee  is seeking to
raise $1.5 million from about 50 donors who are paying $30,800
each. At a reception later, at the  Studio Museum , also in
Harlem, Obama will thank 250 donors who have already
contributed.  Obama has also taped interviews with network news programs
for broadcast today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  