-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Get Chance to Air Concerns on Obama Libya Policy

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-29T21:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/obama-s-libya-defense-left-questions-unanswered-critics-say.html
U.S. lawmakers are set to question
top Obama administration officials tomorrow about the military
operation in Libya at secret Capitol Hill briefings occurring
amid bipartisan concerns about the mission.  President  Barack Obama ’s nationally televised defense last
night of his decision to use U.S. force in Libya failed to allay
qualms Republican and Democratic lawmakers have raised about the
operation, including its costs, goals and time frame. The
strongest critics are threatening to try to end the mission by
blocking its funding or compelling Obama to request
congressional approval for continuing it.  “I’ve told my caucus, ‘Come loaded with all your
questions; ask questions in this classified setting,’” Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told reporters
today. “‘And then if, in fact, you want to do more
legislatively, you’re entitled to do that.’”  Reid said he read Democrats parts of the  War Powers Act  --
which curbs the president’s power to send U.S. troops into
combat zones for more than 60 days without congressional
approval -- at the party’s closed-door weekly luncheon today.
The measure provides for fast-track consideration of a
congressional resolution directing the president to pull U.S.
forces out of foreign hostilities unless he has formally
declared war or otherwise gotten legislative approval for
military action.  Clinton to Brief  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  and Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, are to lead the classified House and Senate
briefings.  Republicans who favored strong U.S. intervention, antiwar
Democrats and some in between said Obama’s speech left them
confused about what it would take to bring an end to U.S.
involvement in Libya.  Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee and his party’s 2008
presidential nominee, said Obama “made a strong defense of our
military operation in Libya,” yet failed to articulate a
strategy for ousting  Muammar Qaddafi , leaving open the
possibility of a “prolonged and bloody stalemate” in  Libya .  ‘Not Neutral’  “Ultimately, we need to be straight with the American
people and with ourselves. We are not neutral in the conflict in
Libya. We want the opposition to succeed and we want Qaddafi to
leave power,” McCain said in a speech in the Senate today. “We
must therefore provide the necessary and appropriate assistance
to aid the opposition in their fight.”  Obama said in his address that the U.S. and its allies
faced a choice between taking military action in Libya or
letting Qaddafi massacre civilians. While he said he wanted
Qaddafi out, Obama said it would be a “mistake” to remove him
by force. He spoke a day after the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization agreed to take full control of the campaign.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he was puzzled by Obama’s
assertion that he hopes Qaddafi leaves.  “The fact the plan appears to be a humanitarian mission to
stop a slaughter of innocent people in Libya, I think, is
something ultimately the Congress would support,” the Ohio
Republican told reporters. Still, he said, “if Qaddafi doesn’t
leave, how long will NATO be there to enforce a no-fly zone?
That is a very troubling question.”  No ‘Defined Endgame’  Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the immediate threat
Obama referenced “has been neutralized,” raising the
possibility that U.S. involvement “may continue indefinitely,
without a defined endgame.”  Obama “still has not clearly stated what our goals are or
what would constitute success. He has not stated whether the
 United States  would accept a stalemate in the civil war, nor has
he put forward a plan for ending Qaddafi’s rule,” Lugar said in
a statement.  Lugar has been pressing for Obama to come to Congress for
authorization for action in Libya.  Some lawmakers who support Obama’s approach to the conflict
are quietly weighing trying to engineer a congressional vote of
confidence for it. Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan ,
the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said he might
draft a resolution authorizing military action in support of the
objective Obama laid out: a United Nations-mandated, NATO-led
mission to protect Libyan civilians.  A Dangerous Path  Democratic Representative Dennis Kucinich of  Ohio , a war
critic who is seeking to eliminate funds for the Libya
operation, said Obama was taking the nation down a dangerous
foreign policy road.  “The president enunciated a new Obama doctrine” that
includes “war based on threats,” Kucinich said in an
interview. “It’s a doctrine for preemptive war, and this is a
dangerous standard -- it’s what took us into  Iraq .”  Kucinich circulated a letter to other U.S. lawmakers today
requesting their backing for his effort to cut off money for the
Libya operation and force Obama to come to Congress for
approval. His letter faulted the president for the “stark lack
of information provided to Congress and the American people
about the war.”  Some Democratic leaders on  Capitol Hill  said Obama laid out
a compelling case for intervention.  ‘Humanitarian Crisis’  “Action was taken to stave off a humanitarian crisis
saving thousands of lives,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi ,
a California Democrat, said in a statement. “I commend the
president for his courage in taking this action and salute our
men and women in uniform for their part in saving lives.”
Representative  Adam Smith  of  Washington , the top Democrat on the
House Armed Services Committee, said Obama’s critics are trying
to have it both ways. “Many who urged the administration to act
are now criticizing the administration for its actions,” he
said.  While Obama’s team “could have done a better job of
working with Congress in the days prior to taking action, it is
clear that U.S. leadership prevented this humanitarian crisis
from getting worse and saved thousands of lives,” Smith said.
“As a nation, that is something we should be proud of.”  Critics said Obama overstepped his constitutional bounds
and ignored foreign policy concerns such as whether Libyan
rebels had ties to al-Qaeda and who might succeed Qaddafi.  Republican Senator Rand Paul of  Kentucky  said in a
statement that while Obama raised the question of what would
happen if the U.S. did nothing, “a better question might be,
‘What if helping Libya’s interest actually hurts America’s
interests?’”  Paul said Congress will soon “force President Obama to
confront these questions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  