-- 
Office Vacancies to Increase in Smaller China Cities on Supply, CBRE Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T01:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/office-vacancies-to-increase-in-smaller-china-cities-on-supply-cbre-says.html
China ’s office vacancy may rise in
some of the country’s less affluent cities as developers
overbuild, driving rents down “over the next two to three
years,” the world’s biggest commercial property broker said.  “The challenge is there will be a timing mismatch,” Chris Brooke, chief executive office for Greater China at  New York- 
based CB Richard Ellis Inc., said in an interview in Beijing.
“In some second-tier cities, you may have 10 to 15 buildings
being built simultaneously and that’s not going to be
sustainable in terms of the short-term demand.”  Countrywide home-price curbs and local governments’ plans
to develop business districts in so-called second-tier cities
are luring developers away from residential development, as well
as from the biggest metropolitan areas including  Shanghai  and
Beijing. Commercial real estate investment in China jumped 42
percent last year from 2009, according to  Cushman & Wakefield 
Inc., the biggest closely held property services company.  Hangzhou, Tianjin, Nanjing and Ningbo may be among cities
where there may be rising vacancies and falling rents, Brooke
said. First-tier cities include wealthier Shanghai, Beijing and
Guangzhou in southern China, according to China’s National
Bureau of Statistics. The second tier includes provincial
capitals such as Chengdu and Wuhan and the third includes
smaller cities.  China will be home to 44 percent of skyscrapers being built
globally in the next six years, underscoring concerns that
excessive investment will lead to a sharp economic slowdown,
Barclays Plc’s Hong Kong-based analyst Andrew Lawrence said in a
January report.  ‘Significant Gain’  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, said earlier this month commercial property
prices in China may see “a significant gain” that will help
draw more investors. Even so, the company said it has no plans
to expand into second-tier cities.  Some new office building in second-tier cities “are going
to be empty,” Andy Zhang, managing director for China at
Cushman & Wakefield, said in an interview. “It’ll be a big
waste. We’re worried about some local governments’ plans of
building financial centers or metropolis.”  China this year raised the minimum down payment for second-
home purchases and introduced taxes on residential properties in
Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and Shanghai also announced
restrictions on home purchases last month, responding to
measures imposed by the central government.  --Kelvin Wong and Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  