-- 
Oil Slides on Signs U.S. Supply Rising; Deutsche Bank Raises Price Outlook

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-03-30T12:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/oil-declines-as-petroleum-institute-report-signals-faltering-u-s-demand.html
(Corrects quarterly gain in fourth paragraph.)  Oil declined in  New York  for the
fourth time in five days before a U.S. government report that
may show stockpiles of the fuel increased to their highest level
in more than three months.  Futures slid as much as 0.6 percent before an Energy
Department report today that may show inventories rose by 1.5
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg survey. The industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday stockpiles
climbed 5.7 million barrels, advancing for the fourth week. A
separate report showed confidence among U.S. consumers fell more
than forecast in March as fuel costs surged.  “The crude stocks built by close to 6 million barrels,
which is more than expected,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior
broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in  London . “It could be that
refineries are undergoing maintenance so stocks are building.”  Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as 66 cents to $104.13 a barrel and was at $104.50
at 1:34 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the contract rose 81 cents
to settle at $104.79. Prices are 14 percent higher for the
quarter and 7.8 percent for the month.  Brent crude  for May
settlement was down 1 cent at $115.15 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, the contract
gained 36 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $115.16.  The European benchmark traded at a $10.65 premium over U.S.
West Texas Intermediate futures. The difference between front-
month contracts in London and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North  Africa 
and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI. The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  U.S. Supplies  U.S. oil supplies probably climbed to the highest level
since December, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s government report.
Gasoline stockpiles may have declined 2 million barrels, the
survey shows.  About 2.6 million barrels a day of refining capacity was
offline in  North America  this month, the most since May 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Refiners often shut
units in spring to carry out maintenance on plants.  The Conference Board’s consumer confidence index fell to a
three-month low of 63.4 from a revised 72 reading in February,
figures from the New York-based private research group showed
yesterday. The median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a drop to 65.  Libyan Violence  Oil in New York rose yesterday as troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  dug in to block rebels advancing on his hometown of
Sirte. Prices have climbed 23 percent since anti-government
protests began Feb. 15 in  Libya , cutting output in Africa’s
third-largest producer by two-thirds.  Qatar, the first Arab nation to send jets to join a
coalition enforcing a no-fly zone over Libya, said it offered to
facilitate oil sales from rebel-held parts of the country and
use the proceeds for humanitarian aid, according to a release
posted on its foreign ministry website yesterday.  Deutsche Bank raised its 2011 Brent crude forecast by 16
percent to $117.50, according to an e-mailed report today by
analysts including  Michael Lewis  and Soozhana Choi. Prices are
reflecting a risk premium of $10 to $15 a barrel amid declining
spare capacity in  Saudi Arabia  and unrest in the Middle East,
according to the bank.  Consumers may pay the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries about $1.2 trillion this year, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on group’s output last month of 29.1 million
barrels a day and the latest OPEC basket price of $109.87 a
barrel. OPEC’s net export revenue will be lower because it uses
some oil domestically.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  