-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Declined 3.1% From Year Earlier

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-29T14:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-fell-3-1-from-year-ago-case-shiller-says.html
Residential real estate prices
dropped in January by the most in more than a year, raising the
risk that U.S. home sales will keep slowing.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.1 percent from January 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decrease since December 2009, the group said today in  New York .
The decline was in line with the 3.2 percent median forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Rising foreclosures are swelling the number of houses on
the market, which may put additional pressure on prices in
coming months. At the same time, a further decline in home
values may keep potential buyers on the sidelines as they
foresee better deals, hurting construction and consumer spending
as owners’ equity evaporates.  “Prices will continue to move downward probably for the
rest of the year,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York, who correctly forecast the
drop. “They won’t turn around until you have consumers feel
that housing is genuinely cheap and until they feel a lot more
secure in their labor-market position.”  Another report showed  consumer confidence  dropped in March
and Americans grew more concerned about the economic outlook. The
New York-based Conference Board’s sentiment index fell to 63.4
this month from 72 in February, the research group said.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell after S&P cut debt ratings for Portugal and
 Greece . The  S&P 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent to 1,307.29 at 10:01
a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed, with
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note at 3.43 percent, the
same as late yesterday.  Estimates for the price change ranged from declines of 3.7
percent to 2.4 percent, according to the forecasts of 29
economists in the Bloomberg survey.  Home prices fell 0.2 percent in January from the prior
month after adjusting for seasonal variations, following a 0.4
percent December decrease. Unadjusted prices dropped 1 percent
from the prior month as 19 of 20 cities showed declines.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the January data was influenced by transactions in
December and November.  Broad-Based Drop  Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 9.1 percent drop in Phoenix. In January,
prices in 11 markets dropped to fresh lows from their 2006, 2007
peaks, the same as in December.  “The housing market recession is not yet over,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the index committee at S&P, said in a
statement. “At most, we have seen all statistics bounce along
their troughs; at worst, the feared double-dip recession may be
materializing.”  Washington showed the biggest year-over-year increase, with
prices rising 3.6 percent in the 12 months to January.  Unemployment at 8.9 percent indicates the number of
distressed properties may increase, leading to more price
declines as homeowners struggle to make mortgage payments. About
8.2 percent of loans outstanding were delinquent in the fourth
quarter of 2010, according to Mortgage Bankers Association data.  Foreclosure filings may climb about 20 percent in 2011,
reaching a peak for the housing crisis, according to RealtyTrac
Inc. The Irvine, California-based data seller said foreclosures
dropped in February to a 3-year low as lenders under legal
scrutiny struggled to process a backlog of defaults and put new
systems in place for home seizures.  More Foreclosures  A filing influx could add to the surplus of unsold
properties and lead to more declines in home values. Other
measures last week showed  home prices  fell to the lowest levels
since the previous expansion’s early stages.  The median price of existing homes, which make up more than
95 percent of the market, slid 5.2 percent from a year earlier,
erasing all gains made after February 2002, according to the
National Association of Realtors. New-home prices dropped to the
lowest level since December 2003, a Commerce Department report
showed.  Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the housing slump is the biggest challenge
limiting the U.S. economic recovery.  ‘Damaging’ Problem  “The problem of delinquent mortgages and falling home
values is the most stubborn, entrenched and damaging economic
problem our country faces today,” Moynihan said March 23 in
 Detroit , at a meeting of the city’s Economic Club.  Faced with declining home prices and the growing glut of
unsold homes, residential real estate developers are reluctant
to boost construction. Housing starts in the U.S. dropped more
than forecast in February to the slowest pace since April 2009
and building permits slumped to a record low, the Commerce
Department reported March 16.  “Builders just can’t make a profit by competing in this
market where prices are dropping,” said  Patrick Newport , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“The pickup in housing starts that we were expecting to happen
this year may be delayed by quite a while, maybe a year or so.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  