-- 
Hong Kong IPO Sponsor Due Diligence ‘Inadequate,’ Securities Watchdog Says

-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-03-29T11:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/hong-kong-initial-public-offer-sponsor-diligence-inadequate-wheatley-says.html
Martin Wheatley, the outgoing head
of  Hong Kong ’s securities market regulator, said today that
sponsors’ due diligence of initial public offerings has been
“inadequate” at times.  “In many cases, sponsors are spread too thinly in terms of
the number of deals they’re bringing to the market at any one
time,” the chief executive officer of the Securities and
Futures Commission told participants at the FundForum Asia 2011
event in Hong Kong.  The Hong Kong regulator is reviewing the sponsor system
after the local stock exchange saw a record HK$449.5 billion
($57.7 billion) worth of IPOs last year. International companies
have joined the staple of Chinese firms to sell shares publicly
in the city.  Hong Kong’s regulator may make sponsors of IPOs in the city
liable for statements in their clients’ prospectuses to prevent
fraud of locally listed Chinese companies, Wheatley said earlier
this month. Chinese companies account for about 60 percent of
Hong Kong’s stock market value, he said.  The SFC inspected 17 listing sponsors since late 2009 and
found deficiencies in some of their work, according to a  report 
published by the regulator today. Some sponsors failed to
conduct adequate due diligence on the business activities of
listing applicants, the report shows.  In some cases, the sponsors failed to keep proper records
of their checks on the businesses of listing applicants, the
report said. In others, inadequate manpower and resources were
used by sponsors during IPOs, said the report.  ‘Not Working’  “We’ve been concerned a number of times that the whole
sponsor regime of the listing process is not working as well as
it should be,” he said today. “We’ve been concerned that the
levels of due diligence are inadequate.”  Arrangers designated as deal sponsors help prepare IPO
documents and conduct due diligence into the listing candidates
to ensure compliance with the listing rules.  The SFC has found deficiencies in both the due diligence
work done by sponsors in the listing application process and
internal workings and systems of the IPO sponsors themselves,
Wheatley said.  “Of course, for a sponsor to perform the role of bringing
a company to the market, they’ve got to have a reasonable
understanding of the applicant’s business and there’s reasonable
professional skepticism when the figures are presented to
them,” Wheatley said. This has not always been the case, he
added.  Wheatley, 52, was named last month to lead Britain’s
planned finance regulator, and will leave the SFC in June. He
has been CEO of the commission since 2006.  Wheatley’s tenure in Hong Kong was marked by a crackdown on
market manipulation as the city bolstered its image as a
financial center. Successes include a seven-year sentence for a
former Morgan Stanley managing director for  insider trading .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net 
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  