-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fluctuate on Earnings, Inflation Concerns

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-03-29T08:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/hong-kong-stocks-fall-as-developers-drop-on-inflation-concerns.html
Hong Kong stocks fluctuated as
companies including Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd.
reported earnings that beat analyst estimates, while property
and financial stocks declined on concern China may have to raise
 interest rates  to cool asset-price inflation.  Brilliance China gained 5.3 percent after the automaker
posted a full-year net income that beat average analyst
estimates.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-controlled
developer, sank 1.5 percent.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ,
the nation’s largest lender to farmers, retreated 1.9 percent.
The effects of  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake may worsen inflation
in China, according to Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  was little changed at 23,060.36 at the
close in Hong Kong, after falling as much as 0.5 percent and
rising as much as 0.3 percent. About as many stocks climbed as
fell on the 45-member gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies’ H shares increased 0.2 percent to
12,920.44 today.  “Although the market does not have significant upward
momentum, correction pressure is not big either,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd. “It’s the
quarterly end for fund managers, and with ongoing earnings
result announcements, it’s lending some support to the market.
Investors are ambivalent. Investors are starting to turn a bit
cautious because there are still a lot of uncertainties ahead,”
including China’s inflation concerns, keeping investors on the
sideline.  Beating Estimates  Brilliance China rose 5.3 percent to HK$7.13. Anhui Conch
Cement Co. gained 4.7 percent to HK$45.60 after full-year net
income by international financial reporting standards gained 76
percent to 6.16 billion yuan ($938 million), beating the average
forecast of 5.44 billion yuan by 13 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd., China’s second-
biggest electronics retailer, advanced 2.8 percent to HK$2.61,
after saying profit rose 39 percent to 1.96 billion yuan from a
year earlier.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier to retailers such as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., advanced 1.3 percent to HK$38.05 after
 Barclays Capital  raised its rating to “overweight” from
“equal-weight.”  The Hang Seng Index gained 0.1 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 3.8 percent decline for the same
period last year, as corporate results exceeded analyst
estimates and positive economic data helped counter concerns
about Japan’s nuclear crisis and tensions in the Middle East.
Shares in the gauge traded at an average 12.4 times forecast
earnings yesterday compared with 14 times last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property Stocks  Agricultural Bank of China retreated 1.9 percent to
HK$4.13.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s third-largest bank by
market value, dropped 0.5 percent to HK$4.25.  A survey by China’s central bank found that 82.6 percent of
bankers in Beijing expect an interest-rate increase in the
second quarter, the Securities Times reported today, citing the
survey.  Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank (3618)  Co. tumbled 13 percent to
HK$5.32 after the lender forecast 2011 loan growth that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  A measure of financial stocks had the steepest decline
among the Hang Seng Index’s four industry group, followed by
property developers.  China Resources  sank 1.5 percent to HK$13.44, while
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., the biggest real-estate company in
the southern Chinese city, slid 2.3 percent to HK$11.12. China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., controlled by the nation’s
construction ministry, dropped 1.4 percent to HK$15.24.  Nuclear Plant  “The Japan quake could make China’s inflation worse,”
Ting Lu, an economist at Bank of America, said in a report dated
today. “Nuclear radiation created panic hoarding of some
 consumer goods ,” and Japan may have to import more consumer
staples from  China  as its own production was disrupted, the
report said.  Water in a tunnel outside the No. 2 reactor at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in northeastern Japan had
radiation levels exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a spokesman for
plant operator  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. said yesterday. A
partial meltdown of fuel rods in the No. 2 reactor probably
caused a jump in the readings, Japan Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said.  A magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
knocked out power at the plant, forcing  Tokyo  Electric to dump
thousands of tons of seawater on the complex as a stopgap
cooling measure.  Inflation Control  Separately, the 21st Century Business Herald reported today
Beijing is preparing more measures to curb property price
increases, while the China Securities Journal said in a front-
page editorial today China may raise interest rates in April or
the middle of this year as inflation continues to exceed the
government’s target.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index were unchanged at 23,070.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for  Hong Kong 
stock options, gained 1.3 percent to 19.23, indicating options
traders expect a swing of 5.5 percent in the Hang Seng Index in
the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 