-- 
Montana Gun-With-Satellite-TV Deal Draws Criticism as Sales Soar

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-29T18:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/montana-store-s-gun-with-satellite-tv-deal-draws-criticism-as-sales-soar.html
A Montana store is offering a free
gun to customers who sign up for satellite-TV service, drawing
criticism from an advocacy group and the dealer’s parent
 RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , which is trying to stop the promotion.  The shop, located in the Bitterroot Valley of Montana about
50 miles off the highway, has tripled the number of signups for
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s service since starting the offer in
October, store manager Fabian Levy said. When customers sign a
Dish contract, they get a gift certificate for a gun that can be
redeemed at  Frontier Guns & Ammo , about 10 miles from the store.  Assuming customers pass an FBI background check at the gun
store, the coupons can be exchanged for a Hi-Point 380 pistol or
a 20-gauge shotgun that retail between $130 and $140. No license
is needed in  Montana  to buy a gun.  “We pay for the guns out of our own pocket,” Levy said in a
phone interview. “We’re trying to keep everything community
oriented.”  RadioShack, the Fort Worth, Texas-based electronics chain,
is in discussions with the franchise to end the promotion, said
Eric Bruner, a spokesman. The offer isn’t consistent with
RadioShack’s agreement with the store or its “recommended
marketing practices for independent dealers,” he said.  Dish checked its rules and regulations and found nothing
wrong with the offer, said Marc Lumpkin, a company spokesman.  “We started as a rural satellite-TV retailer ourselves many
years ago,” Lumpkin said. “It appears that this promotion fits
the demographic of rural Montana.”  Pizza Coupon Alternative  Levy said the promotion was an idea of a friend of Steve
Strand, the independent owner of the RadioShack franchise who
couldn’t be reached for comment. Strand then agreed to a
partnership with Chad Ballman, the gun store’s owner.  “There’s been a definite uptick in business,” Ballman said.
He said he couldn’t estimate how many coupons had been redeemed.  Offering a potentially lethal item as an incentive to buy a
product is irresponsible, said  Joshua Horwitz , executive
director at the Washington-based Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The risk of a potential lawsuit or unwittingly enabling a crime
should be enough for a business owner to dismiss the idea of a
gun giveaway, he said.  “The second something bad happens with one of those
firearms, this gimmick is going to look really stupid,” said
Horwitz. Background checks can sometimes be incomplete, he said.  Ballman said that the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
check, which can last anywhere from two minutes to five days, is
an effective way of screening for criminals, and the store
hasn’t distributed guns later used for crimes. Local businesses
have recently approached him for similar promotions involving
free firearms, he said.  Dish’s Lumpkin said the promotion doesn’t break company
rules because RadioShack doesn’t offer the gun itself. He also
noted that the store offers an alternative gift for customers
who don’t want a gun -- a $50 coupon for  Pizza Hut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  