-- 
Oracle Seen Buoying Icahn With Lawson Software Offer: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-03-29T21:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/oracle-seen-buoying-icahn-with-lawson-software-offer-real-m-a.html
Traders who profit from mergers and
acquisitions are betting the $1.8 billion takeover of  Lawson
Software Inc. (LWSN)  will get trumped by a higher offer, with  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  the most likely bidder.  Lawson Software, which counts billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  as one of its biggest shareholders, has risen 6.2 percent
above the offer of $11.25 a share from Infor and Golden Gate
Capital disclosed March 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s more than any U.S. deal over $500 million.
Oracle, the second-biggest seller of business applications
software, may buy Lawson, whose clients include Safeway Inc. and
Volvo AB, Soleil Securities Corp. and Cross Research said.  Oracle stands to profit from Lawson Software’s medical
records and supply-chain management businesses, which analysts
estimate will help push the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company’s
earnings to a record this year. A bidding contest would also
increase Icahn’s windfall from his 10.9 percent stake in Lawson
Software, which currently represents a 53 percent gain, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You have the possibility of an increase from Infor or the
possibility of a competitor coming in,” said Abigail Hooper, a
managing director at Havens Advisors LLC, a New York-based
merger arbitrage fund manager. “There’s been speculation from
the beginning that Oracle may be interested.”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, Lawson Software’s Joe Thornton and
Infor spokesman Dan Barnhardt all declined to comment. Telephone
and e-mail messages left for Dave Schefcik, a representative for
Golden Gate Capital, weren’t returned.  Susan Gordon , Icahn’s
spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  All-Cash Offer  Lawson Software, which jumped 15 percent in the week ended
March 11 on speculation it was putting itself up for sale,
closed at $11.75 yesterday. That’s higher than the all-cash
offer of $11.25 a share from Alpharetta, Georgia-based Infor and
buyout fund Golden Gate Capital of  San Francisco .  Shares of Lawson Software advanced as much as 5.5 percent
before ending trading 1.7 percent higher at $11.95 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. Oracle gained 1.9 percent to $33.16.  The bid represented an 8.4 percent premium to Lawson
Software’s average price in the 20 days prior to the offer, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Including net debt, the takeover
valued Lawson Software at 14.8 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, the data show.  Relative Value  By both measures, the price for Lawson Software is lower
than other acquisitions in the industry. The average premium for
so-called enterprise software and services takeovers of more
than $500 million equaled 41 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The median Ebitda multiple for deals in the
industry has been 20.2 times, the data show.  Oracle, with $24.4 billion in cash and equivalents, has
historically offered a median 22.3 times Ebitda in takeovers and
only paid less than 20 times once -- when it agreed to buy Sun
Microsystems Inc. for 8.3 times Ebitda in April 2009. Oracle is
rated A2, the third-highest investment grade, according to
Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, which analyze borrowers
based on indebtedness, profitability and other financial ratios.  “There’s a sense that if Oracle puts in an offer, then
Infor will ultimately have to pay more,” said Neil Herman, an
equity analyst at Soleil Securities in Weston,  Florida . “We see
no reason why Oracle shouldn’t be willing to pay something
close” to what they’ve typically paid, he said.  Electronic Medical Records  Oracle may bid for Lawson Software because of a U.S. law
that now requires hospitals and other providers to adopt
electronic medical records and billing systems in order to
receive higher payments for patients enrolled in federal health
care programs, according to Richard Williams, an analyst at
Cross Research in Livingston,  New Jersey . It sells the software
that providers need to make the switch, he said.  Lawson Software’s unit that targets customers in the
health-care industry had an operating margin of 23.8 percent in
the three months ended November, its filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission showed. That compares with 7.4 percent
for the division that sells software to manufacturers.  Analysts estimate that Lawson Software will earn $85.3
million in net income before abnormal items in its fiscal year
ending May, an increase of 24 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Earnings may top $100 million next fiscal year
before jumping 38 percent in 2013, the data show.  Shares of Lawson Software climbed 78 percent in the past
year, bringing its market value to $1.96 billion.  Money Maker  “Oracle finds that attractive because that’s a very big
area in terms of money,” said Williams, the top-rated analyst
for Lawson Software based on Bloomberg Absolute Return Rankings.
“Hospitals are in the process of becoming more and more high
tech. Medical care in America is a hundreds of billions of
dollars a year proposition. Two or three years from now it may
be ten times the size it is now.”  While speculation of an Oracle bid has lifted shares of
Lawson Software, it’s no guarantee one will materialize,
according to Capstone Global Markets LLC’s Sachin Shah.  “Everybody kind of assumes it’s a tech company and that
somebody else is out there and Oracle will bid for it,” said
Shah, a special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at
Capstone Global in  New York . “It’s not clear to me that there
are any other buyers out there.”  Even without a competing offer, Icahn still stands to gain
from his stake in Lawson Software.  Activist Investor  The 75-year-old investor, who made millions in the 1980s
pressuring companies from USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up
or boost dividends and buybacks, reported an 8.54 percent stake
in Lawson Software in May and said he intended to seek talks
with management to boost  shareholder value .  He owned 17.85 million shares as of March 14, which he
acquired for about $139 million, or $7.79 a share, according to
an SEC filing and data compiled by Bloomberg. Icahn said in the
filing that he supports Lawson Software’s “strategic process”
and that the company should be sold at the highest price.  Based on the original $11.25 offer price, Icahn would make
$62 million, or a profit of about 44 percent, from his Lawson
Software stake. At yesterday’s closing price, his windfall would
increase to about 51 percent, the data show.  “Icahn has been involved for a while and he has been
pushing for a sale,” said Shah. “Now, he has gotten it. He
doesn’t need to call anybody else to attract another offer. He’s
already made money on it.”  Overall, there have been 5,685 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $566.7 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $463.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 