-- 
Orascom Telecom Plans to Double Capital, Refinance Debt

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-29T14:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/orascom-telecom-plans-to-double-capital-split-company-in-two.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , North
Africa’s biggest mobile-network operator, said it plans to
almost double its capital, refinance debt and set up a company
to facilitate a merger with Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   If shareholders approve the measures at an April 14
meeting, Cairo-based Orascom Telecom will almost double capital
to 14 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.4 billion) and create a
company to combine assets excluded from the VimpelCom tie-up, it
said today in a statement.  VimpelCom’s investors voted last week to issue new stock to
be bought by Orascom’s parent company, Wind Telecom, to complete
a $6.5 billion transaction that would create the world’s sixth-
biggest mobile network operator, over the objection of
VimpelCom’s largest shareholder,  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   “For shareholders of VimpelCom and Orascom Telecom, the
merger looks like a done deal,” Amr Elalfy, a director at
Cairo-based CI Capital Research, said by phone. “Telenor’s
arbitration could take a long time, beyond the execution of the
merger, and even then the compensation is not likely to unwind
the deal.”  Telenor, the Fornebu, Norway-based phone company that owns
40 percent of VimpelCom, has filed for arbitration claiming it
has the preemptive right to buy any shares issued by VimpelCom.
The Wind-VimpelCom merger is due to be completed before June,
VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer Alexander Izosimov said on
March 17.  New Entity  The new entity, Orascom Telecom Media & Technology Holding
SAE, will hold Egyptian Co. For Mobile Services, or Mobinil,
 North Korea ’s Koryolink, Orascom Telecom Ventures SAE, undersea
cable assets and other Orascom-controlled investments, the
company said.  Orascom Telecom’s shares trading in  Egypt  will be suspended
for “approximately” 10 days while the separation of those
assets takes place, and a request may be made to the London
Stock Exchange to suspend trading of its global depository
receipts, the company said. The halt would take place after
shareholders approve the measures in their April meeting, Hisham Turk, spokesman for the Egyptian bourse, said today.  Orascom’s shares gained 5.2 percent to 4.43 pounds at the
1:30 p.m. close of trading in Cairo, valuing the company at
23.2 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  