-- 
Osaka May End Tokyo Lure as Energy Surplus Meets Quake Risk

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-03-30T03:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/osaka-may-end-tokyo-s-century-long-lure-as-energy-surplus-meets-quake-risk.html
Japanese companies may rethink
their century-long trend of concentrating resources in  Tokyo 
after the nation’s record earthquake crimped power supply to the
capital and radiation concern spurred some residents to flee.  Production hubs in Japan should be shifted to the western
part of the country and away from the Tokyo region to minimize
disruptions to the country’s supply chain, Masamitsu Sakurai,
head of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives, the
nation’s second-largest business lobby, said in Tokyo yesterday.  A shift in offices to Osaka and its Kansai hinterland would
benefit an area that was for centuries Japan’s commercial center.
 Itochu Corp. (8001) , an Osaka-based trading company, said it may move
some people out of Tokyo and companies from  Servcorp Ltd. (SRV) , an
office-lease and management firm, to recruiter  Robert Walters
Plc (RWA) , anticipate a pick-up in business in the city.  “People may start to think it’s better to disperse their
risks, that it’s better not to put all your eggs in one
basket,” Hideo Hayakawa, the Bank of Japan’s Osaka branch chief,
said in an interview last week. “These completely unanticipated
threats will continue to hit us, as was the case with the
tsunami and the nuclear power plants this time.”  Downed Capacity  Tokyo’s dominant energy supplier, Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
lost 40 percent of its generating capacity in the March 11
disaster that triggered the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl
in 1986. The shortage has highlighted the risks in a capital
area that accounts for one-third of Japan’s economy.  At the same time, western Japan has unused capacity that
cannot be transferred, because the two regions are incompatible
due to a historical quirk. Eastern Japan runs on a 50 hertz
current and the rest on 60 hertz. The government is in talks
with utilities to channel more from the west to the east.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has lost almost 7 percent
since the 9.0-magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami devastated
the northeast of the nation and left more than 28,000 people
dead or missing.  Supply-chain disruptions have caused companies from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to shut operations even outside the
disaster zone. That’s magnified the hit to the economy, which
was poised to rebound after shrinking in October to December.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists yesterday cut their forecast
for economic growth to 0.7 percent for the fiscal year beginning
April 1, from 1.3 percent previously.  Osaka Hotels  Rolling blackouts prompted Tokyo’s businesses to keep
workers at home as reduced train service made commutes difficult
for the 10 million people who work in the city. Osaka’s hotels
also filled as companies shifted workers out.  The space at Servcorp, a serviced-office provider, where
occupancy rate stands at about 70 to 80 percent on average is
now fully occupied, said Minori Nishida, a manager at Sydney-
based Servcorp in Osaka.  “The whole process was just so quick -- it’s obvious that
companies were seeking a backup office after the earthquake,”
said Nishida. “About half of new tenants that moved in after
the quake have shown interests of longer-term commitment.”  David Swan, Managing Director of Robert Walters  Japan  and
 Korea , said that “early indicators show that hiring demand has
increased slightly at regional offices outside Tokyo in areas
like Kansai, Nagoya or Fukuoka.”  Inquiries Rise  Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s second-largest developer,
has seen “a significant increase in inquires for  office space 
in Osaka, said Ryuichiro Funo, a spokesman at the Tokyo-based
company. “Most of inquires are from non-Japanese companies who
are looking for backup office.”  Some executives’ eyes were likely opened during the
temporary shift of personnel to Osaka, said Paul Dupuis, an
adviser to Osaka Mayor Kunio Hiramatsu on bringing foreign
businesses into the city and the director of West Japan at Wall
Street Associates KK. They “are rethinking -- hey we can have
an office here. We can put a lot of our functions down here;
still have a head office in Tokyo, but balance our risks.”  “No one’s made commitment yet, but you can expect that in
the next few months,” Dupuis said.  KVH Co., a Tokyo-based information technology and
communication service provider with about 500 people, quadrupled
its staff in  Osaka  after the earthquake and is considering
longer-term commitment, said Satoko Furukawa, a spokeswoman at
the company.  ‘Golden Osaka’  At the same time, Hayakawa, the BOJ’s Osaka manager, said
he’s telling contacts “not to dream of another Golden Osaka.”
A century ago, Osaka was Japan’s center of commerce as the
industrial revolution helped it boom into a bustling textile hub.
In the late 19th century, businesses began to expand out to the
east to a less-crowded and cheaper Tokyo.  Tokyo has faced adversity in the past only to rebound.  Brendan Brown, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
International Plc., said the 1923 Kanto earthquake that killed
more than 140,000 people destroyed about half of Tokyo’s economy.  After Tokyo was decimated again during World War II by B-29
air raids, it rapidly rebuilt its homes, offices and roads and
went on to host the 1964  Summer Olympics  less than two decades
after Japan surrendered to the U.S.  In 1955, greater Tokyo, a region that also encompasses
three neighboring prefectures, generated 24 percent of the
nation’s wealth. By 2007, the region’s gross domestic product
made up a third of Japan’s economy, and was larger than  India ’s
entire GDP and three times the size of  Sweden ’s.  Sumitomo’s Migration  As evidence of Tokyo’s growing importance,  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) ,
a spinoff from the Kansai-based Sumitomo zaibatsu, made both
their Osaka and Tokyo outlets their head office in 1970. In 2001,
the trading company designated its Tokyo office as its
headquarters.  “There’s a very strong logic in favor of urban
conglomeration because most are still doing business face-to-
face,” said Carl Mosk, an economic historian at the University
of Victoria in British Columbia. “But the fact that Tokyo is
the de-facto financial and economic as well as political center
of Japan is a big problem. If there’s another major earthquake
in Tokyo, an awful lot of the world economy is going to be
profoundly affected.”  Mosk’s analysis echoes that of Takayoshi Igarashi, an aide
to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who told the premier at a meeting
this month that policy makers must focus on dispersal as they
compile a rebuilding package. While Tokyo escaped the Tohoku
earthquake, a “big one” that hits the capital is “going to
annihilate the entire country because everything is here,”
Igarashi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  