-- 
Losing Euro in Defaults Brings No Threat to EU: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 2 0 6 4 1 1 7 ]   M a t t h e w   L y n n   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-29T23:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/losing-euro-in-defaults-brings-no-threat-to-eu-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
It will be objected that the euro
has to be preserved to keep the European Union together.  That will certainly be the standard line from the Brussels-
based elite during the next few years. Indeed, it was heard
frequently during the trillion-dollar weekend, May 7 to 9, when
euro-zone leaders came to Brussels and agreed on a bailout plan
meant to be big enough to restore confidence in the region’s
sovereign debt.  In the opinion of at least a few of the participants in the
negotiations, the single currency was just a few hours away from
collapse. “We must save the euro to save the European Union” was
the cry that went up.  When  Angela Merkel  was trying to sell the Greek rescue
package to a skeptical German parliament, she slipped straight
into that familiar, comfortable rhetoric. “It is a question of
survival,” she told the Bundestag. “The euro is in danger. If
the euro fails, then Europe fails. If we succeed, Europe will be
stronger.”  Outside the Euro  But why? No matter how many times you say it, it doesn’t
sound any more convincing.  The European Union and the euro are not the same thing.
Three of the long-standing members of the EU -- Britain, Denmark
and  Sweden  -- have remained outside the euro since the currency
was launched. It’s very hard to argue that they have suffered as
a result. Likewise, the majority of the new members from eastern
 Europe  have yet to join the single currency. It hasn’t stopped
them from being full EU members.  Breaking up the euro will not break up the EU. It will
change its character, but it needn’t be the end of the EU --
just a particular version of it.  Unsustainable and Unbalanced  By any reasonable measure, the single currency has been a
failure. It hasn’t made the economies of Europe converge: If
anything, they have moved further apart over the past decade. It
hasn’t promoted growth, except of the most unsustainable and
unbalanced kind: crazy credit booms in Spain and Ireland,
reckless public spending in Greece and massive, pointless trade
surpluses in Germany.  Nor has it shielded its members from financial instability:
In fact, the euro has created instability, visiting a wholly
self-made crisis on the European continent. It is a cause of
instability, not a cure for it.  Looking forward, there are years of terrible austerity for
the high-deficit countries, accompanied by big cuts in  living
standards  and rates of unemployment that will make it virtually
impossible for an entire generation of Greeks, Irish or Spanish
to build careers for themselves.  In Germany, the Netherlands and  France , there will be
simmering resentments over the bailouts. Years of “Bild” front
pages shrieking about lazy Greeks living well on German taxes
will take an inevitable toll on what was until now the most pro-
European of countries. Does that strengthen the EU? It doesn’t
sound like it.  Save the EU  It’s ridiculous to claim that saving the euro is about
saving the European Union. Precisely the reverse is true: To
save the EU, the euro needs to be dismantled.  But what would be the best way of unraveling the currency?
Neither Greece leaving nor  Germany  leaving makes much sense. In
either scenario, what remained would be just as unbalanced and
dysfunctional as before.  Creating two or three different euro zones would make more
sense. The lower-deficit countries in the north would form one
bloc, while the high-deficit countries, all in the south apart
from Ireland, would form another. Morgan Stanley has already
given that southern currency a provisional name: the medi.  There’s a chance that the groupings that emerged would work
better. They would be optimal currency areas, to use economist
 Robert Mundell ’s phrase, which the euro zone as it was created
in 1999 never was. But it would still be a hugely complicated
undertaking, with little guarantee of success.  New Deutsche Marks  In reality, the most rational option would be competing
currencies. Return to the national currencies, re-creating the
deutsche mark, the franc, the lira and so on.  The EU would be preserved in the same form in which it
exists today. There would be the same free movement of goods,
money and people around the member states. There would be the
same cooperation on security, policing, trade, agricultural and
environmental issues. There would just be no more euro.  True, there would be a period of intense disruption. But
once the re-created currencies settled down, there would be a
burst of prosperity. The deflationary shadow that the euro is
casting over Europe would have been lifted. The Greeks, the
Spanish and the Irish could set about rebuilding their economies
with new, lower exchange rates. The Germans would be importing a
lot more, lifting their neighboring economies.  Within a year, freed from the shackles of the single
currency, the whole continent would be growing at a fast clip
again. Deficits would be falling. Everyone would be feeling
better about the economy.  Resort Currency  There would, however, be advantages to keeping the euro as
a financial currency. Businesses could price their goods in
euros if they wanted to and sell stuff to each other in that
currency. The financial markets could use it to price stocks and
to issue bonds. It could be used at airport terminals, on the
high-speed trains that now shoot across borders and in the
tourist resorts where people find it troublesome to keep
converting from one currency to another.  It would float on the foreign-exchange markets, allowed to
find its own level. A European central bank would be maintained,
with a mandate to keep the euro as a strong and stable store of
value.  Within the core  euro-zone  countries, the new euro might
gradually displace national currencies. It’s certainly possible
to imagine that happening in the Netherlands,  Belgium  and
 Austria . They might well be followed by some of the eastern
European countries. Latvia and  Lithuania  might easily decide it
wasn’t worth the hassle of running their own currency. They
could just use the euro instead.  When Grand Projects Fail  The currency could grow from the bottom up instead of being
imposed from the top down.  Don’t expect the dismemberment of the euro to be discussed
in public for some years. Europe’s leaders will fight to
preserve it until the last moment. They’ve already created a
massively expensive bailout package, used for  Greece  and Ireland
so far. That has bought them some time.  And yet, when grand projects fail, they always do so
quickly. The  Berlin Wall  collapsed overnight. It will be the
same with the euro. Leaders will insist again and again that the
single currency has to be preserved. They will fight the markets
and clamp down on speculators, throwing a trillion dollars at
the problem, then 2 trillion and then 3 trillion in a vain
attempt to see whether there is some sum of money huge enough to
make a monetary union across European borders work.  Then, one day, in 2 or 5 or possibly 10 years, they’ll
realize that nothing will ever fix it. And the euro will be
dismantled far more quickly and smoothly than anyone would have
imagined.  To contact the author:
Matthew Lynn in  London  at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 