-- 
Mouchel Slumps After Board Ends Interserve, Costain Talks

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-03-29T08:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/mouchel-slumps-after-board-ends-interserve-costain-talks-1-.html
Mouchel Group Plc (MCHL) , a supplier of
grit to London roads, fell the most since June 2002 when it
first sold shares in London after rejecting revised proposals
from builder  Costain Group Plc (COST)  and construction services company
 Interserve Plc. (IRV)   “The Board believes that Interserve’s revised conditional
proposal significantly undervalues the business and that
Costain’s proposal has an unacceptably high level of execution
risk to warrant further discussions,” Surrey, England-based
Mouchel said today in a regulatory statement. “The board has
decided it is not in shareholders’ interests to proceed with any
further discussions with Interserve or Costain.”  Mouchel, whose earnings have deteriorated following cuts to
public spending by the U.K. coalition government, said it
continues to remain in an offer period and that business will be
“challenging in the short term.”  The stock fell as much as 35 percent to 95.75 pence, the
biggest one-day decline since June, 28, 2002. The decline gives
the company a market value of 110 million pounds ($176 million).
In a separate statement, Interserve said it had no plans to make
an offer for Mouchel.  “Its very possible another offer might be made for
Mouchel,” Andy Brown, an analyst at Panmure Gordon U.K. Ltd.,
said by phone today. “Its shares at one quid are certainly a
better deal than at 155 pence.” Brown today downgraded its
rating on Mouchel to ‘sell’ from ‘buy.’  In a separate statement, Mouchel reported revenue fell 13
percent to 270 million pounds in the six months ended Jan. 31
compared with the same period a year earlier. It had a pretax
loss of 1.5 million pounds compared with a loss of 3.5 million
pounds a year earlier.  Mouchel’s three largest shareholders are Schroders Plc,
Prudential Plc and M&G Investments, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in  London  at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  