-- 
Paulson Group Wants Competing Creditor Plan for Lehman Considered by Court

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-29T23:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/paulson-group-wants-competing-creditor-plan-for-lehman-considered-by-court.html
Hedge fund Paulson & Co. and a
group of other  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  creditors want
their liquidation plan for the failed investment bank to move
ahead on the same schedule as Lehman’s own proposal.  Lehman is scheduled to ask a bankruptcy judge at a June 28
hearing to approve a description of its plan to pay claims,
known as a disclosure statement, and allow creditor voting. The
Paulson group wants the judge to approve voting on their plan at
the same hearing, according to a court filing today.  “Fairness dictates that the competing disclosure
statements and plans are presented to the court and parties in
interest concurrently,” the creditor group, which includes the
California Public Employees’ Retirement System, or Calpers, said
in papers filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  New York .  Bryan Marsal , Lehman’s chief executive officer, said in
January that he aims to raise $61 billion from Lehman’s assets
to pay $322 billion in claims, or an average of 18.6 cents on
the dollar. Lehman hopes to win court approval for the plan by
the end of the year. The Paulson and Calpers group’s payment
plan would give them a higher recovery on their claims than
under Lehman’s plan.  The creditor group said Lehman “unfortunately and somewhat
inexplicably” opposes the request for both plans to be
considered at the June 28 hearing in front of Judge James Peck.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  