-- 
Pernod Ricard Loses Appeals Court Ruling in Bacardi ‘Havana Club Fight

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-29T21:19:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/pernod-ricard-loses-appeals-court-ruling-in-bacardi-havana-club-fight.html
Pernod Ricard SA, the world’s
second-biggest liquor maker, lost a U.S. court ruling in its
decades-long battle with Bacardi Ltd. over the right to use the
name  Havana  Club on rum in the American market.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  ruled today that
the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
was correct when it refused to let a Cuban state-owned group
renew its U.S. trademark on the Havana Club name because of a
1998 law that barred renewal of certain Cuban trademarks.  Pernod Ricard sells  Havana Club  throughout the world except
in the U.S. under a 1993 venture with Cuba’s state-owned
Cubaexport. It has been fighting with  Bacardi  over rights to the
name in the U.S. since 1994, when Bacardi applied for a U.S.
trademark on Havana Club. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
rejected Bacardi’s request in part because of Cubaexport already
had a trademark.  At stake is Pernod’s future use of an historic brand name
in the world’s second-largest market for rum should the U.S.
embargo on Cuban goods be lifted. U.S. consumers buy about 17
percent of the world’s rum, second only to  India ’s 29 percent,
according to the London-based industry research firm
International Wine and Spirit Research.  “We will appeal,” Ian Fitzsimons, Pernod’s general
counsel, said in a telephone interview. “We’re encouraged that
it was only a decision by a 2-1 majority. We were particularly
encouraged by the dissenting opinion.”  Cuban Trademarks  Cuban trademarks have been registered in the U.S. in
anticipation of an end to the embargo, and for the same reason
U.S. companies regularly register trademarks in Cuba even as the
1963 U.S. embargo blocks most  trade  between the countries.  The Havana Club trademark was first used by the Arechabala
family in Cuba, which lost its distilling company in 1960 when
it was nationalized by  Fidel Castro ’s revolutionary government.
After the trademarks owned by the Arechabalas lapsed, Cubaexport
registered the trademark in the U.S. in 1976 and assigned it to
a Pernod joint venture in 1993.  In 1998, Congress passed legislation making trademarks
confiscated by the Cuban government unenforceable in the U.S.
The law, known as Section 211, has been applied only to the
Havana Club mark. The  World Trade Organization  has  said  since
2001 that the law violated international treaties and demanded
that it be changed.  Each company claims to have the legal rights to the Havana
Club name and to make the “real” Havana Club rum. Pernod says
its rum is made in Cuba using traditional methods.  Family Rights  Bacardi, which traces its roots to 1862 in Cuba and bought
rights to the name from the Arechabala family, contends that it
relies on the recipe of Jose Arechabala, the original maker of
Havana Club, according to court papers.  Bacardi, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , said it was
“thrilled” with the decision.  “With this ruling, the  United States  reaffirms the
traditional principle that confiscation of trademarks in one
country has no effect on another,” Patricia Neal, a spokeswoman
for Bacardi, said in an e-mailed statement. “Cuban confiscation
of trademarks without compensation to the original owners does
not extend to U.S. trademarks.”  Standard Rum  Pernod, based in Paris, has turned Havana Club into the
world’s fourth-most popular brand of standard rum, selling about
3.5 million cases a year, up from 400,000 cases sold in 1993,
according to the International Wine and Spirit Research report.  Without access to the U.S. market, Pernod’s Havana Club has
5 percent of the world’s rum market, compared with 35 percent
for Bacardi’s eponymous rum, about 16 percent for Diageo Plc’s
Captain Morgan and 6.9 percent for closely held Brugal Co.’s
namesake spirit, according to the report. Bacardi’s Havana Club,
available since 2006 only in  Florida , doesn’t sell enough to
register on the firm’s ranking.  After its 1994 bid to register the Havana Club name failed,
Bacardi sued in 1999 in  Spain , claiming it was the rightful
owner of the Havana Club trademark.  Two Spanish courts ruled that the joint venture with Pernod
is the proper owner because the Arechebala family neglected its
rights, both in allowing its trademark to expire and waiting too
long to challenge ownership. The Spanish  Supreme Court  in
February sided with Pernod.  Assets Control  Bacardi has had more luck in the U.S. The decision today
upholds a trial judge’s ruling that the Office of Foreign Assets
Control acted within the scope of the 1998 Section 211 law
blocking Cubaexport’s application to renew the trademark on
Havana Club.  Still pending is an appeal in a case in which a federal
judge in Wilmington,  Delaware , rejected Pernod’s claim that
Bacardi was misleading consumers into thinking its rum was made
in Havana. The fact that it is made in  Puerto Rico  is clearly
marked, the judge said.  The OFAC case is Empresa Cubana Exportadora v. Department
of Treasury, 09-5196,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C. Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Empresa Cubana Exportadora
de Alimentos y Productos Varios v. U.S. Department of Treasury,
06cv1692, U.S. District Court for the  District of Columbia .  The 3rd Circuit case is Pernod Ricard USA LLC v. Bacardi
USA Inc., 10-2354, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Philadelphia). The Delaware case is Pernod Ricard USA LLC v.
Bacardi USA Inc., 06-cv-505, U.S. District Court for the
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 