-- 
Petrobras Sees Oil Price Rising Amid Middle East Instability

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-03-30T17:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/petrobras-sees-oil-price-rising-amid-middle-east-instability.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  expects oil
to keep rising in coming years after conflicts in  Libya  and
across the Middle East sent the price to above $100 a barrel,
Chief Financial Officer  Almir Barbassa  said.  Crude, which gained 0.8 percent to close at $104.79 a
barrel in  New York  yesterday, is unlikely to drop back to the
levels it traded at before the conflict in Libya, Barbassa said.
Crude averaged about $81 a barrel in the year through mid-
February, when conflicts escalated in Libya, Bahrain and Yemen.  “The price floor for oil has increased,” Barbassa said
yesterday at the Bloomberg  Brazil  Economic Summit in Sao Paulo.
“The trend is for rising prices.”  Oil has surged 24 percent since mid-February and touched a
29-month high on March 7 amid concern that escalating unrest in
Libya and the Middle East would further cut output. Oil exports
from Libya, home to  Africa ’s largest reserves, may be curbed for
months because of sanctions and damage to production facilities,
the  International Energy Agency  said March 15.  Crude for May delivery declined 63 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $104.16 a barrel at 11:10 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Higher prices come as Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer, revises its five-year
investment plan to include deepwater fields it bought from the
government last year as part of a $70 billion share sale, the
world’s largest. Petrobras will spend as much as $10 billion in
five years to explore and develop the fields, where it will
produce up to 5 billion barrels of crude, Barbassa said in a
Jan. 14 interview.  ‘Boom Time’  “Now is a boom time for integrated oil majors,”  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory and Research, a Chicago-
based risk-management adviser to oil producers, said in a phone
interview. “If you’re in the exploration and production part of
the business, now is the time to get the high-cost, higher-risk
projects off the drawing board and into production.”  Petrobras based its $224 billion investment plan for 2010
to 2014 on an average oil price of $80 a barrel. Going forward,
oil is likely to stay above $85 a barrel, Chief Executive
Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said yesterday at a conference in
Uruguay.  The company’s cash holdings rose to $35 billion from $27
billion at the start of the year, Barbassa said yesterday.  2015 Payout  Rising prices carry risks for Petrobras because it may
prompt the government to claim additional payments for oil
rights it transferred to the company in exchange for shares,
Nelson Rodrigues de Matos, an analyst at Banco do Brasil in  Rio
de Janeiro , said today in a telephone interview.  Petrobras paid $42.5 billion in shares and cash for the
right to produce 5 billion barrels. They will revise the value
of the barrels in four to six years after declaring the fields
commercial, Barbassa said.  The company will have to pay an additional $17.5 billion if
the government uses $100 a barrel to calculate the value of the
reserves in the revision, according to calculations by Credit
Suisse made Oct. 12 after the transaction was finalized.  “It is still unclear at what level oil prices will be by
2015,” Barbassa said. “All I can say is that the price
adjustment is already agreed, and that we will fulfill the
contract.”  The revision will be based on the 18-month NYMEX futures
contract and production costs. Before today, the contract has
risen 32 percent since Sept. 1, when the contract was signed.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lucia Kassai in  Sao
Paulo  at   lkassai@bloomberg.net ; Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  