-- 
Philippine Long Distance Makes $1.7 Billion Takeover Bid for Rival Digital

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-03-29T08:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/philippine-long-distance-makes-1-7-billion-takeover-bid-for-rival-digital.html
Philippine Long Distance Telephone
Co. (TEL) , the nation’s biggest phone company, offered to buy Digital
Telecommunications Philippines Inc. in a deal valued at 74.1
billion pesos ($1.7 billion), removing one of two rivals.  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)  and other parties agreed to sell
their 3.28 billion shares, or a 51.55 percent stake, in the
company known as Digitel, Philippine Long Distance said today in
a statement. PLDT, as the buyer is known, said it will issue new
shares at 2,500 pesos each for the purchase and will offer to
buy the rest of Digitel. The value includes debt obligations and
assumes acceptance by all shareholders.  “Some people think this transaction will tone down
competition,” said Jerome Gonzalez, who helps manage about $68
million at Philequity Management Inc. “Digitel’s unlimited
service allowed it to gain market share and gave the bigger
players a hard time.”  Digitel triggered competition and eroded margins at PLDT
and  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  when it offered plans with unlimited
calls and text messages in 2004, a year after unveiling its own
mobile-phone service. Digitel’s profit surged 65 percent last
year, outpacing PLDT’s 1.1 percent increase and Globe Telecom’s
23 percent drop in net income.  PLDT said the purchase, which is scheduled to be completed
by end of the second quarter, will include zero-coupon bonds
convertible into 18.6 billion Digitel shares by June 30 that
were sold to JG Summit. It also includes 34.1 billion pesos of
advances JG Summit made to Digitel. The offer for the rest of
Digitel may be in cash or shares and will be equivalent to 1.60
pesos per Digitel share.  Takeover Speculation  Digitel and parent JG Summit earlier today separately asked
the exchange to suspend their shares after speculation of the
unit’s sale led to gains. Digitel jumped 18 percent to 1.83
pesos in Manila trading yesterday, while JG Summit gained 8.2
percent to 24.5 pesos. PLDT closed unchanged at 2,036 pesos in
Manila today before the announcement. The stock exchange imposed
a one-hour trading halt on PLDT’s shares beginning at 9 a.m.
tomorrow.  “In the face of muted revenue growth and elevated capital
expenditure requirements, this transaction provides a solution”
to these concerns, PLDT Chairman Manuel Pangilinan said. This
“also benefits consumers and improves the country’s broadband
infrastructure while enhancing  shareholder value .”  Net income at Digitel jumped 65 percent to 429.6 million
pesos last year from 2009, JG Summit said in a statement to the
Philippine Stock Exchange March 18.  Separate Unit  Digitel’s Sun Cellular mobile-phone service will remain
“separate and intact,” and continue to serve specific segments,
particularly customers who prefer unlimited calls and text
messages, PLDT said.  Digitel will add 450,000 fixed-line customers to PLDT’s 1.8
million customers. Digitel will also add half a million
broadband Internet subscribers to PLDT’s 2 million customers,
based on figures PLDT President Napoleon Nazareno and JG Summit
Chairman James Go released today in a media briefing.  PLDT will have two-thirds of the nation’s mobile-phone
revenue with the purchase of Digitel, Nazareno said. PLDT had
45.6 million cellular-phone subscribers at the end of 2010, and
Digitel had 14 million.  Ownership Reshuffle  JG Summit said it will own about 12.8 percent of PLDT after
the sale and it expects board representation. JG Summit said its
stake will fall to 10.1 percent if an associate company of First
Pacific Co. exercises an option to buy 5.81 million PLDT shares
from it at 2,500 pesos each. First Pacific is PLDT’s biggest
shareholder with a 26 percent stake.  The transaction will require approval from shareholders,
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the stock exchange and
the National Telecommunications Commission.  “Competition shouldn’t be an issue for regulators,” said
Rico Gomez, who helps manage $1.47 billion at Manila-based Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. “The status quo may still continue
because PLDT could use Digitel as the main vehicle to grab
market share from Globe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  