-- 
Philippine Long Distance's Digitel Deal Cements Dominance, May Hurt Globe

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T05:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/philippine-long-distance-s-digitel-deal-cements-dominance-may-hurt-globe.html
Philippine Long Distance Telephone
Co. (TEL) ’s plan to buy Digital Telecommunications Philippines Inc.
will cement its position in Southeast Asia’s second-most
populous nation and dominate rival  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)   The company, also known as PLDT, offered to buy the rival
called Digitel in a deal valued at 74.1 billion pesos ($1.7
billion) yesterday. The transaction will remove one of two
competitors and give PLDT an additional 14 million mobile
subscribers. It will control two-thirds of the wireless market
by revenue in a country of more than 100 million people. PLDT
shares surged the most in more than 10 years in Manila trading.  “PLDT eliminates a threat while at the same time it gets a
platform it can use to hammer Globe and rivals planning to enter
the market,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , strategist at Manila-based
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “This could push its rivals to spend
more for market share.”  Digitel triggered price wars that eroded margins at PLDT
and Globe, the remaining rival and partly owned by  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , when it offered plans with unlimited
calls and text messages in 2004. Digitel’s profit surged 65
percent last year, outpacing PLDT’s 1.1 percent increase and
Globe Telecom’s 23 percent drop in net income.  The Digitel purchase may also help PLDT withstand the
potential threat from food and drinks maker  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) ,
which created a Philippine phone venture with Qatar Telecom QSC.  Block Sale  PLDT surged 16 percent to 2,356 pesos at the noon close in
Manila, the steepest advance since November 2000. It’s the
biggest percentage gain in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which
gained 1.1 percent. It also contributed most to the gain in the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index, which jumped 3 percent.  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)  and other parties agreed to sell
their 3.28 billion Digitel shares, or a 51.55 percent stake,
PLDT said yesterday. PLDT said it will issue new shares at 2,500
pesos each for the purchase and will offer to buy the rest of
Digitel. The deal’s value includes debt obligations and assumes
acceptance by all shareholders.  PLDT will have two-thirds of the nation’s mobile-phone
revenue with the purchase of Digitel, PLDT President Napoleon Nazareno said yesterday. PLDT had 45.6 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of 2010 and Globe Telecom 26.5 million.  “The Digitel and PLDT merger will not fundamentally change
our strategy,” Globe Telecom President Ernest Cu said in a
statement after the deal was announced. “We stand ready to
compete, and to defend and grow our market share.”  Challenges  Globe Telecom jumped 13 percent to 842 pesos, the sharpest
gain since January 2001 as some investors speculated the deal
will ease competition.  “The common and short-term view is Digitel’s purchase will
alleviate competition,” said Astro del Castillo, managing
director at Manila- based advisory firm First Grade Holdings
Inc. “In the long run, this merger will pose more challenges
for PLDT’s competitors.”  Globe will be the “key beneficiary” from the merger of
PLDT and Digitel, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report today
that raised Globe to “outperform” from “neutral”  The merger will lead to a “significant improvement in the
cellular competitive environment” and “better” industry
revenue and profitability growth from next year, Chate
Benchavitvilai and Colin McCallum, analysts at Credit Suisse,
wrote. Globe had been the “key loser” from the competition so
far, they wrote.  Assumed Obligations  PLDT said the purchase, which is scheduled to be completed
by the end of the second quarter, will include zero-coupon bonds
convertible into 18.6 billion Digitel shares by June 30 that
were sold to JG Summit. It also includes 34.1 billion pesos of
advances JG Summit made to Digitel. The offer for the rest of
Digitel may be in cash or stock and will be equivalent to 1.60
pesos per Digitel share.  Digitel sank 15 percent to 1.56 pesos today, the steepest
loss since October 2002. JG Summit, which will own about 12.8
percent of PLDT after the sale, increased 3.5 percent to 25.35
pesos, the highest since Nov. 23.  “In the face of muted revenue growth and elevated capital
expenditure requirements, this transaction provides a
solution,” PLDT Chairman Manuel Pangilinan said yesterday. This
“also benefits consumers and improves the country’s broadband
infrastructure while enhancing  shareholder value .”  Net income at Digitel jumped 65 percent to 429.6 million
pesos last year from 2009, JG Summit said March 18.  Digitel will add 450,000 fixed-line customers to PLDT’s 1.8
million customers. Digitel will also add half a million
broadband Internet subscribers to PLDT’s 2 million customers.  The transaction will require approval from shareholders,
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the stock exchange and
the National Telecommunications Commission.  “Competition shouldn’t be an issue for regulators,” said
Rico Gomez, who helps manage $1.47 billion at Manila-based Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. “The status quo may still continue
because PLDT could use Digitel as the main vehicle to grab
market share from Globe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  