-- 
Polish Treasury Prepares PKO Bank Share Sale, Largest Planned This Year

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-29T12:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/poland-is-weighing-5-billion-initial-share-sale-of-its-stake-in-pko-bank.html
Poland will sell shares in PKO Bank
Polski SA in a September public offering that may value the
central European largest bank’s sale as high as $5 billion, a
record state-asset sale in the country.  State-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will sell 10
percent and the Treasury Ministry will sell more shares
according to market demand, Minister Aleksander Grad said. The
government will cut its total stake, including Gospodarstwa’s
shares, to as low as 25 percent from 51 percent.  “This will be a very big transaction,” Grad said at a
news conference in Warsaw today.  The government may hold a record number of share sales on
the stock exchange this year to help finance the state deficit
and limit debt. It expects to raise 15 billion zloty ($5.3
billion) in budget revenue in 2011, after collecting 22 billion
zloty in 2010. Other sales include Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej
SA, coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA and real-estate
company Polski Holding Nieruchomosci SA.  The ministry is opting for a public offering because it
would give the government the chance to sell a bigger stake and
“encourage individual investors to take part,” said Jaroslaw Lis, who helps manage the equivalent of $3 billion at Union
Investment TFI SA in Warsaw.  Individuals’ Allotment  Poland plans to set aside at least one-third of the offer
for individuals.  The ministry used a different process, accelerated book
building, to sell a stake in utility  Tauron Polska Energia SA (TPE)  to
institutions last week.  If the government decides to sell the entire planned PKO
stake “at one time,” it may increase the bank’s valuation as
“the uncertainty will disappear” from the market, Szymon Borawski-Reks, who helps manage the equivalent of $3.5 billion
at Bank Zachodni WBK SA’s mutual fund in Poznan, said by phone
today.  PKO fell 1.6 percent to 43.5 zloty at 1:36 p.m., declining
for the first day in four and underperforming the benchmark
WIG20 Index, which lost 0.6 percent. The shares have more than
doubled since its initial public offering in 2004.  PKO and OTP Bank Nyrt,  Hungary ’s largest bank, are the
biggest central European lenders not controlled by foreign
banks. Foreign-owned assets ranged from 60 percent of the
banking industry in  Romania  to almost 98 percent in the  Czech
Republic  and Slovakia in 2009, according to the  World Bank .  Shareholders Meeting  To retain control of PKO, the ministry convened an April 14
shareholders meeting to vote on capping other owners’ voting
rights at 10 percent.  Last week, the government sold 12 percent of Tauron, the
country’s second-largest power utility, for 1.28 billion zloty.  The ministry may have to offer investors a discount of
“several percent” from PKO’s market price, said Marek Mikuc of
TFI Allianz Polska SA mutual fund. Lis says the discount would
be deeper in an accelerating book-building.  The ministry offered a 3.8 percent discount in the Tauron
sale, it said in a statement on its website. In the sale of 10
percent of PGE SA in October, the discount was 5.3 percent.  PKO isn’t “super cheap, but it has growth potential of
several percent,” Mikuc said by phone yesterday. The bank is
trading at a discount to its competitors, according to Lis.  Both TFI Allianz and Union Investment plan to buy PKO
shares in the offer, the fund managers said. Borawski-Reks
declined to say whether Zachodni will participate in the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  