-- 
Portugal, Greece Ratings Downgraded by S&P on Debt-Restructuring Concerns

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-03-29T17:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/portugal-greece-ratings-downgraded-by-s-p-on-debt-restructuring-concerns.html
Portugal and  Greece  were
downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the European Union’s
new bailout rules may mean that both nations eventually renege
on their debt obligations.  S&P cut Portugal for the second time in a week to the
lowest investment-grade rating of BBB-, three steps below
Ireland. Greece’s rating fell two grades to BB-, three levels
below investment grade. S&P cited concerns that both countries
may be forced to restructure debt after seeking European aid and
that governments will be paid back before other creditors.  The moves increase pressure on European policy makers
trying to stem the sovereign-debt crisis almost a year after
Greece became the first euro member to seek a bailout. Even as
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  repeatedly denies his
country needs help, investors are increasing bets that it will
be forced to follow Greece and Ireland into seeking aid.  “The downgrades intensify the pressures facing peripheral
economies, Portugal in particular,” said Neil Mackinnon, a
London-based economist at VTB Capital Plc and a former U.K.
Treasury official. “It increases the likelihood of bailout.”  New rules on bailout loans, which take effect in 2013, mean
sovereign-debt restructuring is a “potential pre-condition to
borrowing” from the future European Stability Mechanism and
that senior unsecured government debt will be subordinated to
ESM loans, S&P said. Both aspects, announced after a meeting of
European leaders in Brussels on March 25, are “detrimental to
commercial creditors,” the rating company said.  Emergency Loans  While  Portugal  “may be able” to obtain emergency loans
without restructuring, the priority given to ESM loans “reduces
the prospect of timely payment to government bondholders and
likely also results in lower recovery values,” it said.  S&P had warned when it cut Portugal’s rating last week that
it may do so again once the details of the ESM were announced.  The temporary European Financial Stability Facility forms
the lion’s share of the 750 billion-euro ($1.1 trillion) bailout
pool agreed by European leaders nearly a year ago. It will be
replaced by the permanent ESM in 2013.  “Financial markets are generally disappointed with the
outcome of EU summits this month,” VTB’s Mackinnon said. “They
don’t feel there is a proper acknowledgement that debt
restructuring and bank recapitalization is required.”  The gap between Portuguese and German borrowing costs
surged to 467 basis points today, the highest intraday level
since Nov. 11. The Greek spread widened to 938 basis points from
934 basis points yesterday.  ‘Inevitable’ Move  “It only accelerates the inevitable move to calling the
EFSF for Portugal,” said  Glenn Marci , a strategist at DZ Bank
AG in  Frankfurt .  Portugal, which has about 9 billion euros ($12.8 billion)
of bond redemptions coming due in April and June, faces weeks of
political uncertainty after Socrates resigned on March 23 in the
wake of a parliamentary defeat on his austerity measures.
Elections are expected in May or June.  Portugal’s debt levels aren’t as onerous as those of Greece
or Ireland, said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at
Jefferies International in  London .  “Markets have come around to the view that sooner or later
Greece and Ireland have debt that is unsustainable,” he said.
“Portugal and  Spain  are in a different boat. Portugal is on the
cusp, it has debt levels much, much lower than Greece and
Ireland.”  Rescue Aid  S&P said that Portugal is still likely to need aid.  “Given Portugal’s weakened capital market access and its
likely considerable external financing needs in the next few
years, it is our view that Portugal will likely access”
 Europe ’s current and future rescue funds, S&P said.  A bailout may total as much as 70 billion euros, said two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter. Analyst
Laurent Fransolet at  Barclays Capital  estimated in a note on
March 25 that Portugal’s current cash position was likely to be
about 4.5 billion euros to 5 billion euros, enough to cover the
April redemption, though not the one in June.  S&P said it retained a negative outlook on Greece’s
sovereign debt rating because the country may be falling behind
its budget targets. “There are growing risks to the sovereign’s
budgetary position, the possibility of slippage,” S&P analyst
Marko Mrsnik said on a conference call. “The debt figure of 2010
could be higher than 9.6 percent” of gross domestic product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 