-- 
Portugal Telecom Acquires Bigger-Than-Planned 25.3% Stake in Brazil's Oi

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-29T10:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/portugal-telecom-acquires-bigger-than-planned-25-3-stake-in-brazil-s-oi.html
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  bought
25.3 percent of Brazilian carrier  Telemar Norte Leste SA (TMAR5)  for
8.32 billion reais ($5 billion), getting a bigger stake than
 Portugal ’s largest phone company had originally planned to buy.  The stake was built through direct investments in the
company and indirect positions in its biggest shareholders,
Portugal Telecom said yesterday in a  statement . The acquisition
includes 25.6 percent of Telemar Participacoes SA, the group
that controls the Brazilian phone carrier.  Portugal Telecom is investing in Oi, as Telemar Norte Leste
is known, to tap growing demand for mobile-phone and Internet
services in Brazil. The Portuguese carrier announced plans in
July to buy a stake in Oi after selling its half of Vivo
Participacoes SA,  Brazil ’s largest mobile-phone company.
Portugal Telecom said Jan. 26 that it would buy at least 22
percent of Oi.  “This is probably the most positive outcome of the deal,”
Ivon Leal, an analyst at BBVA, said in a note today. Portugal
Telecom “has delivered again, closing the Oi transaction on
time with better-than-expected terms.”  Leal predicts that Portugal Telecom will help Oi improve
its position in the fixed-line market. The Portuguese company
wants to replicate the turnaround it performed in Portugal of
its fixed-line business, where it added a pay-television service
to lure customers.  Portugal Telecom rose 1.4 percent to 8.29 euros at 11:31
a.m. in Lisbon trading. Telemar Norte Leste fell 0.6 percent to
53.70 reais yesterday in  Sao Paulo .  Oi Revenue  The Portuguese phone company sold its Vivo stake to
Telefonica SA for 7.5 billion euros ($10.6 billion) last year.
The final price was 32 percent more than the first offer by the
Spanish company.  Oi will represent more than 50 percent of the Portuguese
company’s revenue, Portugal Telecom’s Chief Executive Officer
 Zeinal Bava  said Jan. 26. Vivo provided 48 percent of its sales
in 2009. Oi gets most of its revenue from landline services
while competing with Vivo in the wireless market.  As part of their agreement, Oi plans to purchase a stake of
as much as 10 percent of Portugal Telecom. Oi is Brazil’s
largest fixed-line phone company and its fourth-biggest mobile-
phone carrier. So far, the Brazilian company has an agreement
with Barclays Bank Plc to buy as much as a 3 percent stake in
Portugal Telecom, according to a March 15 regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net 
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  