-- 
Portugal's Rating Is Cut to Lowest Investment Grade by S&P on Bailout Need

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-29T14:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/portugal-s-rating-is-cut-to-lowest-investment-grade-by-s-p-on-bailout-need.html
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service
cut  Portugal ’s credit rating for the second time in four days,
saying the country will likely need an international bailout and
debt restructuring.  S&P cut the rating to BBB-/A-3 from BBB/A-2, with a
negative outlook, it said in an e-mailed statement today. BBB-
is the lowest investment grade.  A statement after a European Council meeting on March 24-25
on the terms under which countries may borrow from the region’s
future rescue fund confirms “expectations that sovereign debt
restructuring is a potential pre-condition to borrowing” and
“senior unsecured government debt will be subordinated” to
loans from the fund, S&P said. “Both features are, in our view,
detrimental to the commercial creditors.”  European leaders reduced the amount of cash to be paid
upfront into the euro region’s future rescue fund last week and
failed to spell out how they will increase the firepower of the
current bailout facility. S&P had warned when it cut Portugal’s
rating on March 25 that it may do so again once the details of
the new European Stability Mechanism were announced.  Portugal, which has about 9 billion euros ($12.8 billion)
of bond redemptions coming due in April and June, faces weeks of
political uncertainty as Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned
on March 23 after failing to secure lawmakers’ support for
austerity measures. The government has repeatedly denied
speculation that the nation’s record bond yields will force it
to follow Greece and Ireland into seeking a European rescue.  Bonds Fall  Portuguese  government bonds  declined, pushing the 10-year
yield up to a euro-era record. The 10-year yield rose four basis
points to 7.96 percent as of 2:52 p.m. in  London  after reaching
7.97 percent, the most since at least 1997 when Bloomberg began
collecting the data. Portuguese two-year yields climbed 12 basis
points to 7.54 percent, the most since 1996.  A bailout may total as much as 70 billion euros, said two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter. Analyst
Laurent Fransolet at  Barclays Capital  estimated in a note on
March 25 that Portugal’s current cash position was likely to be
about 4.5 billion euros to 5 billion euros, enough to cover the
April redemption, though not the one in June.  “Given Portugal’s weakened capital market access and its
likely considerable external financing needs in the next few
years, it is our view that Portugal will likely access”
 Europe ’s current and future rescue funds, S&P said today.  Portugal’s debt was also cut two steps by  Fitch Ratings , to
A- from A+, on March 25 after Socrates’s resignation. Fitch
cited “increased risks to policy implementation and fiscal
financing” and put the ratings on “watch negative,” meaning
they may be cut further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 