-- 
Postal Service Proposes Easier Path to Closing U.S. Offices

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-03-29T20:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/postal-service-proposes-easier-path-to-closing-u-s-post-offices.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which
projects it will reach its $15 billion borrowing cap by the end
of September, wants to make it easier to close some of its
31,871 post offices for economic reasons.  A  change  proposed by the agency, which has lost money for
five consecutive quarters, would allow post offices to be
considered for closing for reasons including “insufficient
customer demand” demonstrated by declining mail volume, revenue
or local population trends, according to a notice published
today in the Federal Register.  The regulation would expand the reasons for which a post
office, station or branch may be closed and make the closure
process more transparent, Sue Brennan, a Postal Service
spokeswoman in  Washington , said in an e-mail.  “What happens to a store when no one buys groceries there
anymore? They close it down,” Gene Del Polito, Association for
Postal Commerce president, said in an interview. “They have to
do that.”  Postal facility closings are unpopular in Congress because
they cost jobs and access to brick-and-mortar postal facilities
in lawmakers’ districts, said Del Polito, whose association of
large mail customers is based in Arlington, Virginia. The
proposal may make it easier to close facilities by smoothing
communication with members of Congress, he said.  Deputy Postmaster General  The Postal Service yesterday named a former congressional
staff member, Ronald Stroman, to be its deputy postmaster
general. Stroman, who will start April 4, was most recently
staff director to the House Oversight and Government Reform,
which oversees the service, under then-Chairman Representative
Edolphus Towns, a New York Democrat.  The Postal Service, which lost $8.5 billion in its 2010
fiscal year, has said that 80 percent of its post offices lose
money. The Washington-based agency said in January it may close
as many as 2,000 little-used or redundant retail facilities. In
the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, 121 offices have been closed
so far, Brennan said.  Del Polito’s group, whose members include  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and LL Bean Inc., is most concerned with the Postal Service
being financially viable, he said.  “They have the capacity right now for something like 300
billion pieces, and there are only about 170 billion pieces in
the system,” he said. “It’s time to reduce that capacity.
These are enormous costs.”  Sally Davidow, a spokeswoman for the American Postal
Workers Union, whose members work in post offices and other
postal facilities, didn’t respond to a phone call seeking
comment.  Saturday Delivery  The Postal Regulatory Commission, based in Washington, has
authority to review postal facilities slated for closure if a
complaint is filed about the plan.  The Postal Service is also seeking to reduce costs by
ending Saturday mail delivery and by shrinking its workforce.
The Government Accountability Office, in a  report  posted today
on its website, said cutting mail delivery to five days a week
from six would bring “substantial savings.” The Postal Service
has said cutting Saturday delivery would save $3.1 billion a
year. The GAO didn’t say how much would be saved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  