-- 
Pound Trades Near 5-Month Low Versus Euro; ECB Seen Tightening Before BOE

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-29T16:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/pound-approaches-five-month-low-versus-euro-before-final-gdp-data-report.html
The pound stayed near its weakest
level in five months against the euro and slipped against the
dollar after data showed the U.K. economy shrank.  Sterling is the worst-performing currency this month
against a basket of 10 developed-market counterparts. Gross
domestic product fell 0.5 percent from the previous three
months, the  Office for National Statistics  said today, near an
earlier estimate of 0.6 percent. Gilts declined as  Bank of
England  policy maker  Martin Weale , who has dissented from the
majority of his peers in recent monetary-policy votes, said the
central bank should raise  interest rates  to counter inflation.  Today’s data “probably doesn’t change the market’s
uncertainty with regard to the monetary-policy decision,” said
 Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of
Tokyo in London. “The markets are infinitely more convinced
with regard to the  European Central Bank  next week than the Bank
of England in May. That’s the catalyst for euro-sterling.”  The pound was little changed at 88.14 pence per euro as of
4:27 p.m. in  London . It earlier today reached 88.36 pence, the
weakest level since Oct. 26. It traded at $1.5981 and advanced
0.7 percent to 131.58 yen.  The ECB and Bank of England both meet next on April 7. All
but one of the 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
euro-area policy makers will raise rates, whereas no change is
expected for the U.K. central bank.  Among other data released today, the current-account
deficit widened to 10.5 billion pounds ($16.8 billion). A
measure of M4 money-supply growth that the U.K. central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed
to an annualized 0.5 percent in the three months through
February from 3.2 percent in January.  Short-Sterling Futures  U.K. mortgage approvals rose to 46,967 in February, the
highest level since November and more than economists forecast,
suggesting the  property market  is stabilizing.  The pound has slumped 2.1 percent this month against a
basket of 10 developed-market currencies, making it the worst
performer. It has gained 0.2 percent this year, lagging the
euro’s 3.4 percent advance and beating the dollar’s 2.3 percent
decline.  Short-sterling futures rose, pushing the implied yield on
the contract maturing in December down two basis points to 1.41,
as traders pared bets on an increase in U.K. rates.  Weale said the central bank should increase rates because
there is a greater risk that inflation won’t come back to its 2
percent target.  Bonds Slide  Consumer prices accelerated to the fastest pace in more than
two years in February, rising 4.4 percent from a year earlier.  “On balance I find myself more concerned about inflation
than the committee’s collective judgement suggests, and thus
continue to believe that the monetary stance should be
tightened,” Weale said in prepared remarks for a speech in
London today.  U.K. government bonds dropped, pushing the yield on the 10-
year gilt up four basis points to 3.63 percent. The 3.75 percent
bond due September 2020 fell 0.28, or 2.8 pound per 1,000-pound
($1,609) face amount, to 100.92. The two-year note yield was up
three basis points at 1.30 percent.  Britain plans 13 gilt auctions in the coming quarter,
including nine sales of conventional debt and four of inflation-
linked bonds, the nation’s Debt Management Office said today.  There will be three sales each of short-, medium- and long-
dated debt, the DMO said in a statement. Two sales will be made
through banks, it said.  Gilts lost investors 0.4 percent this year, compared with a
2 percent loss for German bonds and a zero return for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 