-- 
Power Plants Face EPA Cooling-Water Rules to Protect Fish

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-29T21:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/power-generators-must-protect-fish-under-u-s-epa-rules-for-cooling-water.html
Utilities such as  Entergy Corp. (ETR) 
face U.S. rules aimed at preventing fish from being sucked into
cooling-water systems and costing industry $384 million a year,
the Environmental Protection Agency said.  The Obama administration’s proposal introduced yesterday
will affect more than 1,200 facilities and save billions of
aquatic organisms, including 615 million fish and shellfish a
year, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The EPA rule, part of a court settlement with environmental
groups, will cover power plants and factories that pull water
from rivers or lakes to cool machines. Existing facilities will
work with states to determine how to meet the requirements while
new units will have to use closed-cycle cooling, a system that
draws less water and ensnares fewer fish.  “The EPA’s approach is likely to minimize the industry’s
cost of compliance,” Hugh Wynne, an analyst at Sanford
Bernstein & Co. in  New York , wrote today in a report to clients.  The EPA’s pending proposal under the  Clean Water Act  had
been singled out by energy companies, industry groups and
Republican lawmakers as a regulation that may burden electric
utilities and cause some coal-fired power plants to shut down.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, in
December said the rule might cost utilities as much as $300
million per site for coal-fired plants and as much as $1 billion
for nuclear generators, exceeding the EPA’s projections.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , owner of the most U.S. nuclear plants, said
today the EPA’s proposed standard doesn’t require existing
plants to build costly cooling towers.  Exelon ‘Encouraged’  “Exelon is encouraged that the rule doesn’t mandate
cooling towers as a ‘one-size-fits-all’ technology and allows
consideration of site-specific factors, as well as costs and
benefits for some of the rule’s requirements,” the Chicago-
based company said today in a statement.  Exelon rejected claims from some companies that the EPA
rule, along with proposed limits on air toxins from coal-fired
 power plants , will be detrimental to business.  “Rumors of a train wreck caused by new EPA regulations are
simply false,” Joseph Dominguez, senior vice president of
federal regulatory affairs, public policy and communications,
said today in a statement. “EPA has done a good job listening
to the industry and moving the ball forward.”  The Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based trade
group representing the utility industry, criticized the plan,
arguing that the agency will have states following guidelines
that favor closed-cycle cooling technology, such as towers.  Higher Costs  “EPA’s proposal could result in premature plant
retirements, capacity shortfalls and higher costs for
customers,” the group said today in a statement.  Entergy, a New Orleans-based owner of coal-fired and
nuclear power plants, had said the cooling-water rule may force
it to spend $1.2 billion building two cooling towers at its
Indian Point plant on the Hudson River north of  New York City .  The EPA said installing closed-cycle cooling for new units
would cost about $14.7 million a year. The cost to a household
electric bill once the rule has been in place for several years
would average less than $2 a year, according to the EPA.  Entergy is reviewing the proposal and has no comment, said
Alex Schott, a spokesman.  The agency said it will work to improve its proposal
through outside suggestions.  Public Comments  “The input we receive will make certain that we end up
with a flexible and effective rule to protect the health of our
waters and ecosystems,” said Nancy Stoner, acting assistant
administrator for the EPA  Office of Water , in the statement.  The public has 90 days to comment and the agency must take
final action by July 27, 2012, according to the EPA.  The rule will cover about 1,260 industrial operations,
including 670 power plants and about 590 factories, according to
the agency.  Two environmental groups, the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  and Riverkeeper, criticized the EPA for shifting the
matter to the states. The proposal won’t stop plants from
harming billions of fish that get pinned against screens
covering water intake pipes, according to the organizations.  “Instead of moving toward modernizing America’s power
plants and protecting our water resources, the draft rule moves
us backwards,” Steve Fleischli, a senior attorney in the water
program at the New York-based NRDC, said yesterday in a
statement. “EPA has chosen the path of least resistance by
caving into industry pressure and punting this issue to state
agencies.”  Fish Kills Limited  Existing facilities using more than 2 million gallons of
water a day must limit the number fish killed, or slow the pace
of water pulled into cooling systems, which lets fish swim away.
A facility drawing in at least 125 million gallons a day must
develop “site-specific” controls, the EPA said.  Plants that add electrical generation at an existing site
would be required to install technology equivalent to a
“closed-cycle” system that reuses water. A closed cycle
typically refers to cooling towers, according to the EPA.  The EPA’s proposal follows rules issued in 2004 by
President  George W. Bush ’s EPA. Those standards, the first
national cooling water rules for existing plants, were suspended
by the EPA three years later amid litigation. The Bush rules
didn’t require a “closed cycle” cooling tower approach the
agency had previously mandated for new plants.  Some plants, such as Entergy’s Indian Point, use “once
through” systems, which take in water directly and then spew it
back out at higher temperatures.  Bush’s EPA said closed-cycle systems would be unduly
expensive and that other technologies would achieve close to the
same results.  In a victory for industry, the  Supreme Court  ruled in 2009
that the EPA may balance business costs against benefits in
deciding whether to impose the new requirements on power plants,
overturning a lower court decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  