-- 
Radiation Physicist Higley Says Nuclear Plant Likely Leaked Fuel

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-03-29T03:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/radiation-physicist-higley-says-nuclear-plant-likely-leaked-fuel.html
Kathryn Higley, a radiation health
physicist at  Oregon State University  in Corvallis,  Oregon ,
comments on radiation from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s damaged
nuclear power plant in northeastern  Japan .  Higley, who has worked on reactors and inspected nuclear
power plants for emergency preparedness, spoke in a telephone
interview today.  On rising levels of radiation around the plant:  “It’s very likely they have had fuel damage; they have
released what are called the volatile radio nuclides -- the
cesium and iodine that probably came out in those steam
releases. Those are things that turn to gas in modest
temperatures.  ‘‘They were pumping water into the core, into the
containment building. If you have any damage to the fuel, you
are likely to be spreading some of that around.’’  Some radioactive cesium and iodine precipitates that
weren’t emitted from the reactor in steam may wash into water
being used to cool the reactor core, she said.  ‘‘You mix that with water and it shouldn’t be a surprise to
anybody that within that plant there’s going to be a lot of
contaminated water.  ‘‘As they start getting in there to try to remove the
liquid, you’re probably going to see some localized spreading of
contamination and maybe some puff releases if things are
pressurized.  ‘‘I haven’t yet seen evidence of plutonium and such outside
of the plant. It wouldn’t surprise me when they start spraying
stuff through the reactor system that they are moving bits of
fuel into containment and possibly on the plant site.”  On levels of radioactive iodine in tap water in Tokyo:  “It dropped back down and they said keep young kids away
from it. But it’s down in safe levels.  ‘‘We know that kids’ thyroids are on overdrive and they’re
more radio sensitive simply because they’re younger.  ‘‘Unless you start your fission up again, they have
probably released most of the volatile material when they had
those original ventings.  ‘‘It bears watching over the next week or so, but if it
continues dropping, I wouldn’t expect to see any more elevated
concentrations.’’  On whether the plant can be repaired:  ‘‘When they made the decision to pump seawater in there,
they pretty much decided those plants were done. There’s concern
that the high temperature load may have deposited salt in the
lines and done some corrosion. It’s not going to be practical”
to repair the plant.  “There will need, more than likely, to be some sort of
stabilization close in on the surfaces because you just want to
keep the cesium largely from spreading any further.  ‘‘You are probably going to see so many people aching to
try their brand-new decontamination techniques to strip stuff
off buildings. This will probably be a research park for the
next 20 years.  ‘‘There’s been huge development in techniques for
decontamination as people keep expecting RDDs (radiological
dispersal devices or dirty bombs) to happen. So the military has
been coming up with lots of technologies to clean up. It
wouldn’t surprise me if everyone wants to try their strippable
coating and dry surfactants on buildings around the plant to
help clean it up.’’  On entombing the plant:  ‘‘They’ve got to make sure that the cores are stable --
that’s a tricky thing. They may find that the simplest thing is
to entomb it and walk away from it for a few years. But they’re
going to be very cognizant of the fact they could have another
earthquake so any structure they put they will want to be robust
enough to not cause another problem. It’s not a simple matter of
pumping concrete in there and walking away. You don’t want to
have a new little reactor cooking under the concrete you’re not
aware of.”  On the plant’s future prospects:  “They’re going to make decisions on an acre-by-acre basis
as to what’s going to happen to these facilities. The area
around Chernobyl (in Ukraine, where a nuclear power disaster
occurred in 1986) is now a nature park. When you move 100,000
people out of an area, nature does pretty well.  ‘‘There certainly are going to have to be some decisions as
to what they can do. All over the world people live in areas
that are naturally radioactive.  ‘‘You have to be really careful what you do because
sometimes you can make problems worse by trying to do some of
the surface remediation. They may find they are simply better
off letting the cesium move down into the soil. It depends on
the soil they have got there. And decay in places might be the
most cost-effective technology. They will have a bit of time to
sit back and think about it.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Tokyo at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  