-- 
Transneft May Delay $4.2 Billion Arctic Oil Link to Asia, Europe

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 
2011-03-29T10:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/transneft-may-delay-4-2-billion-arctic-oil-link-to-asia-europe.html
OAO Transneft,  Russia ’s oil
pipeline operator, may delay construction of a link connecting
Arctic oil fields to  Europe  and Asia-bound networks until 2016
because of disagreements over financing.  Transneft has yet to agree on transit rates and volume
guarantees with co-investors, including OAO Lukoil, OAO Gazprom
Neft and TNK-BP, which may hold up plans for the 120 billion-
ruble ($4.2 billion) Zapolyarye-Purpe pipeline, Igor Dyomin, a
spokesman for the Moscow-based operator, said today by phone.  Zapolyarye, the Siberian region above the Arctic Circle,
contains billions of barrels of oil resources, which Russian
plans to tap to compensate for declines in traditional, more
southerly fields, from which links extend to  Asia  and Europe.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has called for Russian output to
remain at 10 million barrels a day for at least a decade.  The first phase of the Arctic link was scheduled to start
pumping oil in 2013, according to Transneft’s website.  Transneft has sought to fund the Zapolyarye-Purpe project
by selling about $2.12 billion worth of shares in a unit that
would build and operate the pipeline, to oil companies
developing fields in the region, Dyomin said. The venture would
borrow the other half of the project’s estimated cost, he said.  Transneft would then use its portion of the transportation
fees charged by the unit to buy out the partners, he said.  The  oil companies  have balked at the proposed tariffs and
declined to provide financial guarantees for planned volumes,
Dyomin said. Such guarantees aren’t common in Russia, he said.  Lukoil, TNK-BP and Gazprom Neft press officials all said
talks were continuing and declined to elaborate.  The operator may be able to build the link on its own after
it pays debt due in 2013 to 2015, Dyomin said. Transneft has
accumulated $19.2 billion of debt, according to Bloomberg data,
as it constructs the East Siberian Pacific Ocean pipeline and
other new links.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 