-- 
Treasuries Drop on Federal Reserve View After $35 Billion Five-Year Sale

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-29T21:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/treasuries-drop-on-federal-reserve-view-after-35-billion-five-year-sale.html
Treasuries tumbled and the U.S.
paid the highest yields in almost a year at a government debt
auction for a second day as the St. Louis Federal Reserve’s
president reiterated that the central bank may need to trim back
bond purchases with the economy strengthening.  Yields on five-year notes climbed for a ninth day in the
longest losing streak since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008 as the Treasury paid the highest yield at a
five-year debt auction since April 2010.  James Bullard  of the
St. Louis Fed said in Prague today that the central bank may
need to cut about $100 billion from its $600 billion plan to buy
Treasuries through June under what’s become known as its policy
of quantitative easing.  “The auction was not very good,” said  Michael Franzese ,
managing director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in New York. “There are not many takers coming
into the market. People don’t know what the Fed is going to do.
The market’s in a state of confusion.”  Yields on existing five-year notes climbed five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.23 percent at 4:59 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
2.125 percent security maturing in February 2016 dropped 7/32,
or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 17/32.  Two-year note yields gained as much seven basis points to
0.82 percent, the highest level since Feb. 17. Five-year note
yields touched 2.24 percent, the highest since March 4.  Bullard’s View  While attending a financial conference in  Prague , Bullard
told reporters that if uncertainties in the global economy are
resolved, “we could pull up a little bit shy of our total of
$600 billion,” adding that “it could be on the order of $100
billion less than what we initially thought.”  Bullard, who has rotated this year into a nonvoting
position with the Fed, said three days ago “the economy is
looking pretty good” and that policy makers should consider an
early end to their program of debt buying.  Traders have increased bets that policy makers will raise
borrowing costs at its January meeting. Fed funds futures showed
a 53 percent chance of an increase in the target lending rate,
compared with 43 percent odds a week ago. The Fed has kept its
benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “You have to be a little concerned about demand for
Treasuries,” said Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $6
billion as co-head of government and mortgage-backed securities
at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh. “It does seem like the
market is nervous about rates moving higher.”  Bernanke Outlook  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication that
the central bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through
June to spur economic growth and reduce the 8.9 percent
unemployment rate.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday that
high unemployment and low  core inflation  mean that the record
monetary support is still necessary. Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  said “slow progress” in lowering unemployment
“and underlying inflation trends that are too low lead me to
conclude that substantial policy accommodation continues to be
appropriate.”  The central bank bought $1.568 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities maturing from July 2017 to
February 2041 today.  “As we wrap up the first quarter, one thing weighing on
the minds of market participants and investors is to what degree
is the Fed committed to completing its asset purchases,” said
 Richard Bryant , head of Treasury trading in New York at MF
Global Holdings Ltd., one of 20 primary dealers that are obliged
to participate in  U.S. debt  sales.  U.S. Debt Losses  Treasuries were on course for a second straight quarterly
drop on speculation the global economic recovery will withstand
 Japan ’s nuclear turmoil,  Libya ’s military conflict and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  U.S. debt has lost 0.1 percent since Dec. 31 after a 2.7
percent decline in the fourth quarter, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  At the $35 billion five-year sale, the notes drew a yield
of 2.260 percent, higher than the average forecast of 2.246
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.79,
matching the average for the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42.4 percent of the notes, compared
with the 10-sale average of 40.9 percent.  Note Auctions  The offering is the second of three note auctions this week
totaling $99 billion. The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-year
debt yesterday and is scheduled to offer $29 billion of seven-
year notes tomorrow.  The Treasury market may be poised for a fall as speculative
derivative traders raised bets to a five-month high last week on
higher government debt prices, according to Lloyds TSB Bank Plc.  Non-commercial net longs, held by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators, are the most since October, when the 10-year
Treasury yield set a 2010 low of 2.38 percent and began to rise
as the Fed started the second round of quantitative easing. A
long position is a bet that an asset will increase in value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  