-- 
U.S. 5-to-30-Year Yield Spread Narrows as Bullard Says Fed May Trim Buying

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-30T10:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/treasury-five-year-notes-snap-8-day-drop-on-speculation-home-prices-fell.html
The difference between five- and
30-year Treasury yields fell to a 6 1/2-month low before a
report forecast to show U.S. employment rose, stoking bets the
 Federal Reserve  will end its asset-purchase program.  Ten-year yields advanced to a three-week high before an ADP
Employer Services report that will show employers added 208,000
jobs in March, following a 217,000 increase a month earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The Federal
Reserve may need to trim about $100 billion from its $600
billion Treasury-purchase program amid growing signs of an
economic recovery, St. Louis President  James Bullard  said at a
conference in  Prague  yesterday. Five-year yields jumped to the
highest in a year at an auction yesterday.  “There’s a very adverse cocktail of factors weighing on
Treasuries at the moment; improving risk appetite, concern about
what will happen when the Fed purchases end, hawkish comments by
certain Fed members and a poor auction result yesterday,” said
Christopher Rieger, a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “The outlook for Treasuries is bearish and yields
are likely to rise as the  U.S. economy  recovers. Today’s ADP
data will probably add to the upside risk in yields.”  The spread or yield difference between five- and 30-year
U.S. debt narrowed to 2.29 percentage points, the least since
Sept. 10. Five-year yields were little changed at 2.26 percent
as of 11:36 a.m. in London, while 30-year rates were at
4.55 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Losing Streak  Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 3.5 percent. The price of
the 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 was 101 1/16.
Five-year notes fell for a 10th day in the longest losing streak
since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.
The U.S. paid the highest yield at a sale of five-year notes
since April 2010 following Bullard’s comments that the Fed’s
Treasury-purchase program may end early.  “If the economy is as strong as I think and hope it will
be in 2011, I think it will be time for us to start to reverse
our ultra-aggressive and ultra-easy monetary policy,” Bullard
said. “We could pull up a little bit shy of our total.”  Bullard’s view differs from those of at least three other
Fed regional bank leaders who yesterday urged completion of the
purchases. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said reports
showing a more sustainable recovery don’t justify reducing
support, while Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said high
unemployment makes Fed aid necessary. The Atlanta Fed’s  Dennis Lockhart  reiterated he expects purchases to run their course.  Yield Curve  Evans votes on monetary policy this year, while Bullard and
Rosengren don’t, according to the Fed’s  website .  The bank focuses its buying on the middle of the so-called
yield curve after announcing in November it would purchase $600
billion of debt by June 30. The U.S. is scheduled to sell seven-
year securities today.  “The middle of the curve implies a risk that the Fed will
change its stance,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $104.4 billion as an investor in  Tokyo  at Daiwa
Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest
brokerage. “The long end is attractive.”  Notes maturing in 5 1/2 years to 10 years account for 46
percent of the Fed’s purchases, the largest component, according
to the central bank’s  website .  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to 2.48
percentage points from 1.82 percentage points six months ago.  Quarterly Loss  Treasuries headed for a quarterly decline as the U.S.
economy showed signs of improvement. The U.S. unemployment rate
held at 8.9 percent in March, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department reports
the figure on April 1. The rate fell below 9 percent in February
for the first time in 22 months.  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.3 percent
loss, while an index of bonds around the world fell 0.1 percent,
based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The MSCI All
Country World Index of stocks returned 3.4 percent in the
period.  The seven-year debt being sold today yielded 2.90 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.854 percent at the
previous sale of the maturity on Feb. 24.  Investors bid for 2.86 times the amount offered last month,
compared with an average of 2.90 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders purchased 49.7 percent of the debt. Direct
bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own accounts,
bought 4.5 percent, the least since October 2009.  Note yields, which track what the Fed does with its target
for overnight lending because of their shorter maturities, are
also rising as traders increase bets on higher rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net 
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  