-- 
Treasury Five-Year Yields Approach Three-Week High Before $35 Billion Sale

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-29T14:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/treasury-five-year-yield-approaches-three-week-high-before-debt-auction.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing
five-year note yields up for a ninth day in the longest stretch
of advances since April 2008, on speculation a $35 billion sale
of the debt will draw weak demand.  Yields approached a three-week high as Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said the central bank may
be able to cut about $100 billion from its plan to buy
Treasuries. The U.S. sold two-year securities yesterday at the
highest yield in almost a year on concern the Fed may consider
ending its program of quantitative easing earlier than planned.  “People are talking about the possibility that the Fed may
change its tone,” said  David Ader , head of government bond
strategy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at CRT Capital Group LLC.
“The hint is in the air that we could be facing a shift in the
language.”  Yields on five-year notes climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.20 percent at 10:50 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
security maturing in February 2016 dropped 2/32, or 63 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 21/32.  Five-year note yields touched 2.22 percent yesterday, the
highest level since March 8. Yields on two-year notes increased
one basis point to 0.80 percent today, while 30-year bond yields
climbed two basis points to 4.52 percent. The difference between
yields on two- and 30-year debt dropped to 3.72 percentage
points, the narrowest since December.  S&P Ratings Cuts  Treasuries briefly pared their drop after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the ratings of  Portugal  and Greece, highlighting concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may slow the global recovery.
Portugal’s rating was lowered to BBB-, the lowest investment
grade, while  Greece  was cut to BB-.  The five-year notes being sold by the U.S. Treasury today
yielded 2.230 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with
2.190 percent at the prior sale Feb. 23. Indirect bidders, which
include foreign central banks, bought 34.2 percent, compared
with an average of 40.9 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Recent remarks by several regional bank presidents have
highlighted the difference of views that has emerged since the
Fed’s March 15 meeting, when policy makers kept in place the
$600 billion plan while concluding the recovery is on “a firmer
footing” and the labor market is “improving gradually.”  If uncertainties in the global economy are resolved, “we
could pull up a little bit shy of our total of $600 billion,”
Bullard told reporters while attending a financial conference in
Prague.  “I think it could be on the order of $100 billion less
than what we initially thought.”  ‘Pretty Good’  Bullard said three days ago “the economy is looking pretty
good” and that policy makers should consider an early end to
their Treasury securities-purchase program through June.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday that
high unemployment and low  core inflation  mean that the record
monetary support is still necessary. Chicago Fed President
Charles Evans said “slow progress” in lowering unemployment
“and underlying inflation trends that are too low lead me to
conclude that substantial policy accommodation continues to be
appropriate.”  The Fed is scheduled to buy $1 billion to $2 billion of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities maturing from April 2013
to February 2041 today.  Treasuries were on course for a second-straight quarterly
drop as employment improved and stocks rose. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has gained 4.2 percent this year.  U.S. government debt  has handed investors a 0.1 percent
loss since Dec. 31 after a 2.7 percent reduction in the fourth
quarter, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  unemployment rate  held at 8.9 percent in March,
economists said before the Labor Department reports the figure
on April 1. The jobless rate fell below 9 percent in February
for the first time in 22 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  