-- 
Republicans Push Bills to Wind Down Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-29T19:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/republicans-planning-bills-to-wind-down-fannie-mae-freddie-mac.html
U.S.  House Republicans  proposed
legislation that would begin reducing the influence of
government-run mortgage companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  The measures would wind down the firms in phases as policy
makers work on a broader overhaul of the mortgage market. The
proposed legislation would cut the value of the companies’
combined $1.5 trillion loan portfolio, raise the fees they
charge to guarantee loans and reduce  executive compensation .  The bills “represent immediate steps that Congress can
take to begin building a stable housing finance system based on
private capital rather than guarantees provided by the
taxpayer,” according to a Republican staff memo circulated last
night to committee members.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican and
chairman of the capital markets panel of the House Financial
Services Committee, is leading the effort. Most of the
Republican proposals line up with a list of recommendations put
forth in February by the Treasury Department and the Department
of Housing and Urban Development. Garrett’s panel will hold a
hearing on March 31 on the proposals.  When it comes to the Treasury, “at the end of the day, we
have the same ultimate goal to achieve here,” Garrett said at a
press conference today. “If you look through their white paper,
if you look at what we have, in essence we’re on the same
page.”  First Round  The proposals mark the first round of measures aimed at
incremental changes to  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, Garrett said.
In the weeks ahead, the panel will likely introduce other
legislation designed to chip away at the government’s
involvement in the firms.  “We’ll be looking at doing other rounds as we go forward
and get these bills under our belts,” Garrett said.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican who is
the chairman of Financial Services, introduced a bill that would
place the employees of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have
been run by the federal government since 2008, under the
government’s compensation structure. The measure would also
express the sense of Congress that the 2010 pay packages of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac senior executives should be returned
to the government.  Any legislation that cleared the Republican-controlled
House would need approval by the Democrat-dominated Senate and
President Barack Obama.  $154 Billion  Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac have been sustained by $154 billion in Treasury
funds since they were seized in September 2008. The two
government-sponsored enterprises own or guarantee more than half
of U.S. mortgages.  Representatives  Jeb Hensarling  and Randy Neugebauer, Texas
Republicans who serve as the vice chairman and chairman of the
Financial Services investigations subcommittee respectively,
introduced bills limiting the portfolios of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac and increasing the guarantee fees the companies
require to insure mortgages. Hensarling’s bill would require the
firms to cap their portfolios at no more than $700 billion in
the first year, $600 billion in the second year and eventually
down to $250 billion by the fifth year.  Neugebauer’s measure would require Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac to require higher guarantee fees over the next two years and
direct its regulator to consider the state of the housing market
as the higher fees are instituted.  Among provisions in the other bills are those that would
require the Treasury to approve any new debt issuance by the
companies and prohibit new business activities while they are
under conservatorship or receivership.  “Our strategy is the same that it’s always been on Fannie
and Freddie, and that’s to end government involvement and shift
our mortgage market to the private market,” Bachus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 