-- 
Retired NFL Players Sue League Claiming Antitrust Violations Over Lockout

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-29T22:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/retired-nfl-players-sue-league-claiming-antitrust-violations-over-lockout.html
Four former  National Football
League  players sued the league claiming it conspired to limit
the ability of players to competitively sell their services in
violation of U.S. antitrust laws.  The players, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in St. Paul, Minnesota, seek an order declaring illegal a
league-wide player lockout. They also request an injunction
preventing owners from withholding “contractually-owed
amounts” to players under contract for the 2011 season and
beyond, including retirement and health benefits.  “The NFL defendants possess monopoly power in the market
for major league professional football in the United States,”
according to the players. They allege the teams are engaging in
illegal group boycotts and price fixing.  The lawsuit, brought by retired  Minnesota  Vikings defensive
lineman Carl Eller, ex-Kansas City Chiefs running back Priest Holmes and two other players is the second to accuse the league
of antitrust violations since negotiations on a new collective-
bargaining agreement collapsed on March 11 in a dispute over how
to divide $9 billion in annual revenue.  The NFL Players Association said that day that it would no
longer function as a union and quarterbacks  Tom Brady  of the  New
England Patriots , Drew Brees of the New Orleans Saints and
 Peyton Manning  of the  Indianapolis Colts  filed the initial 10-
player suit in St. Paul seeking an order preventing the owners
from declaring a lockout.  The owners announced a lockout later that day, shutting
down the most-watched and most-lucrative U.S. sport.  Mediation Sought  In a March 21 filing with U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul , team owners argued that the court had no
jurisdiction over the dispute and that it should be resolved by
National Labor Relations Board mediation.  “The jurisdictional bar applies as long as this case
‘involves or grows out of’ a labor dispute, a test that is
clearly satisfied here,” according to the owners’ filing.  Nelson has set an April 6 hearing date to consider the
quarterbacks’ bid to lift the lockout. The Eller case was
assigned to U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle.  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the New York-based NFL, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on the
Eller case.  The retired players’ case is Eller v. National Football
League, 11cv748, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St.
Paul). The quarterbacks’ case is Brady v. National Football
League, 11cv00639, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  