-- 
RHI Entertainment Reorganization Plan Is Approved by Judge in New York

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-29T20:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/rhi-entertainment-reorganization-plan-is-approved-by-judge-1-.html
RHI Entertainment Inc. (RHIEQ) , the
bankrupt developer of made-for-television movies, won court
approval of its reorganization plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein at a hearing today
in  Manhattan  said he will sign an order confirming the Chapter
11 plan, allowing RHI to end its bankruptcy case less than four
months after filing. RHI will exit bankruptcy as soon as
financing agreements are made final, company lawyers said.  “This is a great day for RHI,” Chief Executive Officer
Robert Halmi Jr., whose father founded the company, said in a
statement. “We are cleared to emerge from Chapter 11 with a
strengthened balance sheet.”  RHI filed for Chapter 11 protection in December, citing an
inability to “license new movies and mini-series at prices that
would cover the production and debt costs.” Because creditors
approved RHI’s reorganization before the Chapter 11 filing, the
New York-based company was able to combine into one hearing
approval of both the plan and the disclosure statement
explaining it.  “This is not a business that flourishes the longer it’s in
Chapter 11,” D.J. Baker, a lawyer for RHI, told the judge.
“Many of our customers stopped doing business with us after we
filed.”  Baker said the process went swiftly in part because the
company spent about a year before the filing negotiating with
its creditors.  Trustee’s Objection  The last remaining objection to the plan was resolved
before the hearing, Baker said. That was from the U.S. trustee,
who is appointed by the U.S. Justice Department to oversee
Chapter 11 cases.  The company will leave bankruptcy with $340 million in
secured debt, reduced from about $600 million, according to
court filings. Holders of $569 million in first-lien claims will
receive a new $300 million  term loan  and 58.4 percent of the
company’s newly issued stock.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the principal secured lender, will
provide RHI with $25 million in exit financing. Other investors,
including Riva Ridge Capital, Caspian Capital Partners LP and
Catalyst Fund Limited Partnership II, will supply an additional
$15 million. Those other investors will receive as much as 25.5
percent of the new shares.  RHI sought the additional exit financing because of
“concern over liquidity” once the company emerged from Chapter
11, Baker said.  Second-Lien Claims  Holders of about $82.6 million in second-lien claims would
receive 1 percent of the new shares and warrants to acquire as
much as 15 percent of the stock.  The company listed assets of $524.7 million and liabilities
of $834.1 million when it filed for court protection.  RHI typically distributes its movies to networks such as
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC. The company has a
library of more than 1,000 made-for-TV films and miniseries,
including “Black Swarm” and “Dragonsteel.”  RHI rose 1.9 percent to 2 cents at 3:59 p.m. in over-the-
counter trading. Existing stock will be wiped out when the
company emerges from bankruptcy and new shares are issued.  The case is In re RHI Entertainment Inc., 10-16536,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  