-- 
Ricky Ponting Backs Michael Clarke as Australia Captain After Leaving Post

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-29T14:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ricky-ponting-steps-downs-as-australia-s-cricket-captain-will-play-on.html
Australia ’s cricket team will enter
a new era today when a new captain is appointed to replace  Ricky Ponting , who quit the role after its World Cup exit.  Ponting, 36, stepped down as Test and one-day skipper
yesterday following last week’s quarterfinal loss to  India ,
ending his record-breaking nine-year run. He said he wants to
continue as a specialist batsman in both teams and backed
Michael Clarke, his deputy, to take over as captain.  “I totally think that’s the way that it will go, for the
sheer fact that he’s done a terrific job in almost every game
that he’s had a chance to captain Australia,” Ponting told
reporters in Sydney. “He’s certainly growing into those
leadership roles every day so I totally would endorse  Michael
Clarke  as the next captain.”  Selectors are scheduled to name a squad today for three
one-day games in Bangladesh next month, with Cricket Australia’s
board having yesterday considered a recommendation from chairman
of selectors  Andrew Hilditch  on Ponting’s successor.  Should Clarke get the job, he’ll replace a captain who won
48 of 77 Tests, more than any other skipper in 134 years of
elite cricket. Ponting also led Australia to the 2003 and 2007
World Cup titles and won more than three-quarters of his 228
one-day matches as captain.  Middle-order batsman Clarke led Australia in January’s
fifth Ashes Test against  England  in Sydney, which the home team
lost by an innings and 83 runs. Ponting missed the match because
of a finger injury.  ‘Hot Candidate’  Clarke, who turns 30 in three days, had previously
captained the Twenty20 team. He’s also deputized for Ponting in
the one-day format.  “Obviously Michael Clarke will be a very hot candidate,”
 Michael Brown ,  Cricket Australia ’s general manager of cricket,
told reporters yesterday.  The winner in more Tests and one-day games both as a player
and captain than any other Australian cricketer, Ponting also
has overseen the team’s slide from first to fifth in the
 International Cricket Council ’s Test  rankings .  His leadership came under scrutiny following the 3-1 series
defeat to England during the past Australian summer. It was
Australia’s first Ashes loss at home for 24 years and made
Ponting the only Australian captain to lose three Ashes series.  “There probably are a few people out there who will look
at me in that light,” Ponting said. “It’s funny how we talk
about losing the Ashes three times -- playing in three World
Cup-winning teams, winning 16 consecutive Test matches, winning
30-odd consecutive  World Cup  games doesn’t come up very often.”  Century Maker  Defeat to India last week ended Australia’s bid to win its
fourth straight World Cup. Ponting emerged from a batting slump
in that match by hitting 104 -- his first international century
for 13 months.  His 12,363 runs at an average of 53.51 place him second
behind India’s Sachin Tendulkar on the  all-time list  of Test run
scorers. In 359 one-day internationals, he’s tallied 13,288 runs
at 42.58. Only Tendulkar and  Sri Lanka ’s Sanath Jayasuriya have
scored more career runs in the 50-over format.  Ponting said he can still make a positive contribution to
the team as a senior player and batsman and would have no
problem playing under a new captain.  “I’ll be sitting in the corner,” Ponting said. “I’ll be
doing my batting and bowling and fielding out on the ground like
everyone else and I’m around for advice if needed.”  Following the tour to  Bangladesh , Australia is scheduled to
visit Sri Lanka and  South Africa  for Test and one-day series.  “The timing was absolutely perfect,” Ponting added. “I’m
very happy with the decision I’ve made and it will give the next
captain a great opportunity to put his fingertips on the
Australian cricket team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  