-- 
Rio Tinto Is Said to Discuss Acquiring Riversdale Shares From Brazil's CSN

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-03-29T16:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/rio-tinto-is-said-to-discuss-acquiring-riversdale-shares-from-brazil-s-csn.html
Rio Tinto Group, seeking to buy
 Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV)  for A$3.9 billion ($4 billion), is in
talks to acquire shares in the coal company from  Cia Siderurgica
Nacional SA (CSNA3) , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  They declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. CSN, as the Brazilian steelmaker is known, owns 19.9
percent of Sydney-based Riversdale, while  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  owns
27 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It wasn’t
clear how many shares Rio would buy from CSN.  Rio, still about 9 percent short of a controlling stake,
confirmed it’s in talks with a major shareholder after
Riversdale halted its shares from trading today in Sydney,
citing Rio’s notification that discussions were taking place.
Gaining control of Riversdale’s projects in  Mozambique  would
boost Rio’s reserves of steelmaking coal as prices double.  CSN intends to remain a shareholder in Riversdale, Chief
Financial Officer Paulo Penido said on a conference call with
analysts today. “We recognize that we need an operating partner
of quality.  Rio Tinto  is an operating partner of quality.”  Tata’s Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said Feb. 21 his
company wanted to retain its stake in Riversdale. Prabhat Sharma, a spokesman for the Mumbai-based company, declined to
comment today on whether it was in talks with Rio.  Unconditional Bid  Rio, based in London, now owns 41.04 percent of its target
and today declared the bid unconditional, revising the terms to
enable payment of A$16.50 a share should the company raise its
stake beyond 47 percent by April 6. Rio said March 10 it would
increase its offer to A$16.50 from A$16 should more than half of
Riversdale holders accept the proposal.  If CSN and Tata won’t sell out, Rio is likely to keep its
minority interest, Peter Rudd, mining and resources research
manager at Armytage Private Ltd., told Susan Li on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up” program. “Maybe subsequently there’s
a share issue and they’d be able to take up their entitlement
and maybe underwrite a shortfall and therefore increase their
involvement. That’s very speculative.”  Rio, which has indicated it would be prepared to remain a
non-majority shareholder in Riversdale, climbed 2 percent to
4,366 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London  trading. The stock
earlier rose 0.6 percent to A$82.28 in Sydney. Riversdale closed
yesterday at A$16.10.  Prices Drive M&A  Coal producers are being targeted as prices gain, forcing
companies to spend more on acquisitions to secure reserves in
nations from  Australia  to Mozambique as rising demand in  China 
and the developing world drives up valuations.  A record $30 billion in deals may be completed in the coal
industry this year as acquirers pay an average 33 percent
premium, the highest in at least a decade and double the
historical average, according to Bloomberg data.  Rio’s lawyers Minter Ellison said today that Rio remains in
talks with one of Riversdale’s major shareholders and
“genuinely believes that an outcome of those discussions is
likely to emerge during the course of this morning.” Rio would
make an announcement on the offer if that shareholder didn’t
issue a statement, according to a letter lodged with the
Australian Stock Exchange by Riversdale.  “No revelation regarding either CSN or Tata was made
today,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note to investors. “The
response from Rio to make the offer unconditional could suggest
that either the discussions broke down, or have been delayed.”  Coal Supply  Tata in 2007 signed a A$100 million joint venture agreement
with Riversdale, giving it a 35 percent stake in its Benga
project as well as 40 percent of the operation’s coking-coal
output. CSN only holds shares in the company.  Tata or CSN, which have both increased their stakes in
Riversdale since the offer opened, may seek to negotiate coking-
coal supply before agreeing to sell to Rio, said  Peter Chilton ,
who helps manage the equivalent of about $1 billion at
Constellation Capital Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Supply is
probably the most important thing.”  Karen Halbert, a Rio spokeswoman, said the company is “in
discussions,” declining to comment further when contacted by
phone in  Melbourne .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 