-- 
Rising Corn Acreage Seen Failing to Meet Increased U.S. Feed, Ethanol Use

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-29T09:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/rising-corn-acreage-seen-failing-to-meet-increased-u-s-feed-ethanol-use.html
U.S. corn planting will expand to
cover the second-largest area since World War II this year and
still fail to meet demand for feed and ethanol, driving prices
to their highest in at least 34 years.  Sowing will expand by 4 percent to about 91.75 million
acres, the most since 2007 and the second-highest since 1944,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 32 analysts. Corn will rise
5.7 percent to average $7.15 a bushel in the third quarter, the
most since at least 1977, Abah Ofon and Koun-Ken Lee, analysts
at Standard Chartered Bank in  Singapore , wrote in a report.  A United Nations index that tracks the cost of 55 foods
rose to a record in February, with higher prices contributing to
riots in the Middle East and northern  Africa  that toppled
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . That’s driving up inflation and
spurring central banks to consider higher  interest rates  that
may slow global growth.  “We will have inadequate acreage, which without
spectacularly favorable weather, will usher in a significant
food shortage” in some parts of the world, said Doug Jackson, a
 West Des Moines , Iowa-based vice president at INTL FCStone Inc.
“Demand is outrunning normal production expansion, led by
biofuel policy,” said Jackson, who has been a grain  analyst 
since 1974.  Animal-feed use is being driven by record prices for cattle
and hogs, and biofuel demand is forecast by the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  to increase by more than 8 percent. The agency
releases a forecast on planting intentions on March 31.  Ethanol Production  In the year ending Aug. 31, about 40 percent of the corn
crop will be used to produce ethanol, the USDA predicts.
Refiners get a tax credit of 45 cents for every gallon of
ethanol blended into gasoline. Since Oct. 1, the price of the
fuel has jumped 45 percent on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Corn jumped 89 percent in the past 12 months and traded at
$6.7675 as of 3:40 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.  The price of wholesale beef in the U.S. rose to a record
last week, while the number of cattle in feedlots climbed 5
percent on March 1 from a year earlier. Wholesale pork jumped 33
percent in the past 12 months, and producers expanded the
breeding herd by 0.5 percent on March 1 from a year earlier.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
prices has climbed 62 percent in the past 12 months on a total-
return basis. Last year, flooding in  Canada ,  China  and  Australia 
and drought in Russia and  Europe  hurt crops from cotton to
wheat.  Grains Council  World grain markets face “continued tightness” as record
production probably won’t be sufficient to make up for rising
demand, the International Grains Council said on March 24.  U.S. soybean acres may fall 0.8 percent to 76.786 million,
a three-year low, according to the Bloomberg survey. Planting of
spring and winter wheat may rise 6.8 percent to 57.239 million
acres, and the area sown with cotton may increase 20 percent
after prices more than doubled in the past year.  Surging corn prices will boost returns on high-productivity
farmland in central  Illinois  by $189 an acre over soybeans, Gary Schnitkey, an agricultural economist at the  University of
Illinois  in Urbana, said in a  report . The average premium was
$48 from 2004 through 2010.  Soybeans for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to $13.5625 a
bushel today in  Chicago  trading. The oilseed has climbed 40
percent in the past 12 months.  Acreage Projections  The USDA’s acreage projections are based on a survey of
farmer intentions in early March. In the past 20 years, the
tally has overestimated the corn acreage 60 percent of the time
and underestimated soybeans in 13 years,  USDA data  show.  Wet spring weather can delay corn planting. Farmers need
warm, dry weather in April to make sure the crop is planted
before May 10 in the Midwest to avoid yield losses from heat in
July and August and possible frost damage in September.  Some farmers may shift to soybeans, rather than risk a
late-developing corn crop. The outlook for prices will also
determine acreage, said  Jerry Gidel , a market analyst at North
American Risk Management Services Inc. in Chicago.  “The idea of diversification also remains a strong factor
with producers who like to separate their marketing risk between
crops because of weather and world economic issues,” Gidel
said. “Many times, producers don’t always make every farming
decision based upon the highest economic returns that might be
available at the time of planting.”  In a separate report on March 31, the government will say
U.S. corn inventories on March 1 probably fell to the lowest for
the date since 2007, while soybean supplies rose from a year
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of as many as 22
analysts. Wheat inventories probably climbed to the highest
since 2000, according to the survey.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, with a 2010 value of $66.7
billion, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government
figures show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick McKiernan  in  New York  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 