-- 
Dodd-Frank Mortgage Risk-Retention Rule May Reinforce Role of Fannie Mae

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/risk-retention-rule-may-increase-government-s-mortgage-role.html
Just as the Obama administration
seeks to reduce the government’s role in housing, reliance on
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac may be reinforced by a rule growing
out of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal Reserve
yesterday released for public comment a proposed rule requiring
lenders and bond issuers to keep a stake in some home loans they
securitize.  The proposal would require securitizers to retain as much
as 5 percent of an issue if it is based on mortgages whose
borrowers have imperfect credit and make down payments of less
than 20 percent.  The rule includes a key exemption from those standards:
Lenders could avoid keeping a share in riskier mortgages if they
get them insured by federal agencies or sell them to Fannie Mae
and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored enterprises now under
U.S. conservatorship.  The GSEs and the  Federal Housing Administration  own or
insure more than 96 percent of home loans now being originated.
Making their loans exempt from the rule would maintain the
government as the main holder of mortgage-market risk, said
Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial
Analytics in Washington.  “If finalized as proposed, which we doubt, the regulation
would memorialize U.S. mortgage finance in the hands of Fannie,
Freddie and the FHA,” Petrou said. “So much for all the talk
about bringing back private capital.”  Biggest Beneficiaries  If the housing market recovers and private capital becomes
available for mortgages, the rule’s biggest beneficiaries could
be the largest lenders, including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Large institutions can more easily afford to hold
loans on their books. Community banks, which generally need to
sell their loans in order to keep originating new mortgages,
would find it harder to meet the new standard if they couldn’t
get government backing for riskier loans.  The risk-retention rule is mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul and is designed to prevent the shoddy
underwriting practices that fueled the housing bubble.  During the debate on the Dodd-Frank bill last year, some
housing interest groups applauded the amendment allowing
exceptions for qualified residential mortgages, or QRMs,
assuming that regulators would carve out many if not most home
loans. Some said today they weren’t expecting the regulators to
set such a high bar. Senator Kay Hagan, a North Carolina
Democrat who sponsored the amendment, said regulators went too
far when they defined a qualified mortgage as one with a 20
percent down payment.  The rule reflects the wishes of some of the largest banks,
which lobbied for the 20 percent because it would have
relatively little effect on their ability to originate
mortgages. The  Mortgage Bankers Association  and small banks had
been pushing for a more flexible down-payment threshold.  Winding Down  The proposed rule was released as the Obama administration
and Congress are considering plans to wind down Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, and possibly replace them with a different entity.
The exemption would continue under a new government mortgage
entity as long as there was a federal guarantee.  The Securities and Exchange Commission, the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  and other regulators are preparing to consider
the risk-retention rule this week. Battle lines already are
forming among participants in the mortgage market.  Groups including small banks expressed relief that the rule
wouldn’t prevent them from continuing to sell most of their
loans to government-backed agencies.  ‘Minimal Impact’  “We’re very glad to see that the regulators are proposing
to exempt loans sold to Fannie and Freddie,” said Ann M.
Grochala, vice president of lending and accounting policy at the
 Independent Community Bankers of America . “In that regard, it
should have a minimal impact on community banks.”  Jerry Howard, president of the Washington-based National
Association of Homebuilders, questioned whether Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac would have the capacity to finance any more
mortgages. Loan limits are set to be reduced in October and the
administration and congressional Republicans are seeking to cut
the companies’ portfolios, meaning they won’t be able to hold as
much debt.  “The ability of the GSEs to continue to do their jobs is
going to be greatly impeded,” he said.  Beyond the exemption for loans backed by the government,
analysts and stakeholders said, requiring a 20 percent down
payment for easily securitizable loans could have a deep impact
on the housing market.  Homeownership Impact  “Its impact on access to homeownership would be hard to
overestimate,” said  Susan Wachter , professor of financial
management at the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania .  Many mortgages now being originated don’t meet the 20
percent down-payment standard. More than a fifth of the nearly
464,000 loans issued in 2010 had down payments of less than 15
percent, according to  Corelogic Inc. (CLGX) , a data company based in
 Santa Ana ,  California .  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , a  Mill Valley , California, real estate
investment trust, is the only company since 2007 to offer non-
government backed mortgage debt. In its two offerings, totaling
about $500 million, the company retained five percent of the
risk and its home loans averaged 40 percent cash down payments,
according to company prospectuses.  Regulators designed the new rule “around mortgages in the
Redwood trusts. Do the math. You’ll see how many mortgages will
get done under QRM,” said Glen Corso, managing director of the
Community Mortgage Banking Project, a coalition of smaller
lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 