-- 
True Religion’s Flare Jeans May Give Denim Market a Leg Up

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-03-29T20:07:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/true-religion-s-flare-jeans-may-give-sagging-denim-market-leg-up.html
Retailers from  American Eagle
Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  to Bloomingdale’s are betting that women are
ready to shed skinny jeans for a return to flared styles, a
change that may firm up more than sagging denim sales.  “The fashion shift is coming,” said  Christine Chen , an
apparel retail analyst at Needham & Co. in  San Francisco . “Once
the bottom changes, your tops are wrong. It’s a whole new reason
for the consumer to spend.”  Form-hugging denim, around since the middle of the last
decade, boosted jeans purchases during the recession with styles
like J. Crew Group Inc.’s “matchstick.” Now the novelty has
worn off, with sales of women’s premium denim sliding more than
6 percent last year to $1.36 billion, according to  Port
Washington , New York-based NPD Group Inc.  Upscale department stores like Macy’s Inc.’s Bloomingdale’s
aim to buck that trend with designer jeans from J Brand
resembling upside down martini glasses for $185. If women buy
in, retailers and jean makers such as  True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) 
may have just the trend to revive demand in the $13 billion U.S.
market, helping to offset price increases spurred by record
cotton costs.  “It’s been a hit,” said Stephanie Solomon, women’s
fashion director at Bloomingdale’s. “We’ve all been wearing
skinnies or jeggings for too long. It’s a reason to buy.”  Runway to Retail  Flares have fueled denim sales this spring and are
outselling skinny jeans, Solomon said. The style, which showed
up on runways last year, has also reached mass-market retailers
such as Pittsburgh-based American Eagle, which unveiled a
“vintage flare” this spring for $49.50. True Religion, based
in Vernon, California, offers a dozen flared styles for as much
as $319.  American Eagle rose 28 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $15.58 at
4:02 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. True
Religion advanced 19 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $22.95 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Fashion had focused on slimmer shapes since the mid-1990s,
when women’s magazines began looking more to  Kate Moss  than
Cindy Crawford, said Lourdes Font, a professor of art history at
the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York. Skinnies,
leggings and jeggings (leggings that look like jeans) have left
designers with nowhere else to go but bigger.  “It’s at the very limits of physical reality,” Font said.
“The only other thing tighter is your own skin.”  The flare revival itself could make much of women’s old
wardrobes obsolete, Chen said, because pants often spur other
trends. Flowing tops and shirt-dresses came into being to
compensate for the ultra-skinny. Wide legs will usher in an era
of shorter and tighter blouses, sweaters and jackets, Chen said.  New Footwear?  Footwear will change too, said Amy Noblin, an apparel-chain
analyst for Weeden & Co. in Greenbrae,  California . Skinny jeans
pair well with boots, propelling sales past $5 billion last year
and sparking an explosion in brands like Deckers Outdoors
Corp.’s Ugg.  Bell bottoms, instead, hide much of the foot and may curb
the appeal of today’s ubiquitous knee-high boots. That could
lead to a renaissance in footwear with flat soles such as
sandals or platforms, Solomon said.  The wide leg may also gain acceptance faster than skinny
because it’s more flattering and many women still have a flare
or two in their closets, Noblin said.  “People don’t have to go back too far in their lifetime to
remember the last time they wore a pair of flare jeans, which
makes me think this is an embraceable, democratic trend,”
Noblin said.  Hippie Chic  Still, a fashion shift of this magnitude won’t be a boon
for every retailer. While San Francisco-based  Gap Inc. (GPS)  also is
offering flares for $69.50, it may have difficulty connecting
with shoppers because it’s known more for basics and not the
“hippie chic” look that’s spurring this trend, said Chen.  “This is right up our alley,” Louise Callagy, a
spokeswoman for Gap, said when asked how the retailer is likely
to fare with the new trend. “Gap has always done best when it
participates in culture, and flare jeans and pants are an
example of that.”  Other designers are confident too. Premium denim purveyor
James Jeans, found at such luxury stores as Barney’s New York,
has touted jeans with legs as wide as 22 inches (56
centimeters), more than double a skinny cut.  “This was overdue,” said founder  James Chung , whose Los
Angeles-based company is offering half-a-dozen varieties of
flare pants this season. “You can only have so many skinny
jeans in your wardrobe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  