-- 
Russian Airstrikes Kill 17 at Caucasus Suicide-Bomber Camp

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-29T16:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/russian-airstrikes-kill-17-at-caucasus-suicide-bomber-camp-1-.html
Russian forces killed at least 17
militants in airstrikes yesterday on a training camp for  suicide
bombers  in the Ingushetia region on the eve of the one-year
anniversary of a terrorist attack in the Moscow subway.  Special forces in the North Caucasus also detained two
suspects in the January suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo
Airport, Sergei Smirnov, a deputy head of Federal Security
Service, told President  Dmitry Medvedev  in televised remarks.  Twin suicide subway bombings during the morning rush hour
in the Moscow subway killed 40 people a year ago. Doku Umarov, a
Chechen rebel who claimed responsibility for the airport and
subway attacks, may have been among those killed, state-run
Vesti television reported on its website, citing an unidentified
security official from Ingushetia.  “The operation was a great success,” Andrei Przhezdomsky,
a spokesman for the National Anti-Terror Committee, said by
phone in Moscow today. The committee operates under the Federal
Security Service, or FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era
KGB. The bodies are still being identified, he said.  North Caucasus  Russia has struggled to control the North Caucasus, a
strategic strip of mountainous terrain between the Black and
Caspian seas that borders Georgia and  Azerbaijan . Russian forces
fought two wars in Chechnya to get the mainly Muslim republic
back under federal control.  Then-Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  ascended to the
presidency in 2000 after sending troops into Chechnya for a
second time. Violence continues to escalate in nearby regions
even as Putin, who ceded the presidency to his protege Medvedev
in 2008, has managed to reduce the carnage in Chechnya itself
through his handpicked local leader, Ramzan Kadyrov.  Special forces located and surrounded the camp in a forest
in Ingushetia and helicopters then conducted airstrikes before
ground forces moved in on the militants, Przhezdomsky said.  Umarov’s close associates could have been killed in the
attack, a local government official, who declined to be
identified because of the ongoing investigation, said by
telephone, adding it was too early to say whether Umarov himself
was among the dead.  Three security officers, including two from the FSB, were
killed in another operation after a suspected rebel resisted
arrest, Smirnov told Medvedev. Also yesterday, security officers
detained two people suspected of direct involvement in the
Domodedovo attack, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 