-- 
Ryanair Is Cited in U.K. Consumer Group’s Complaint Over Card Overcharging

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-30T08:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ryanair-cited-in-u-k-consumer-group-s-complaint-over-card-fees.html
Retailers, taxi services and low-
cost airlines including  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  are increasingly
overcharging customers who pay with plastic, U.K. consumer-
rights group  Which?  said in a complaint to a regulator.  Which? asked the U.K.  Office of Fair Trading  to probe the
use of surcharges that exceed the actual cost of processing
credit and debit transactions, the association said today in a
statement. Ryanair and London-based real-estate agency Foxtons
Ltd. are among companies with the biggest overcharges, it said.  “Low-cost airlines are some of the worst offenders, but
excessive card surcharges are becoming ever more widespread,”
Peter Vicary-Smith, the group’s chief executive officer, said in
the statement. “Consumers are really fed up with paying
excessive card charges.”  The request, in the form of a so-called supercomplaint
filed with the London-based OFT, comes as more companies are
using inflated surcharges as a way to increase revenue rather
than cover the costs of transactions, the group said.  The regulator has 90 days to decide if it will open an
investigation, close the case or refer it to the  Competition
Commission  for a broader probe.  ‘Administration Fees’  Ryanair,  Europe ’s biggest discount carrier, said the
consumer group’s complaint is false because the airline doesn’t
charge customers for using plastic to buy tickets. The Dublin-
based company said it uses “administration fees” that can be
avoided if travellers pay with a MasterCard Prepaid card.  “Which? should at least get their facts right,” Ryanair
spokesman Stephen McNamara said in an e-mailed statement.  Foxtons spokeswoman Laura Freeman didn’t return a call for
comment.  The cost to companies for taking payments by card is about
20 pence to process a debit card payment and no more than 2
percent of the transaction value for a  credit card , Which? said
in the statement. Researchers found dozens of examples of
companies charging “far higher fees,” it said.  The OFT was asked to investigate whether customers are
being properly informed about the surcharges before they commit
to purchases, and whether the fees are proportionate to the
costs incurred by the business, the regulator said.  The agency will consider if the alleged practice is
“significantly harming the interests of consumers” before
making a decision to investigate, it said in a statement today.  The OFT said its range of options includes encouraging self
regulation, seeking policy changes from government or closing
the case without taking any action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 