-- 
SABMiller Chief Mackay Foresees More Consolidation in Global Beer Industry

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-29T12:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/sabmiller-chief-mackay-foresees-more-consolidation-in-global-beer-industry.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s Chief Executive
Officer Graham Mackay predicts more consolidation in the global
beer industry even as companies find it more difficult to
extract value from purchases.  “There are bolt-on acquisitions to be done around the
world, and there are major deals,” the head of the world’s
second-largest brewer by volume said yesterday at the Marketing
Society’s annual lecture in London. Mackay doesn’t foresee a
“steady march of consolidation,” he said, but expects
acquisitions to continue as global brewers with the ability to
buy assets look to expand.  “It’s harder to make the numbers work” to drive value
from acquisitions, he said. Many brewing assets are owned by
families seeking high prices from any disposals, Mackay said. He
declined to comment on any potential purchases that SABMiller
may make, including  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) ’s beer unit.  Global brewery deals have totalled $141.9 billion in the
last five years, according to Bloomberg data, including InBev
NV’s $60.8 billion acquisition of Anheuser-Busch Cos. and the
$18.7 billion joint bid by  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and Carlsberg A/S for
Scottish & Newcastle Plc.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
largest beermaker, Heineken, Carlsberg and SABMiller control
almost half the beer sold globally, Mackay said.  London-based SABMiller, the maker of Peroni and South
Africa’s Castle lager, looks at any possible transactions on a
“global basis,” seeking to create more value than any sum
paid, he said.  “Whatever you buy, you’ve got a job” to improve it, he
said. The key point is to be sure to know how to “change the
trajectory” of any business purchased. “If there’s value to be
had, we’re up for it,” Mackay said.  Acquisition History  SABMiller, which in 1895 started selling beer to gold
prospectors in  South Africa , has grown partly by buying
government-owned brewers, Mackay said. The company has also
bought brands including Grolsch and Colombian brewer Bavaria.  SABMiller gets about 80 percent of sales and profits from
so-called developing and emerging markets, according to analysts
at Investec including  Martin Deboo . That makes it the most
exposed brewer to faster-growing markets, they said.  Five percent of beer sold globally is of brands consumed
outside their country of origin, Mackay said last night. The
beer market is “stubbornly diverse,” leading to a “high
degree of localization,” he said. Marketing local brands to
consumers is more effective for SABMiller than applying a global
approach to selling beer, according to Mackay.  ‘Emotional Concepts’  Beer brands are “emotional concepts far more than physical
ones” and require “local interpretation” to drive sales
growth, he said. This is complex, and makes it “hard to drive
real scale benefit” across the group’s marketing operations,
Mackay said.  “We recognize our approach is more costly” but “we
believe we can’t be complacent,” he said.  “When it comes to brand marketing, each of the brewers
have a different take on global versus local,” Mackay said.
SABMiller has “embraced globalization, but with
qualifications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 