-- 
San Francisco Festival to Screen 191 Films While Seeking Stars

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-03-29T21:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/san-francisco-festival-to-screen-191-films-while-seeking-stars-to-appear.html
The  San Francisco International
Film Festival  unveiled its lineup for the 54th edition of the
event, a sprawling group of 191 films -- foreign and indie,
narrative and documentary -- from more than 40 countries.  Missing were the stars. Unlike past years, the festival
didn’t announce today the winners of its lifetime-achievement
awards for directing and acting because the San Francisco Film
Society, which organizes the event, hasn’t signed them up yet.
The festival runs from April 21 to May 5.  Graham Leggat, the society’s executive director, said he’s
still negotiating with candidates. One potential winner,
presumably from overseas, dropped out after learning that San
Francisco isn’t part of  Los Angeles , Leggat deadpanned at
today’s press conference.  “Wrangling talent is the single biggest part of my job,”
Leggat said. He made it sound like it’s also his biggest
headache.  One of the top awards, for screenwriting, will go to Frank Pierson (“Cool Hand Luke,” “Cat Ballou”). Pierson’s 1975
“Dog Day Afternoon” will provide star power in the form of Al Pacino when it screens on April 30.  The festival opens with “Beginners,” Mike Mills’s father-
son drama starring Christopher Plummer and Ewan McGregor. It
closes with “On Tour,” a comedy directed by Mathieu Amalric
about a company of American “new burlesque” performers on the
road in the French countryside.  Cave Paintings  In between are new releases from directors including Werner Herzog (“Cave of Forgotten Dreams,” a 3-D documentary about
prehistoric cave paintings in southern  France ); Catherine Breillat (“The Sleeping Beauty,” a time-tripping fantasy); and
Michael Winterbottom (“The Trip,” about foodies on the loose
in  England ’s Lake Country).  The festival will offer more than two dozen features in the
World Cinema series, competitions for documentaries and for
first- or second-time directors, midnight screenings, panel
discussions, lectures and parties.  A new print of Federico Fellini’s “La Dolce Vita” screens
May 1 at the ornate Castro Theatre, offering another dose of
glamour for the festival. The 1960 classic features Marcello Mastroianni as the coolest guy in  Rome  and Swedish bombshell
Anita Ekberg frolicking in the Trevi Fountain.  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in  San Francisco  at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  