-- 
Scene Last Night: Jeffrey Immelt, Nelson Peltz, Courtney Love

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-29T16:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/scene-last-night-jeffrey-immelt-nelson-peltz-courtney-love.html
Jeffrey R. Immelt was politely
preoccupied.  Asked about the prospects for Dartmouth’s football team,
for which he played right tackle years ago, Immelt replied,
“How are you?”  He has other fish to fry, of course. Immelt is the chairman
and chief executive of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and chairman of
President Barack Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.  And last night he was guest of honor at the Simon
Wiesenthal Center’s 2011 Humanitarian Award Dinner at the
Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Manhattan.  Also facing a roast chicken dinner, his tablemates included
 Nelson Peltz , chief executive and founding partner of Trian Fund
Management LP, and Rabbi Marvin Hier, the founder and dean of
the  Simon Wiesenthal Center .  Immelt took the stage after dessert and gave a 10-minute
address that paid tribute to capitalism, innovation and
investment.  “Business is good,” Immelt said. He noted that his mother
would have been pleased to know he was receiving an award that
 Elizabeth Taylor  had also received.  He urged dinner guest Larry Mizel, chairman and chief
executive of home builder  MDC Holdings Inc. (MDC)  and a generous
supporter of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, to “please keep enough
money to buy more GE appliances and products.”  Earlier in the evening the center presented its Medal of
Valor to Winston Churchill, Hiram Bingham IV and Pope John Paul II.  The mission of the Simon Wiesenthal Center is to promote
tolerance. It operates museums in  Los Angeles  and New York and
is building a museum in  Jerusalem . With Peltz as dinner
chairman, the event raised $1.6 million. Table purchasers
included Peltz’s deal-making cohorts  Michael Milken  and Ken Moelis.  ‘Meek’s Cutoff’  Downtown, at the rooftop bar of the  James  hotel, actress
Michelle Williams mingled in a cream-colored Chanel frock and
Ferragamo heels as waitresses passed around Appleton Estate
cocktails and lemon meringue petit-fours.  The bar is called Jimmy and the film Williams was hawking
is called “Meek’s Cutoff,” out on April 8. Recounting a
painful journey westward in 19th-century America, it allows
Williams to wear a bonnet and travel in a Conestoga wagon.  Life looked considerably easier with Jimmy’s 360-degree
views of the city and its outdoor pool. The only frontier
fashion statement came from guest Adam Yauch of the Beastie
Boys, who wore a cowboy hat from Texas.  Also attending the Cinema Society event: The film’s co-
stars Paul Dano and Zoe Kazan, and an eclectic group of
musicians: Courtney Love (coming from a reunion of her band,
Hole, at the Museum of Modern Art), Joshua Bell, and Sheryl Crow.  Alan Cumming  played debonair for poolside photos.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 