-- 
Schaeffler Profitability May Slip This Year on Energy, Raw-Material Costs

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-29T10:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/schaeffler-profitability-may-slip-this-year-on-energy-raw-material-costs.html
Schaeffler Group , the world’s
second-biggest maker of roller bearings, said its profit margin
may shrink this year as higher prices for energy, steel and
aluminum drive up costs.  Earnings before interest and tax will be “above 13 percent”
of revenue after reaching 16 percent in 2010, Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based Schaeffler said in a statement today.  Oil prices  have jumped 23 percent since Feb. 15, when anti-
government protests began in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-biggest crude
producer. Steel costs will also be a “headwind” for carmakers,
Daimler AG Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said March 1.  “We need about 1 million tons of steel every year, so it’s
an important budget item,” Chief Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger told reporters in Frankfurt, adding that the company
is using forward contracts to limit the impact of price swings.  Schaeffler had net income of 63 million euros in 2010
compared with a 1.2 billion-euro loss a year earlier. Sales will
probably increase by 8 to 10 percent in 2011 from 9.5 billion
euros ($13.4 billion) as demand for cars and light vehicles
surges in the Asia-Pacific and  North America , the company said.  “This is no one-off success as we’ve been growing more
than the market for years now,” Geissinger said. “Expansion in
growth markets is bound to strengthen our potential.”  Asian Expansion  Schaeffler’s market share in  Asia  will increase to about 33
percent in coming years from 22 percent in 2010, it said, with
reliance on Europe declining as it builds new plants or expands
output at five sites in  China  and three in  India  through 2013.  Full-year earnings at the closely held company were trimmed
by 396 million euros after it didn’t participate in a January
2010 share sale at  Continental AG (CON) , of which it’s the controlling
shareholder.  Schaeffler, which also makes engine parts, clutches and
transmission systems, plans to add about 8,000 employees this
year to satisfy demand as car sales pick up and machine
manufacturers increase orders.  There is “no schedule” for a merger with  Europe ’s second-
biggest tiremaker, Geissinger said today. The long-term aim
remains a “strategic partnership” with Continental, and what
shape that will take is a “secondary” concern, according to
Schaeffler’s annual report, published today. Current cooperation
includes the development and manufacturing of turbochargers
which are scheduled for production later this year.  Stake Sale  Schaeffler yesterday sold 1.8 billion euros of Continental
shares held for the company by two German banks, reducing the
holding it controls to 60.3 percent from 75.1 percent.  That helped cut debt at Schaeffler’s holding company, owned
by Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler and her son Georg, by 38 percent
to 4.6 billion euros. The figure was also reduced as cash was
transferred from the operating business, pushing up debt there
to about 7 billion euros at the end of March, giving total
liabilities of 11.6 billion euros.  The share sale will reduce the interest rate payable by the
holding company from as much as 17 percent to under 10 percent.  Schaeffler, which was founded in 1946, also said yesterday
that it plans to convert to a joint-stock company this year. The
company is opening to capital markets to facilitate refinancing.
It also strengthened worker representation with the creation of
a supervisory board in 2010.  An initial public offering isn’t planned, Chief Financial
Officer Klaus Rosenfeld said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  