-- 
U.S. Charges FDA Chemist in $3 Million Inside-Trading Scheme

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-29T22:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/sec-says-fda-chemist-reaped-3-6-million-from-insider-trading.html
A U.S. Food and Drug Administration
chemist and his son were arrested by federal authorities and
accused of reaping at least $3 million from trading on nonpublic
information related to drug-approval applications.  Cheng Yi Liang, 57, and Andrew Liang, 25, face charges of
conspiracy to commit securities and  wire fraud , according to a
Justice Department statement today. The Securities and Exchange
Commission, in a parallel civil suit filed at federal court in
Greenbelt,  Maryland , said the elder Liang made $3.6 million by
trading shares of 19 firms before 27 FDA decisions since 2006.  The chemist, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , violated his duty as a federal employee
not to engage in financial transactions using nonpublic
government information and not to use such information for his
personal benefit, according to the SEC. The agency is seeking
disgorgement of illegal profits and unspecified fines.  “The  insider trading  laws apply to employees of the
federal government just as they do to Wall Street traders,
corporate insiders, or hedge fund executives,” Daniel Hawke,
head of the SEC’s market abuse unit, said in a statement.  The SEC and Justice Department investigations are
continuing.  Maximum Penalty  The maximum penalty for conspiracy to commit securities and
wire fraud is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine, or twice
the gross gain from the offense, according to the Justice
Department. For wire fraud, the maximum penalty is 20 years in
prison and a fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain, the
department said. For  securities fraud , the top penalty is 20
years in prison and a fine of $5 million for each count.  Liang, identified by the SEC as a resident of Gaithersburg,
Maryland, didn’t respond to a phone call to his some seeking
comment.  “FDA is aware that one of its employees has been charged
with insider trading,” Erica V. Jefferson, a spokeswoman for
the agency, said in an e-mail statement. “The agency is
cooperating fully with the authorities and will review the
situation and take any appropriate action.”  Liang traded in smaller developmental drug companies, where
a government decision would be more likely to have a significant
impact on the stock price, the SEC said. He gained more than $1
million trading stock of  Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA)  a Rockville,
Maryland, firm that rose more than 600 percent a day after the
FDA cleared sales of its schizophrenia drug Fanapt in May 2009,
according to the lawsuit.  Computer Access  An FDA employee since 1996 who has worked in the CDER unit
since at least 2001, Liang had computer access to the nonpublic
records of the review process for each drug examined by the
office, the SEC said.  He profited from  share purchases  ahead of 19 positive
announcements and on short sales before 6 negative decisions,
the SEC said. He also avoided losses by selling stock before two
other negative decisions, the agency said. His average profit on
each announcement was $135,015, according to the lawsuit.  In June 2006, Liang made more than $75,000 on short sales
of Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. shares after accessing
confidential FDA information that approval for Thelin, a drug to
treat pulmonary arterial hypertension, wasn’t forthcoming, the
SEC said. He also made about $380,000 in advance of a Jan. 21
announcement that Newton, Massachusetts-based  Clinical Data
Inc. (CLDA) ’s Viibryd, a drug to treat a depressive disorder, had been
approved, the SEC said.  Rather than use his own or his wife’s brokerage accounts,
Liang directed the trading through seven accounts held by other
people, the SEC said. He typically began building a position two
to three weeks before an announcement, according to the lawsuit.
Most proceeds were moved to his bank account, the SEC said.  Car Dealerships  Checks totaling at least $1.2 million were written from
the accounts Liang used for trading to a bank account in his
name, to him or his wife directly, or to credit-card companies
to pay off his balances. About $65,000 worth of checks were
written from the brokerage accounts to car dealerships to
purchase an Infiniti sedan and a Honda Odyssey minivan
registered to Liang and his wife.  Illegal trading profits were also transferred to bank and
brokerage accounts benefiting Andrew Liang, who used the
proceeds to fund his personal retirement account, pay about
$92,000 to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, pay a travel
service and purchase two cars, the  Justice Department  said.  The FDA is barred from disclosing that a drug application
has been filed, whether it is conducting a review and whether it
has issued a so-called complete response letter that describes
specific deficiencies in the application, according to the
lawsuit. The FDA only discloses information when it approves a
new drug, the SEC said.  ‘Privileged Information’  “Cheng Yi Liang was entrusted with privileged information
to perform his job of ensuring the health and safety of his
fellow citizens,” Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer said
in a statement. “According to the complaint, he and his son
repeatedly violated that trust to line their own pockets.”  The SEC’s case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs.
Cheng Yi Liang, 8:11-cv-00819-RWT, District of Maryland
(Greenbelt Division). The criminal cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi
Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-WGC, and U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-
01237-WGC, District of Maryland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 