-- 
Senate Delays Vote on Repealing Tax-Compliance Requirement

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-30T00:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/senate-in-good-shape-to-repeal-health-care-law-tax-provision-reid-says.html
The  U.S. Senate  delayed a vote
today on repealing a tax-compliance measure included in last
year’s health-care overhaul.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  had said this morning that the
Senate was in “good shape” to resolve debate over the so-
called 1099 requirement in the afternoon. Discussion of the
repeal will continue, and Senate leaders are prepared to hold a
vote as soon as tomorrow.  The repeal is being attached as an amendment to a small-
business bill that the Senate is considering this week. The
measure would offset the repeal using a method already approved
by the  House of Representatives  and criticized by Democrats in
the Senate, raising questions about its fate.  Slated to take effect next year, the 1099 provision of the
health-care law, named after a tax form, would require
businesses to report more transactions to the  Internal Revenue
Service  as a way to prevent underreporting of income. Small
businesses have criticized the provision as burdensome.  Democrats and Republicans in Congress agree that the
measure should be repealed, and President  Barack Obama  in his
State of the Union address called on lawmakers to act. Debate
has centered on how to offset the $21.9 billion in revenue that
the provision is slated to generate over the next decade and
that would be forfeited in a repeal.  Health-Insurance Subsidies  The House passed the repeal, 314-112, on March 3. The House
bill would curtail another aspect of the health-care law by
requiring more people to pay back overpayments of health-
insurance subsidies when their income becomes greater than the
income used to calculate the subsidy.  A Senate version of the repeal, passed in February as part
of a broader aviation bill, offset the forgone revenue by
rescinding about $40 billion in previously approved spending.  Reid has said he prefers the House version of the repeal.
The amendment being considered in the Senate closely tracks that
bill and is sponsored by Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska
Republican.  “Bipartisan support is enormously, if not unusually,
strong,” Johanns said this morning.  The Johanns amendment could run into trouble if Democrats
proceed with a plan to attach a separate amendment. Senator
 Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, has offered an amendment
that would require further study of the effects of the offset
Johanns is proposing.  “Repealing 1099 is right,” Menendez said. “Hurting small
business is wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  