-- 
Senators Set to Vote on EPA ‘Over-Regulation,’ McConnell Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-29T20:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/senators-set-to-vote-on-epa-over-regulation-mcconnell-says.html
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said votes aimed at stopping the Environmental
Protection Agency’s greenhouse-gas rules will show voters where
lawmakers stand on the regulations opposed by industry.  Senators may vote as early as tomorrow on at least three
measures that would halt the EPA’s limits on greenhouse-gas
emissions blamed for  climate change . McConnell, of  Kentucky , has
submitted a measure to block the regulations that took effect in
January, and Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat,
is proposing to delay the rules for two years.  McConnell said Democratic leaders may lack the votes to
preserve the EPA’s authority to regulate such emissions under
the  Clean Air Act . A vote will force lawmakers to weigh in on
rules that Republicans and some Democrats say will destroy job
growth and hurt the economy, he said.  “It will be an opportunity for everybody to go on record
so folks at home will know how senators feel about this massive
over-regulation, which is going to have an extraordinarily
adverse impact on our economy,” McConnell told reporters on
 Capitol Hill  today.  Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said today that
he’s not sure whether he will support Rockefeller’s amendment
because the measure would allow states to vary from a national
greenhouse-gas emission standard for vehicles.  At least one Democrat, Senator Max Baucus of Montana, also
plans to submit an EPA amendment tomorrow aimed at protecting
some farmers and small business owners from the EPA rules.  President  Barack Obama  is to deliver a speech tomorrow on
energy policy. Obama, who as a candidate pledged to fight
climate change, pushed for EPA regulation of  greenhouse gases 
such as carbon dioxide after Congress failed to pass legislation
last year.  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson has said Obama would veto
any attempt to take away her agency’s power to regulate carbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  