-- 
Shaka Smart’s Winning May Lead to VCU Losing Its Basketball Coach to Rival

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-29T13:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/shaka-smart-s-winning-may-lead-to-vcu-losing-its-basketball-coach-to-rival.html
Virginia Commonwealth University’s
winning might mean it will be losing basketball coach Shaka Smart.  Smart led VCU to upsets over Georgetown, Purdue and No. 1
seed  Kansas  on its way to becoming only the third No. 11 seed to
make it to the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament semifinals. The Rams face Butler, last year’s runner-
up to Duke, on April 2 for a spot in the championship game
opposite either Kentucky or  Connecticut .  If a major-conference team with a coaching vacancy is
determined to lure Smart, VCU will be hard-pressed to extend a
competitive financial offer, said ESPN college basketball
analyst Dick Vitale.  “It’ll be very difficult for a school like VCU to keep him
when you consider the compensation packages that the big schools
can offer,” Vitale, 71, said in a telephone interview.  It’s common for schools from power conferences to pluck
coaches after successful tournament runs. The administration is
aware of that at VCU, which in 2009 lost Smart’s predecessor,
Anthony Grant to the Southeastern Conference’s University of
 Alabama .  Meantime, Smart’s base salary is $325,000 this season, his
second with VCU, according to a copy of his contract provided by
the school.  Comparing Coaches  Kentucky coach John Calipari, by comparison, makes almost
$4 million a year when broadcast, endorsement and apparel income
is included, according to his contract. He will make another
$375,000 if he wins the championship. Connecticut’s Jim Calhoun,
a member of the basketball Hall of Fame, is paid more than $2
million a year, including income from consulting and media
opportunities.  The Big East Conference, which includes UConn, generated
$154 million from basketball in the 2009-10 academic year,
according to the U.S. Department of Education. VCU’s Colonial
Athletic Conference generated $27 million.  Smart, 33, earlier in the tournament declined to speculate
on whether he’d entertain offers from other universities.  “You know March is all about the coaching carousel,” he
told reporters. “That couldn’t be further from my mind or, I
hope, anyone else’s mind within our program. It’s just not
important right now.”  ‘Major Pledge’  VCU President Michael Rao in an interview with Bloomberg
Television said he’s had “great conversations” with Smart and
that he’s “very confident” that the Richmond, Virginia,
university will be able to retain its second-year coach.  VCU, which has an enrollment of 32,000, has already -- and
will continue to -- generate revenue for the school, according
to Rao and Robby Robinson, the university’s associate athletic
director for corporate partnership.  Rao said he attended a dinner on March 26, the day before
VCU beat Kansas, 71-61, where everyone at his table committed to
a “major pledge” to the university. He wasn’t specific.  Robinson said the enthusiasm surrounding the team’s run --
like the 7,000 fans that filled Verizon Wireless Arena to
welcome the team home after the Kansas game - will extend to
sponsors.  Top-Tier Sponsors  The athletic department’s top-tier sponsors, including
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , pay about $1
million over five years, Robinson said in a telephone interview.  The school’s run has resulted in more value to sponsors,
and made an affiliation with the school more attractive to
potential clients, Robinson said.  “One thing I do expect is for people to return my phone
calls at a higher rate,” he said. “The guy that has been
putting me to voice mail now buzzes me back.”  There’s plenty of buzz surrounding Smart, who, before
joining VCU, spent one season as an assistant to Billy Donovan
at  Florida . Smart, who graduated magna cum laude from Kenyon
College in Gambier,  Ohio , spent 2006-08 as an assistant at
Clemson.  Smart’s contract includes a number of bonus provisions,
many of which are tournament related, including a 1 1/2-month
base salary bonus for making the field of 68.  As for the stay-or-go decision facing Smart, Vitale
recounted the story of the late North Carolina State coach Jim Valvano urging him not to leave the University of  Detroit  for
the  National Basketball Association ’s Pistons.  “Jimmy told me, ‘You never, ever mess with happiness,’”
said Vitale, who nonetheless took the Pistons job and was fired
12 games into his second season. “You shouldn’t make a move
just based on finances.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  