-- 
Shanghai Caps Home Price Rises Below Economy, Wages Growth to Fight Bubble

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T02:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/shanghai-caps-home-price-rises-below-economy-wages-growth-to-fight-bubble.html
Shanghai  said it will limit gains
in new  home prices  to no more than the pace of economic growth
and average income expansion in response to Chinese government
measures to keep housing gains in check.  Shanghai aims new home prices to grow slower than the
city’s annual economic and disposable per-capita income growth,
the local government announced on its website late yesterday.
Another 40 Chinese cities implemented similar measures in the
last two months after local governments were ordered to submit
targets by the end of March.  “This shows that local governments are not willing to see
home prices fall because their revenue is highly reliant on land
sales,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5 that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation, reiterating a promise to keep housing
affordable. The government will “severely punish”
irregularities in the real-estate market, implement
differentiated credit and tax policies, and hold local officials
accountable for maintaining stable home prices, he said.  Shanghai forecast in January that the city’s economy will
expand 8 percent in 2011. It grew 9.9 percent last year from
2009, while average incomes jumped 10.4 percent.  China raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year and levied taxes on residences in Shanghai
and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou imposed taxes on housing
purchases last month.  Nationwide Targets  Among the cities that announced targets, most connected
home prices with the cities’ economic and income growth. Beijing
has yet to set a target for home price growth this year.  The northwestern city of Xi’an said home prices will be
capped at 15 percent this year; the western city of Lanzhou set
a 9 percent ceiling, while the northeastern industrial city of
Shenyang set a target of 12 percent, below economic growth and
in line with the average income growth, according to local
government websites.  The nationwide target of around 10 percent didn’t “make
sense” because home prices rose more rapidly in  China ’s second-
and third-tier cities, Shen said.  China’s smaller cities led gains in home prices last month
with new home prices in the center of Yueyang surging 12 percent
from a year earlier, the most among 70 cities monitored by the
government. They jumped 11 percent in the western city of
Lanzhou. Prices in the capital Beijing climbed 6.8 percent and
they rose 2.3 percent in Shanghai, lower than more than 80
percent of the cities tracked, the data showed.  “Everyone expected targets of home prices to fall, but it
was unrealistic,” said Bai Hongwei, a Beijing-based property
analyst at China International Capital Corp. “A sharp fall this
year might lead to rapid growth in the next couple of years.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  