-- 
Sina Ends Google Search-Engine Deal for China Online Users

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-29T05:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/sina-stops-using-google-s-search-engine-after-contract-expires.html
Sina Corp., owner of China’s third-
most-visited website, dropped  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search engine a year
after the U.S. company moved its Chinese service offshore to
avoid local censorship rules.  Sina stopped using Google’s search service after the expiry
of a contract, Liu Qi, a spokesman at Chinese Web portal
operator, said in an e-mail today. The Shanghai-based company
will instead use its own proprietary technology, he said.  The move comes a week after Google said China blocked its
Gmail service, a claim China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
described as “unacceptable.” The government, which bans
pornography, gambling and content critical of the ruling
Communist Party, blocks Google’s YouTube site as well as social-
networking websites run by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  Sina, which has said since last year that it may replace
the U.S. company’s service, follows billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
Tom Online Inc. in dropping Google as a partner in the world’s
biggest Internet market by users.  In March 2010, Google redirected its Google.cn service in
China to a site in  Hong Kong  after saying it would no longer
comply with Chinese government requirements to self-censor Web
queries.  Google still needed to offer censored search services to
some partners to meet existing obligations, though they would be
phased out, spokeswoman  Jessica Powell  said in March 2010.  “Over time, we would not be syndicating censored search to
partners in China after fulfilling our contractual
commitments,” Google said in an e-mailed reply to questions
today, without commenting on the agreement with Sina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 