-- 
Sirius XM Antitrust Lawsuit Approved for Class-Action Status

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-31T03:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/sirius-radio-antitrust-suit-may-go-forward-u-s-judge-says.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the biggest
U.S. satellite-radio broadcaster, must face class-action claims
in a lawsuit alleging antitrust violations, a federal judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in  Manhattan  allowed the
antitrust claims to proceed while dismissing claims filed under
20 state consumer-protection laws. In a separate order
yesterday, Baer said the case may go forward on behalf of a
nationwide group of Sirius XM subscribers.  In a complaint filed in 2009, the subscribers claimed that
New York-based Sirius XM, the product of a 2008 merger between
Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. and XM Satellite Holdings Inc.,
abused its monopoly power by illegally raising prices by almost
30 percent. The suit targets so-called music royalty fees that
Sirius charges in addition to subscription fees.  The class of subscribers may number about 20 million,
according to James Sabella, a lawyer who represents them.
They’re seeking about $1 billion and a court order preventing
Sirius XM from violating antitrust laws, which may require a
freeze on future rate increases or the breakup of the company,
he said today. A trial is set for May 2.  In the ruling yesterday, Baer certified a class of Sirius
XM customers who since July 29, 2008, paid the music royalty
fee, an increased monthly charge to activate more than one
radio, or an Internet access fee.  Sirius ‘Heartened’  Patrick Reilly, a Sirius XM spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement that the company was “heartened” by the
portions of the ruling in its favor.  “The surviving claims in this suit -- that the Sirius-XM
merger lessened competition or led to a monopoly -- are matters
that have already been passed upon by the United States
Department of Justice and the Federal Communications
Commission,” Reilly said. “With new competitors emerging
almost daily, we continue to believe these claims are without
merit and intend to vigorously defend this matter.”  The subscribers claim Sirius XM violated promises made to
U.S. regulators before the merger.  “The assurances that Sirius XM officials provided to
regulators in order to get the deal done in 2008 could not have
been more clear,” Paul F. Novak, another lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said today. “They promised lower prices and more
choice, and once the deal was done, they immediately implemented
the opposite of what they had promised.”  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio Inc., 09-cv-10035,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 