-- 
Smartphone Shipment Growth May Slow This Year, IDC Says

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-29T08:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/smartphone-shipments-expected-to-grow-49-2-this-year-idc-says.html
Global sales of smartphones will
probably increase at a slower pace this year, with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android likely to become the world’s best-selling smartphone
system, according to International Data Corp.  Shipments of handsets that allow users to surf the Internet
and download movies and music may gain 49 percent this year to
more than 450 million units, the Framingham, Massachusetts-based
researcher said in a  report  today. The rate lags the  74 percent 
growth last year when consumers made purchases they’d delayed
during the recession.  Android, which is available on handsets from dozens of
vendors including Samsung Electronics Corp. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , has
built its market share in less than three years to challenge
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Symbian as the market leader. Nokia, the biggest
maker of mobile phones, said last month it will move to
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 as its primary operating
system in a transition that is expected to last through 2012.  “For vendors who made Android the cornerstone of their
smartphone strategies, 2010 was the coming-out party,” IDC
analyst  Ramon Llamas  said in the report. “This year will see a
coronation party as these same vendors broaden and deepen their
portfolios to reach more customers, particularly first-time
smartphone users.”  Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 could be the second-largest
operating platform behind Android by 2015 as it benefits from
Nokia production capacity, IDC said today.  Android may have 39.5 percent of the smartphone market 
this year, passing Symbian's share of 20.9 percent, IDC 
predicted. Symbian could fall to 0.2 percent in 2015, the 
researcher said. Windows Phone 7 and older Microsoft systems 
will run on 5.5 percent of units shipped this year, it said.  Android grew more than ninefold in 2010, according to
Gartner Inc.  research  on unit sales to end users. The Google
system had 22.7 percent of the smartphone market for the full
year, compared with 37.6 percent for Symbian, Gartner said Feb.
2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  