-- 
Solar Breaks Out of Niche to Match Apple’s iPad-Fueled Growth

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-29T07:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/solar-panels-breaking-out-of-niche-to-match-apple-s-ipad-fueled-growth.html
Solar-panel installations may rise
by more than 50 percent this year, matching  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s 2010
sales increase after launching the iPad, as the technology
emerges as a mainstream consumer product.  Builders may add as much as 28 gigawatts of new generating
capacity, the equivalent of about 25 new nuclear reactors,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The London-based
analysis company raised the top of its forecast range to 28
gigawatts from 21.5 gigawatts in January. About 18.5 gigawatts
were installed last year.  Power users in the sunniest parts of  California , Italy and
 Turkey  for the first time can generate solar electricity for
about the same rate utilities charge for conventional power, New
Energy Finance Chief Solar Analyst Jenny Chase said. Panel
makers including China’s JA Solar Holdings Co. and  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR)  of the U.S. more than doubled global manufacturing capacity
in 2010, helping drive down prices for homes and companies.  “People will see their neighbors put up panels and ask how
it works,” Chase said in a telephone interview from Zurich.
“They might think it’s still expensive, but next year the
installer will come back with a lower price. And so it goes.”  Producers of solar-grade silicon for panels such as  MEMC
Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  of St. Peters,  Missouri , and  Norway ’s
Renewable Energy Corp. are best-placed to benefit because the
chemical process they use is more difficult to replicate than
the technique for assembling panels, Chase said.  Nuclear Comparison  The purified material, known as polysilicon, is likely to
be in short supply as the industry only has capacity to produce
about 24 gigawatts of it annually, said Chase, who supervises a
staff of six solar analysts. Additional demand will likely be
met by thin-film panels that generate power from other
substances such at cadmium telluride.  The 28-gigawatt top end of New Energy Finance’s forecast
for 2011 is almost equal to the generating capacity of the
combined  nuclear-reactor fleets  of Germany and  China , which took
decades to build. The mid-point, 24 gigawatts, represents a 30
percent increase on 2010, when installations more than doubled.  The price of solar panels will likely fall to $1.50 per
watt in the second half of the year compared with around $1.80
in 2010, Chase said.  Full solar systems, which include racks, cables and
converters, will cost about $5 per watt, making photovoltaic
power potentially a $140 billion industry this year. That’s on
par with the global market for major domestic appliances like
dishwashers, refrigerators and tumbledryers, according to
London-based Euromonitor International.  ‘No Longer Niche’  “It’s no longer a niche technology,” said Antony
Froggatt, a senior research fellow for energy and environment at
 Chatham House  in  London . “It’s becoming a mainstream
contributor to the electricity system.”  Apple, whose iPad helped open the consumer market for
tablet computers as its iPhone did for smartphones, increased
sales to $65 billion in the year to Sept. 30, with the iPad
sales of $2 billion in its first three months. Overall revenue
at Apple, the biggest electronic goods-maker, will reach $100
billion this year, according to a survey of 48 analysts by
Bloomberg News.  While both touch-screen mobile computers and silicon-based
solar panels were available in prototypes decades ago, they
needed a series of technological breakthroughs before sales
could rocket.  Germany, the biggest market for solar panels, will hold its
No. 1 ranking this year, installing at least 6 gigawatts of
panels, followed by  Italy  with at least 4.5 gigawatts, New
Energy Finance estimated. The U.S. will see about 1.6 gigawatts
plugged in.  Margins Under Pressure  Panel producers may see their profit margins squeezed after
new factories boosted annual production capacity to about 32
gigawatts at the end of last year from 15 gigawatts in 2009.
Production capacity exceeds demand even under Chase’s most
optimistic scenario.  “I can’t see them all succeeding -- they are in a Catch-22
situation,” Chase said, referring to the 1961 novel by Joseph
Heller that portrays series of no-win scenarios. “If they don’t
expand they can’t reduce costs and if they do expand they are
contributing to massive overcapacity.”  Demand for solar may be supported by a backlash against
atomic generators after the radiation leak at the Fukushima
plant in  Japan . The WilderHill New Energy Index has gained
almost 7 percent since the March 11 accident as governments
around the world reviewed their nuclear plans.  Merkel’s Halt  Germany , where  Chancellor Angela Merkel  halted the seven
oldest reactors on March 15, has 20.5 gigawatts of nuclear power
from 17 reactors while China has 10.1 gigawatts, according to
the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency . The Chinese
government, which halted approvals for new reactors, is  building 
27.2 gigawatts of new reactors, out of 62.9 gigawatts under
construction around the world.  New reactors average about 1.1 gigawatts in capacity.  Nuclear  power plants  that can run 24 hours a day typically
generate at least five times as much electricity as solar plants
of the same capacity, which are dependent on the intensity of
the sunshine, Chase said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  