-- 
Pirate Prison Opened in Somaliland's Capital With United Nations Funding

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-29T15:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/somaliland-prison-opened-for-convicted-pirates-with-united-nations-funding.html
Somaliland, a breakaway enclave in
northern  Somalia , opened a maximum-security prison built with
 United Nations  funding that allows convicted pirates to be
incarcerated in their home countries.  More than 70 suspected pirates are being held at the
facility in Somaliland’s capital, Hargeisa, Alan Cole, counter-
piracy program coordinator at the UN’s  Office on Drugs and
Crime , told reporters in the city today. Globally, two-thirds of
the 950 piracy suspects detained in 17 countries including the
U.S.,  France ,  India  and  Kenya  have been convicted, while the
rest are on, or awaiting trial, Cole said.  “We can find countries to prosecute them, but no one wants
non-nationals in their prisons for too long,” Cole said. “We are
looking at the regions of  Somaliland  and Puntland to take back
their own nationals.”  Pirates operating off the coast of Somalia carried out 15
of the 16 hijackings at sea this year, according to figures
released by the International Maritime Bureau’s  Piracy Reporting
Center  on March 24. There are currently 28 seized vessels with
576 hostages held by Somali pirates, the bureau said.  Piracy has flourished off the coast of the Horn of African
nation, where a two-decade long war has left the country with no
effective government and a moribund economy. Remittances from
overseas workers of about $1 billion a year are the country’s
main source of revenue, according to the London-based
charity World Vision, which runs health, water and education
projects in Somalia.  Piracy Cases  The UN has offered to extend a program under which it pays
countries in the region to reorganize their justice systems,
train legal officers and improve prison conditions to enable
them to handle piracy cases.  The detention center in Hargeisa “meets international
standards,” providing some of the best prison conditions in the
region, Yury Fedotov, executive director of the UNODC, said
today. “It could be a model not just for Somaliland, but for the
whole region.”  Pirates, who have traditionally treated their captives
humanely in expectation of receiving a multi-million dollar
ransom for their safe release, have become increasingly violent.  Last month, pirates killed four American hostages aboard
their yacht off the coast of  Oman , prompting Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  to highlight the importance of other nations in
helping bring stability to Somalia. The U.S.  Justice Department 
charged 13 Somalis and one Yemeni with piracy and kidnapping in
connection with the incident. British couple Paul and Rachel
Chandler was released by pirates on Nov. 14 following 388 days
in captivity after they were hijacked on a yacht en route to
Tanzania from the Seychelles.  Tribunal  Piracy trials can’t be held in Somalia because the country
doesn’t have a functioning legal system following the ouster of
Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991. Somaliland declared independence
from Somalia after the fall of Barre. No sovereign state has
recognized the region as an independent nation.  Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  in December urged the
international community to support the creation of a
dedicated piracy tribunal in a third country, possibly backed by
the United Nations, an idea being touted by  Russia .  The total cost of piracy, including ransoms, insurance
premiums, re-routing ships, security equipment and naval forces
was estimated at as much as $12 billion last year, Louisville,
Colorado-based  One Earth Future Foundation  said in January. The
average ransom payments to Somali pirate gangs surged to $5.4
million last year, from $150,000 in 2005, the non-profit group
says.  “What’s happening on the high seas is a symptom of what’s
happening on shore,” Somaliland Interior Minister Mohamed Abdi
Gabose said today in Hargeisa. Piracy has flourished through the
“failure of the international community to address Somalia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Hargeisa, Somaliland, at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 