-- 
South African Reserve Bank's  Marcus Says Won’t Be ‘Soft’ on Inflation

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-29T19:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/south-african-reserve-bank-s-marcus-says-won-t-be-soft-on-inflation.html
South  Africa ’s central bank won’t
be “soft” on inflation and will try to prevent rising oil and
food costs from driving consumer prices above the upper end of
its target margin, Governor Gill Marcus said.  “Whatever measures we need to take to deal with inflation
should it be rising, we will take,” Marcus told students and
business people in the Soweto township of Johannesburg today.
“But we’re saying we’ll take it into a very considered
manner.”  The South African Reserve Bank left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 5.5 percent for a second consecutive meeting
last week as surging food and oil prices threaten to push
inflation outside of the bank’s target range of 3 percent to 6
percent.  “Food is one of the big questions,” Marcus said, adding
that  oil prices  would remain a concern beyond the political
instability in the Middle East, which has driven crude prices up
this year.  The bank said on March 24 that inflation will probably
average 4.7 percent in 2011, up from a previous estimate of 4.6
percent, and reach 5.7 percent in 2012, compared with an earlier
projection of 5.3 percent. Inflation was unchanged at 3.7
percent in February.  Economic Recovery  Three interest rate cuts last year helped to support the
recovery in Africa’s biggest economy, which the bank estimates
will expand 3.7 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012.  If South Africa is to meet the government’s top priority by
improving on its 24 percent jobless rate, the country requires
more fixed-capital investment, Marcus said. Gross fixed-capital
formation, which needs to be as high as 30 percent of gross
domestic product, declined by 3.7 percent last year, she said.  Malfunctioning state-owned enterprises showed that
nationalization may not be the solution to ensuring  South
Africa ’s resources benefit its people, Marcus said. The ruling
 African National Congress  is studying ways of increasing state
involvement in the  mining industry  and is looking at the success
of acquiring mines for the government in other countries.  “If we want to look at the nationalization of anything in
the country, look at the entities that we do control and ask:
‘is that the most efficient or effective way?’” Marcus said.
“Because if that was a shining example of really where we want
to go, then that would be a different discussion, but right now
I’m not sure. This should not be an ideological debate. It
should be what delivers for the economy.”  State-owned companies have struggled to provide the
infrastructure to keep up with South Africa’s growth. The
world’s richest platinum mines stopped operating for five days
in 2008 because power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. ran out of
electricity after not having expanded its capacity. Coal miners
are restricted in their output due to a lack of rail
infrastructure operated by state-owned Transnet Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 