-- 
Sovereign Rating Announcements Add to Europe Instability, IMF Paper Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-30T11:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/sovereign-ratings-add-to-instability-in-europe-imf-paper-says.html
Sovereign rating announcements in
 Europe  have had “significant” spillover effects in the region,
revealing their potential to stir financial instability,
 International Monetary Fund economists  said in a study.  The research was released yesterday, just as  Portugal  and
Greece were downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s , adding pressure on
policy makers to stem the debt turmoil that led to bailouts of
Greece and Ireland. Cuts to levels near the lowest investment
grade for “relatively large economies” such as Greece have had
a systematic impact on other countries sharing the euro, the
study said.  The European debt crisis “has been the theater of
sovereign credit-rating downgrades, widening of sovereign bond
and credit default swap spreads, and pressures on stock
markets,” IMF economists Rabah Arezki and Amadou S.R. Sy wrote
in the report, which was published on the IMF’s website.  “Interestingly, financial markets throughout the euro area
have been under pressure although credit-rating actions were
concentrated in few countries such as Greece,  Iceland , Ireland,
Portugal and Spain,” the study said.  Europe’s Unease  European officials have criticized credit-rating companies
for making rating changes just as Europe’s debt crisis was
unfolding, exacerbating market turmoil. The European Commission,
the 27-nation European Union’s executive arm, has said that it
will make proposals by September to toughen regulation of the
credit-rating companies and increase competition.  European Central Bank  Governing council member  Yves Mersch 
said today he’s heard of “increasing uneasiness” in Europe
about “surprising movements” by the main rating companies.  “I hear some increasing worries about thorough
misunderstanding of the European environment,” Mersch said at
an event today in Luxembourg. “There are initiatives coming
from the private sector” in “reaction to some surprising
movements of the  credit rating agencies ,” he said, without
elaborating.  The commission said today it disagrees with yesterday’s
downgrade of Greece by S&P. “We have our own assessment and
it’s not the one of the agency,” commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels.  Euro-area governments are backing up the commission’s
assessment by granting aid to Greece, he said. The commission’s
view of Greece is shared by the European Central Bank and IMF,
he added.  Ratings Impact  The IMF  research , which the authors say is the first of its
kind for mature markets, examined 71 rating announcements,
including rating changes and outlook revisions, by S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings between October 2006 and
April 2010.  It looked at the impact of rating announcements on
countries’ credit markets through the cost of insuring against
sovereign default as well as on stock markets through indexes
and banking and insurance sub-indexes. The euro countries in the
study were Austria,  Belgium ,  France , Ireland,  Italy ,  Germany ,
Greece, the Netherlands and  Spain .  “As soon as other countries are downgraded, policy makers
should act preventively by communicating effectively to
dissipate concerns regarding what market participants perceive
as weaknesses,” Arezki and Sy wrote. “Since spillover effects
go beyond sovereign debt markets, policy makers should be
prepared to address possible instability in the banking,
insurance, and non-financial sector by preparing a contingency
plan.”  Portugal Downgraded  Authorities should also look into whether it’s appropriate
to use credit ratings in financial regulation, according to the
authors, who also included Bertrand Candelon from the University
of Maastricht.  For instance, the European Central Bank has rules on the
quality of sovereign bonds that banks can use as collateral in
exchange for funding, they said. Downgrades also increase the
cost of insurance in credit default swap contracts.  S&P yesterday cut Portugal for the second time in a week to
the lowest investment-grade rating of BBB-, three steps below
Ireland.  Greece ’s rating fell two grades to BB-, three levels
below investment grade. S&P cited concerns that both countries
may be forced to restructure debt after seeking European aid and
that governments will be paid back before other creditors.  The gap between Portuguese and German borrowing costs
surged to 467 basis points yesterday, the highest intraday level
since Nov. 11. The Greek spread widened to 938 basis points from
934 basis points the day before.  Of the three credit rating companies, S&P ratings
announcement have “far reaching consequence in terms of
spillover effect compared to Moody’s and Fitch,” with Fitch
having “the least spillover effects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  