-- 
Spain, Netherlands Extend Perfect Starts to Euro 2012 Qualifying Campaigns

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-29T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/spain-netherlands-extend-perfect-starts-to-euro-2012-qualifying-campaigns.html
The Netherlands and  Spain  won to
maintain their perfect records in qualifying for soccer’s 2012
European Championship.  Dirk Kuyt scored twice in the final 12 minutes to give the
Netherlands a 5-3 win over Hungary last night, while world and
European champion Spain was a 3-1 winner in Lithuania.  The Netherlands and Spain reached last year’s World Cup by
winning all their qualifying matches and went on to contest the
final in  South Africa .  Robin van Persie, Wesley Sneijder and Ruud van Nistelrooy
also scored in Amsterdam as the Netherlands won its sixth
straight Group E game. Zoltan Gera scored twice for Hungary.  The Dutch have 18 points, nine more than Hungary and
 Sweden , which beat Moldova 2-1 on goals from Mikael Lustig and
Sebastian Larsson. Spain leads Group I with 15 points after
goals by  Xavi Hernandez  and Juan Mata lifted it to a fifth
consecutive win.  Spain has a six-point lead over the  Czech Republic , which
beat Liechtenstein 2-0 on goals from Milan Baros and Michael
Kadlec.  The winner in each of the nine groups, along with the
second-place team with the most points, qualify for Euro 2012
with hosts Poland and Ukraine. The remaining eight second-place
teams will play off for the final four spots.  Belgium took over second place in Group A, five points
behind Germany, by beating Azerbaijan 4-1, while Turkey moved
third with a 2-0 win over  Austria .  Slovenia and Serbia are five points behind Group C leader
Italy after away draws last night. Serbia tied 1-1 in Estonia,
while Slovenia’s game in Northern Ireland finished scoreless.  Adrian Mutu scored twice as Romania beat Luxembourg 2-0 in
a matchup of the bottom teams in Group D, while Tal Ben Haim’s
goal gave Israel a 1-0 home win over Georgia that moved it into
a tie for second in Group F with Croatia, one point behind
Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  