-- 
Sri Lankan Growth Quickens to Three-Decade High After War Ends

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-03-29T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/sri-lankan-growth-quickens-to-three-decade-high-after-war-ends.html
Sri Lanka ’s economy expanded at the
fastest pace in more than three decades as the end of a 26-year
civil war in May 2009 boosted consumer demand and investment.  Gross domestic product rose 8 percent in 2010 from a year
earlier, which is the most since 1978 and compares with a 3.5
percent gain in 2009, the statistics department said in a 
statement  in Colombo yesterday.  Growth in Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy was also
supported by lower borrowing costs after the central bank cut
 interest rates  in January for the third time in seven months.
Companies including Shangri-La Asia Ltd. and Nestle Lanka Plc
announced investment plans after President Mahinda Rajapaksa’s
government ended the  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ’s quest
for a separate homeland, bringing an end to conflict.  “The economy is reaping the fruits of peace,” said
Bimanee Meepagala, a Colombo-based analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth
Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest non-state fund. “Foreign
investment and tourism will continue to grow, but this year will
be a bit more challenging with inflation pressures mounting.”  The benchmark Colombo All-Share Index, which has climbed 91
percent in the past year, fell 0.03 percent yesterday. The Sri
Lankan rupee was little changed at 110.4 a dollar in Colombo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  Sri Lanka aims to spur growth to 8.5 percent in 2011 and 9
percent in 2012, central bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said
on Jan. 4.  Prospects of growing consumer demand have encouraged
overseas investment. Shangri-La  Asia  plans to invest $500
million to build a hotel in Colombo, Deputy Economic Development
Minister Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena said Dec. 16. Nestle Lanka
said in January it plans to spend 10 billion rupees ($91
million) to expand in the country.  Tourist arrivals in the Indian Ocean island nation jumped
46 percent in 2010 from the previous year, according to the Sri
Lanka Tourism Development Authority, boosting consumer demand.  Cabraal left rates unchanged on March 8 for a second
straight month. The bank’s reverse repurchase rate is 8.5
percent.  Sri Lanka’s central bank has refrained from raising rates
since 2007 even after inflation accelerated to a 25-month high
in February, saying prices are rising because of “supply
constraints” caused by floods. The country’s policy stance
contrasts with Asian nations from  South Korea  to  India , which
are boosting borrowing costs.  Rising Prices  Consumer prices in the Sri Lankan capital, Colombo, climbed
7.8 percent in February from a year earlier, according to
government data. Inflation is still less than the average 11.5
percent in the five years through December 2010, as an expansion
in farm cultivation after the end of the war has boosted
agriculture production.  Pressure on inflation caused by floods in the nation’s
northern and eastern regions in January and early February may
ease over the coming months, Cabraal said March 1.  By contrast, the  Reserve Bank  of India has boosted rates
eight times in the past year compared with three in  China  and
four in South Korea.  Indonesia  lifted its  reference rate  last
month for the first time this year after opting not to join
counterparts in increasing rates in 2010.  Credit Growth  Sri Lanka’s central bank said this month that it will
monitor “the high growth in credit to the private sector and
overall trends in monetary aggregates” to check price gains.  Also, rising international commodity prices, especially
oil, remain a concern and the central bank will take
“appropriate measures” if external price pressures persist,
the bank said.  Personal and corporate credit grew 28.1 percent in Sri
Lanka in January from a year earlier, more than double the pace
in July, according to the central bank.  Oil is up 13 percent for the quarter and 26 percent higher
than a year earlier amid concern that increased Allied attacks
in  Libya  will prolong supply disruptions and the escalating
turmoil in the Middle East may curtail shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  