-- 
Harvard Admits 6.2% of Undergrads as Applications Hit Record

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-03-30T21:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/stanford-admits-7-1-undergraduates-as-applications-soar-to-high.html
Harvard University  accepted 6.2
percent of its freshmen applicants as more students than ever
before sought an undergraduate education at the university and
its fellow Ivy League institutions.  Yale University and Princeton University offered seats to
7.4 percent and 8.4 percent, respectively, of their applicants,
the smallest percentages of admissions at both institutions as
applications jumped to record highs.  Harvard, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , admitted 2,158 of its
record-high 34,950 undergraduate applicants, William Fitzsimmons, dean of undergraduate admissions and financial aid,
said today. The institution admitted 6.9 percent of its
applicants last year. Harvard is the richest U.S. university
with an endowment valued at $27.4 billion as of June 30.  The university seeks the “most talented students,” from
all socio-economic and ethnic backgrounds from across the
country and the world to ensure it isn’t limiting the pool to
affluent students, Fitzsimmons said in an interview. The number
of applications this year increased by 15 percent.  Yale admitted 2,006 of 27,282 applicants to the freshman
class for the 2011-2012 school year, Jeffrey Brenzel, dean of
undergraduate admission for the institution in New Haven,
 Connecticut , said today in an e-mail. Yesterday,  Stanford
University  said it accepted 7.1 percent of those seeking seats.  ‘Daunting’ Process  While applying to selective colleges is “daunting” for
students because of the low admission rates, they shouldn’t seek
a spot at Stanford just for vanity’s sake, said Bob Patterson,
director of admission for the university near Palo Alto,
 California , said yesterday in an interview.  “Students are applying to more and more institutions and
they can ultimately choose one,” Patterson said in an
interview. “We don’t want students who are just applying to see
if they can get admitted.”  Stanford accepted 2,427 students. The number of
applications at the institution increased 6.8 percent from last
year for the university, the third-wealthiest in the U.S. with
an endowment valued at $13.8 billion as of Aug. 31. Stanford
plans to enroll 50 more first-year students than last year
because of increased dormitory and classroom space, Patterson
said. It cost $55,385 to attend Stanford in the current 2010-11
academic year.  1891 Founding  Stanford, which opened in 1891, counts among its alumni
Herbert Hoover, the 31st U.S. president; Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the founders of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in Mountain View,
California; and Stephen Breyer and Anthony Kennedy, U.S. Supreme
Court associate justices.  Princeton offered spots to 2,282 students, or 8.4 percent
of applicants, the university in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in
a statement. Princeton accepted to 8.8 percent of applicants a
year earlier, and 10.1 percent for the 2009-2010 academic year,
the university said.  “Our competitive acceptance rate continues a trend
Princeton has been experiencing over the last several years,”
Dean of Admission Janet Rapelye said in the statement. “We have
always focused on the quality of our pool, more than its size,
yet this year we were impressed by both the size and quality of
the applicant pool.”  Princeton was founded in 1746 as the College of New Jersey.
Alumni include first lady  Michelle Obama  and U.S. Supreme Court
Justices Samuel Alito Jr., Sonia Sotomayor and  Elena Kagan .  Alumni of Harvard, founded in 1636, include Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Yale was founded in 1701, and alumni
include U.S. presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush.  Harvard, Yale and Princeton are members of the eight  Ivy
League  colleges in the northeastern U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 