-- 
Stevens Sends Interest-Rate Swaps Down Most Since August: Australia Credit

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-29T01:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/stevens-sends-interest-rate-swaps-down-most-since-august-australia-credit.html
The cost to lock in fixed interest
rates in  Australia  instead of the U.S. is shrinking at the
fastest pace in seven months on speculation  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will maintain borrowing costs.  Investors in Australia receive 5.30 percent on swaps that
allow them to earn the fixed rate while paying floating, versus
0.95 percent in the U.S. The difference has narrowed to 4.35
percentage points from 4.49 percentage points at the end of
February, the biggest decline since August.  If traders are right, Australia’s benchmark rate will rise
at a slower pace than that in the U.S. Stevens said this month
borrowing costs were “appropriate” following seven increases
since October 2009 to curb inflation. Kokusai Asset Management
Co. and Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. are selling the nation’s
currency on bets the spread will shrink as U.S. and European
economies recover from the global recession Australia avoided.  “We’re less bullish lately,” said Kei Katayama, who helps
oversee the equivalent to $55.7 billion as leader of the foreign
fixed-income group in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB, part of  Japan ’s second-
largest brokerage. “Australia’s economic growth has been faster
than in the other major countries, but other major countries are
catching up.”  The so-called Aussie is little changed against the
greenback this year, heading for its worst performance in three
quarters, even after it rose to a record $1.0314 yesterday.  Investors also slashed expectations for RBA rate increases
after Japan’s magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami threatened to
cripple the world’s third-largest economy, which accounted for
about 19 percent of Australian exports last year.  Rate Outlook  Swaps show traders expect policy makers led by Stevens, who
has overseen an economy that expanded at an average of 2.8
percent a year since he was appointed in 2006, will add 17 basis
points to the benchmark rate within a year, down from estimates
at the start of 2011 he would add 42, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG index.  A similar index for the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate
jumped to 38 basis points from 23 on Dec. 31. The Fed cut its
benchmark in December 2008 to a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Daiwa SB trimmed holdings of Australian dollars in January,
when the worst floods since 1974 hit the country’s northeast,
and invested the money in Canada, Katayama said. Kokusai Asset
and Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. are also selling.  “Momentum is slowing” in Australia’s economy, said
Masataka Horii, one of four managers for Tokyo-based Kokusai’s
$32.6 billion Global Sovereign Open,  Asia ’s biggest bond fund.  Cut Holdings  Global Sovereign Open reduced its holdings in Australia to
6.4 percent now from a record 15 percent of assets at the end of
last year, investing the proceeds in  Sweden , Horii said.  Sweden’s krona has strengthened 5.1 percent against the U.S.
currency this year.  Investors scooped up Australian dollars as the nation’s
economy expanded in 2009 and 2010 while the rest of the world
suffered through the worst recession since World War II.  The economy grew 2.58 percent in 2008, 1.33 percent in 2009
and 2.75 percent last year. The Aussie appreciated 32 percent
over those two years versus 10 of the most widely-traded
currencies as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Third Best  Australian government debt returned 1.9 percent in local-
currency terms this year, the third-best of 19 developed markets
tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. It gained 2.3
percent in U.S. dollar terms, the 11th-best.  The RBA raised its target for overnight lending by 1.75
percentage points over the course of 11 months to November 2010
and has held it there for the past three meetings. A “mildly
restrictive stance of policy continued to be appropriate,”
minutes of the central bank’s March 1 meeting showed.  The difference lured investors, who are able to put their
Australian dollars into local 10-year notes yielding 5.47
percent. Yields on same-maturity bonds are less than 4 percent
in the U.S., the U.K.,  Canada ,  Germany  and Japan. Italy’s 10-
year rates are 4.77 percent.  Now the  U.S. economy  may be poised to pull ahead. It will
expand 3.1 percent in 2011, versus 2.70 percent for Australia,
based on Bloomberg News surveys of banks and securities
companies. The RBA is more optimistic, forecasting 4.25 percent.  Aussie Expensive  Kokusai’s Horii said the real effective  exchange rate , a
measure of the currency’s value that accounts for inflation in
the nation, shows the Australian currency is expensive. The
gauge climbed to 154.4 in February, within 1 percent of a record,
based on JPMorgan Chase & Co. figures.  The difference between yields on Australian  government
bonds  and inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect
consumer prices will rise an annual 2.92 percent for the next
five years, the fastest among eight developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg. The RBA aims to keep average annual inflation between
2 and 3 percent.  The cost to protect against a default on Australian
government bonds using credit-default swaps climbed to 53.8
basis points from 44.6 basis points six months ago, according to
CMA prices in  New York . The cost for U.S. credit-default swaps
was little changed at 43.1, compared with 41.5 on Dec. 31.  Australia’s currency will weaken as the Fed ends its
Treasury purchases and raises  interest rates , said  Richard Grace ,
chief currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , the nation’s largest lender by market capitalization.
The currency will drop to 92 U.S. cents by year-end, he said.  The Fed said in November it planned to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries by June 30 to boost the U.S. recovery.  Australia’s dollar declined 6.1 percent in 2005 when the
Fed increased its target to 4.25 percent from 2.25 percent, and
it will weaken again when the U.S. starts raising borrowing
costs, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$60.9 as chief fund investor in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest bank.  “When the Fed starts to tighten the Aussie suffers,”
Shimomura said. “It’s not our favorite.” The currency will
fall to 90 U.S. cents by year-end, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 