-- 
Stocks in Switzerland Decline; Swiss Re, UBS, Zehnder Retreat

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-29T16:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/stocks-in-switzerland-drop-swiss-re-kuehne-nagel-shares-fall.html
Swiss stocks dropped as  Greece  and
Portugal’s credit ratings were cut by  Standard & Poor’s  and
consumer demand in  Switzerland  fell for a second month.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. fell after saying the cost of natural
disasters rose 76 percent last year.  UBS AG (UBSN)  slid 1.9 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies lost 0.1 percent to 6,355.06 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. The measure has still rebounded 5.5 percent
since March 16 as investors speculated that Japan would contain
its nuclear crisis and as the U.S., the U.K. and  France  took
control of  Libya ’s airspace. The broader Swiss Performance Index
advanced 0.1 percent to 5,788.64.  “Investors are cautious on the situation in  Japan  and
await the consequences, which are still hard to predict,” said
Lars Knudsen, portfolio manager at LGT Capital Management AG in
Pfaeffikon, Switzerland, who helps manage 86 billion Swiss
francs ($93 billion) of client assets. “Better U.S. economic
data and a good start to the reporting season could help equity
markets.”  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan today said for the first
time that a damaged nuclear plant’s tsunami defenses were
inadequate, while reassuring the public that radiation leaks
pose no health threat beyond an evacuation zone.  Water in a tunnel outside the Dai-Ichi No. 2 reactor
emitted radiation exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a Tokyo Electric
Power Co. spokesman said yesterday. Exposure to that dose for 30
minutes would trigger nausea while for four hours might lead to
death within two months, according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.  Portugal , Greece  Stocks fell today after Standard & Poor’s lowered its debt
rating for Greece and Portugal. The agency now rates Portugal
BBB-/A-3. BBB- is the lowest investment grade.  A gauge of Swiss consumer demand fell for a second month in
February as surging energy costs left households with less money
to spend. The consumption indicator slipped to 1.46 from 1.66 in
January, Zurich-based UBS said in a statement today.  In the U.S. confidence among consumers dropped more than
forecast in March as fuel costs surged to the highest level in
more than two years. The Conference Board’s confidence index
fell to a three-month low of 63.4 from a revised 72 reading in
February, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, fell 0.9
percent to 51.05 francs, trimming yesterday’s 1.9 percent gain.  Natural Disasters  The cost to insurers of natural disasters rose 76 percent
to $40 billion last year because of higher losses from
earthquakes including those that struck  Chile  and  New Zealand ,
the company said.  UBS dropped 1.9 percent to 16.72 francs, its first decline
in four days.  Zehnder Group AG (ZEH)  lost 2.3 percent to 2,570 francs, even
after reporting a 14 percent increase in net income and 9
percent sales growth for 2010. The maker of bathroom radiators
proposed a 50-franc par-value payment and a 25-franc dividend
per share.  The earnings and profit figures “were slightly below
estimates,” Patrick Appenzeller, an analyst at Helvea AG, wrote
in a note to clients. Zehnder has rallied 13 percent in the past
eight trading days.  Credit Suisse, the nation’s second-biggest bank, climbed
0.8 percent to 39.47 francs after earlier rising as much as 1.8
percent. The bank seems to have structures in place “that
prevented systemic fraud” in the U.S., Neue Zuercher Zeitung
reported, citing an interview with Donald Beyer, the U.S.
ambassador to Switzerland.  Beyer said he expects lawsuits by American authorities will
be limited “to a few people” and that he has no indication the
bank committed systemic fraud, the newspaper reported. The
Credit Suisse case differs from UBS regarding those structures,
the newspaper said, citing Beyer.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the world’s largest maker of
dental implants, rose 4.8 percent to 19.08 francs, the biggest
gain in the Stoxx 600 Europe Healthcare Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  