-- 
Australia Appoints Edwards, Tanna to Reserve Bank Board

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-29T01:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/swan-appoints-tanna-edwards-to-reserve-bank-of-australia.html
Australia  appointed former
HSBC Holdings Plc economist  John Edwards  and Catherine Tanna, 
a managing director at a unit of BG Group Plc to the Reserve 
Bank’s board.  Tanna, 49, will replace Donald McGauchie, whose term
expires today, and Edwards, 63, will replace  Warwick McKibbin ,
whose term ends July 30, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an
e-mailed statement today. McGauchie, chairman of Nufarm Ltd.,
and McKibbin, an economist at the Canberra-based Australian 
National University, began their terms in 2001.  The pair joins a central bank board that has kept its
benchmark interest rate on hold since November last year, when
it boosted borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 4.75
percent to contain inflation. Australia’s economic growth
accelerated in the final three months of last year, the eighth
straight quarterly expansion, before floods and cyclones ravaged
the nation’s northeast earlier this year.  The new members “share an understanding of the
macroeconomic implications of the strength of our resource
sector and opportunities flowing from Australia’s location on
the doorstep of  Asia ,” Swan said in the statement.  Resource Experience  Tanna has experience in the resources industry, having
worked at BHP Petroleum, a unit of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company. At Reading, U.K.-based BG Group,
the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer, she is executive
vice president and managing director of its Australian unit,
Swan said.  Edwards was an adviser to Labor Party Prime Minister Paul
Keating from 1991-1994, wrote a biography about the former
leader and served as chief economist for Australia and  New
Zealand  at HSBC from 1997 to 2009. He will quit his current job
as executive director of economic planning and development for
the Bahrain Economic Development Board before joining the RBA,
Swan said.  “Both appointments highlight the key medium-term issues
for Australia: resources, terms of trade and productivity,”
said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Sydney. “It’s quite telling that they’ve appointed someone from
a resource -- and specifically a natural-gas -- background.”  Australia is undergoing its biggest natural-resource
investment expansion since the 19th century. The RBA has boosted
its benchmark interest rate seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010 to contain inflation as the boom bolsters
employment growth and spurs the local currency.  ‘New Blood’  The treasurer on Jan. 31 said the central bank needed “new
blood” when asked about the reappointment of McKibbin, who
derided lawmakers’ “fetish” for avoiding budget deficits and
said borrowing was a better strategy.  McGauchie this week told the Australian newspaper that
government changes to fiscal policy and labor laws would make it
harder to keep inflation in check.  The RBA’s nine-member  board  includes Governor Glenn Stevens, Deputy Governor Ric Battellino, the Treasury secretary
and six members appointed by the treasurer.  The government forecast in November it would achieve a
A$3.1 billion ($3.2 billion) surplus in the year ending June 30,
2013. Throughout flooding, a tropical cyclone and bushfires,
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has repeated a pledge to eliminate
the deficit by that time.  The RBA’s board meets on April 5 to set interest-rate
policy and will keep its overnight cash rate target on hold at
4.75 percent, according to all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News on March 18. The central bank aims to keep
consumer-price inflation at 2 percent to 3 percent, and since
1993 it has averaged near the midpoint of that range. 