-- 
Syracuse Builds $41 Million Green Incubator: James S. Russell

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/syracuse-builds-41-million-incubator-for-green-ideas-james-s-russell.html
Rising in the embrace of a freeway
intersection, the  Syracuse Center of Excellence  is a glassy slab
of laboratories poised on delicate X-braced columns. A roof
covered in plants zigzags up from the entry to meet the labs at
the third floor.  The $41-million Syracuse project in upstate New York is
the most ambitious of just a few American incubators of advanced
building technology.  Since  Japan ’s ongoing disaster may end the already feeble
case for nuclear power as a clean-energy silver bullet, the lab
offers timely options for conservation.  Architect Toshiko Mori stretched and pushed the
conventional laboratory slab, advertising its construction-
innovation mission with an angle here, a kink there.  Ed Bogucz, the center’s executive director, met me in a
reception area level with the passing cars that felt eerily
futuristic. He showed me the building’s many green features.  Panels hang from the ceiling, providing heat and cooling
using water, like updated radiators. They are more efficient and
need fewer fans than conventional all-air systems.  New Ideas  Research in the U.S. lags, while the rest of the world
races to own the green technologies likely to power 21st century
homes and offices. The radiant panels, for example, are old news
in  Europe .  Bogucz walked me to the south-facing window wall, where
thin silvery blinds between panes of glass rotated, as if on
cue, to reduce glare from the sun, which had obligingly moved
from behind the clouds. The varied, fast-changing weather in
Syracuse is ideal to optimize a variety of tactics.  We walked into a lab where testing equipment hangs from the
ceiling: there were dozens of modules permitting fine
adjustments to the air feeding a test office space above.  The lab varies quantities of fresh air and filtration,
measuring the health benefits of cleaner ventilation. (The
freeways handily provide plenty of pollutants to scrub.)  “Better indoor  air quality  has enormous productivity-
enhancing potential,” Bogucz said. A tiny increase in
productivity pays back much more than even massive energy
savings because a company’s cost of labor is many times greater
than the cost of energy, he said.  Smaller Boilers  Bogucz hopes to focus the center’s projects on “holistic”
efforts that develop multiple benefits. Integrated tactics, such
as having the center’s advanced windows use daylight for
offices, lower costs by potentially reducing the size of boilers
and ducts.  That’s how conservation is looking better every day.  Even if oil-patch political unrest settles down, the long-
term price trend is upward, given the rapid growth of
consumption in China and  India .  Once the U.S. recovery builds some steam, those prices are
likely to spurt up further because America’s five percent of the
world’s population consumes almost one fourth of the world’s oil
output. Inflating oil costs could stymie growth.  Energy use need not grow in lockstep with the economy. Mori
designed the building to consume less than half the energy
conventional American labs use simply by carefully uniting cost-
effective technologies that already exist.  President Obama has proposed $36 billion in new loan
guarantees in an attempt to bribe utilities to build nuclear
plants, even though U.S. taxpayers would assume the liability
for a Japan-style disaster.  In comparing conservation “negawatts” -- energy saved --
to other alternatives, America doesn’t account for benefits such
as reduced pollution and lower disaster risks (as “Fukushima
Daiichi” joins “Deepwater Horizon” in our horror lexicon).  We also don’t credit the jobs produced by building-
technology innovation.  Spare Labs  The Syracuse Center, for instance, is the hub of an
emerging Regional Innovation Cluster that, according to Bogucz,
“engages industry, academic and government resources from
upstate and downstate  New York .”  The stakes are too high for America to continue to pretend
conservation is not urgent. Bogucz has a couple of spare labs.
It’s time to get them humming.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press will
publish his book, “The Agile City,” on how conservation in
buildings and communities can quickly combat  climate change . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 