-- 
Assad Might Rescind Emergency Law to Quell Protests Against His Leadership

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-30T10:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/syrian-prime-minister-otri-tenders-resignation-amid-protests-against-assad.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
may offer to lift the nation’s emergency law today in response
to deadly protests that pose the most serious challenge to his
rule since he inherited power from his father in 2000.  Assad will give an “important speech” after the country’s
Cabinet stepped down yesterday, the state-run SANA news agency
said. The president is likely to announce a number of measures,
including ending the 48-year-old state of emergency, George
Jabbour, a former member of parliament, said in a telephone
interview from Damascus yesterday. Assad will address the nation
after 1:30 p.m. local time, Syrian television said.  “Everyone is waiting to see what he has to say,” said
Patrick Seale, who wrote a biography of Assad’s late father,
Hafez. “Can he retrieve the situation? Can he win time? I
believe he has to do something dramatic if he is to regain the
initiative. He has to satisfy the people’s most urgent
demands.”  Syria , where Assad’s Baath party has been in power since
1963, is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by a wave
of uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia ,
and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime is an
ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon, where it
supports the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement. The country ranks
152 in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index,
below  Afghanistan .  Government Resignation  Prime Minister Muhammad Naji Otri’s resignation came after
promises by the regime to expand freedom and enact pay increases
failed to quell the protests. More than 90 people have been
killed in the crackdown on dissent, according to unconfirmed
reports cited by  Amnesty International .  “The resignation of the government in itself is not really
a radical step,” said Chris Phillips, an analyst at the
Economist Intelligence Unit in London. “The question is whether
or not this will be followed by a set of reforms and I think
most people will wait to see.”  The anti-regime protest movement “has not been able to
become dominant in urban Syria,” said Josh Landis, director of
the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma
in Norman. “Syrians are fearful of civil war and the only way
this regime is going to be changed is through civil war and the
military is not going to abandon the president.”  Pro-Government Rallies  Assad’s supporters staged major rallies in several cities
yesterday. The Damascus Securities Exchange canceled yesterday’s
trading session to allow staff to participate in the
demonstrations, according to a  statement  on its  website .  State-run television showed live footage of hundreds of
thousands pouring onto the main streets of Damascus, Aleppo,
Hama and al-Hassakah. The pro-regime marches were a response to
protests in several Syrian cities and towns since mid-March
demanding political reform.  Human Rights Watch  and Amnesty International have condemned
the crackdown. Unrest began in Daraa earlier this month. Video
footage on the Internet broadcast by the  Al Jazeera  and Al
Arabiya news networks showed hundreds of protesters in cities
such as Homs and Daraa, some tearing down posters of Assad.  The regime has promised to release more than 200 prisoners,
change the parties law, combat corruption, introduce a media law
guaranteeing more freedom, improve  living standards  for
residents of border areas and make legal changes to ban random
arrests.  Not Enough  Changes offered by Assad aren’t likely to “go far enough
to please those that oppose him and want to have a multiparty
political system that goes beyond the Baath party,” Landis
said.  Seale said that Syrians want to see Assad do more than lift
the emergency law, which suspended many individual rights.  “Public opinion is expecting him to announce a new law on
political parties, which would end the monopoly of the Baath
party and allow for greater freedom of assembly and
expression,” he said. “There is also an expectation that he
will act to curb the powers of the security services and perhaps
even put on trial people responsible for the recent deaths of
civilian protesters. He faces a critical moment.”  Unconfirmed reports say 37 people were killed in Damascus,
the capital, and other towns including Latakia, Daraa and Homs
since March 25,  Amnesty International said  on its website March
28. In the Daraa governorate, which is in the southwest of the
country near the border with Jordan, at least 55 people died
last week, according to credible sources, Amnesty said.  End to Violence?  Violence in Daraa and Latakia has “come to a halt,”
Jabbour said. “Measures are being taken to address the demands
of protesters in Daraa. However, events in Latakia were a result
of gangsters who targeted the security of Syria.”  “Many Syrians have serious grievances which they want
addressed, but many others appreciate the peace and stability
they have enjoyed under the Assad regimes compared to the
catastrophes suffered by Iraq and Lebanon,” said Seale, in a
telephone interview from  London  yesterday.  Assad’s father ruled the Arab country for three decades. In
1982, he crushed a rebellion led by Islamist militants in the
city of Hama, killing as many as 10,000 people, according to
estimates cited by Human Rights Watch.  “It’s worth noting that different parts of Syria have
different grievances,” Seale said. “The complaints of Daraa
are not the same as those of Latakia. But right across the
country there seems to be a thirst for freedom, a demand for an
end to the state of emergency, a longing for really free
elections and an end to police brutality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  