-- 
Syrian Government Seeking Seat on UN Rights Council Amid Domestic Turmoil

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-29T18:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/syrian-government-seeking-seat-on-un-rights-council-amid-domestic-turmoil.html
Syria ’s government, accused of
shooting peaceful protesters, is bidding at the United Nations
for a seat on the Geneva-based  Human Rights Council  less than a
month after Libya was suspended for attacking demonstrators.  Syria is one of four candidates for four seats on the Human
Rights Council that will go to Asian nations when the UN General
Assembly votes on May 20 for new members. The so-called clean
slate endorsed in January by the UN’s so-called Asian Group of
countries puts Syria in a position to win a three-year term on
the 47-member council unless another Asian nation seeks a seat.  “Syria’s bid and empty promises are an affront to Syrian
protesters whose demands for less repressive laws and practices
have been met with bullets, killing dozens over the last few
days,” Philippe Bolopion of New York-based  Human Rights Watch 
said in an e-mail. “The Asia Group should learn from Libya’s
recent suspension and put forward other candidates that are fit
to run.”  More than 90 people have been killed in Syria as the
government cracked down on dissent, according to unconfirmed
reports cited by London-based  Amnesty International . President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker
in neighboring Lebanon, where it supports the Shiite Muslim
Hezbollah movement.  Syria’s government resigned today in the wake of protests
that began earlier this month and marked the strongest challenge
to Assad’s rule since he took power in 2000. The government has
blamed “armed gangs” for the violence.  ‘Different Issues’  “The so-called turmoil does not affect our candidacy,”
Bashar Ja’afari, Syria’s ambassador to the UN, said in an
interview. “These are two different issues.”  Syria “considers that the protection of human dignity and
fundamental rights are the base of freedom, justice and peace,”
Syria’s mission to the UN said in a March 1 letter to the
president of the General Assembly. “Promotion and protection of
human rights are of the highest importance to Syria.”  The U.S. and its European allies, dealing with the unrest
in  Libya  and across the region, haven’t focused attention on an
effort to derail Syria’s candidacy, diplomats said. The U.S. in
past years has pushed countries to seek membership on UN panels
as a way to block others the U.S. considers to lack
qualifications.  The U.S. was elected to the Human Rights Council in 2009
after President  Barack Obama  took office. Previously, President
 George W. Bush  had decided the U.S. wouldn’t be a candidate for
membership when the body was established in 2006. The  Bush
administration  was concerned that the council would have an
anti-Israel bias and include nations, such as current members
China and Cuba, that have been accused of human rights abuses.
The General Assembly suspended Libya from the council March 1.  Membership Criterion  “We haven’t focused on the clean slate aspect,” Britain’s
Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said of Syria’s possible membership
on the council. “We are looking at the whole question of
membership and criterion of membership. The case of Libya shows
that this is an issue that needs to be discussed and reviewed.”  Pedro Serrano, representing the European Union at a meeting
today in  New York  on the  Human Rights Council , said the General
Assembly should hold “public hearings” for candidates prior to
the annual elections in May.  “The European Union would like to use this opportunity to
point out the need to ensure a basic degree of competitiveness
in elections to the council, and calls upon all regional groups
to advocate competitive slates,” Serrano said.  Singapore’s Ambassador Vanu Menon said the Asian Group of
nations endorsed Syria before the latest unrest began and will
support its candidacy unless another country bids for a seat.  India, Indonesia and  Philippines  are the other Asian
nations seeking seats on the Human Rights Council.  “We always run clean slates in  Africa ,”  South Africa ’s
Ambassador Baso Sangqu said. “We support clean slates. If the
region has agreed, why should we have a problem with that?”  To contact the reporter on this story: Bill Varner at the  United
Nations  at   wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva in
Washington at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  