-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance as BHP Billiton, Vedanta Rise; BP Retreats

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-29T16:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-bp-slides-wolseley-rallies-on-earnings.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a fifth
day, the longest stretch of gains this year, as a rally in
mining companies offset a selloff in  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-
largest oil company.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  climbed more
than 2 percent as metal prices erased their losses in London.
 Wolseley Plc (WOS)  rose 3.1 percent after posting a jump in earnings.
BP dropped the most in two months as federal prosecutors in the
U.S. considered bringing manslaughter charges against some of
the company’s managers.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  climbed 27.68, or 0.5 percent, to
5,931.17 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London after swinging between
gains and losses more than 10 times today. The  FTSE All-Share
Index (ASX)  gained 0.4 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 1
percent.  “There are still plenty of worries but the market seems to
be taking it in stride,” said Lawrence Peterman, London-based
investment director at Eden Financial Ltd. Investors seem to be
“looking at potential earnings and valuations that are not
particularly expensive.”  The benchmark gauge earlier dropped as much as 0.4 percent
after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its  credit rating  for Greece and
Portugal to BB- and BBB- respectively, citing concerns both
countries may be forced to restructure debt after seeking
European aid. BBB- is the lowest investment grade.  Mining Rally  BHP paced a rally in mining shares as base metals pared
losses on the  London  Metal Exchange. The world’s largest mining
company gained 2.2 percent to 2,414.5 pence. Vedanta Resources
increased 2.9 percent to 2,238 pence and  Rio Tinto  Group climbed
2 percent to 4,366 pence.  Separately, two people with knowledge of the matter said
Rio Tinto is in talks to buy shares in Riversdale Mining Ltd.
from Brazil’s Cia Siderurgica Nacional SA.  CSN, as the Brazilian steelmaker is known, wants to keep
its stake in Riversdale, according to Chief Financial Officer
Paulo Penido, who was speaking on a conference call with
analysts today.  BP fell 2.2 percent to 466.55 pence, the steepest drop
since January. Three people familiar with the matter said U.S.
authorities may pursue executives for decisions made before the
Gulf of Mexico oil rig explosion last year that killed 11
workers and caused the world’s biggest accidental offshore
spill.  Separately,  Collins Stewart  lowered its recommendation for
BP to “sell” from “hold.”  “We do not believe valuations are supportive,” analysts
wrote in a report to clients dated today. We “see downside
risks from crude price exposure and the ongoing situation in
Russia.”  Last week, BP’s proposed $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic
exploration deal with OAO Rosneft was thrown out by an
arbitration tribunal after a legal challenge by its Russian
billionaire partners.  Wolseley Jumps  Wolseley climbed 3.1 percent to 2,154 pence. The world’s
largest supplier of heating and plumbing products reported a 64
percent jump in first-half earnings before one-off items to 275
million pounds ($439.3 million), beating a 238 million-pound
estimate in a survey of analysts by Bloomberg News. The company
also pledged to reinstate its dividend.  “We’re certainly making decent progress,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Meakins told journalists on a call today. “Market
share of our core businesses has been gaining or holding.”  Babcock International Group Plc (BAB)  climbed 3.8 percent to 600
pence after the company said trading for the full year is
“consistent” with its expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 