-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Falls to a Three-Month Low

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-29T16:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/u-s-consumer-confidence-declines-to-three-month-low-on-surging-fuel-costs.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped more than forecast in March as fuel costs surged to the
highest level in more than two years.  The Conference Board’s confidence index fell to a three-
month low of 63.4 from a revised 72 reading in February, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed today.
Another report showed  home prices  decreased in January for a
seventh consecutive month.  Sentiment may remain suppressed as higher prices at service
stations and supermarkets take a bigger bite out of Americans’
incomes. A pickup in the job market and savings from tax cuts
make it less likely that household spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, will falter.  Rising commodity prices and falling home equity are
undermining Americans’ sentiment. A pickup in the job market and
savings from tax cuts make it less likely that consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
will falter.  “Higher prices at the gas pump and at the grocery store
have rattled consumers,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who
forecast a confidence reading of 63.5. At the same time, “the
consumer isn’t going into hiding. We’re shifting into
substantial job growth and we see the unemployment rate trending
down.”  Shares climbed after Home Depot Inc. said it sold $2
billion in bonds to raise cash and finance buybacks. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,315.55 at
12:09 p.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.47 percent from 3.43
percent late yesterday.  Worse than Forecast  The median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for the confidence index to drop to 65 this month.
Estimates ranged from 59 to 73.5. The measure averaged 98 during
the expansion that ended in December 2007.  Another report today showed home prices fell in January by
the most in a year, raising the risk that home sales will keep
slowing. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities dropped 3.1 percent from January 2010, the biggest year-
over-year decrease since December 2009.  Home prices fell 0.2 percent in January from the prior
month after adjusting for seasonal variations, following a 0.4
percent December decrease.  Rising foreclosures are swelling the number of houses on
the market, which may put additional pressure on prices in
coming months. At the same time, a further decline in home
values may keep potential buyers on the sidelines as they
foresee better deals, hurting construction and  consumer spending 
as owners’ equity evaporates.  Price Outlook  “Prices will continue to move downward probably for the
rest of the year,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York, who correctly forecast the
drop. “They won’t turn around until you have consumers feel
that housing is genuinely cheap and until they feel a lot more
secure in their labor-market position.”  The Conference Board’s gauge of consumer expectations for
the next six months dropped as fewer Americans said they plan to
purchase cars, homes and appliances in the next six months.  The share of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months declined, as did the percentage
of those anticipating an increase in incomes.  Present Conditions  The group’s measure of present conditions increased to
36.9, the highest since November 2008, from 33.8 a month
earlier. The gauge rose as 15.1 percent viewed current business
conditions as being “good,” up from 12.4 percent a month
earlier.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently
plentiful fell to 4.4 percent from 4.9 percent. Those who said
jobs are hard to get was little changed at 44.6 percent from the
prior month.  The households surveyed in March projected an inflation
rate of 6.7 percent over the next 12 months, the highest level
since October 2008.  “Consumers’ inflation expectations rose significantly in
March and their income expectations soured, a combination that
will likely impact spending decisions,”  Lynn Franco , director
of the Conference Board’s consumer research center, said in a
statement.  Retailer’s Concern  Michaels Stores Inc., an arts-and-crafts retailer based in
Irving,  Texas , is among companies monitoring how consumers may
respond to the higher costs for fuel and food.  “We think that the customer will be under pressure because
of gasoline prices, food prices,” John Menzer, chief executive
officer, said on a conference call with investors on March 24.
“We have to really look at value, value throughout our store.”  Today’s report is consistent with other confidence data.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped in the week ended
March 20 to the lowest level since August. The final reading of
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan confidence index fell
in March to the lowest level since November 2009.  The economy has added jobs for five consecutive months
through February, when the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest
level since April 2009. A report due on April 1 may show March
payrolls grew by 190,000, and the jobless rate held at 8.9
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Increasing prices remain a headwind. Regular fuel rose to
$3.59 a gallon on March 28, the most since October 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.
Food costs climbed 0.6 percent last month, the most since 2008,
consumer-price index data showed on March 17.  Another concern is housing. Eighteen of the 20 cities in
the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed a year-over-year price
decline, led by a 9.1 percent drop in Phoenix. In January,
prices in 11 markets dropped to fresh lows since their 2006,
2007 peaks, the same as in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  