-- 
U.S. Amateur Champion Golfer Uihlein Beats British Champ in Georgia Cup

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-03-29T22:38:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/u-s-amateur-champion-golfer-uihlein-beats-british-champ-in-georgia-cup.html
U.S. Amateur champion  Peter Uihlein 
beat British Amateur champion Jin Jeong in the 14th annual
 Georgia  Cup golf match, staged a week before the  Masters
Tournament .  Uihlein, 21, a junior at Oklahoma State University, closed
out the match with a par on the 16th hole at the  Golf Club of
Georgia’s  Lakeside course in Alpharetta. Uihlein held an
insurmountable four-hole lead with two holes remaining.  Uihlein became the fourth Oklahoma State player to win the
U.S. Amateur when he defeated Stanford’s David Chung in August.
He’ll head back to college for a few days before returning to
Georgia on April 1 to prepare for his first appearance in the
Masters at Augusta National Golf Club.  “I’m looking forward to next week,” Uihlein said in an
interview. “It’s nice to get a win and get the competitive
juices flowing. It certainly helps.”  Uihlein, the son of Wally Uihlein, the chief executive
officer of  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) ’s Titleist golf unit, led the
entire match. He held a four-hole lead through nine holes and
had a chance to close out the match on the 15th after hitting an
approach shot from the fairway to within three feet of the cup.
Jeong then rolled in a birdie putt from about 15 feet to extend
play for another hole.  Jeong, a 21-year-old South Korean who lives in  Australia ,
will turn pro after the Masters, the first of golf’s four annual
major tournaments. Jeong defeated  Scotland ’s James Byrne in June
to win the British Amateur Championship and a berth at the
Masters.  Previous Georgia Cup winners include U.S. PGA Tour players
Danny Lee (2009),  Ryan Moore  (2005), Ricky Barnes (2003), Sergio Garcia (1999) and Matt Kuchar (1998).  The U.S. Amateur champions hold an 8-6 lead in the match
that was first played in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Alpharetta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 