-- 
U.S. Special Envoy to Visit Libya; Clinton Meets With Opposition Leaders

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-29T15:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/u-s-special-envoy-to-visit-libya-clinton-meets-with-opposition-leaders.html
The U.S. will send its special
envoy for  Libya  to Benghazi within the next week for talks with
rebel opposition leaders, an administration official said.  The announcement came as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
met with Libyan opposition leader Mahmoud Jebril before a London
conference today to discuss political and military progress in
Libya.  The meeting, attended by more than 30 foreign ministers,
comes as the U.S.-led coalition hands over command of military
operations to the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization . U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  proposed creation of a steering group to
work on all aspects of Libya’s political transition in remarks
before the gathered ministers.  The London meeting takes place as the battle over Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte intensified, with
government troops digging in as rebels extended their offensive
along the coast.  Clinton told allied foreign ministers that the coalition
against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is “at a turning point”
as NATO takes command of air strikes.  Clinton said the allies must deliver needed humanitarian
assistance, pressure Qaddafi’s regime with international
sanctions, and support moves toward democratic government in the
North African nation.  ‘Unified Front’  “All of us must continue to increase the pressure on and
deepen the isolation of the Qaddafi regime,” Clinton said.
“This includes a unified front of political and diplomatic
pressure that makes clear to Qaddafi that he must go.”  She laid out three goals for the countries gathered in the
British capital. They must work together on “delivering
desperately needed humanitarian assistance; pressuring and
isolating the Qaddafi regime through robust sanctions and other
measures, and supporting efforts by Libyans to achieve their
aspirations through political change,” Clinton said.  Military measures will not stop until Qaddafi fully
complies with UN Resolution 1973, “ceases his attacks on
civilians; pulls his troops back from places they have forcibly
entered; and allows key services and humanitarian assistance to
reach all the people of Libya,” Clinton said.  Clinton also called on those gathered to “deepen the
isolation of the Qaddafi regime” through non-military measures,
including the enforcement of  UN sanctions  against Libya.  Determining Libya’s Destiny  “We cannot and must not impose our will on the people of
Libya, but we can and must stand with them as they determine
their own destiny,” the top U.S. diplomat said. “All of us
seated around this table must speak with one voice in support of
a transition that leads to a brighter future for Libya.”  Clinton met with the Libyan opposition’s special envoy
Jebril to build on their previous meeting in Paris two weeks
ago, an administration official said . The official spoke on
condition of anonymity. The U.S. hasn’t formally recognized
Jebril’s National Transition Council.  The U.S. Ambassador to Libya, Gene Cretz, has praised the
group’s efforts to be broadly representative of Libya. “They’re
off to a good start,” he said March 25.  So far France and Qatar have formally recognized the
rebels.  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon announced that the
organization’s envoy for Libya, former Jordanian Foreign
Minister Abdel Ilah Al-Khatib, will travel to Benghazi. Al-
Khatib will look at the political process that will affect
transition to a more democratic system.  Frozen Assets  The steering group proposed by the British would enforce
all non-military aspects of UN Resolution 1973, including the
distribution of humanitarian aid and the enforcement of
sanctions. The U.S. has frozen $33 billion in Libyan assets.  Turkey  and the European Union will take on a large role in
the humanitarian effort to help Libya, which will be a central
focus of today’s meeting, the official said.  Libya’s opposition estimates that as many as 12,000 people
have died in the fighting to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  