-- 
U.S. Treasury to Publicly Grade Mortgage Servicers Over Loan Modifications

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-29T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/u-s-treasury-to-publicly-grade-mortgage-servicers-over-loan-modifications.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department plans
to publicly grade mortgage servicers on how well they respond to
homeowners seeking reductions in payments as the government
encourages loan modifications to stem foreclosures.  Timothy G. Massad, acting assistant secretary at the U.S.
Treasury Department, said the agency will publicize servicer
compliance beginning next month, according to the text of a
speech prepared for delivery today at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . He said companies will be graded on
how they evaluate homeowners’ eligibility for aid and how
quickly they respond to customers.  “This is a voluntary program based on a contract,” Massad
said in his prepared remarks. “We do not regulate the servicers
and we cannot fine them.” Transparency, he said, is the best
way to improve servicer behavior.  The U.S. House of Representatives is scheduled to vote
tonight on a bill to eliminate the two-year-old Home Affordable
Modification Program, which pays banks to modify borrowers’
monthly mortgage payments. HAMP is an Obama administration’s
programs intended to reduce foreclosure filings, which fell last
month to 225,101, the lowest in three years.  Massad is scheduled to speak to students at Harvard’s
Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government at the John
F. Kennedy School of Government. He said the grading of mortgage
companies will be based on data collected by the Treasury during
2010.  Programs Criticized  Republicans and Democrats have complained about the
programs’ effectiveness, particularly HAMP. A government
watchdog, the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, criticized how aid was delivered.  “A major difficulty in implementation of this program has
been poor servicer performance,” Massad said. “The servicers
were accustomed to collecting payments on performing loans; they
did not have the people, the procedures or the systems to deal
with this crisis.”  Servicers collect monthly mortgage payments and handle
other administrative chores for lenders. They also may modify or
foreclose on a loan in default.  The five biggest loan servicers by portfolio size are  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , Wells Fargo & Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and the GMAC unit of Ally Financial Inc. They
service more than half of the $10.6 trillion in U.S. home loans
by value, according to data from news website MortgageDaily.com.  The Treasury is projected to spend about a fourth of the
$50 billion allocated for HAMP, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office . The program has spent about $1 billion so far.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 