-- 
UBI Shares Slump Most in Two Years as Bank Plans Rights Offer

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-03-29T07:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/ubi-shares-slump-most-in-two-years-as-bank-plans-rights-offer.html
Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI) ,
 Italy ’s fourth-biggest bank, tumbled the most in more than two
years in Milan trading as analysts cut their recommendations on
the company’s plan to offer new shares.  UBI declined as much as 11 percent, its biggest intraday
drop since October 2008. The stock traded down 64 cents, or 9.3
percent, at 6.24 euros as of 9:34 a.m. local time, giving the
bank a market value of about 4 billion euros ($5.7 billion).  “UBI unexpectedly announced a rights issue after reporting
a good set of results at the operating level,” said Carlo Tommaselli and Patrick Lee, analysts at Societe Generale SA who
cut their recommendation on the shares to “sell” from “hold”
in a report today. “We downgrade the stock on low visibility of
future profitability and on low delivery.”  The board of the Bergamo, Italy-based lender yesterday
proposed offering as much as 1 billion euros of shares, after
the company reported 2010 net income of 172.1 million euros.
Chief Executive Officer Victor Massiah said the share sale will
strengthen capital and won’t be used for acquisitions.  “Due to the unexpected dilution, we expect the share price
to react negatively,” said Aldo Comi, a London-based banking
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. who has a “market
perform” recommendation on the stock.  Nomura Holdings Inc. downgraded the shares to “reduce”
from “neutral,” Intermonte SIM SpA cut its recommendation to
“underperform” from “neutral,” Gruppo Banca Leonardo moved
to “underweight” from “buy,” and Equita Sim SpA, which
lowered the stock to “hold” from “buy,” removed UBI from its
main portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  