-- 
Hudson City's Chief Says $644 Million Loss on Debt Means No Annual Profit

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-29T15:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/hudson-city-s-chief-says-644-million-loss-on-debt-means-no-annual-profit.html
Hudson City Bancorp, the largest
U.S. bank to forgo a government bailout, had a $644.3 million
loss from paying off debt and said it won’t report a full-year
profit for 2011.  Hudson City bought back $12.5 billion of so-called
structured putable borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of
 New York  and some of the “larger Wall Street financial
houses,” according to a filing yesterday from the Paramus, New
Jersey-based lender. Chief Executive Officer Ronald Hermance
said in a phone interview that the transactions will keep the
bank from reporting an annual profit.  “We got to the point where we couldn’t keep growing, and
this is the result,” Hermance said. “To continue to deliver
 shareholder value  you have to take the one-time hit.”  Hudson City won favor among investors during the financial
crisis by posting profits every year since its initial public
offering in 1999, and record net income for the 11th straight
year of $537.2 million in 2010. The shares have dropped more
than 20 percent since March 2, when Hudson City disclosed that
regulators were pressing the bank to reduce risk.  Dividend Cut  The stock dropped 4 cents to $9.82 as of 11:35 a.m. in New
York on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The restructuring was widely
anticipated, so the focus is now on how much Hudson City will
reduce its quarterly dividend, according to Brian Foran, an
analyst with Nomura Securities International Inc. Foran
estimated a cut to 10 cents from 15 cents, according to a note
to investors today. That would equal about 50 percent of
earnings, the bank’s traditional payout ratio, he wrote.  Hudson City took a pretax charge of $1.17 billion and
expects to report a first-quarter net loss. The lender said it
borrowed $5 billion and sold $8.6 billion in mortgage-backed
securities to retire the debt.  The new debt has an average cost of 66 basis points and
will be paid off in increments of $250 million a month, the
company said. The retired borrowings had an average rate of 3.56
percent.  Hermance said the bank suffered from a mismatch between its
high cost of funds and shrinking yields on investments and
mortgage-backed securities. The bank’s plan of retiring debt
with new deposits fell apart when the financial crisis hit. The
bank still holds about $16.6 billion of the putable borrowings.  Government Action  “When you have a negative carry on $27 billion you have to
do something,” Hermance said. Otherwise, “it can only get
worse.”  The declining yields were caused in part by “the
unprecedented involvement of the United States government in
both the mortgage markets, through the government-sponsored
enterprises, and the maintenance of low-market  interest rates ,”
Hermance wrote in a separate statement.  The  Federal Reserve  slashed the overnight lending rate
between banks to near zero in December 2008 and purchased more
than $1 trillion in mortgage bonds to bolster housing and
financial markets.  Hudson City said earlier this month it expected to receive
a memorandum of understanding from the Office of Thrift
Supervision requiring it to “reduce its level of interest-rate
risk and funding concentration,” according to a filing.  Hudson City said it expected the OTS action because of
enhanced regulatory scrutiny of banks since the financial crisis
and the lender’s “significant growth” since 2005.  Impact on Earnings  The actions announced yesterday may boost net interest
margin, the difference between what the bank pays to borrow and
what it earns on loans and securities, by 40 basis points in the
second quarter compared with the year-end, Hudson City said. It
reported a margin of 1.73 percent in the fourth quarter.  The restructuring caused a bigger reduction in tangible
book value than Foran expected, to $9 a share, while earnings
may be better than expected at 80 cents per share. Foran left
his rating on the stock as “neutral” and his price target at
$10 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 