-- 
Poland Hires Goldman, JPMorgan, Citi, UniCredit for JSW IPO

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-03-29T12:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/unicredit-goldman-citigroup-among-advisers-on-polish-jsw-sale.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will advise on the
sale of coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA as Poland’s
Treasury continues record share offerings.  The banks will act as the global coordinators for the
initial public offering, Deputy Treasury Minister Krzysztof Walenczak told reporters in Warsaw today. PKO Bank Polski SA,
Ipopema Securities SA,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and BRE Bank SA will
also help manage the IPO of the company known as JSW.  The government wants to keep more than 50 percent in  JSW ,
the European Union’s largest coking coal producer, after the
offering, Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad said at the
conference, adding that the size of the stake sold will depend
on demand. The company won’t sell new shares in the process and
the ministry will offer some shares to JSW employees.  The offering is part of the government’s 15 billion-zloty
($5.29 billion) asset sale program this year, a target which
could increase as the cabinet announced today plans to sell as
much as 14 billion zloty of shares in the country’s biggest
lender PKO Bank Polski SA.  The total transactions that the ministry wants to carry out
via the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  this year could beat last year’s
record, Grad said. In 2010, sales through the bourse initiated
by the Treasury generated 23.4 billion zloty.  IPO Value  Grad didn’t comment on the value of the JSW IPO. The
company’s unaudited net income was about 1 billion zloty last
year, Chief Executive Officer Jaroslaw Zagorowski told the PAP
newswire in January. The company declined to comment on earnings
when reached by phone today. The miner produced 13.1 million
tons of coal last year, 70 percent of which was coking coal used
by steelmakers.  In January, Zagorowski said the value of the IPO could be
from 3 billion zloty to 5 billion zloty.  Increasing coal prices are pushing up the value of coal
producers after December floods in  Australia  cut the global
supply. New World Resources NV, the largest Czech producer of
coking coal, which is also listed in Warsaw, has jumped 29
percent in Warsaw trading from Dec. 3 when flooding cut
Australian production, giving a  value  of 11.9 billion zloty.  Average coking coal prices may rise to 194 euros this year
from 141 euros a year ago, Petr Bartek, an analyst at Erste
Group Bank AG, said by phone today, citing the Australian floods
and recovering economies.  The ministry will file the JSW prospectus with the
securities commission by April 20 and will start the offering
about June 6, when the document is set to be published, Grad
said. The government plans for the company, based in the
southern Polish city of Jastrzebie Zdroj, to debut on the Warsaw
bourse on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  