-- 
Unused Oil Leases in Gulf May Meet Two Years of U.S. Demand

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-29T19:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/unused-oil-leases-in-gulf-may-meet-two-years-of-u-s-demand-1-.html
Undeveloped oil and gas leases in
the  Gulf of Mexico  may hold 11.6 billion barrels of crude,
enough to meet U.S. demand for almost two years.  Companies are producing from less than 20 percent of 34
million acres leased in the Gulf, according to data released
today by the Interior Department. Less than half of leases on
federal lands are active, the report found.  The Obama administration said it sought the inventory of
leases as a way to press companies into speeding development of
energy resources. The oil industry and Republican lawmakers in
Congress are seeking to open the Arctic and Atlantic oceans for
additional exploration, to reduce dependence on foreign oil.  “They should either use the leases they have, and score on
it, or give them up,” Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, said today in an interview. “ I hope this will give
us a new impetus.”  Menendez and Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, on
March 16 introduced  legislation  that would require oil and gas
companies to pay an annual $4-an-acre fee for unused lands,
estimating $874 million would be generated in 10 years.  “This administration seeks to increase politics rather
than increase energy production,” Erik Milito, upstream
director at  American Petroleum Institute , said in an e-mail
today. “This is an effort to distract the American people from
rising gas prices, and the fact that the administration has been
delaying, deferring or denying access to our oil and natural gas
resources here at home.”  Lease Adjustments  The administration may trim the duration of leases to
accelerate development or may reward companies that step up
production with lower royalty rates,  Michael Bromwich , director
of the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement  that oversees drilling, said on March 17.  “There are tens of millions of acres that are currently
under lease that remain idle,” Heather Zichal, deputy assistant
to the president for energy and climate change, said on the
White House  website . “Taxpayers are not getting the full
advantage of America’s resource potential.”  The U.S. consumes about 18.8 million barrels of oil a day,
according to the Energy Information Administration. The
undeveloped leases in the Gulf may hold 59.2 trillion cubic feet
of natural gas, according to the Interior report  House Republicans  today introduced legislation that would
force the administration to sell leases in the Atlantic off the
Virginia coast for exploration within a year.  Obama is scheduled to outline his plan for the nation’s
energy security during a speech at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington  tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 