-- 
Turkcell Chairman Rejects TeliaSonera’s Board-Change Stance

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 
2011-03-29T15:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/turkcell-chairman-rejects-teliasonera-s-board-change-stance-1-.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmeteleri AS
Chairman Colin Williams said shareholder  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s
position on possible board changes at  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-
phone operator is “baseless.”  TeliaSonera made inaccurate statements about Williams’s
stance on governance issues, “including the proposed increase
in the number of independent directors on the Turkcell board and
proposals to change the current board’s composition,” Williams
said in an e-mailed statement today. “I will strongly contest
those allegations, as well as any suggestions that I have acted
unlawfully.”  TeliaSonera, which has an effective  38 percent stake  in
Turkcell, said March 24 that it plans to sue Williams on the
grounds that he has refused to allow it to address shareholders
at Turkcell’s general meeting scheduled for April 21. Its
attempts to add independent board members have been blocked by
Williams and controlling shareholder Cukurova Holding, the
Swedish company said last week.  Cecilia Edstroem, a TeliaSonera spokeswoman, declined to
comment when reached by Bloomberg News today.  Legal disputes among Turkcell’s three major shareholders --
TeliaSonera,  Russia ’s Altimo and Turkey’s Cukurova -- over
control of the company and regulatory price cuts have hurt the
Istanbul-based operator’s performance, TeliaSonera Chief
Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said Feb. 12, according to the
Milliyet newspaper. TeliaSonera plans to seek control of
Turkcell at the shareholder meeting, Milliyet reported.  Turkcell fell 22 kurus, or 2.3 percent, to 9.30 liras at
the close of trading in Istanbul, its lowest price in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 