-- 
US Airways Says FBI Probes Possible Bullet Hole in 737 Jet

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-29T20:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/us-airways-says-fbi-probes-possible-bullet-hole-in-737-jet-1-.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said the
Federal Bureau of Investigation is probing a possible bullet
hole found in the fuselage of a  Boeing Co. (BA)  737.  The nickel-size hole was detected on the left side of the
plane near the tail as a pilot did a preflight check yesterday
at the Charlotte,  North Carolina , airport, said Michelle Mohr,
an airline spokeswoman. The jet, which flew from Philadelphia
with 84 passengers and 5 crew members, was taken out of service.  “To us, it looked like it could potentially be a bullet
hole,” Mohr said today in an interview. “That’s why we
involved the authorities immediately.”  The hole extended from the jet’s skin into the cabin, said
Amy Thoreson, an FBI spokeswoman in  Charlotte . She declined to
say what caused the hole or comment on whether it appeared to
have been made by a bullet. The Federal Aviation Administration
referred calls to the FBI.  “We have a lot of physical territory to cover before we
can find out how it happened, where it happened and when it
happened,” Thoreson said.  US Airways  fell 15 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $8.87 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
declined 11 percent this year.  Aircraft Shootings  Shots have been fired at U.S. airliners in the past, said
Fred Mirgle, retired chairman of the aviation maintenance
department at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in  Daytona
Beach ,  Florida . It would be unusual for the crew or passengers
not to notice if the plane were hit in flight, he said.  “It almost sounds like it was shot on the ground or close
to it, if it was shot,” Mirgle said in an interview.  Any difficulty with the 737’s auxiliary power unit, which
provides electricity when the plane is at the gate and is in the
rear of the jet, would have been noticed by the pilots and it’s
not likely any pieces from an engine would have hit that area,
Mirgle said.  Handheld lasers aimed at planes are a more common issue,
with reported cases almost doubling in 2010 to more than 2,800,
according to the FAA. The  U.S. Congress  is considering a bill
that would make it a federal crime to point handheld lasers at
aircraft, potentially blinding pilots temporarily and putting
planes at risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  