-- 
Hutchison Profit Beats Estimates on 3G Sales, Retail Chains

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-29T08:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/hutchison-profit-beats-estimates-on-3g-sales-retail-chains.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, reported full-year profit that
beat estimates after boosting sales from mobile-phone services,
ports, and cosmetics in Europe, the Americas and China.  Net income climbed 47 percent to HK$20 billion ($2.6
billion), or HK$4.70 a share, from HK$13.6 billion a year
earlier, or HK$3.20, the Hong Kong-based company said in a
statement today. This exceeded the HK$16.4 billion average of
nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 8
percent to HK$326 billion.  Hutchison ended losses at its mobile-phone division in
Europe and Australia seven years after starting services to
compete with Vodafone Group Plc and Telecom Italia SpA, as users
downloaded more videos and Webpages using smartphones. The  Hong
Kong  company expanded its A.S. Watson beauty chain in China,
while sales from luxury brands such as Marionnaud rose.  “More consumers are using their smartphones, and that
means more revenue for operators,” Danie Schutte, who rates
Hutchison “outperform” at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before
the earnings. “The retail business has done phenomenally well
in a very tough environment.”  Hutchison shares fell 2.1 percent to HK$88.80 at the close
of trading in Hong Kong, before the earnings announcement. The
stock is the best performer in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  in the past year.  Turnaround  3 Group, Hutchison’s division that offers 3G, or third-
generation, mobile-phone services in seven markets in  Europe  and
Australia, earned HK$ 2.93 billion before interest and tax last
year, compared with a loss of HK$8.9 billion a year earlier. The
unit, unprofitable since starting services in 2003, was expected
to break even on that basis in 2010, Hutchison said in August.  The 3G customer base totaled over 29.6 million worldwide,
according to the statement.  The company raised full-year dividend 11 percent and
proposed a HK$1.41 final dividend.  Hutchison Whampoa’s port unit boosted earnings before
interest and taxes 12 percent to HK$11.6 billion last year.  Hutchison’s earnings before interest and tax from its
retail division increased 38 percent to HK$7.87 billion. The
Hong Kong company owns the U.K.’s Superdrug, and the
Netherland’s Kruidva healthcare chains, and its A.S. Watson
division has more than 2,200 outlets in markets including  China ,
 Southeast Asia  and Turkey.  Hutchison has investments in industries spanning ports,
telecommunications, to oil production in 52 countries, according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  