-- 
Cephalon Surges on Hostile Takeover Offer From Valeant, Trumping Bid Price

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-30T20:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/valeant-pharmaceuticals-offers-to-buy-cephalon-for-5-7-billion-in-cash.html
Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  surged 28 percent to
$75.44 in Nasdaq trading, its biggest gain in almost 16 years
and higher than a hostile takeover bid from  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ,  Canada ’s largest drugmaker.  Valeant made its cash offer of about $5.7 billion, or $73 a
share, public last night after its private approaches were
rejected, the company said. The bid for Cephalon, the Frazer,
Pennsylvania-based maker of sleep and pain drugs, presents a 24
percent premium to yesterday’s closing price of $58.75.  If successful, the acquisition would be the largest hostile
takeover in the industry since Sanofi-Aventis SA bid for Genzyme
Corp. last year. Valeant is open to raising its bid depending on
what due diligence reveals about the value of Cephalon, and also
is willing to walk away, Chief Executive Officer J. Michael Pearson said on a conference call with investors today.  “Three weeks from now we should either be done with this
or we should be moving on,” Pearson said.  The deal likely will get done at a higher price than the
$73-a-share bid now on the table, Cowen & Co. analyst  Eric Schmidt  wrote in a research note today. He suggested $75 to $80
a share.  “We would not expect Valeant to encounter a lot of
resistance” from Cephalon shareholders, New York-based Schmidt
wrote.  Shares Surge  Cephalon increased $16.69 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest single-day gain since
June 1995. The stock had lost 19 percent in the 12 months before
today. Valeant increased $5.69, or 13 percent, to $50.08 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Its shares more than
doubled in the last year.  Valeant, which merged in 2010 with Biovail Corp., said on
Feb. 1 that it would buy Zug, Switzerland-based PharmaSwiss SA
for $480 million to expand in  Europe . In January, Pearson said
Valeant would seek acquisitions to expand its markets globally.  “Valeant is an unusual company,” said  Corey Davis , an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “They don’t believe in R&D, which is kind
of anti-pharma. They are ultra-aggressive in acquisitions.”  After several private approaches were turned back, Valeant,
based in Mississauga, Ontario, will push to replace Cephalon’s
board with its own nominees, the drugmaker said in a statement.  “We put in an offer, tried to engage, but they wouldn’t,”
Pearson said yesterday in a phone interview. “So we will go to
shareholders. If they don’t like it, we will walk in a month.”  Provigil, Treanda  Cephalon reported 2010 revenue of $2.81 billion. The
company sells the narcolepsy treatment Provigil, which last year
generated sales of $1.12 billion, and the blood-cancer medicine
Treanda, which had $393 million in revenue. The company is also
developing medicines in other cancers including lung, melanoma
and solid tumors, according to its website.  Valeant focuses on treatments for the central nervous
system and skin diseases. It has made four acquisitions in the
past year, according to Bloomberg data.  The offer is 5.5 times Cephalon’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to Bloomberg
data. The median Ebitda multiple for deals in the industry has
been 10.5, according to Bloomberg data.  Valeant said it plans to fund the transaction entirely with
debt, and that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. provided a “highly
confident letter for the full amount of the financing.” The
company had $400.4 million in cash and marketable securities at
the end of 2010, according to a February statement.  219 Acquisitions  There have been 219 acquisitions of U.S. pharmaceutical
companies in the past 12 months, with an average disclosed price
of $153.7 million and an average premium of 44 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  Cephalon in December appointed J. Kevin Buchi chief
executive officer after the death of company founder Frank Baldino earlier that month. Baldino, 57, was chairman and CEO.  Cephalon has announced seven acquisitions in the past year,
including a proposal on March 28 to buy ChemGenex
Pharmaceuticals Limited, an Australian company developing a
treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia called Omapro, in a deal
valuing ChemGenex at about $231 million.  Gemin X  On March 21, Cephalon said it agreed to acquire Gemin X, a
closely held developer of cancer therapies, for $225 million,
with the potential for $300 million in additional cash payments
based on certain milestones.  Valeant has expressed disappointment with the Gemin X deal.  “You are quite aware that investments in early-stage
development programs are inconsistent with our strategy and
quite frankly, from our perspective, this move has reduced the
value creation potential of the proposed merger,” Valeant’s
Pearson wrote to Cephalon’s Buchi in a March 25 letter. “We
would hope that you delay any further such deals until our two
companies have concluded this process, one way or the other.”  Pearson said he met with Cephalon’s Buchi twice. “Largely,
he said this price is not in the range of what would interest
him,” Pearson said during yesterday’s interview.  Valeant offered to buy Cephalon in a March 18 letter, re-
printed in yesterday’s statement. The company said at the time
it expected to complete due diligence in less than a month.  In the March 25 letter, Valeant indicated Buchi and Pearson
had met a week earlier and that the Cephalon CEO said the board
considered the offer too low to start discussions. Valeant also
said it would consider raising its price based on findings
during due diligence, according to the letter.  Alternative Transaction  Valeant proposed an alternative transaction in the March 25
letter, in which the company would buy Cephalon’s non-cancer-
related businesses for $2.8 billion, or $37 a share in cash.  “We made the offer to buy just some of the assets in
response to them,” Pearson said in the interview. “Their CEO
said his shareholders under-appreciate his pipeline, so we felt
we’d let him keep his pipeline and we’ll take off his hands the
parts he thinks are depressing his stock.”  The second option “would allow Cephalon to continue to
operate as a stand-alone oncology-focused company with
sufficient cash, near-term revenue and infrastructure to develop
and commercialize most of your pipeline as well as to provide
additional funds to fuel your early-development stage
acquisition strategy,” Pearson wrote.  Cephalon is working with its financial adviser, Deutsche
Bank AG, to review the alternatives posed by Valeant and plans
to respond during the week of April 4, the company said in a
statement. Buchi told Pearson that Cephalon would consider the
proposals, according to letters attached to Cephalon’s
statement.  “To be clear: if Cephalon’s Board of Directors determines
that either or both of your proposals should be pursued, we
would expect to discuss with you a path forward at that time,”
Buchi wrote Pearson in a letter dated yesterday.  Sanofi’s hostile bid for Genzyme, made public in August,
was for $18.5 billion. After negotiations, Paris-based Sanofi
said Feb. 16 it would buy Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of
drugs for rare genetic diseases, for $20.1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 