-- 
Vertex Says Cystic Fibrosis Pill Helped Kids’ Lungs in Study

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-03-29T20:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/vertex-says-cystic-fibrosis-pill-helped-kids-lungs-in-study-3-.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  said a
trial of its cystic fibrosis pill showed improvements in lung
function in 6- to 11-year-olds in a 24-week trial, and will
support its application for regulatory approval this year.  The study, the third of three phases generally required for
approval, found that the children had an improvement in lung
function of 12.5 percent from the beginning of the trial, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based drugmaker said in a statement
today. The patients had an improvement of 17.4 percent compared
with the placebo group.  Vertex’s medicine aims to repair the effects of a genetic
mutation found in about 4 percent of cystic fibrosis patients.
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disorder that causes build-ups
of sticky mucus in the airways, leading to lung damage and
infections that can kill patients before they turn 40. Success
in treating children with the disorder could limit lung damage
before it accumulates, RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst  Jason Kantor  said in a research note today.  “The greatest impact on clinical outcome will likely come
from drugs that are effective in children, before their lung
function deteriorates significantly,” said Kantor, who is based
in  San Francisco  and recommends buying Vertex shares. “From a
commercial perspective, starting chronic therapy in children and
continuing through adulthood increases the size of the market
substantially.”  Today’s results are an interim readout from a 48-week
study, the company said. Vertex is also in the earlier stages of
developing another pill that may help treat a majority of cystic
fibrosis patients.  Shares Rise  Vertex rose $1.56, or 3.3 percent, to $48.90 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares
have gained 19 percent in the last 12 months.  The company plans to seek U.S. and European clearance for
VX-770 in the second half of this year. Kantor said the medicine
may be on the market in the first half of 2012.  In a study released last month, Vertex reported that the
medicine increased breathing function in adults by more than 10
percent in a year, reduced patients’ need for antibiotics and
led to an average weight gain of 7 pounds. Children with cystic
fibrosis have a hard time gaining weight. In this study, the
children on the medicine gained an average of 8.1 pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 