-- 
Vietnam Economic Growth Slows to 5.43% After Rate Increases

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T03:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/vietnam-s-economic-growth-slows-to-5-43-on-rate-increases.html
Vietnam’s growth slowed in the
first quarter after the central bank raised key  interest rates 
to among the highest levels in  Southeast Asia  to tame inflation.  Gross domestic product climbed 5.43 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, according to a
preliminary estimate released by the General Statistics Office
in Hanoi today, compared with 7.34 percent in the fourth quarter.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has lowered the target for
credit growth and ordered a tighter monetary policy as he
struggles to prevent inflation climbing from a 25-month high.
Price gains, a widening trade deficit, currency weakness and the
near-bankruptcy of the nation’s largest shipbuilder have
contributed to a slide in the stock market this year.  “The slowdown is happening quite sharply, and while
inflation is accelerating,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “Good news for
 Vietnam  will only come with weaker consumer price inflation.”  The benchmark VN Index on the  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock
Exchange has declined about 5.7 percent this year, compared with
a 3.7 percent fall in the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index. The VN Index
declined 0.5 percent to 457.09 at 10:25 a.m. local time today.  The yield on the benchmark five-year bond rose five basis
points to 11.92 percent yesterday, the biggest jump since March
7, according to a daily fixing price from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Quickening Inflation  Consumer prices increased 13.89 percent in March from a
year earlier, stoked by costlier fuel and electricity and higher
import costs caused by devaluations of the dong. Kowalczyk
expects inflation to peak at 14.5 percent in the second quarter.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam raised borrowing costs on March 8,
increasing its refinancing and discount rates to 12 percent each.
That matched the level of the repurchase rate, which has been
raised six times from 7 percent in early November.  Thailand , the Philippines,  India  and  South Korea  also
boosted rates in March to damp inflationary pressure, while
 China  and  Malaysia  told lenders to set more cash aside in
reserve.  Indonesia  paused after raising its benchmark to 6.75
percent last month, the next highest policy rate behind
Vietnam’s among major Southeast Asian economies.  The central bank devalued the dong for the fourth time in
15 months on Feb. 11 as it strives to narrow the nation’s trade
deficit, which widened to $1.15 billion this month from a
revised $1.11 billion in February. That contrasts with the rise
in most Asian currencies against the dollar in the past year.  Ratings Cut  Officials have urged less use of gold and dollars in a bid
to stabilize the currency as they try to steady the economy
after  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s cut Vietnam’s credit rating in 2010.  The government has “recognized that their attention and
focus should be on addressing instability even if this comes at
the expense of slower growth,” the  World Bank  said in  a report 
last week. Such policies, if successful, will help Vietnam
“regain its pre-crisis growth potential in the medium term,”
it said, predicting 6.3 percent expansion in 2011.  Dung said last month he aims to curb credit growth to less
than 20 percent this year from an earlier target of 23 percent.
He also intends to narrow the  budget deficit  to less than 5
percent of GDP from a goal of about 6 percent in 2010, and cap
the jump in  money supply  at 15 percent to 16 percent this year.  Industry and construction, which accounted for 43 percent
of the economy in the first quarter, grew 5.47 percent during
the period from a year earlier, according to today’s report.
Services, which made up 42 percent of GDP, expanded 6.28 percent.
Agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which accounted for the
remaining 15 percent of the economy, grew 2.05 percent.  Economic Potential  While accelerating inflation and the impact of  Japan ’s
worst earthquake threaten slower growth across Asia, some
businesses are judging Vietnam’s potential outweighs challenges.  Companies from  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones, to  Wintek Corp. (2384) , a Taiwanese manufacturer of
panels for Apple Inc.’s iPhones, are shifting production to the
nation to benefit from cheaper labor compared with China.  Taichung, Taiwan-based Wintek said last week it intends to
invest as much as $150 million in a new plant in Bac Giang
province in the north. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia plans to open
a plant near Hanoi to make low-end phones.  Overseas shipments climbed 25.5 percent last year to $71.63
billion, equivalent to about 75 percent of an economy that
expanded 6.8 percent last year, the highest pace since 2007.  Vinashin Shortcomings  Dung is on course to serve another five-term after being
reelected to the  Communist Party’s  top decision-making body in
January. He earlier faced criticism over state-owned Vietnam
Shipbuilding Industry Group, or Vinashin, which the government
said in August risked bankruptcy.  Dung and others acknowledge “shortcomings” in managing
the company, Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Sinh Hung said last
week.  Damping inflation without compromising growth “requires
major structural reforms to correct imbalances,” including
reducing the power of state-owned companies in the economy, said
Le Anh Tu Packard, a West Chester, Pennsylvania-based economist
at Moody’s Analytics.  Bank lending rates are currently about 20 percent,
according to Ho Chi Minh City-based Dragon Capital.  That’s “just too high,” said Nguyen Thi Mai Thanh,
general director of  Refrigeration Electrical Engineering Corp. (REE) ,
also based in Ho Chi Minh City and one of the first enterprises
to list on Vietnam’s stock exchange when it opened in 2000.  “When we decide not to borrow from the banks, it means we
have to reduce our activities and control the ones we carry out
more carefully,” Thanh said.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. With assistance from
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen and Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, K. Oanh Ha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  