-- 
VimpelCom Fourth-Quarter Profit Climbs on Subscriber Growth

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-29T14:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/vimpelcom-fourth-quarter-net-climbs-63-after-adding-subscribers.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the Russian company
buying Wind Telecom SpA to create the world’s sixth-largest
mobile phone operator, said profit rose 63 percent in the fourth
quarter as it added subscribers and consolidated units.  Net income advanced to $461 million from $283 million a
year earlier, VimpelCom said in a statement. Sales gained 22
percent to $2.82 billion, the Amsterdam-based company said.  VimpelCom, which  began operating  in its current form last
year, more than doubled its full-year capital expenditure in
Russia to 47.6 million rubles ($1.68 million) and forecast more
spending on infrastructure and marketing to capture growth from
the economic recovery. The company also spent more to roll out
broadband at its Kyivstar division in Ukraine.  “Our results reflect improvements in the macroeconomic
conditions in our major markets, the consolidation of Kyivstar,
as well as our efforts to drive further growth and improve the
quality of our subscriber base,” Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Izosimov said in the statement.  VimpelCom this month won support from shareholders to
pursue the Wind acquisition, which will be carried out by
issuing new stock to Wind investors. The $6.5 billion deal will
double VimpelCom’s mobile customer base to about 173 million,
adding subscribers in  Italy ,  Canada ,  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh  and
Algeria.  The company plans to close the deal within a month,
Izosimov told reporters today in Moscow. VimpelCom earlier said
it  expected  to close it in the first half and forecast $2.5
billion in “synergies.”  Roaming Coverage  Making it easy for subscribers to roam between Wind and
VimpelCom coverage areas could be the next step in merging the
companies, Izosimov said. VimpelCom would consider using a
single brand across the merged company, although there are no
plans to do so at present, he said.  An arbitration proceeding instituted by  Telenor ASA (TEL) , which
owns more than 39 percent of VimpelCom and opposes the deal, is
still pending.  VimpelCom increased its reported global mobile
subscriptions by 43.5 percent to 92.7 million at year-end as it
brought more countries into its new organization. The figure
includes subscribers in  Russia , Ukraine,  Georgia , CIS countries
including Kazakhstan, and southeast  Asia . Russian subscribers
gained 2.2 percent for the year to 52 million.  VimpelCom, which sells services under the Beeline brand,
was the third-biggest mobile phone operator in Russia by
subscribers in February according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It trailed OAO Mobile Telesystems, the biggest operator, and OAO
MegaFon.  Operations in the company’s Vietnamese joint venture will
be resumed in the second quarter after resolving issues about
financing and ownership structure, Izosimov said today, without
elaborating. The company completed its purchase of a Laos unit
from Millicom International Cellular SA this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  