-- 
Visteon Planning to Offer $500 Million of Notes: New Issue Alert

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-03-29T07:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/visteon-liz-claiborne-lead-u-s-borrowers-selling-bonds-new-issue-alert.html
Visteon Corp., the auto-parts
manufacturer, and apparel maker  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ)  lead
borrowers seeking to sell at least $2.18 billion of bonds in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of corporate bonds totaled $7.7 billion yesterday,
Bloomberg data show. Issuers sold $8.43 billion of debt at the
start of last week, the data show. Issuance this year rose to
$373.3 billion versus $308.5 billion in the corresponding 2010
period, Bloomberg data show.  Following is a description of pending sales of corporate
and other bonds.  High Yield  VISTEON CORP., the auto-parts maker spun off from Ford
Motor Co. in 2000, plans to sell $500 million of eight-year
senior notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds will be used to repay a  term loan , said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  LIZ CLAIBORNE INC., the maker of Lucky Brand and Juicy
Couture apparel, plans to sell $200 million of debt in dollars
to fund an offer for euro-denominated securities. The apparel
maker is marketing senior secured notes due 2019, according to a
statement from the New York-based company. The notes are rated
B2 by Moody’s Investors Service and B- by Standard & Poor’s, the
ratings companies said in separate statements.  (Added March 29. See LIZ US .)  KENNEDY-WILSON INC., a unit of real estate investor Kennedy
Wilson Holdings Inc., plans to issue $200 million of debt as
soon as this week, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The 8-year notes are rated B1 by Moody’s and BB- by
S&P the companies said in separate statements. Proceeds will be
used to repay existing debt, the person said.  (Added March 29. See KW US .)  MILLAR WESTERN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., a pulp-and-lumber
producer, may sell $200 million of 10-year senior notes that are
non-callable for five years, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. Proceeds may be used to finance a tender offer
for 7.75 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s Investors Service rated the notes B3, and  Standard &
Poor’s  graded them an equivalent B-, according to separate notes
from the companies.  CNL LIFESTYLE PROPERTIES INC., a real estate investment
trust that invests in golf courses, ski resorts and other
leisure properties, plans to sell $400 million of senior notes
due in 2019, according to a regulatory  filing . Proceeds will be
used to repay debt, fund future acquisitions, and for general
corporate purposes, the filing said.  FERREXPO PLC, the Baar, Switzerland-based iron-ore miner,
hired banks to manage a $500 million five-year bond sale,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The company
hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG, said the
person.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the former Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
once known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. The
proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370
million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  WOORI BANK,  South Korea ’s third-largest financial company
by market value, hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Bank of
America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG
and Woori Investment & Securities Ltd. to help it with a planned
sale of dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  HYUNDAI CAPITAL SERVICES INC., a finance unit of South
Korea’s biggest automaker, hired Bank of America Corp. to help
it arrange a series of meetings with credit investors in the
U.S., according to a person familiar with the matter.  SUNAC CHINA HOLDINGS LTD., a developer based in Tianjin,
postponed a series of investor credit meetings after it hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it with a sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering. The five-year notes may
be rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  ASTON RESOURCES LTD., the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to $500
million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and  Russia  raise funds from credit markets. The sale will
“probably” take place in 2011, pending parliament’s approval,
Vice Minister of Finance Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 3 in
an interview in Ulan Bator.  BAA LTD., the owner of  London ’s Heathrow airport, said it
plans to sell bonds in dollars for the first time this year as
it seeks to fund the renovation of  Europe ’s biggest hub. The
company is owned by  Spain ’s Ferrovial SA.  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions, said Siobhan MacDermott, AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, in an interview Feb.
10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes with
McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300 million
of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD.,  India ’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in  Sao Paulo .  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/ )  GAIL LTD., a government-run gas distributor in India, may
sell $200 million of dollar-denominated bonds, Finance Director
Raj Kumar Goel said in  New Delhi .  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company which makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  INKIA ENERGY, a unit of Israel Corp., may sell bonds in the
U.S. to finance expansion of its electricity generation
business, according to a spokesman for the holding company. The
company plans to raise $250 million from the sale and is in
discussions with several foreign banks, Calcalist reported Jan.
9, without saying where it obtained the information.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL,  Thailand ’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 