-- 
Wal-Mart Worker Class-Action Case Questioned by High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-03-29T17:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/wal-mart-worker-class-action-case-questioned-by-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court suggested it
may shield  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  from a gender-bias suit on
behalf of potentially a million female workers in a case that
may mean tighter restrictions on class-action suits.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices gave a
generally receptive audience to the world’s largest employer,
which argued that claims by workers around the country are too
varied to proceed as a single lawsuit. The class action,
approved by a federal appeals court, would be the largest-ever
job-bias case against a private employer.  Today’s arguments suggested the court might divide roughly
along gender lines itself, with the three female justices -- Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  -- emerging as
perhaps the strongest supporters of the class action. Justices
Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Samuel Alito  voiced
skepticism.  “Your complaint faces in two directions,” Kennedy, often
the court’s swing vote, told the workers’ lawyers. “You said
this is a culture where  Arkansas  knows, the headquarters knows,
everything that’s going on. Then in the next breath, you say,
well, now these supervisors have too much discretion. It seems
to me there’s an inconsistency there, and I’m just not sure what
the unlawful policy is.”  Fresh Look at Class Action  The case marks the court’s first look in a dozen years at
the standards for certifying a class action. Worker advocates
say a victory for Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas,
would crush efforts to force change at companies steeped in
bias. Corporate groups say a ruling allowing the suit might
unleash a wave of employment, antitrust and product-liability
suits.  The disagreement among the justices focused as much on the
substance of the federal job-discrimination laws as on the
requirements for class actions. Ginsburg, Sotomayor and Kagan
all suggested Wal-Mart might not have done enough to stop local
managers from using gender to make decisions about pay and
promotions.  “Isn’t there some responsibility on the company to say,
‘Is gender discrimination at work?’ and if it is, isn’t there an
obligation to stop it?” Ginsburg said.  The case may be the most closely watched of the court’s
nine-month term. Members of the public, including relatives of
some of the alleged victims, began standing in line as early as
2 a.m.  Washington  time to claim a seat inside the courtroom. By
6, dozens of people were in line.  Billions of Dollars  The case threatens Wal-Mart with billions of dollars in
damages. Filed in 2001, the suit aims to cover every woman who
worked at the retailer’s Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club’s stores at any
point since December 1998.  More than 100 Wal-Mart employees have filed sworn
 statements  saying they were paid less and given fewer
opportunities for promotion than male colleagues. Six women are
aiming to serve as class representatives, including Betty Dukes,
a greeter in Wal-Mart’s Pittsburg, California, store.  Their lawyers blame a corporate culture they say gives
local managers too much leeway to make subjective decisions.  Managers had “unchecked discretion,” which they “used to
pay women less than men who were doing the same work in the same
facility at the same time,” said Joseph Sellers, the lawyer for
the women.  Wal-Mart says that, at the time a federal trial judge
approved the class action, the company’s hourly employees worked
in 53 departments and with 170 job classifications. The company
had divided its retail operations into 41 regions, each with its
own vice president, and had 3,400 stores, each with a manager
who was afforded significant discretion in making pay and
promotion decisions.  Worker-By-Worker  Wal-Mart’s lawyer, Theodore Boutrous, criticized the plan
offered by the plaintiffs’ lawyers to rely on statistical
evidence to allocate damages. He said the company should be
allowed to present defenses on a worker-by-worker basis, arguing
that no male-female pay disparity existed at 90 percent of Wal-
Mart’s stores.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  hinted that the class action, if
upheld by the court, might also violate the rights of some Wal-
Mart workers. Roberts first raised the possibility that lawyers
pressing the class action might lose their case at trial and
then asked whether individual women with grievances would be
bound by that outcome.  “It’s not fair to anyone to put this all into one big
class,” Boutrous said.  Every Single Company?  Alito voiced concern that the workers’ argument would make
even a “typical company” liable for society-wide disparities
in the pay received by male and female employees.  Alito asked Sellers what would happen if every U.S. company
had “exactly the same profile.”  “You would say every single company is in violation of
Title VII?” Alito asked, referring to the main federal job-
discrimination statute.  “That could very well be the case,” Sellers answered.  Roberts suggested Wal-Mart might be less culpable than the
typical company. “Is it true that Wal-Mart’s pay disparity
across the company was less than the national average?” he
asked Sellers.  More than 20 companies are supporting Wal-Mart at the  high
court , including  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  said the class
action could proceed on behalf of women who were working when
the lawsuit was filed.  The case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 