-- 
Wall Street East Should Be on Less Shaky Ground: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-29T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/wall-street-east-should-be-on-firmer-ground-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
There’s something bizarre about the
planned combination of  stock exchanges  in Tokyo and Osaka.  In  Frankfurt ,  London ,  New York ,  Singapore  and Sydney the
talk is of international linkages. And Japan is merging with,
well, itself. Nice idea, creating a Wall Street East. It’s just
a decade or two too late. Yet there’s a way to give this
marriage some larger relevance: Put it in Osaka, not Tokyo.  This sounds like a non-starter. Tokyo, it’s often said, is
Japan and Japan is Tokyo. There’s a growing realization, though,
that the March 11 earthquake in northeastern Japan wasn’t the
big one for which Tokyo has braced, as it was along a different
fault line. It’s raised fresh questions about the wisdom of
concentrating so many corporate headquarters in one city.  The sanctity of Tokyo’s place in Japan has become a
sensitive issue of late. Atsushi Saito, president of Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc., labeled foreign investors “selfish” in
calling for his market to close following the quake. “The
foreign firms have called for a shutdown because they wanted to
run away,” Saito  told  the Wall Street Journal.  Normally, we foreigners in Japan are called “gaijin.”
These days, we’re jokingly being called “fly-jin” or “bye-
jin” for how quickly many of us zoomed out of Tokyo. Many of
those so-called runners dashed to  Osaka  to get farther away from
the Fukushima nuclear reactors and leaking radiation.  Exodus from Tokyo  The sudden influx of Tokyoites to Japan’s second city has
no doubt been a boon to the local economy, where demand for
hotel rooms and temporary office space is off the charts. The
Osaka Securities Exchange Co. must be loving it. Yet the exodus
is worth exploring. It should become official policy of Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  to diversify Japan’s economic infrastructure.  Kan is getting an earful on this from Takayoshi Igarashi, a
professor at Hosei University in Tokyo. Just two days before the
quake, Kan appointed Igarashi as a Cabinet adviser to brainstorm
on reversing Japan’s population decline and rural decay. After
the quake, Igarashi wasted no time in counseling Kan to begin a
“nationwide dispersal” process.  “We have no idea when the big one’s going to hit  Tokyo ,
but when it does, it’s going to annihilate the entire country
because everything is here,” Igarashi told Bloomberg last week.  The idea is that the U.S. has  Chicago ,  Detroit , Houston,
 Los Angeles , New York, Philadelphia,  Seattle ,  Washington  D.C.
and many other vital cities to ensure economic continuity if one
were knocked out by a disaster. Hence the rationale to rebalance
Japan away from Tokyo a bit.  Tax Hikes  It won’t be popular, and Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara
won’t be amused. Nor will many Japanese citizens. Igarashi
favors tax increases over debt sales to finance any
redistribution of corporate Japan or government jobs.  More likely, Japan’s rebuilding will require both increased
taxes and bond issuance. Tax incentives also would come into
play to encourage, say,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  or Sony
Corp. to move big chunks of staff to Fukuoka, Kyoto, Nagoya,
Osaka or Sapporo.  Japan should consider doing just that. The prominence of
greater Tokyo, a region that also encompasses three neighboring
prefectures, has grown steadily in recent decades. In 1955, it
generated 24 percent of the nation’s wealth. By 2007, the
region’s gross domestic product made up a third of Japan’s
economy, was larger than  India ’s entire GDP and three times the
size of Sweden’s.  Tokyo Address  Tokyo-ization has accelerated since then. Challenges coming
from globalization and  China ’s rise put a bigger premium than
ever on a Tokyo address. Japan’s government likes to pick its
champions and the politicians who decide are in Nagatacho,
Tokyo’s answer to  Capitol Hill . A cultural preference for face-
to-face meetings -- and late night drinking -- only added to
Tokyo’s allure in a tough global environment.  The earthquake and nuclear crisis demand a major rethink.
That will require considerable political will on Kan’s part.  “In  Japan , I think that it would be desirable to spread
the wealth around, so to speak, but I do not see it as an
inevitable development,” says Marcus Noland, deputy director of
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington, who has written extensively on the issue. “The
economics of agglomeration are complex.”  It’s a balancing act, and a careful one at that. Political
systems with high degrees of centralization tend to see
business, finance and government gravitating toward a single
center. Some governments have introduced regional-development
policies to offset this tendency. Japan could do with more
separation between government and business, and geography might
help.  Tokyo will always be the world-class Mecca of all things
cosmopolitan that it is. It will remain a magnet for Japan’s
most powerful and ambitious personalities and international
talent. Just as it’s bad for investors to put all their money in
one place, though, it’s risky for a nation to do so on a much
bigger scale.  As Japan rebuilds from the quake, it should spread economic
power around. When the big one does hit Tokyo, this nation of
127 million people and global investors will be glad it did.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  