-- 
Weinberg Says ‘Don’t Listen’ to Trichet on Threat of Inflation: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-29T19:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/weinberg-says-don-t-listen-to-trichet-on-threat-of-inflation-tom-keene.html
Unemployment near 10 percent in
 Europe  will weigh on workers’ wages, preventing a sustained
surge in prices, said Carl Weinberg, chief economist and founder
of High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla,  New York .  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  this
month said the ECB may raise  interest rates  in April for the
first time in almost three years to fight mounting inflation
pressures. “Strong vigilance is warranted,” he told reporters
March 3 after the bank set its benchmark rate at a record low of
1 percent for a 23rd month.  “Don’t listen to him,” Weinberg said of Trichet today
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene. “If he tells you there’s inflation,
there’s not inflation. There is no inflation in Europe.”  European prices rose the most in more than two years in
February, breaching the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a third month
and putting more pressure on the ECB to raise rates. Inflation
in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.4 percent from 2.3
percent in January, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said March 16.  “High unemployment is keeping wages down low, and that
means there’s not inflation no matter what the ECB tells you,”
Weinberg said. “The ECB may raise interest rates, but what
we’re seeing in Europe is the same thing we’re seeing here: a
relative rise in the price of energy and food compared to other
goods and services.”  Weinberg said he thinks the euro area’s unemployment rate
will rise to above 10 percent in February from 9.9 percent the
prior month when the European Union’s statistics office releases
the data April 1. That compares with a median estimate of 9.9
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists.  Editors: Kevin Costelloe, Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  