-- 
Meg Whitman Joins Venture Firm Kleiner Perkins as Adviser

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-03-30T00:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/whitman-is-said-to-join-venture-capital-firm-kleiner-perkins-as-adviser.html
Meg Whitman , the former chief
executive officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  who made a failed bid for
California governor last year, joined venture-capital firm
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers as a strategic adviser.  Whitman, 54, will work part-time for the firm, helping
coach and mentor companies in its portfolio,  Menlo Park ,
California-based Kleiner Perkins said today in a statement.  The former CEO, who sunk more than $140 million of her own
fortune into the run for the state’s highest office, became a
director at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in January and joined the boards
of Zipcar Inc. and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  last month. Kleiner
Perkins, which counts former vice president Al Gore and ex-
Morgan Stanley analyst Mary Meeker as partners, was an early
investor in  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Genentech Inc.  “Meg helped build EBay into one of the leading players in
online commerce,” Ted Schlein, a Kleiner Perkins partner, said
in the statement. “Her experience and strategic advice will be
invaluable to entrepreneurs.”  Whitman, who served for a decade as head of EBay, took the
e-commerce company public and built its market value to about
$40 billion. When she stepped down in 2008, the company had
annual revenue of more than $7.6 billion.  Her record wasn’t without blemish. In her final years at
the helm, she failed to halt a slowdown in sales growth. A
three-way bidding war with Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. over
Skype Technologies SA forced Whitman to pay $2.6 billion for the
international calling provider in 2005. EBay wrote down the
division’s value by $900 million in 2007 before selling a
majority stake in it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  