-- 
Wisconsin Judge Bars Further Implementation of Labor Law After Arguments

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-03-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/wisconsin-judge-bars-further-implementation-of-labor-law-after-arguments.html
A  Wisconsin  law meant to limit
public employees’ collective-bargaining rights was again blocked
by a judge who renewed her temporary order as state officials
disagreed over whether the statute was already in force.  Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi yesterday issued a two-
page ruling barring “further implementation” of the law after
a day of hearings at the state courthouse in Madison,
Wisconsin’s capital city. Her previous order was either
“misunderstood or ignored,” she said from the bench.  The judge declined to say whether a state agency’s Internet
posting of the measure on March 25 was tantamount to publication
of the law, giving it effect. The previous order restrained
Secretary of State Doug La Follette from publishing the law.  “Those who act in willful and open defiance of a court
order place not only themselves at peril of sanctions,” Sumi
said. “They also jeopardize the financial and the governmental
stability of the state of Wisconsin.”  Governor  Scott Walker , a first-term Republican, signed the
law on March 11. It requires annual recertification votes for
union representation by public employees and makes payment of
union dues voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are
exempt.  Under the legislation, state workers would contribute
5.8 percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay
12.6 percent of their health-insurance costs. The law would
generate $30 million in savings this fiscal year and
$300 million in the next two years, the governor has said.  Capitol Protests  Democrats and organized labor called the bill an attack on
workers’ rights. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of
protests around and inside the Capitol.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne on March 16
sued to invalidate the measure, arguing it was the product of a
violation of Wisconsin’s open meetings law. Madison is also the
 Dane County  seat.  Sumi stayed La Follette’s publication two days later. The
secretary of state, a Democrat, is the grand-nephew of former
Wisconsin governor and U.S. Senator Robert La Follette, who ran
for president on the Progressive ticket in 1924, losing to
Republican  Calvin Coolidge .  The March 25 Internet posting by the state’s Legislative
Reference Bureau led Walker’s administration to claim that the
measure now had the force of law. Citing the web posting, state
Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  on March 28 told a state
appeals court that he wished to withdraw his request to appeal
Sumi’s March 18 order.  The appeals court yesterday denied Van Hollen’s request,
saying it had already referred the dispute to the state’s
 Supreme Court  and that the attorney general should have filed
his withdrawal request there.  Legal Immunity  Ozanne, a Democrat, is seeking a preliminary injunction,
which would preserve the status quo until the four Republican
legislators he claims breached the open meetings law are out of
session and no longer immune to lawsuits. Yesterday’s hearing is
scheduled to continue on April 1.  “We have serious concerns about the court’s decision to
continue these proceedings under the current set of
circumstances,” Bill Cosh, a spokesman for Van Hollen, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We’ll take our time between now and the
next scheduled hearing to decide what our best options are to
protect the state’s interests.”  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  