-- 
Wisconsin Court Denies AG Bid to End Appeal as Hearing Opens

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-03-29T21:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/wisconsin-court-denies-state-bid-to-withdraw-challenge-in-labor-law-fight.html
Wisconsin Senate Majority Leader
Scott Fitzgerald, a defendant in a lawsuit seeking to block a
law limiting collective bargaining rights, pushed a state agency
to publish the statute after a court blocked the secretary of
state from doing so, two government officials testified at a
court hearing.  Stephen Miller , chief of the state Legislative Reference
Bureau, and his deputy, Cathlene Hanaman, said today that
Fitzgerald, a Republican, insisted they post the statute.  “Was he insistent?” asked Robert Jambois, a lawyer
representing state Assemblyman Peter Barca, the Democratic
minority leader, who opposes the law. “He’s our boss,” Hanaman
replied. “A request from him would be insistence.” They posted
the statute on the legislature’s website March 25.   Supporters of the law have since argued that the posting makes the
temporary restraining order blocking the law moot. State law requires
publication of legislation for it to take effect. The parties
disagree what effect the agency’s action has.  The testimony came in a hearing in state court in Madison
on  Dane County  District Attorney Ismael Ozanne’s lawsuit seeking
to extend the order blocking the law. Ozanne, a Democrat, said
the legislation should be thrown out because state legislators
violated state open-meetings law when they passed it.  First-term Republican Governor  Scott Walker  signed the law
March 11. Circuit Judge Maryann Sumi issued the restraining
order March 18. Fitzgerald, in an interview, denied that he
pushed the officials to publish the law.  Annual Recertification  It requires annual recertification votes for union
representation by public employees and makes payment of union
dues voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  Under the legislation, state workers would contribute 5.8
percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent
of their health-insurance costs. The law would generate
$30 million in savings this fiscal year and $300 million in the
next two years, the governor has said.  Democrats and organized labor called the bill an attack on
worker rights. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of protests
around and inside the Capitol.  In his lawsuit, Ozanne alleged four Republican legislators
violated state law when they met to draft the measure, later
passed by both houses of the state legislature and signed by
Walker.  Wisconsin  law required 24 hours’ notice before the
legislation could be considered by the joint committee of six
senate and assembly members, the prosecutor said. The
legislators gave less than two hours’ notice of their March 9
meeting, according to Ozanne’s complaint.  Sumi’s March 18 order barred the Wisconsin secretary of
state from publishing the law. Scott Fitzgerald, one of four
Republican legislators named as defendants in the complaint, is
immune from suits while Wisconsin’s legislature is in session.  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison, Wisconsin, at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 