-- 
Woodside Rises on Outlook for Post-Quake LNG Demand, BHP Stake Speculation

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-30T06:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/woodside-rises-on-post-quake-lng-demand-bhp-stake-speculation.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  climbed to
the highest in 11 months amid forecasts that Japan’s nuclear
reactor crisis will increase natural gas demand and speculation
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  may be interested in buying a stake.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
gained 0.3 percent to A$47.75 at the 4:10 p.m close in Sydney,
the highest since April 2010, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 1.4 percent. The shares have risen 13 percent
since March 10, the day before a devastating earthquake and
tsunami struck Japan, damaging the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “The world has changed for liquefied natural gas,” said
Xavier Grunauer, a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Ltd.  Increasing oil prices, expectations that Asian countries
will shift away from nuclear power and speculation BHP is
considering acquiring  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s remaining 24
percent stake in Woodside have driven the shares higher, said
analysts including Grunauer and Deutsche Bank AG’s  John Hirjee .  Woodside is unaware of any explanation for the share price
increase other than information already announced and
“speculation about a potential takeover,” the Perth-based
company said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange
today after the market closed, declining to comment further.  Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman in Melbourne for BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, declined to comment on reports
it is considering buying Woodside shares. The oil explorer’s
stock has advanced for six consecutive days, the longest winning
streak for a year.  BHP as Buyer  BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-largest gas producer, has
climbed 8.7 percent in  London  since March 10. BG is proceeding
with a $15 billion LNG project in Queensland state.  Woodside, operator of the North West Shelf project, is due
to begin output this year at the Pluto LNG venture in Western
Australia and is planning the Browse and Sunrise projects.
 Santos Ltd. (STO)  is building a $16 billion LNG development in
Queensland with partners including  Total SA. (FP)   “The demand side from Japan should be stronger,” Hirjee
of Deutsche Bank in Melbourne said last week. “People have
started to say, ‘What will happen if there’s less nuclear power
in Japan?’ Well, LNG will be the key fuel that’s utilized and
Woodside therefore will be a beneficiary.”  Santos gained 0.1 percent to A$15.58 and has risen 8
percent since March 10, while the S&P/ASX 200 is up 2.6 percent.  Grunauer of Nomura said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if
BHP, also Australia’s largest producer of oil and gas, sought to
buy Shell’s Woodside stake, which was valued at about A$9
billion ($9.3 billion). “The landscape has changed, and BHP is
more interested in gas. If BHP’s top management is studying the
story, I wouldn’t be surprised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 