-- 
Dollar Rises to Two-Week High on Bets Fed May Curtail Debt Buying Program

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-30T11:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/yen-trades-near-10-month-low-versus-euro-before-economic-confidence-report.html
The dollar advanced to a two-week
high against the yen on speculation the  Federal Reserve  may
consider ending its $600 billion program of government debt
purchases earlier than planned.  The Swiss franc dropped against most of its major
counterparts as evidence the global economic recovery is
strengthening sapped demand for a refuge. Australia’s currency
rose to a record versus the greenback on bets demand for the
nation’s commodities will rise. The dollar gained after St.
Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said yesterday the central
bank may “reverse” current policy.  “The rally in dollar-yen has to do with the market
starting to take the hint that policy in the U.S. might be
tightened earlier than we thought,” said  Adam Cole , global head
of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London.
“Risky assets generally are performing, and safe-haven assets
are underperforming.”  The yen depreciated 0.8 percent to 83.12 against the dollar
at 7:18 a.m. in New York, from 82.48 yesterday. It earlier slid
to 83.18, the weakest level since March 11, when  Japan  was
struck by its biggest earthquake on record. The Swiss franc
declined 0.2 percent to 92.21 centimes versus the dollar, from
92.01. The dollar advanced 0.2 percent to $1.4091 versus the
euro, from $1.4113.  Japan’s currency has weakened 2.4 percent against the
dollar in the first quarter and 7.2 percent against the euro.
The yen will depreciate to 85 against the dollar by the middle
of this year and to 88 by year-end, according to the weighted
average forecasts of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gain in Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.8 percent, and the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional shares advanced 1.3 percent.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent.  U.S. companies added 208,000 workers in March after an
increase of 217,000 in the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the report from ADP Employer Services at 8:15 a.m.  New
York  time.  The jobless rate held at 8.9 percent this month, economists
forecasts before the Labor Department reports the figure on
April 1. Unemployment fell below 9 percent in February for the
first time in 22 months.  The U.S. central bank may need to trim about $100 billion
from its plan to buy $600 billion in  Treasury securities  through
June 30, according to Bullard.  Bullard’s View  “If the economy is as strong as I think and hope it will
be in 2011, I think it will be time for us to start to reverse
our ultra-aggressive and ultra-easy monetary policy,” Bullard
told reporters in  Prague  yesterday.  Bullard and Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  are
scheduled to speak in  London  today, while Richmond Fed President
Jeffrey Lacker is due to give congressional testimony.  The euro slipped against the dollar as the European Central
Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the risk of
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis spreading to other European
Union or euro-area nations is “not insignificant.”  Speculation that  Portugal  may follow Greece and Ireland in
accepting financial aid intensified yesterday after S&P cut
Portugal’s credit rating to BBB-, saying the nation’s
“considerable external financing needs” mean a financial
rescue is likely.  “For the euro to fall more significantly, we would need
the strains in the euro zone to fall on another country,”
said  Steven Barrow , the head of G-10 currency research at
Standard Bank Plc in London.  Euro Versus Dollar  Europe ’s common currency has strengthened 5.4 percent
versus the dollar this year as euro-region policy makers
stiffened their anti-inflation views.  The ECB will increase its main refinancing rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent at its April 7 meeting,
according to the median forecast of 31 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “The euro has held up pretty well,” said  Simon Smith ,
chief economist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London.
“The expectation for the euro is that the ECB will put up
 interest rates  next month so it’s proving to be relatively
immune to the weaker data and the situation in the periphery.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0316 from
$1.0291 yesterday after touching $1.0333, the highest level
since exchange controls ended in 1983.  “You’ve got the risk of global economic growth left, right
and center toward the end of this year, and Aussie is bid on
that,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales
in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage.  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 54 in March from
52.2 in the prior month, an April 1 report will show, according
to a survey of economists. Commodities make up more than half of
 Australia ’s exports, and China is the South Pacific nation’s
largest trading partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  