-- 
Hypo Alpe Aims to Sell Units, Break Even as Charges Fall

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-30T15:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/hypo-alpe-adria-reports-third-straight-loss-on-balkan-bad-debt.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the lender nationalized by  Austria , aims to break even this
year as it expects bad-debt provisions to fall by two-thirds and
may start the process to sell its “sound” units.  The bank, based in Klagenfurt, Austria, had a net loss of
1.06 billion euros ($1.5 billion), its third in as many years,
it said in a statement today. Hypo Alpe’s bad loans grew to more
than a quarter of the entire loan book in 2010, and 1.2 billion
euros in provisions for loan losses weighed down earnings.  Chief Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter said he
expected to “reach the zero level” this year because he
expects provisions to fall to less than 400 million euros.  “The economic forecasts predict a modest upward trend in
2011, which should revive markets enough for us to make
progress,” Kranebitter told reporters in Vienna today. “The
target is unchanged, we aim for the zero level,” he said,
referring to the bank’s net income. Hypo Alpe had a net loss of
1.6 billion euros in 2009, and a 520 million-euro loss in 2008.  Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe in December 2009 to avert
the bank’s collapse after bad debts increased during the
financial crisis and former owners, including  Bayerische
Landesbank , withdrew their support. BayernLB, which bought a
majority stake from the Austrian province of Carinthia in 2007,
wrote down the investment by 3.7 billion euros.  Revamp  Kranebitter, 47, was installed last March after the
Austrian government took over the bank. The CEO said he revamped
the bank in 2010, creating three “sound” units, which he plans
to sell over the next years, and a “wind-down unit,”
comprising toxic assets and businesses he plans to give up.  The bank may start the process of selling Hypo Alpe’s
domestic Austrian and its Italian unit this year, Kranebitter
said. It hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM)  to sell Hypo Alpe’s Austrian
domestic business, three people with knowledge of the process
said on March 18.  Those sales will be followed by Hypo Alpe’s biggest unit,
which comprises its banks in Croatia,  Serbia ,  Montenegro ,
Slovenia and Bosnia and Hercegovina. In this region, Hypo Alpe
is the third-biggest lender, with 14.4 billion euros in assets,
after  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Slovenia’s Nova Ljubljanska
Banka DD.  Icing on the Cake  Kranebitter said he has budgeted to sell the units at book
value, with any premium being “the icing on the cake.” The
Italian unit’s book value is 320 million euros, the Austrian
unit’s 140 million euros and the Balkans unit’s 1.5 billion
euros, he said.  The newly formed wind-down unit, which was responsible for
two-thirds of Hypo Alpe’s losses last year, took on most of the
lender’s money-losing leasing business, which the bank plans to
liquidate. It also has large non-performing corporate loan
holdings in Austria and  Croatia . Its total assets were 8.2
billion euros at the end of 2010, Hypo said.  Kranebitter’s restructuring plan requires approval by the
European Commission, which is still reviewing whether Austria’s
takeover and its capital injections complied with European Union
state aid rules. The CEO said he hoped for a decision this year.  Hypo Alpe received 1.35 billion euros in state capital in
2009 and 2010, as well as a 200 million-euro guarantee. Its
former shareholders BayernLB, the Austrian province of Carinthia
and insurer Grazer Wechselseitige AG also injected 210 million
euros of non-voting capital last year under the deal in which
Hypo Alpe was nationalized.  The capital injections and the guarantee, as well as a
reduction of total assets by 5.7 percent to 38.8 billion euros,
helped keep the bank’s Tier 1 capital, a measure of financial
strength, unchanged at 6.6 percent last year offsetting the
loss.  Hypo Alpe also has about 20 billion euros in bonds
outstanding that were issued before 2007 under a guarantee by
Carinthia. Kranebitter said that under the bank’s current
business and restructuring plan, those bonds can be redeemed
without selling new debt or resorting to the guarantees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  