-- 
Hypo Alpe Ex-CEO Kulterer Cleared of Misuse of Funds Charges

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-29T12:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-29/hypo-alpe-ex-ceo-kulterer-cleared-of-misuse-of-funds-charges-1-.html
Wolfgang Kulterer, Hypo Alpe-Adria-
Bank International AG’s former chief executive officer, didn’t
misuse bank funds, an Austrian court ruled, dealing a blow to
government prosecutors seeking those responsible for the bank’s
near-collapse in 2009.  Kulterer and two other Hypo Alpe executives didn’t
intentionally misuse the lender’s funds when they granted loans
including a 2 million-euro ($2.8 million) credit to Styrian
Airways AG, a regional carrier which later went bankrupt, the
court ruled, according to court spokesman Christian Liebhauser-
Karl. He said prosecutors already appealed the ruling.  Austria agreed at the end of 2009 to nationalize Hypo Alpe
to avert the bank’s collapse after bad debts piled up and
majority owner  Bayerische Landesbank  pulled its support. Finance
Minister Josef Proell installed a task force of lawyers, police,
prosecutors and central bank auditors to find out who was
responsible for the losses that forced the nationalization. The
acquittal of Kulterer and the two other managers is the first
court ruling on a criminal case brought by the group.  When Kulterer was in charge, the bank was controlled by the
southern Austrian province of Carinthia, governed by the late
populist politician Joerg Haider. Haider had requested the loans
that were probed in the court case, Kulterer said in court.  Carinthia sold a majority stake in Hypo Alpe to BayernLB in
2007. The investment in Hypo led to writedowns at BayernLB of
about 3.7 billion euros. Prosecutors in  Germany  are still
investigating allegations that former managers at both Hypo Alpe
and BayernLB may have duped the Bavarian bank into the purchase
of its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  