-- ‘Riddick’ Tops Box Office With $18.7 Million for Universal
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-09-08T18:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/-riddick-tops-box-office-with-18-7-million-debut-for-universal.html
“Riddick,” a science-fiction
thriller starring Vin Diesel, took first place in U.S. and
Canadian theaters to give  Universal Pictures  its eighth No. 1
opening of the year.  “Riddick,” the only new movie in wide release, collected
$18.7 million to unseat “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” researcher
 Hollywood.com  Box-Office said today in a statement. “The
Butler,” starring Forest Whitaker and  Oprah Winfrey , generated
$8.9 million in ticket sales its fourth weekend.  The win extends Universal’s 2013 lead among Hollywood
studios, with a 17 percent domestic market share led by
“Despicable Me 2” and “Fast & Furious 6,” its last outing
with Diesel. The  Comcast Corp (CMCSA) .-owned distributor had reached
$1.31 billion in U.S. and  Canada  as of Sept. 5, ahead of  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s $1.28 billion, according to  Box Office Mojo .  “Universal is having a great year, and the ‘Riddick’
opening, while it’s a little softer than expectations in  North
America , is the kind of film that’s going to play really well
overseas,” Phil Contrino, chief analyst for  BoxOffice.com , said
in a telephone interview. Diesel “is a one-man marketing
machine” and has a strong fan base in countries such as  Russia ,
 Brazil  and the U.K., he said.  “Riddick” stars Diesel in the main role as a bounty
hunter, left for dead on a sun-scorched planet, who finds
himself up against an alien race of predators. The movie and its
predecessors, “The Chronicles of Riddick,” released in 2004,
and 2000’s “Pitch Black,” were all directed by David Twohy and
starred Diesel.  Genre Basics  “Twohy has smartly gone back to genre basics with this
installment, which serves as an effective reboot,” wrote
Manohla Dargis in the  New York  Times. “Gone are the silly
costumes and wigs, the overstuffed plot and exotic-sounding
villains like the Necromongers.”  Universal and Diesel scored a summer hit with “Fast &
Furious 6,” which generated $238.7 million in domestic ticket
sales, according to Box Office Mojo -- fifth for the just-ended
season. Worldwide it totaled $787.5 million on a production
budget estimated at $160 million before marketing costs. Studios
split ticket revenue with exhibitors.  “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” from Weinstein Co., is based
on the real-life story of Eugene Allen, who served eight U.S.
presidents from Eisenhower to Reagan. Made for an estimated $30
million, it has collected $85.4 million since its Aug. 16 debut,
according to Box Office Mojo, holding the top spot for three
weeks.  Spanish-Language Films  “Instructions Not Included,” from Pantelion Films and
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , took in $8.1 million for third
place, with an expanded release to 717 theaters. The movie
opened in 348 theaters over Labor Day weekend and took $10.4
million for the biggest debut of a Spanish-language film in
North America.  Starring and directed by Mexican TV star Eugenio Derbez,
the movie chronicles the life of an unemployed playboy-turned-Hollywood stuntman left to raise a child he fathered with one of
his exes. Ticket sales have been buoyed by favorable reviews.  “This isn’t a fluke -- you’re going to see more Spanish
language films succeed, simply because there’s a large segment
of the population that wants to see films in Spanish,” Contrino
said. “It’s the beginning of something bigger to come.”  “We’re the Millers” the Warner Bros. comedy, placed
fourth in its fifth weekend, collecting $7.9 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 29 percent to
$66.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year-to-date is down 2.2 percent, while revenue rose
1.1 percent to $7.8 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales on Sept. 6 and Sept. 7 and estimates
for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  