-- Abbott Says Coalition Has Mandate Amid Senate Carbon Challenge
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-09T05:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/abbott-faces-senate-carbon-test-after-australia-election-win-1-.html
Prime Minister-elect  Tony Abbott 
called on minor parties in the Senate to respect his coalition’s
mandate after it won  Australia ’s election vowing to scrap carbon
pricing and a mining tax.  While the Liberal-National coalition won the Sept. 7 vote
with the biggest lower house majority since at least 2004,
Abbott needs the backing of a clutch of independent and minor
party lawmakers in the upper house to drive through his
legislative agenda.  “They all need to respect the government of our nation has
a mandate,” Abbott, 55, told 2UE radio today. “The people
voted for change and change they will get.”  Abbott’s coalition, which ousted the Labor government of
 Kevin Rudd , is also pledging to cut red tape and lower taxes to
boost the $1.5 trillion economy as a China-led mining investment
boom crests. The new government will be sworn in early next week
and parliament will sit in late October or early November,
Abbott said today.  The coalition led in 86 districts in the 150-member lower
house to Labor’s 57 as  counting continued , according to the
 Australian Electoral Commission . Forty of the 76  Senate seats 
were also up for grabs and while results will take days to be
released, small center-right parties are poised to hold the
balance of power in the upper chamber, according to Abbott’s
manager of business in the lower house, Chris Pyne.  Negotiations Ahead  “It will be much easier, in fact, for a coalition
government to deal with a crossbench dominated by center-right
parties or individuals,” Pyne told the Australian Broadcasting
Corp. today. The current Senate, where the Greens -- supporters
of carbon pricing -- hold the balance of power, remains in place
until the middle of 2014.  Glenn Lazarus, a former rugby league player representing
mining magnate  Clive Palmer ’s  Palmer United Party , is set to
pick up a Senate seat in Queensland state, the ABC reported,
citing its own voting estimates. The  Australian Motoring
Enthusiast Party  may win a seat in Victoria state, while the
 Australian Sports Party  is on course to win a seat in  Western
Australia , the ABC projected.  Dollar, Stocks  The Australian dollar gained after  China ’s exports
increased more than estimated in August, adding to evidence the
world’s second-largest economy is rebounding. The Aussie climbed
0.1 percent to 91.94 U.S. cents at 3:11 p.m. in Sydney.  The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.6 percent to
5,175.7. Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based market strategist at IG
Ltd., said Australian shares were lifted by the Chinese data and
 Tokyo ’s winning bid to host the 2020 Olympics.  “The most exciting information over the weekend came from
Japan and China,” Lucas said by e-mail. The election result was
a “foregone conclusion,” he said.  Rudd, 55, stepped down as Labor leader, saying the party
needed a “fresh start” as he conceded defeat to Abbott. Labor
has been riven by internal feuding that saw Rudd ousted by  Julia Gillard  in 2010, only to reclaim the leadership 10 weeks ago in
an attempt to boost its electoral fortunes.  After six years in office, the party was consigned to the
shortest stint in power in almost four decades, and with its
talent pool drained after nine former ministers didn’t seek re-election. Rudd didn’t say whether he would remain in parliament
on the backbenches or quit his Queensland seat.  Outgoing Treasurer  Chris Bowen  said today he wouldn’t be a
candidate for the Labor leadership and told reporters in
Canberra the party needed to rebuild itself as an effective
opposition.  Acting Leader Anthony Albanese yesterday told Channel 10
that Bowen and outgoing ministers Bill Shorten, Tony Burke and
Tanya Plibersek were potential contenders.  Main Damage  The main damage to Labor came in New South Wales state
where it was on course to lose seven seats, including Assistant
Treasurer David Bradbury’s district of Lindsay in Western
Sydney, a traditional Labor heartland, and Banks, held by Labor
since 1949.  In Victoria, Labor was set to cede three seats to the
coalition, including the nation’s most competitive district of
Corangamite, according to  AEC results . Labor saw off a challenge
in Queensland, Rudd’s home state, where counting indicated it
will lose one seat. It lost at least three seats in Tasmania,
one in  South Australia , and held its ground in Western
Australia, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital
Territory.  Palmer claimed victory in the Queensland seat of Fairfax,
even as the AEC said the district hadn’t been determined.  Abbott Pledges  Abbott, a former Rhodes Scholar and trainee priest, has
promised to repeal Labor’s 30 percent tax on mining sector
profits and dismantle its carbon pricing mechanism.  He has also promised to lower the business tax rate, while
funding a A$5.5 billion ($5.1 billion) per year parental leave
program. The coalition plans to reduce the civil service by at
least 12,000 positions, lower subsidies for carmakers, cancel
handouts to parents of school children and return the budget to
a surplus equal to 1 percent of gross domestic product within a
decade.  “I declare the government is under new management,”
Abbott said in a victory speech in Sydney on Sept. 7.
“Australia is once more open for business.”  The coalition will probably be able to negotiate an
agreement with minor parties to scrap the carbon price once the
new Senate sits, Elisa de Wit, a Melbourne-based partner at
Norton Rose Fulbright and head of the law firm’s Australian
climate change practice, said today by phone.  “It’s still looking like it will be extremely difficult to
unwind it this financial year,” de Wit said. “But presumably
they will have everything set up and ready to go so they can get
the legislation through as close as possible to July 1 of next
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  