-- Abbott’s Win Sown in 2010 Loss as Infighting Damages Labor
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-08T23:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/abbott-s-win-sown-in-2010-loss-as-gillard-rudd-spat-hurts-labor.html
For two weeks after  Australia ’s 2010
election failed to produce a winner,  Julia Gillard  and Tony Abbott raced to form a minority government. While Abbott lost
that sprint, he triumphed in the marathon since.  After three years of attacks on the carbon-pricing deal
Gillard struck with the Greens to help win office, Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition was on course for the biggest
 parliamentary majority  since at least 2004 in the Sept. 7
election. His victory was cemented by keeping his team united
and focusing voters on the Labor government’s disarray, which
saw it return  Kevin Rudd  to the leadership 10 weeks ago.  “Abbott falling short of forming the government three
years ago has proven to be a blessing in disguise for him,”
said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at Griffith
University in Brisbane. “He’s reaping the benefits now with a
clear and strong majority in the lower house and none of the
questions of legitimacy that plagued the previous government.”  Abbott’s task now is to switch from the negative attacks
that saw Labor dub him “Dr. No,” to governing at a time
economic growth is forecast to slow and unemployment climb to an
11-year high, denting tax receipts. In his victory speech, he
pledged to scrap Gillard’s carbon price in his first term, put
the  federal budget  on track to surplus, increase investment in
roads and stop asylum seekers arriving by boat.  ‘New Management’  “I declare that Australia is under new management and that
Australia is once more open for business,” Abbott, 55, told
cheering supporters at the Four Seasons Hotel in Sydney, moments
after Rudd conceded defeat. “The time for campaigning has
passed, the time for governing has arrived.”  Increased support for the coalition in the traditional
Labor heartlands of Western Sydney, Victoria and Tasmania helped
deliver Abbott an additional 14 seats, while he maintained the
conservatives’ grip on the mining states of Queensland and
 Western Australia . The coalition led in 86 of the 150 seats in
parliament’s lower house, where government is formed, compared
with Labor’s 57, with counting continuing, the Australian
 Electoral Commission  said on its website.  Abbott and Rudd, also 55, embraced similar policies on
education, disability care and immigration through the campaign,
leaving economic management as the defining difference. As well
as promising to abolish Labor’s carbon and mining levies, the
coalition said it would lower the business-tax rate; fund a
A$5.5 billion ($5 billion) per year maternity-leave program;
reduce the civil service by 12,000 positions; lower subsidies
for automakers; and cancel handouts to parents of school
children.  ‘Disunity Is Death’  By adopting a small-target strategy eschewing major policy
platforms, Abbott kept scrutiny on Labor’s infighting -- an
issue senior party figures acknowledged cost it the election.  “Disunity is death in politics, unity is strength,”
former Queensland state premier Peter Beattie, who failed to win
the district of Forde, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
“What  Tony Abbott  did is put up a unified team.”  Labor has been hobbled by internal feuding since Gillard
ousted Rudd in a party coup in June 2010, days after vowing she
wouldn’t challenge him. Three months later, she led the party to
the polls and formed the nation’s first minority government
since World War II by winning support from independents and
breaking a pre-election pledge not to introduce a carbon tax to
win backing from the Greens.  Those steps allowed the opposition to portray Gillard as
untrustworthy, undermining her support in the electorate and
eventually within her own party. Rudd, who remained in the media
spotlight, reclaimed the Labor leadership on June 26.  ‘Disunity’ Factor  “The disunity of the past four years was the dominant
factor in the minds of people who had previously voted Labor and
didn’t vote Labor at the weekend,” former treasurer  Wayne Swan ,
who was re-elected in the Queensland seat of Lilley, said in an
Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview today. “That gives us
the task of rebuilding.”  Rudd’s early lead as preferred prime minister over Abbott
encouraged a presidential-style campaign from Labor. The
Mandarin-speaking former diplomat focused on his handling of the
economy through the 2008-2009 financial crisis, when Australia
was alone among major developed economies in avoiding recession.  His central charge against the coalition was that its
planned spending cuts could cause the economy to contract. That
attack was undermined in the closing days of the campaign. After
Rudd and his two top economic officials held a press conference
on Aug. 29 claiming a A$10 billion shortfall in the coalition’s
funding plans and citing Treasury data, officials from the
department issued a  statement  downplaying their involvement.  ‘Low Point’  That was “the low point of the campaign,” former Labor
prime minister  Bob Hawke , 83, told  Sky News .  Abbott’s campaign wasn’t without stumbles. On Aug. 13, he
said a female coalition candidate for a seat in Western Sydney
had “sex appeal,” reviving criticism of Abbott’s attitude
toward women after Gillard last year labeled him a misogynist.
In an Aug. 21 debate with Rudd, a frustrated Abbott asked “Does
this guy ever shut up?,” sparking Labor claims he was arrogant
and aggressive.  Abbott still managed to improve his standing in opinion
polls, overtaking Rudd as preferred prime minister for the first
time in the final week of the campaign, 43 percent to 41
percent, according to a  Newspoll  survey published Sept. 2.  On Message  “Abbott did not lose his cool: he kept to the same
strategy, kept to the same major messages,” Liberal Senator
Arthur Sinodinos told the ABC. He didn’t sell out his principles
in 2010 when Gillard formed minority government “and that stood
him in good stead for this election,” Sinodinos said.  Abbott’s political career began in earnest in 1990, when
then-shadow minister  John Howard  told leader John Hewson that he
knew of a potential press secretary. When Hewson’s “Fightback”
platform of  tax reform  backfired, costing him the so-called
unloseable 1993 election against  Paul Keating , Abbott saw first
hand how a policy-heavy election pitch can fail.  In a 19-year  parliamentary career  that started in 1994, he
was promoted to Cabinet in Howard’s coalition government in
2001. After Howard was defeated by Rudd in 2007, the coalition
churned through two leaders before Abbott won an internal ballot
on Dec. 1, 2009, by a single vote.  He has sought this year to shake off the negative persona
he attained in opposition, and to moderate his conservative
image by pledging a paid maternity-leave program and saying that
he would consider allowing his lawmakers a free-vote on making
gay marriage legal.  ‘Central Position’  “He does seem to have modified, to have come back to a
more central position,” Hawke, who previously described Abbott
as “mad as a cut snake politically,” told Sky News.  Abbott takes office at a time of transition for Australia’s
economy. The Treasury and central bank forecast growth will slow
and unemployment rise as a mining-investment boom wanes. The
coalition has pledged a  budget surplus  equal to 1 percent of
gross domestic product within a decade.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has reduced  interest rates  by
2.25 percentage points since late 2011 in a bid to revive
employment-intensive industries including construction.  He has pledged his first act as prime minister will be to
begin the process of repealing Gillard’s carbon tax. Abbott’s
success in doing so will depend on the make-up of the upper
house Senate, where early counting indicates minority parties
and independents will hold the balance of power, rather than
Labor and the Greens.  Such negotiations will require the determination that
Hewson said Abbott has displayed in opposition.  “Abbott has stayed focused, disciplined, on message for
the whole of the campaign, and indeed for the past four years,”
Hewson, who led the Liberal party from 1990 to 1994, said in a
phone interview. “One personal characteristic that people do
underestimate is just his discipline and I think that will carry
into government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  