-- Malaysian Air Recovery Offers Bet on Government Exit: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/malaysian-air-recovery-offers-bet-on-government-exit-real-m-a.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  offers
a bargain investment for traders willing to bet on a sale, as a
turnaround stokes calls for the government to exit its stake.  Malaysian Air fell to an  all-time low  this year amid
competition from budget airline  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  Now the company is
 projected  to post its first profit in four years in 2014 on
record revenue, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. With the carrier on the mend, the government may seek
to shed its majority ownership by selling or breaking up the
$1.6 billion airline, said Malayan Banking Bhd.  Among those calling for a sale are former Premier Mahathir Mohamad, who oversaw Malaysian Air’s initial public offering in
1985, and the executive -- now a minister -- who previously
returned the carrier to profit in 2006. While the government may
wait for the airline’s shares to recover before seeking buyers,
RHB Research Institute Sdn. said potential acquirers include
local billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, who last year
persuaded officials to sell him the national carmaker.  “Selling parts of the company is definitely viable,” said
Ang Kok Heng, who helps manage $428 million of assets, including
Malaysian Air shares, as chief investment officer at Phillip
Capital Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “They must show some
results before people are confident to buy.”  Stay Out  Former Malaysian Air Managing Director  Idris Jala , who is
now a minister in the office of current Premier Najib Razak,
last month said the government should stay out of the airline
business, sending the stock up 7.9 percent the next day. Idris
returned the company to profit on a quarterly basis in 2006.  The state’s 69 percent stake in the carrier is held by
investment division Khazanah Nasional Bhd.  Mahathir,  Malaysia ’s longest-serving leader, backed the
idea of a sale, telling state news service Bernama that a
private owner would work harder to avoid losses than the
government. Several groups have submitted takeover offers, The
Star newspaper said Aug. 14.  Malaysian Air is forecast to generate net income of 88
million ringgit ($26 million) next year from  sales  of 15.6
billion ringgit, according to analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. After an estimated loss this year, a profit in 2014
would end a three-year, cumulative loss of 3.4 billion ringgit,
the data show.  “It will make more sense for Khazanah to sell at that
time,” once the company, whose stock ticker is MAS, has
restored profitability, said Jerry Lee, an analyst at RHB
Research in  Kuala Lumpur . “By that time, the share price has
rallied. MAS are doing the right thing with their turnaround.”  Filling Seats  The  shares  fetched just 32 sen last week in Kuala Lumpur,
down from 2.107 ringgit in June 2007 when Idris was in charge.
Malaysian Air is trading at just 0.19 times sales, near its low
of 0.15 in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The plan to stem losses hinges on retiring older, less
economical aircraft and leaving fewer seats empty on flights to
Asia’s major tourist destinations.  Najib, the Malaysian premier, said last month the
government won’t sell its stake and the airline’s turnaround
“cannot happen overnight.”  The government “needs to see tangible and credible
improvement and the share price to reflect that,” said Mohshin Aziz, a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at Maybank. “Only then will
they start to sell it off.”  Khazanah probably wants at least 60 sen for each Malaysian
Air share, according to Mohshin, almost double last week’s
price. Malaysian Air investors bought more shares for 23 sen
each in May in a rights issue to raise 3.07 billion ringgit,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Suggested Buyer  DRB-Hicom Bhd (DRB) , the Malaysian conglomerate and auto dealer
controlled by Syed Mokhtar, has bought at least two other stakes
from Khazanah in the past two years. Based in Shah Alam, outside
the capital, DRB in 2012 bought Khazanah’s 43 percent stake in
carmaker Proton Holdings Bhd. for 1.29 billion ringgit. A year
earlier, DRB purchased the state investment fund’s 32 percent
stake in the national postal company.  A representative for Malaysian Air declined to comment on
the possibility of a sale. Khazanah and DRB both said in e-mailed statements that they don’t comment on speculation.  “If there was a genuine attempt by a Syed Mokhtar Bukhary
company to buy MAS, the resistance wouldn’t be as bad,” said
Maybank’s Mohshin. “The notion of a national airline is an
outdated one. There’s no need for it anymore.”  Spinoff Options  There aren’t any government-owned national airlines in the
U.S. and such entities are becoming more rare in  Europe ,
according to Mohshin. That trend will spread to  Asia , he said.
Even without an outright sale, the government could raise
billions of ringgit listing some of the airline’s units that do
make money, he said.  Malaysian Air’s engineering and maintenance  business  could
fetch a valuation as high as 1.98 billion ringgit, and the
airport terminal services unit could be valued at 1.07 billion
ringgit, according to Mohshin’s estimates. The airline’s low-cost rural service  Firefly  could be worth as much as 1.78
billion ringgit on the stock market, he said.  “I would be open or even excited if they were to venture
down this sort of route,” Mohshin said.  All told, those profitable units have a combined value as
high as 4.8 billion ringgit, based on Maybank’s estimates,
equivalent to most of the airline’s total market value now of
5.3 billion ringgit. The remaining pieces are the unprofitable
main airline and the cargo unit.  Adding Value  “You can add a lot of value,” Sharifah Farah, an analyst
at Affin Securities Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, said in a phone
interview. “At least the profit-making side would not be pulled
down by the main operation.”  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  in 2000 sold stakes in  SIA
Engineering Co. (SIE)  and  Singapore Airport Terminal Services Ltd. (SATS) ,
known as SATS, in initial public offerings. They now have a
combined market value of $6.7 billion.  Previous efforts to scale back state control of Malaysian
Air failed. The government agreed to bail out the unprofitable
airline in 2000 by buying back a 29 percent stake from
businessman Tajudin Ramli for more than double the airline’s
stock price at the time.  In May 2012, Khazanah reversed a share swap that had handed
21 percent of Malaysian Air to the parent of AirAsia, the budget
carrier run by  Tony Fernandes . The about-face followed
complaints by Malaysian Air’s biggest union.  Less Interference  Malaysian Air employees are less productive than their
counterparts at neighboring airlines, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. They each generate an average of $222,000 in
revenue, less than half the figure at Singapore Airlines, the
data show. Workers at Thai Airways International Pcl and  PT
Garuda Indonesia Persero (GIAA)  each bring in more revenue.  That may not put off buyers who see an opportunity to
increase efficiencies.  “Can MAS be revamped and made more competitive, even
profitable?” said Shukor Yusof, a Singapore-based aviation
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s . “Absolutely, provided the right
people with the right motives and mindset run the carrier and
with little government interference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  