-- Stocks Gain on China Exports as Yen Weakens on Olympics
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2013-09-09T20:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/asian-futures-rise-as-olympics-sinks-yen-while-gold-falls.html
Stocks rose in the U.S. and  emerging
markets  and currencies from South Korea’s won to  Malaysia ’s
ringgit strengthened as Chinese exports topped forecasts.
Japanese shares gained and the yen weakened after  Tokyo  was
selected to host the 2020 Olympics.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 1 percent to 1,671.71
as almost $15 billion in takeovers involving U.S. companies
helped send the benchmark gauge to its biggest gain in five
weeks. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 2 percent, the
most since July 11. The  Shanghai  Composite Index surged 3.4
percent while the won advanced almost 1 percent versus the
dollar and the yen slid 0.5 percent. Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  jumped
2.2 percent. Treasuries rose, with 10-year yields down 3 basis
points to 2.91 percent. Oil fell from a two-year high as concern
eased about an imminent strike against Syria.  Shares in Shanghai climbed the most this year as a 7.2
percent jump in overseas shipments bolstered optimism in the
global economy. Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said yesterday
the Olympics will spur construction and help overcome deflation
before data today showed the economy expanded more than
initially estimated last quarter. In the U.S., President  Barack
Obama  tried to persuade Congress to support air strikes against
 Syria .  “We’re latching on to the better trading in Asia after the
Chinese data,” Robert Pavlik, New York-based chief market
strategist at Banyan Partners LLC, said by phone. His firm
manages about $4.4 billion. “The fact that nothing has
transpired in Syria is also a positive in a strange sense. The
Street is somewhat relieved that the U.S. hasn’t engaged in
military action yet.”  Syria, Russia  President Obama intensified his campaign to persuade a
reluctant American public to back military action against Syria
as Bashar al-Assad threatened retaliation “direct and
indirect” if the U.S. attacks.  Russia  urged Syria to give up
its stockpile of chemical weapons if doing so would help avoid a
U.S.-led strike, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said after
meeting his Syrian counterpart in Moscow today. Syria “welcomes
the Russia proposal,” Walid al-Muallem, the nation’s foreign
minister, told reporters.  The S&P 500 advanced for a fifth straight day, its longest
rally since July, after capping a 1.4 percent  weekly gain  on
Sept. 6.  Technology, industrial and commodity stocks rallied at
least 1.2 percent to lead gains in all 10 of the main industry
groups in the S&P 500. Trading of stocks in the index was in-line with the 30-day average.  Takeovers  Molex Inc. (MOLX) , a maker of electronic components for products
such as the iPhone, jumped 32 percent to a seven-year high of
$38.63 after agreeing to be acquired by Koch Industries Inc. in
a $7.2 billion deal. Neiman Marcus Inc., the Dallas-based luxury
chain, agreed to sell itself to Ares Management LLC and the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board for $6 billion.  The U.S. market is poised for the busiest month of
takeovers in more than six years. About $160 billion of mergers
and acquisitions have been announced since the end of August,
the most for a full month since July 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Apple Inc. rose 1.6 percent before an event tomorrow where
the company will introduce new models of the iPhone. Delta Air
Lines Inc. rallied 9.4 percent as S&P Dow Jones Indices said the
world’s second-largest carrier will replace BMC Software Inc. in
the S&P 500.  `Good News'  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong increased 1.9 percent. Exports from China
climbed 7.2 percent last month, compared with the 5.5 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, the General
Administration of Customs said in Beijing yesterday. Benchmark
gauges in Turkey, Indonesia and Thailand jumped at least 2.9
percent.  “Those export numbers are very good news, quite reassuring
because so far growth has been the main concern not only for
China, but for the whole emerging markets,”  Benoit Anne , head
of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
said on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” “I feel a
little bit better about the growth outlook for the whole
emerging markets at this point.”  The won climbed to a four-month high against the dollar and
the ringgit advanced 1.1 percent, the most since June. China is
South Korea’s biggest export market and second-largest for
Malaysia.  Bond Predictions  While bonds rallied today, the biggest firms on Wall Street
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are predicting losses in emerging
markets will intensify as the Federal Reserve considers
curtailing record stimulus. Investors have pulled $22.1 billion
from emerging-market bond funds since the end of April, almost
five times the amount pulled from U.S. corporate credit,
according to EPFR Global.  Russia is raising $6 billion of bonds in dollars and its
first notes in euros, seizing on improved investor sentiment
before the Fed meeting that may mark the start of a tapering in
stimulus measures. The sale includes $3 billion of 10-year bonds
and a seven-year note in euros, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the offerings, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. It canceled a
12-year issue in euros, the person said.  Stocks fell in the Middle East amid concern about tensions
in Syria. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s biggest
 stocks  declined 0.3 percent to the lowest since June.  Oil, Copper  Copper rose 0.5 percent. China is the biggest buyer of the
metal. West Texas Intermediate oil fell 0.9 percent to $109.52 a
barrel, retreating from a two-year high. The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of
24 commodities slipped 1.3 percent, the first drop in three
days.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed little changed after a
three-day rally.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  lost 5.1 percent as the U.K.’s
third-largest oil and gas producer said production next year
will be lower than expected because of unrest in  Egypt , a
project delay in  Norway  and depressed U.S. natural-gas prices.  The Topix climbed to a one-month high, with trading volume
about 40 percent more than the 30-day average. Developers and
construction stocks led gains as all but one of the gauge’s 33
industry groups advanced. The yen weakened against all of its 16
major peers, depreciating 0.5 percent to 99.57 per dollar.  Economy Watch  Treasuries advanced for a second day before reports this
week that economists said will show growth in import costs and
producer prices from a year ago slowed as the economy struggled
to gain momentum. The number of workers on U.S. payrolls rose by
169,000 last month, less than the 180,000 median forecast of
economists surveyed before the data were released on Sept. 6.  The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet on
Sept. 17-18. It will cut Treasury purchases to $35 billion from
$45 billion, while maintaining mortgage-bond buying at $40
billion, according to the median of 34 responses in a Bloomberg
survey released on Sept. 6.  Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George,
who has consistently dissented against additional stimulus, said
on Sept. 6 that it would be appropriate to reduce the pace of
purchases to $70 billion a month.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds fell
to the lowest in two weeks. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 125 investment-grade companies decreased
almost 4 basis points to 100.54 basis points, the least since
Aug. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  