-- Billionaire Steyer Highlights Exports in Anti-Keystone Ad
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-08T17:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/billionaire-steyer-highlights-exports-in-anti-keystone-ad.html
Billionaire investor Tom Steyer said
he is backing a four-part, $1 million  advertising  campaign aimed
at convincing viewers the Keystone XL pipeline will hurt the
economy and communities and should be blocked.  The first commercial, airing today, features Steyer in  Port
Arthur , Texas, saying much of the oil to be shipped from Alberta
to refineries along the U.S.  Gulf Coast  would end up being
exported.  “Foreign countries will get more access to more oil to
make more products to sell back to us, undercutting our
economy,” Steyer, founder of the hedge fund Farallon Capital
Management LLC, says in the advertisement. “Here’s the truth:
Keystone oil will travel through America not to America.”  Steyer’s commercials begin airing two months after the
 American Petroleum Institute , whose energy-industry members back
the pipeline, started TV and online advertising portraying
Keystone as a boon to job growth in the U.S.  “Rarely do leading Republicans, Democrats, business
leaders and labor unions all agree,” according to a newspaper
advertisement by the Washington-based oil industry lobbying
group. “But on Keystone XL, they do.”  Messages to be broadcast as part of Steyer’s series will
feature an Arkansas community where  oil sands  leaked from an
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pipeline and contaminated a small suburban
neighborhood.  Keystone Review  The Keystone pipeline would carry about 830,000 barrels a
day from the oil sands of Alberta and shale formations in the
U.S. across six states to refineries along the  Gulf of Mexico 
coast. The administration has previously given approval for the
pipeline’s southern leg to relieve an glut in Cushing, Oklahoma.  The U.S. State Department is considering the application of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  to build the rest of the pipeline. A decision,
which ultimately lies with President  Barack Obama , could be made
within months. Environmental groups are urging Obama to reject
the pipeline, arguing that it will increase production of the
oil sands, destroying forests and worsening  climate change .  Obama in July said he wouldn’t approve the project if the
pipeline exacerbates global warming. He mocked proponents of
Keystone in an interview with the  New York  Times for claiming
that it would lead to tens of thousands of new jobs.  Aiding Markey  Steyer, an Obama donor, said his efforts are aimed at
giving the president the political space to reject the pipeline.
As the Keystone review faces possible further delay, the
prospects for approval dim, according to Steyer.  And the California billionaire isn’t just focused on
Keystone.  This year he started an independent political effort to
elect candidates ready to tackle global warming. That campaign
supported Democrat Ed Markey in his primary campaign for the
Massachusetts Senate seat. Steyer’s group also is running
$500,000 in advertisements against Republican  Ken Cuccinelli  in
the Virginia’s governor race.  The message of today’s advertisement is that the pipeline
won’t help reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil or spur the
American economy, because the oilsands will be sent to
refineries along the Gulf Coast and then shipped out from there
to China. It includes congressional testimony by a TransCanada
executive who declined to pledge that the oil shipped through
Keystone would stay in the U.S.  It’s not the first time Steyer has made this argument, and
TransCanada has previously taken issue with him. The company
posted a blog response to Steyer in June,  saying , “It simply
doesn’t make sense for companies to purchase cheaper Canadian
crude, ship that product overseas while continuing to import
higher priced oil from the Middle East and  Venezuela .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  