-- Carney Cripples Savers for Years With Rates Pledge: U.K.
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-09-09T09:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/boe-carney-s-interest-rates-cripples-u-k-savers.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mark Carney ’s plan to revive Britain’s economy with three years of
record-low  interest rates  and cheap funding for banks is coming
at the expense of the nation’s savers.  Rates on  savings accounts  at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc have sunk below most measures of inflation as
the Funding for Lending Scheme makes banks less interested in
attracting customers’ deposits.  According to Moneysupermarket.com, which shows consumers
price comparisons on financial products, the highest yield on
offer is a tax-free individual savings account, or ISA, at
government-owned  National Savings & Investments  that pays 2.25
percent. That trails the U.K. consumer- price index , which rose
by 2.8 percent in July from a year earlier.  “It’s an extraordinary wealth transfer that the  Bank of
England  seems to be happy with, and it’s going to continue for
three years,” said Simon Rose, a spokesman for  Save our Savers ,
a lobby group that campaigns to preserve the value of pensions
and is critical of low interest rates. “Savers are being asked
to pay the price. They are being penalized at the expense of
people borrowing money.”  Another measure of inflation, the retail price index, is
even higher at 3.1 percent. Unlike CPI, the RPI includes items
such as local taxes and mortgage costs. Low savings returns are
intensifying the most prolonged squeeze on  living standards  in
more than 50 years, according to the London-based Institute for
Fiscal Studies, an independent research organization.  Bank Funding  For savers wanting instant access to their money instead of
locking it away in an ISA, which.co.uk shows the best rate is
1.55 percent at  Sainsbury Bank (SBRY) , the personal-finance unit of the
U.K.’s third-largest supermarket chain.  The nation’s largest banks, including Barclays, RBS and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , don’t feature in the top providers of
regular savings accounts ranked by either which.co.uk or
moneysupermarket.com. Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender,
revived the two-century-old TSB brand today for 631 branches
it’s being forced to sell by U.K. regulators.  Carney, who became governor on July 1, introduced forward
guidance in August saying the BOE plans to hold its benchmark
rate at 0.5 percent until unemployment falls to 7 percent from
its current 7.8 percent. The bank doesn’t see that happening for
another three years.  Deposit Demand  While the BOE’s key rate has stayed at a record low since
March 2009, rates for deposits have tumbled from their levels in
the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis, when banks saw
retail customers as a key source of capital to bolster their
finances and shore up confidence.  Barclays ISAs yielded 3.61 percent in 2009, more than
double the 1.29 percent offered today,  moneysupermarket.com (MONY) 
says. The NatWest Cash ISA, offered by RBS, earned savers 3.51
percent in 2009, compared with 1 percent today.  In the U.S. the best nationally available savings rate is
offered by The Palladian PrivateBank, which pays 1 percent,
according to Bankrate.com., a comparison website. Barclays U.S.,
GE Capital Bank and Sallie Mae Bank each offer 0.9 percent.  Both RBS and Barclays use Funding for Lending, created to
prod banks into lending more to consumers and small businesses.
As of June 30, participating lenders had drawn about 17.6
billion pounds ($27.6 billion) from the program, which runs
until January 2015, BOE data show.  ‘Market Conditions’  “We have seen a major shift in the U.K. from a need and
desire of banks to raise deposits through retail consumers,
which clearly was the case during the peak of the economic
downturn,” Kevin Mountford, moneysupermarket.com’s head of
banking, said by phone. “Cheap funding is helping to bolster
balance sheets. We are seeing a huge dip from banks in terms of
appetite for savings.”  Some 93 billion pounds of fixed-rate products in the U.K.
retail market mature this year, according to estimates provided
to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  by data provider CACI. Investors face a 1
billion-pound drop in income if they reinvest those savings into
similar products given the lower rates, the London-based bank
said in July.  RBS (RBS) ’s savings rates “reflect current market conditions and
we regularly review them,” the Edinburgh-based bank said in an
e-mailed statement. “We aim to keep our rates as consistent as
possible over time and we don’t offer introductory bonus rates
that drop-off after a short period.” A Barclays spokeswoman
declined to comment.  Incomes Squeeze  While economic growth more than doubled in the second
quarter to 0.7 percent, consumer prices are rising at almost
triple the pace of basic wages. Median incomes adjusted for
inflation probably fell for a third straight year in the 12
months through March and will continue to drop, leaving
households no better off than they were in 2000-2001, the IFS
estimates.  There is evidence that Britons are being driven to the
stock market for returns. Investor sentiment on U.K. stocks is
at its highest in six months, and equities are now the second-most-popular asset class after property, a survey published by
Lloyds TSB Private Banking last month shows. The U.K. benchmark
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has climbed more than 10 percent this year.  Recent property market indicators have shown prices are
rising, and a report last week by Halifax, Lloyds’s mortgage
arm, showed values increased for a seventh month in August and
will probably continue to increase through the rest of the year.  “The dire situation we see for savers at the moment will
continue for the next couple of years,” Mountford said. “The
danger and unintended consequence is that people start to take
more risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  