-- Spain Cash-Starved Firms Seeking Growth Run Out of Time
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-09-09T12:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/cash-starved-spanish-companies-run-out-of-time.html
Patricia Carral Cunningham says the
economic  recovery  may come too late for her business even after
she kept up sales to weather Spain’s six-year slump.  “I’ve put up all my personal assets as guarantees and now
there’s no way I can get another  credit line ,” according to
Carral, 50, who says her Madrid-based construction company
 Soldray S.L. ’s 20 years of experience helped it survive the end
of a real-estate boom in 2007.  While Spanish manufacturing and services expanded in August
for the first time in more than two years, falling bank lending
threatens small companies in a country where only 2 percent of
businesses employ more than 20 people. That is overshadowing the
recovery Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy forecasts after a two-year
recession.  “Spanish companies are most often small family-run
operations,” said Nathalie Gianese, director of studies at
 Informa D&B , the research arm of Spanish risk insurer CESCE S.A.
“Between the slump in revenue and their limited means, these
small firms are disadvantaged at a time when banks are seeking
to reduce risk as much as possible.”  The number of companies seeking protection from creditors
increased by 26 percent through August compared with the same
period a year earlier, according to a report published last week
by Informa D&B. In the second quarter, 73 percent of businesses
in such a  predicament  employed fewer than 20 people, Spain’s
national statistics institute said last month.  Higher Rates  Lending by banks to non-financial corporations  fell  1.3
percent in July from June in Spain, more than in Portugal,
Ireland and  Greece , while it rose in  Italy , according to data
compiled by the  European Central Bank . Since January, it has
declined almost 10 percent in Spain.  “Loans used to come at 2 or 3 percent and now they cost
more than three times as much, it is crazy,” said Modesto Duran
Lopez, 62, whose real-estate business Inmobiliaria Duran is
based in Plasencia, western Spain. In order to balance its
books, his company has cut staff and wages and ended a credit
line with an 11 percent rate.  “This is a disaster,” he said. “Here we are begging
banks when we are paying twice as much to borrow than the
government.”  Bank of Spain Chief Economist Jose Luis Malo de Molina said
in July that deleveraging in the economy makes funding
restrictions far worse for smaller enterprises, which are paying
 interest rates  at least 2 or 3 percentage points higher than
similar businesses elsewhere.  Economic Slump  Spain’s economy has contracted for two years and declined
0.1 percent in the three months through June, the least since
2011. Rajoy says he expects the country to exit its recession by
the end of the year and predicts at least 0.5 percent growth
next year.  That compares with the ECB’s forecast for economic
expansion of 1 percent in the whole euro area in 2014. While the
ECB acknowledges that the cheap funds it provides to banks
aren’t filtering down to the private sector in several
countries, President  Mario Draghi  says officials can’t do
anything when banks perceive small and medium-sized enterprises
as too risky.  “We tried everything,” he said during a European
Parliament hearing in July. “The ECB doesn’t have a direct
instrument to force banks to lend to SMEs, and neither would it
be right.”  Reluctant Lenders  Asked about the option of developing so-called mezzanine
credit for such businesses, which would give lenders the rights
to convert debt into equity, Draghi last week said that the ECB
is working on measures with the European Commission and the
 European Investment Bank . He didn’t specify a time frame.  The reluctance of Spanish banks to lend is forcing
businesses to resort to other methods of finding cash. Financial
services company Gedesco Services Spain SAU last week said small
businesses account for 23 percent of the 1.3 million euros ($1.7
million) it has loaned through car lease-backs since January
2011. In the first half, the amount was 51 percent higher than a
year earlier.  In August, state-owned  development bank  ICO lent 746
million euros to smaller businesses, the most in seven years for
that month.  Spanish Deficit  The ECB has told governments that reducing credit-market
fragmentation ultimately depends on boosting growth, shoring up
banks and balancing budgets. Spain’s  deficit  was the largest in
the European Union last year and bad loans reached a  record  11.6
percent of bank lending in June amid a  26 percent  jobless rate.  Spain’s recovery may be helped by an improving outlook for
the euro region, which exited its longest recession on record in
the second quarter. Its second-largest economy,  France , is
likely to expand 0.2 percent in the third quarter, the Bank of
France said today, raising its previous estimate of 0.1 percent.  The French central bank also said that business sentiment
in August rose to 97 from 95 in July, matching the median
estimate from six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Spain ’s credit rating remains under pressure and it’s too
early to tell whether the economic crisis has bottomed out,
rating company DBRS Head of Sovereign Ratings Fergus McCormick
said in an interview with Expansion published today.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year bond benchmark bond  were
unchanged at 4.53 percent at 2 p.m. in Madrid, while the spread
with similar German maturities narrowed to 256 basis points.
That compares with a euro-era high of 650 basis points in July
2012, after Spain secured European aid to bail out its banks.  Balance-Sheet Cleanup  Spanish “banks are still cleaning up their balance sheets
and they’ve got quite a way to go before starting to open the
tap again,” said  Angel Laborda , chief economist at Funcas, the
research arm of the Spanish saving banks foundation. “The lack
of funding at affordable prices for small businesses is one of
the main obstacles for a potential recovery.”  Carral said that while she has “done the impossible” to
preserve revenue at Soldray, the problem she now faces is a
simple lack of cash. She says she’s not alone.  “This is a serious issue for all small and medium
enterprises,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  