-- China Trade Rebounds in Further Sign Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-09T09:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/china-trade-rebounds-in-further-sign-economy-stabilizing.html
China ’s  exports  increased more than
estimated in August and inflation stayed below a government
target, helping Premier Li Keqiang sustain a rebound in the
world’s second-largest economy from a two-quarter slowdown.  Overseas shipments rose 7.2 percent from a year earlier,
the  General Administration of Customs  said in Beijing yesterday.
That exceeded the 5.5 percent median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent,
the statistics bureau said today, leaving room for extra
stimulus if needed.  Chinese stocks rose to a three-month high as the data
boosted confidence following Li’s support measures such as tax
cuts for small businesses and extra spending on railways. The
producer-price  index  fell by the least in six months while
exports to the U.S. and European Union grew for a second month,
underscoring improvements in demand inside and outside China.  “The PPI data today, along with yesterday’s trade numbers,
showed fairly big improvement in both external and internal
demand,” said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Hong Kong. “They are in line with the economic
recovery trend that we have been seeing since July.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index gained 3.4 percent, the most
since December, following 2 percent gains in each of the past
two weeks.  Imports rose a less-than-estimated 7 percent from a year
earlier, leaving a trade surplus of more than $28 billion,
customs data showed yesterday. Exports rose 5.1 percent in July.  Sustained Growth  Li, in an opinion article today in the Financial Times,
said the economy “will maintain its sustained and healthy
growth,” with expansion around a 7.5 percent “lower limit”
intended to ensure steady growth and employment. Commerce
Minister Gao Hucheng said he’s confident the nation will meet
its 8 percent target for trade gains for the year, according to
a report yesterday on China National Radio.  The government is seeking to keep consumer-price gains
within 3.5 percent this year. Li wrote that the level is in line
with an “upper limit” of economic performance meant to prevent
inflation.  The producer-price  index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.6 percent in August from a
year earlier, after a 2.3 percent drop in July, the third
straight deceleration of its decline.  “The low CPI inflation means that the new government still
has spacious room for bolstering growth via implementing a mini
fiscal stimulus and avoiding monetary tightening,” Lu Ting,
head of Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong
Kong, said in a note today. The PPI report “suggests the
economy has been recovering,” he said.  Economic Picture  Industrial output , retail sales and January-August fixed-asset investment data tomorrow will flesh out the picture of an
economic rebound that started in July. The People’s Bank of
China will also give lending,  money supply  and aggregate
financing numbers this week.  The gain in August  imports  trailed the 11.3 percent median
projection in a Bloomberg survey and July’s 10.9 percent jump.  The slowdown “reflects the weak economic recovery
domestically,” said Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong
International Securities Group in  Hong Kong . “But we expect the
trend to reverse in coming months, along with rising demand, on
a series of supportive policies” announced by the government,
she said.  In addition to speeding up investment in infrastructure,
the government has cut taxes and boosted support for industries
including energy conservation and technology. The State Council
in July approved a free trade zone in Shanghai to trial economic
and financial reforms.  Asean Exports  Exports to the U.S., China’s biggest market, and the EU,
its second-largest, rose for a second month in August after a
four-month drop, yesterday’s data showed. Shipments to the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  jumped 30.8
percent although sales to  Japan  dropped for a seventh month.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said last week that the economy
maintained a “modest to moderate” pace of expansion, and a
manufacturing index from the  Institute for Supply Management 
rose to a two-year high. In the euro area, an index of services
and factory output for August climbed to the highest level since
June 2011.  Improvements in overseas demand are helping Chinese
exporters such as JinkoSolar Holding Co., which shipped 62
percent more panels in the second quarter than a year earlier.
The Shangrao, Jiangxi province-based company raised its shipment
forecast for 2013, Chief Executive Officer Chen Kangping said on
an Aug. 14 earnings call.  Trade Surplus  China’s August trade surplus was $28.61 billion, according
to a customs statement although a separate table put the excess
at $28.52 billion. That was the highest this year and takes the
surplus for the first eight months to $154.2 billion, about 28
percent more than a year earlier.  The pickup in the surplus suggests  yuan  appreciation
pressure will continue, economists Liu Li-Gang and Hao Zhou at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said in a note. Even
so, with turbulence in emerging market economies, the central
bank will probably maintain the stability of the  exchange rate ,
they wrote.  The PBOC has reined in yuan gains, helping exporters. The
currency rose about 0.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the
past three months, slowing from an advance of about 1.5 percent
in the first half of the year and about 2 percent in the second
half of 2012. The currency today was little changed at 6.1210.  Stronger Momentum  “We’re clearly seeing stronger external demand momentum as
manufacturing in the U.S. and European Union recover and that’s
going to become a stronger driver of China’s growth,” said Xu Gao, chief economist with Everbright Securities Co. in Beijing.
“But if policy makers in China see this recovery as meaning
they don’t need to add stimulus domestically or even withdraw
stimulus, that could be bad news.”  Xu, who last week raised his 2013 full-year economic  growth 
estimate for China to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent, said the
moderation in momentum suggested in the August import numbers
may temper optimism about the strength of domestic demand.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Japan said its
economy grew an annualized 3.8 percent in the second quarter,
faster than previously estimated, aiding Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s reflation campaign.  Taiwan  said exports rose 3.6 percent
in August from a year earlier, less than estimated, while
 imports (CNFRIMPY)  dropped for a second month.  In  North America ,  Canada  reports building permits for July
and  Mexico  reports August inflation data.  Growth Forecasts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week raised its estimate for
China’s  economic growth  for the third and fourth quarters,
citing improving global demand and a stronger-than-expected
domestic industrial recovery. JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank AG
raised their growth forecasts over the past month, bolstering
optimism Premier Li will meet the government’s 7.5 percent
target for expansion this year.  Li may cut the annual growth target to 7 percent next year,
although the actual pace of expansion will be higher, Fan Jianping, chief economist at the State Information Center under
the National Development and Reform Commission, said in an
interview in Shanghai on Sept. 7.  The drop would be in line with the goal set in the
country’s 2011-2015 five-year plan for average expansion of 7
percent a year, Fan said.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  