-- Death Every 10 Seconds Spurs Novartis, Glaxo Lung Contest
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-09-09T13:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/death-every-10-seconds-spurs-novartis-glaxo-lung-contest.html
There’s a new competition brewing in
the $10 billion market for drugs to treat  deadly lung diseases 
as the growing number of smokers in emerging markets drives
demand.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  aims to convince doctors that its new Ultibro
medicine for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is better
than  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s blockbuster Advair, which is also
used to treat asthma. Glaxo, meanwhile, has developed new
products in anticipation of the day that Advair faces
competition from generic copies.  The illness, also known as smokers’ cough, kills a person
every 10 seconds and will become the  third leading cause of
death  worldwide by 2030, according to the World Health
Organization and Brentford, U.K.-based Glaxo. Conditions known
as chronic bronchitis and emphysema are both included in the
COPD diagnosis. While asthma affects more people globally, it
doesn’t kill on the scale of COPD, according to the WHO.  “The disease is massively out there,” said  Richard
Russell , a COPD specialist at Wexham Park Hospital in southeast
 England  who says he sees six or seven new patients every week.
“We’re still getting new patients all the time with advanced
disease who have never received treatment.”  While the proportion of smokers among the global population
has been steadily falling, the number of COPD cases will
continue to rise because of the delayed appearance of symptoms
and growing numbers of smokers in  emerging markets , especially
 China , drug makers say. Though pollution exacerbates COPD,
smoking is the main driver.  ‘Global Epidemic’  The market for COPD medicines may rise to $14 billion in
2018 from $10 billion this year, Citigroup Inc. analysts
estimate. Including asthma, the respiratory market will total
more than $30 billion, according to Bloomberg Industries.  COPD is characterized by breathlessness, excess saliva and
mucus in the airways and a chronic cough. About 65 million
people globally have moderate to severe COPD, according to the
 WHO . Current rates of smoking in China suggest a future patient
population of at least 75 million, Bloomberg Industries
estimated.  “COPD is a global epidemic and a growing problem in both
the developed world and in emerging markets,” said David
Morris, Novartis’s global head of primary care development,
including respiratory disease. “We see this as a sustained
investment.”  Advair Sales  The European Union’s drug regulator on July 26 recommended
that the European Commission approve Ultibro for COPD. The
commission usually follows the regulator’s advice. Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis has said it plans to file for
approval in the U.S. at the end of next year.  Advair, marketed as Seretide in most countries outside the
U.S., was  Glaxo’s best-selling drug  last year, with 5.05 billion
pounds ($8 billion) in sales, split about evenly between asthma
and COPD. It’s been on the market for more than a decade and was
the world’s third-best-selling medicine last year behind  AbbVie
Inc. (ABBV) ’s Humira and Johnson & Johnson’s Remicade, which both treat
arthritis.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Spiriva, the biggest-selling
drug for COPD, had sales of 3.6 billion euros ($4.7 billion)
last year. Patients typically take Advair or Spiriva or both.
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Symbicort had $3.2 billion of sales last year.  Latent demand also lies in the reluctance of smokers to
visit doctors about their conditions, Russell said.  Advair’s Patent  “They don’t want to come to us, because they think they’re
going to get nagged about smoking,” he said. “The whole
concept of early treatment and diagnosis is still in its
infancy.”  The patent on Advair expired in 2010 in the U.S., the
world’s largest drug market. A separate patent on the Diskus
device used to inhale the medicine remains in force through
2016.  While copying Advair and its delivery device will be
difficult, Novartis’s generics division, Sandoz, probably will
be the first to succeed, followed by  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  and Mylan
Inc., according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  As a result, Glaxo and competitors have been racing to
develop follow-up products. Some from Novartis, Glaxo and
 Almirall SA (ALM)  have won regulatory approval recently.  Given Advair’s dominant position, the new products may face
difficulty gaining acceptance by doctors and reimbursement
authorities, according to experts.  Stock Performance  “If there’s no obvious clinical benefit over existing
treatments and if there’s no significant cost savings to be had,
then all of these drugs will struggle,” said Russell, who
consults for drugmakers including Glaxo, Novartis, Boehringer
and Almirall.  Still, the new-product approvals have helped the companies’
shares  outperform rivals  this year. Glaxo and Novartis have each
risen 23 percent, while the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index has risen 14 percent.  Glaxo’s Breo Ellipta, which was approved in May in the U.S.
as a once-daily drug, showed no statistical difference to
Advair, which is taken twice a day, in a late-stage study,
according to the company.  Breo and Advair both contain a steroid to reduce
inflammation and a so-called LABA bronchodilator, which relaxes
the airways in the lungs. While Glaxo has highlighted the
convenience of once-daily dosing, that may not be enough to
persuade insurance companies and governments to pay the cost,
said  John Hurst,  senior lecturer in respiratory medicine at
 University College London .  ‘Marketing Machine’  “I don’t buy once-daily being a life-changing step
forward,” said Hurst, who conducts research with Glaxo,
Novartis and Boehringer, among others. “It’s not so much more
convenient that I would be prepared to pay more money for it.”  Glaxo declined to comment on the price of Breo relative to
Advair.  Glaxo does have an advantage given its decade-long
experience selling Advair, Russell said.  Among doctors, “there’s a lot of familiarity with Glaxo,
and the Glaxo marketing machine is very powerful,” he said.  While Glaxo is mindful of the payer perspective and the
need to be realistic, the company is confident that once-daily
is “a compelling proposition” for physicians, said Darrell
Baker, head of Glaxo’s respiratory drug development.  “We have a lot of research to back that up,” he said.  Mortality Impact  What could turn heads is an on-going study that is
investigating the impact of Breo on mortality in patients with
moderate COPD and with increased heart disease risk. Positive
results, which may be released in early 2015, could
“transform” the reimbursement outlook, Citigroup analysts said
in a note earlier this month.  Spiriva is another type of bronchodilator that is often
combined with Advair for patients who still have trouble
breathing with single treatment. Among his patients taking
Advair, 80 percent also take Spiriva, Russell said.  Glaxo’s Anoro and Novartis’s Ultibro, which is administered
by an inhaler called Breezhaler, are the first in a new class of
COPD drugs that combine both types of bronchodilators in a
single device and leave out the steroid component contained in
Breo, which in high doses has been linked to fatal pneumonia in
studies.  “I’m much more interested in that,” Hurst said.  Anoro Decision  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  will hold an advisory
committee meeting on Anoro tomorrow, with a regulatory decision
expected in December. The drug showed strong efficacy at both
doses for which the company is seeking approval, FDA staff said
in a report Sept. 6.  Glaxo, Novartis and Boehringer are among drugmakers
presenting studies on COPD drugs at the European Respiratory
Society’s annual meeting in Barcelona, concluding Sept. 11.  Anoro probably will lead the combination therapy market,
with sales reaching $1.7 billion by 2020, according to the
average of six  analyst estimates  surveyed by Bloomberg. Ultibro,
whose sales may reach $1.05 billion in 2020, may be hindered by
the Breezhaler device, which must be loaded with a new capsule
after each use, compared with Anoro’s multi-dose Ellipta device,
according to analysts.  Given that Spiriva is also taken through a single-dose
inhaler, patients are familiar with the concept, Novartis’s
Morris said.  “This device is very simple, very intuitive,” he said.  Still, Glaxo is confident it will maintain its market-leading position with its range of products that can all be
delivered through Ellipta, Baker said.  Boehringer and Almirall are also developing their own
LAMA/LABA combinations, which probably will reach the market by
2015, according to Citigroup.  “Is there a need for these new treatments? Absolutely,”
Hurst said. “It’s a highly prevalent condition, and despite the
best available treatments we have today, patients remain
symptomatic.”  For Related News and Information:
Glaxo-Theravance Lung Drug Shows Strong Efficacy, FDA Says (2)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  