-- Merkel Sees Danger SPD May Break Vow and Ally With Left
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-09-09T09:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/merkel-says-danger-spd-may-break-vow-and-ally-with-left-party.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
there’s a danger that the opposition Social Democrats and the
Greens may break an election pledge not to ally with the anti-capitalist Left Party in a bid to take power.  Merkel said the vote “will be very close” in a speech at
a rally in Dusseldorf yesterday, marking the start of the final
two weeks of campaigning before Sept. 22 elections.  “To those who want to be sure that there won’t be
experiments, that there won’t be an attempt to make red-red-green a reality somehow, I say: give all your votes to the
Christian Democratic Union,” said Merkel, who’s also chairman
of the CDU. Red-red-green are the colors of  Germany ’s SPD, the
Left Party and the Greens. The Left will today announce its
terms for joining an alliance with the SPD and Greens.  Merkel’s CDU has relied so far on the chancellor’s high
approval ratings to campaign for a repeat of their coalition
with the pro-business Free Democrats. Now, the party is sounding
the alarm over a possible Social Democrat-led coalition that
includes the Left Party, the successor to former East Germany’s
communists.  In a weekly  Emnid poll for Bild am Sonntag  newspaper
yesterday, support for the CDU and its CSU Bavarian sister party
rose one percentage point to 40 percent, while their FDP
coalition partner fell one point to 5 percent. The SPD gained
two points to 25 percent while the Green party held at 11
percent. The Left Party lost a point to 9 percent.  CDU Leads  While Merkel’s coalition had 45 percent support to 36
percent for the SPD and Greens, that nine percentage-point lead
disappears if the Left Party is included. Bild didn’t provide
details on the poll’s margin of error.  Fifty percent of those polled said they want Merkel as
chancellor compared with 35 percent who favored her SPD
challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck . While Merkel’s popularity dropped
two points, Steinbrueck’s increased seven points.  Steinbrueck and the rest of the SPD’s leadership rule out a
national coalition with the Left, yet there are precedents for
cooperation at regional level. The state of Brandenburg is
governed by an SPD-Left coalition and in North Rhine-Westphalia,
Germany’s most populous state, the SPD’s Hannelore Kraft ran a
minority coalition with the Greens with Left Party support until
she won a majority in elections in May last year.  Coalition Danger  “There is a great danger that the SPD would enter such an
alliance, if it were mathematically possible,” Brandenburg CDU
leader Michael Schierack said in a Sept. 3 interview in Potsdam.
“Steinbrueck could build a bridge for such a coalition and then
serve as SPD leader in parliament in order to save face.” It
would also be possible that an SPD-Green minority government
would agree to be tolerated by the Left, Schierack said.  The Left Party wants to nationalize all “large” banks as
well as the energy, water, transport and telecommunications
industries. It calls for banning hedge funds and private equity
companies in Germany and forbidding speculation linked to
agricultural products. It says all natural resources must be
held by the state.  A 5 percent annual “wealth tax” should be imposed on
private holdings worth more than 1 million euros ($1.3 million),
according to the Left’s  program . Corporate tax and inheritance
tax must be raised, the party says. On foreign policy, the Left
wants to liquidate the NATO alliance and halt all German foreign
military operations.  Rejects Left  Steinbrueck, after a Sept. 5 summit of SPD and Green state
leaders that included Kraft and Baden-Wuerttemberg’s Greens
Prime Minister Winfried Kretschmann, clearly rejected a red-red-green coalition after the Sept. 22 election.  At the same time he did not rule out such an alliance
permanently. “Democratic parties must in principle be capable
of forming coalitions,” Steinbrueck said.  “If the Left Party dumps its Marxist past and embraces
democratic socialism, then it will be well-placed to serve as
the SPD’s left wing,” said Christian Boeker, 57, a voter from
Potsdam who plans to back Merkel’s CDU.  Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance minister, says the
chancellor failed to address the rich-poor gap as the economy
rebounded, while forcing too many spending cuts on the euro area
as the debt crisis spread from  Greece .  Merkel is campaigning on her record of tackling the debt
crisis as well as her stewardship of the Germany economy, with
joblessness near a two-decade low and the budget balanced. Her
assertion that SPD and Greens plans to raise taxes on the
wealthier would harm the economy is disputed by Steinbrueck, who
says a majority of voters would be better off and the extra
revenue would be used to employ more teachers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  