-- Mexico Tax Proposal Said to Exclude Food, Medicine From VAT
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-09-08T21:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/mexico-s-pena-nieto-tax-bill-said-to-exclude-food-medicine-vat.html
Mexico’s government will present a
bill today to boost tax collection without applying a sales levy
on food or medicine, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the proposal who asked not to be identified before
the plan is announced.  The measure will also seek a levy on sugary drinks and on
 capital gains  from stock-market transactions, and raise the
personal income tax ceiling to 32 percent, while leaving it at
30 percent for companies, one of the people said.  President Enrique Pena Nieto has pledged to boost tax
collection as part of his plan to boost economic growth that has
remained below the regional average over the past decade.
Thousands of people took to Mexico City’s streets today to march
against the government’s plans for everything from education to
the oil industry ahead of the tax bill’s presentation. The
country’s second-largest opposition party said it opposes a tax
on food and medicine because it would hurt low-income earners.  “Food and medicines are things that affect everybody,”
 Eric Farnsworth , head of the Washington office of the Council of
the Americas, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
last thing the PRI wants to do is give one of their primary
opposition parties a silver platter way to attack  tax reform .”  Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , known as
the PRI, sparked speculation that a value-added tax on food and
medicine would be imposed after it ended a ban in March that
prohibited its members from voting to approve such levies.  Street Protest  The president will propose the tax overhaul today at the
presidential manor after his administration delivers the 2014
budget plan to congress. His office and the Finance Ministry
press department declined to comment about details of the tax
reform.  Pena Nieto’s economic proposals will bring “social
instability to the nation,” Alejandro Sanchez Camacho,
secretary general of the opposition Democratic Revolution Party,
said yesterday in a statement.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , runner up in last year’s
presidential election, is leading a street protest today against
food and medicine taxes and Pena Nieto’s bill to open the energy
sector to more private investment. Marchers gathered blocks from
the Zocalo, the capital’s main square, which for weeks has been
occupied by a tent city of demonstrators against Pena Nieto’s
separate education overhaul.  Cesar Camacho, the PRI’s president, said in a Sept. 4
interview he’s against charging duties for medicine.  Pemex Taxes  Pena Nieto’s tax changes are seeking to wean  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy off its dependence on oil
revenue. Income from oil funds about a third of the  federal
budget , and  tax revenue  in Mexico is the lowest as a percentage
of gross domestic product among 34 members of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The president has promised to lower the tax burden for
state-owned oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex, so the
company can bolster investment. He’s said the overhaul will also
ensure those who earn more pay more taxes and will help
guarantee pensions and unemployment insurance for all Mexicans.  The tax bill would seek to increase non-oil levies Mexicans
pay by 1.4 percentage points of gross domestic product next year
and by 3 percentage points by 2018, and would lift the value-added tax at border cities to 16 percent from 11 percent, one of
the people with knowledge of the bill said. The president will
also propose a constitutional amendment to guarantee pensions
for all Mexicans, the person said.  Budget Deficit  The reform would end a tax benefit that allows holding
companies to postpone paying taxes. The government will seek a
budget deficit of 1.5 percent for 2014, excluding investment in
Pemex, while requesting this year’s balanced budget be revised
to allow a 0.4 percent deficit, the person said. It wasn’t clear
whether Pena Nieto would propose food and medicine taxes in the
future if the economy improves, the person said.  Growth slowed more than analysts forecast this year,
leading the central bank to unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate
by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to a record-low
3.75 percent on Sept. 6. The government on Aug. 20 reduced its
2013 growth estimate to 1.8 percent from 3.1 percent after
exports stagnated and  government spending  slowed.  About 46 percent of the Mexican population, or 53.3 million
people, were  living  in poverty last year, according to the
national council on social development policy.  Deficit Concerns  If the details of the government’s plan are correct, the
fiscal overhaul probably won’t trigger a ratings upgrade right
away, while next year’s 1.5 percent budget deficit might be
viewed negatively by the market, said Nomura Holdings Inc.
strategist  Benito Berber .  Credit-ratings company Moody’s Investors Service has said
it will closely follow the tax overhaul proposal. To receive an
upgrade from Moody’s, which has rated Mexico Baa1 since 2005,
the country’s revenue base would need to be “widened,
diversified enough for the Mexican government not to rely so
much on oil tax-related revenue,” Alberto Jones, the ratings
company’s Mexico chief, said at the July 10 Bloomberg Mexico
Conference in  New York .  The government’s tax bill would be considered “diluted”
if it fails to generate more than 2 percentage points of GDP in
additional taxes unrelated to oil revenue, Berber wrote in a
Sept. 6 research note.  “It might not meet all expectations,” Berber said of the
tax overhaul today by phone from New York, saying he wouldn’t
call it ’diluted.’ If the government requests a 1.5 percent
budget deficit “it’s a total fiscal deficit of close to 4
percent. I think the market in that regard might not treat it
very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  