-- Geno Smith Rallies Jets to Win Over Buccaneers in NFL Debut
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-09T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/geno-smith-leads-jets-to-final-second-victory-over-buccaneers.html
Geno Smith’s National Football
League debut was a winning one, as the New York Jets’ rookie
quarterback directed a go-ahead drive in the closing seconds of
an 18-17 victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers that featured
three lead changes in the final five minutes.  Smith guided the Jets 50 yards on five plays in the game’s
final drive yesterday to set up a 48-yard field goal by Nick Folk with two seconds remaining at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  “I had some ups and downs, but it’s not about me, it’s
about this team, and as a team we won the game,” Smith said
afterward. “Not all of them are going to be pretty.”  Smith, a second-round draft choice starting in place of the
injured Mark Sanchez, completed 24 of 38 passes for 256 yards,
one touchdown and one interception, while losing a fumble that
led to a Buccaneers touchdown. He also added a team-high 47
yards rushing. Smith was the first player to lead the Jets in
both passing and rushing yards in the same game since Ray Lucas
on Dec. 5, 1999 against the New York Giants.  “I’ll tell you where he really helped us -- he ran,” Jets
coach Rex Ryan said. “He made some big plays running.”  Smith began his professional career by completing a 26-yard
pass to Jeremy Kerley, though the Jets’ only first quarter
points came after Buccaneers quarterback Josh Freeman missed a
snap in his own end zone and kicked the ball out of play for a
safety. Freeman finished the game with 15 completions of 31
passes for 210 yards, with one touchdown and one interception.  The Buccaneers retook the lead 7-2 on a five-play, 44-yard
drive that ended in a 17-yard touchdown pass from Freeman to
Mike Williams.  Smith then led a 13-play, 55-yard drive, including a 13-yard scramble, that set up a 43-yard field goal by Folk to close
the gap to 7-5.  Smith Fumble  With 6:51 remaining in the second quarter, Mason Foster
sacked Smith, who fumbled the ball. Tampa Bay recovered at New
York’s five-yard line and Doug Martin ran into the end zone for
a touchdown that gave Tampa Bay a 14-5 lead.  Smith turned the ball over again on the next series, when
Tampa Bay’s Lavonte David picked off a pass intended for Stephen
Hill.  “That was completely my fault,” said Smith, who was among
five of the Jets’ 2013 draft selections to make their NFL debuts
yesterday. “I just put the ball a little too high.”  Ryan, whose team reached the American Football Conference
championship in Sanchez’s rookie season, said his plan with
Smith was “coach like crazy.”  “There’s no doubt he made a couple of mistakes,” Ryan
said. “The big one is that, when you’re in the heat of battle,
you’ve got to have two hands on the football.”  Landry Interception  The Jets got the ball back when Dawan Landry intercepted
Freeman’s throw to Vincent Jackson and returned it 38 yards to
the Buccaneers’ 31. Smith then got sacked by Foster for a loss
of 18 yards, before leading a 31-yard, six-play drive that ended
in a seven-yard touchdown pass to Kellen Winslow to make the
halftime score 14-12 for the Buccaneers.  “Geno’s going to be a great player,” Winslow said. “He
really rose to the occasion.”  After a scoreless third quarter, Smith led the Jets on a
14-play, 65-yard drive covering 6:20 that ended in a 30-yard
field goal to put New York ahead 15-14 with 5:05 remaining.  The Jets’ defense held Tampa Bay in its own territory until
less than two minutes remained, before Freeman found Vincent
Jackson for a 37-yard pass that set up a 37-yard field goal by
Rian Lindell with 34 seconds remaining in the game.  Smith came out to the huddle and told his teammates there
was plenty of time.  “I told those guys it’s never over, just give me some
extra protection and we’ll find a way,” he said.  Final Drive  Smith threw one incomplete pass, then connected with
Winslow for a 25-yard gain and spiked the ball to stop the clock
with 15 seconds left. He took the next snap out of the shotgun
and ran to the right, gaining 10 yards before getting hit after
he went out of bounds. A 15-yard personal foul was called on
David, moving the Jets to the Bucs’ 30-yard line.  Folk sent the kick through with two seconds left on the
clock, and the team celebrated on the field. Smith said there’s
plenty to work on before the Sept. 12 game at New England.  “As long as we don’t turn the ball over, I think we have a
chance to win every single game,” Smith said. “That’s
something I’ll do a better job at -- not turning the ball over,
not being so careless with the ball at times. If you eliminate
those plays, I think the game goes a lot smoother for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  