-- Google Made New Offer to Settle Antitrust Probe, EU Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-09-09T09:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/google-made-new-offer-to-settle-eu-antitrust-probe-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  gave European Union
regulators a new proposal to settle an almost three-year-old EU
antitrust probe into the way it operates its search services.  “We received new proposals from Google in the previous
week,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday in Cernobbio,
 Italy . “If we are satisfied with the new proposals, we can
advance toward an agreed solution in the coming months.”  Google’s previous  offer  to label its branded search
services and show links to rival specialized search services was
rejected by Almunia in July. Google rivals, including  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , have urged the EU to seek tougher concessions from the
 Mountain View , California-based company.  “Once we have completed our analysis, once we will check
that these new proposals are able to eliminate our concerns, we
will tell Google what to do,” Almunia said.  The Brussels-based agency is investigating whether Google
promotes its own specialist search services, such as Google News
and Google Finance, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  Addresses Concerns  “Our proposal to the European Commission addresses their
four areas of concern,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman
for Google, said by phone yesterday. “We continue to work with
the commission to settle this case.”  A group that represents Google rivals, including Microsoft,
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said that industry participants
should be consulted before the EU reaches any final settlement.  “Given the failure of Google to make a serious offer last
time around, we believe it is necessary that customers and
competitors of Google be consulted in a full, second market
test,  Thomas Vinje , a Brussels-based lawyer for FairSearch
 Europe , said in an e-mailed statement today.  In addition to fining companies for antitrust violations,
the commission may impose orders to change the way firms
operate.  The commission will opt for a formal complaint, or
statement of objections, against Google ‘‘if we consider that
the new proposals are not able to limit our concerns.’’ Still,
that would take ‘‘too long,’’ Almunia said.  ‘‘It’s a very difficult one, we are dealing with new
factors, we are dealing with a sector of activity that is moving
very, very fast,’’ he said in the interview.  Samsung Case  Samsung Electronics Co. is also in discussions with the EU
to settle a separate probe over possible antitrust violations
through its hold on essential technology patents to block Apple
Inc. products.  Almunia said Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung ‘‘submitted
proposals, we have discussed the proposals coming from Samsung,
and we asked them to improve the proposals.’’  He said the discussions are ‘‘quite advanced’’ though they
‘‘are not yet there.’’ A final agreement depends on ‘‘some
elements that need to be improved from the Samsung side.’’  The commission in December 2012 told Samsung it may have
violated competition rules by seeking injunctions against Apple
products in various European countries based on essential
technology patents it owns. Almunia has sent statements of
objections laying out his concerns to Samsung and in a separate
probe to Google’s Motorola Mobility Holdings unit.  Almunia has said he is targeting ‘‘rules of the game’’ to
prevent companies from unfairly leveraging their inventions to
thwart rivals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome  at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  