-- Insurance M&A Drops to Four-Year Low, Clyde & Co. Report Shows
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/insurance-m-a-drops-to-four-year-low-clyde-co-report-shows.html
Global merger and acquisition
activity among insurers dropped 29 percent in the year through
June as falling pricing and lower investment returns tempered
demand, according to law firm  Clyde & Co .  Some 362 transactions were completed from July 2012 to June
2013, the fewest in four years, the London-based law firm said
in a report today. That compares with 510 deals the previous
year. U.S. transactions declined 40 percent, while deals in
Europe slid 33 percent. Asia was little changed, with 57 deals
versus 58 in 2012, Clyde reported.  “It’s not the greatest environment for M&A,” Andrew
Holderness, global head of corporate insurance group at Clyde &
Co., said in a telephone interview. “Pricing has remained soft,
investment returns on assets under management are a challenge
and there is uncertainty in the euro zone and the U.S.”  Reinsurance rates fell in seven of the last 10 years,
according to the Guy Carpenter World Property Catastrophe Rate
on Line Index, as an influx of third-party capital increased
competition. Investment returns have also remained under
pressure as efforts from the U.S. Federal Reserve to stimulate
growth sent bond yields near record lows.  Some insurance companies are also trading below their
historical book value, preventing transactions from being
completed, according to the Clyde report. Insurers with excess
capital are buying back stock rather than pursuing a takeover
target, the firm said.  Holderness said there are early signs of an M&A recovery,
adding it is too soon to call a turn in the cycle.  Clyde & Co. operates from 33 offices and associated offices
on five continents. It specializes in insurance, aviation,
energy, infrastructure, marine and trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  