-- Israel Lawmakers Want Relook at Flug for Bank Governor
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-08T13:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/israel-lawmakers-want-relook-at-flug-for-bank-governor.html
Members of  Israel ’s parliamentary
finance committee have asked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
to tap twice-snubbed Karnit Flug to succeed Stanley Fischer as
Bank of Israel governor, a lawmaker said.  “More than a year ago Fischer singled out Flug as his
deputy, which really meant she was intended to be the next
governor,” said panel member and opposition Labor Party
lawmaker Erel Margalit.  “If Netanyahu didn’t want that, I would have expected a
search committee in place much earlier, putting qualified
candidates on the table,” Margalit said today.  The government has yet to name a central bank chief to
replace Fischer, who left at the end of June after eight years
at its helm. Two nominees withdrew during the government vetting
process, and three others are currently under consideration.  Margalit said “a significant number” of finance committee
members signed a letter to Netanyahu asking him to pick Flug.  “Karnit is at the bank, she is qualified, she was
recommended by Fischer, who everybody has high regard for, and
she doesn’t seem to be political in any way,” said Margalit.
“Our recommendation was that she should be seriously considered
again.”  Chances of Netanyahu appointing Flug at this point appear
“relatively low,” said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at
Tel Aviv-based Meitav DS Investment House Ltd.  Prospects Dim  “It’s hard to picture this happening, unless all three of
the candidates that Netanyahu has put forward are rejected by
the vetting committee,” Zabezhinsky said. A more likely
scenario is that the committee will complete its work within a
week or two, and Netanyahu will name one of the three current
contenders as governor, he said.  All five candidates who have appeared before the vetting
panel have been men. Flug said in an interview in the daily
Yedioth Ahronoth this month that she may have been disqualified
because she is a woman. She announced after being passed over
the second time that she would leave the bank after the next
governor takes office.  An official in the prime minister’s office declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  