-- Jacobs to Pay $1.2 Billion for Engineer Sinclair Knight Merz
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-08T23:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/jacobs-to-pay-1-2-billion-for-engineer-sinclair-knight-merz.html
Jacobs Engineering Group will pay
A$1.3 billion ($1.2 billion) to buy Sinclair Knight Merz, or
SKM, an Australian engineer which is helping to develop an
 African iron ore mine  for Rio Tinto Group.  The deal will be complete by the end of December,  Pasadena ,
California-based Jacobs said in a regulatory statement
yesterday. Employee-owned SKM will hold shareholder votes on the
proposal in November or December, according to a  separate
statement  from the Sydney-based company.  Jacobs, the third-largest listed U.S. engineer, has been
trying to match the $16.7 billion  order book  it held at the end
of its 2008 financial year. The acquisition will give Jacobs
operations in Australia, Asia,  South America  and the U.K. with
revenue of about A$1.3 billion during 2012, according to the
statement, compared to Jacobs’ own $10.89 billion.  “Our capabilities and geographies have little overlap,”
Craig Martin, Jacobs president, said in a statement. The deal
will allow the combined group to “expand client relationships
and provide significant opportunities for employees.”  The deal is only the third proposed acquisition of an
Australian company worth more than $1 billion to be announced
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jacobs has worked on  projects  including a new wing at the
Art Institute of  Chicago  and light-rail systems in Houston, Salt
Lake City, and San Jose.  SKM also helped manage  public transport planning  for the
London 2012 Olympic Games and managed the building of new
 service stations  for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in Asia,  Africa , and
eastern Europe, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  