-- Japan Can Afford a Higher Sales Tax
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/japan-can-afford-a-higher-sales-tax.html
Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe,
is weighing a tough choice: whether to let an increase in the
national sales tax proceed as planned next spring or to postpone
it until the economy is stronger. With an announcement expected
soon and markets nervously awaiting the decision,  Haruhiko Kuroda , governor of the  Bank of Japan , last week lent his
 support  to the plan. The economy is strong enough, he said. He’s
right.  Admittedly, Japan’s economy still isn’t growing as quickly
as either man would wish. With Abe’s enthusiastic support, the
central bank radically changed monetary policy earlier this
year, adopting a  new inflation target  of 2 percent a year and an
aggressive program of bond-buying to back it up. Growth
accelerated immediately. Japan grew faster than any other
advanced economy in the first half of the year. Even so,
measured against the hopes that the policy shift had aroused,
the most recent figures were a bit of a letdown.  Output in the second quarter expanded by 2.6 percent at an
annual rate. That’s far better than Japan has been accustomed to
in recent years, but  hardly stunning . And nobody in Japan needs
reminding that it was a controversial  sales tax  increase in 1997
that helped to push the economy into recession and more than a
decade of further stagnation. Caution over tightening fiscal
policy too soon is understandable.  Legislation to raise the sales tax from 5 percent to 8
percent next April, then again to 10 percent in October 2015,
has long been in place. The goal is to halve Japan’s primary
budget deficit (that is, excluding interest payments) by 2015
and bring it into surplus by 2020. At some point, Japan will
have to act, because its fiscal position is beyond
unsustainable. Its total  public debt  is pushing 250 percent of
gross domestic product; even allowing for public holdings of
assets, the net debt stands at about 140 percent of GDP --
almost double the euro-area average.  Japan has been able to get away with this startling fiscal
laxity because its banks could be counted on to buy public debt
in great quantities, and foreign holdings of Japanese government
debt are relatively modest. But as the debts have mounted, so
have the economic costs. Even with very low  interest rates , debt
service is crowding out more productive kinds of public
spending. And financial markets know that, one way or another,
borrowing on the present scale can’t go on. That puts a heavy
burden of  financial uncertainty  on the economy.  Fiscal stimulus was necessary in the 1990s -- which is why
the earlier tax increase was a mistake. But debt has grown to
the point where high public borrowing is much less helpful, and
far more risky. Equally important, its new monetary policy gives
Japan a better way to encourage growth. Inflation is rising a
little, as intended, but at less than 1 percent it’s nowhere
near breaching the new target. There’s room for even more
quantitative easing, and Kuroda has said he’s willing to use it
if need be.  That’s the best approach. Killing deflation is the right
way to assure adequate growth of demand in  Japan . With monetary
policy correctly assigned to this task and the economy picking
up, gradual fiscal consolidation can start on schedule. Abe
should accept Kuroda’s advice and stick with the tax-increase
plan.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 