-- Cowboys Beat Giants 36-31 With Six Turnovers as Jets Win in NFL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-09T05:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/jets-beat-buccaneers-with-field-goal-patriots-squeeze-by-bills.html
The Dallas Cowboys took advantage of
six New York Giants turnovers in a 36-31 win against their
division rivals to cap the National Football League’s first full
day of regular-season play.  Tony Romo threw two touchdown passes to Jason Witten, Barry
Church scored on a 27-yard fumble return and Brandon Carr
returned an interception 49 yards for a touchdown in the final
two minutes last night as the Cowboys ended the Giants’ four-game winning streak at AT&T Stadium in Arlington,  Texas .  “You can’t win turning the football over, that’s the
bottom line,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin said.  Also yesterday, the New York Jets beat the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers 18-17 on a field goal with two seconds left that was
set up by a personal foul penalty, and the San Francisco 49ers
topped the Green Bay Packers 34-28 in an opening-week matchup of
2012 division winners.  Colin Kaepernick passed for a career-high 412 yards for the
49ers and was among six quarterbacks to surpass 350 yards
passing, a record for the first week of the NFL season.  Eli Manning passed for 450 yards and four touchdowns for
the Giants last night, yet had his first pass intercepted while
New York had turnovers on its first three possessions. Giants
running back David Wilson was benched after losing two fumbles,
including one that was returned for a touchdown.  The Giants, who trailed 27-10 in the third quarter, got
within 30-24 midway through the fourth quarter on Manning’s
third touchdown pass to Victor Cruz. New York reached midfield
with just over two minutes left when Manning’s short pass
glanced off the hand of backup running back Da’Rel Scott and
right to Carr, who raced to the end zone for a touchdown that
helped seal the Cowboys’ win.  Falling Short  “We battled, we slugged it out, somehow, someway we get
the game to 30-24, the ball’s at midfield, you’ve got to go win
the game,” Coughlin said. “That obviously was the play that
kept us from going down and scoring when we needed to score.”  The Chicago Bears pulled out a 24-21 win against the
Cincinnati Bengals in Marc Trestman’s NFL coaching debut. He was
the only first-time coach to win yesterday, as Buffalo’s Doug Marrone,  Arizona ’s Bruce Arians,  Cleveland ’s Rob Chudzinski and
Jacksonville’s Gus Bradley all lost.  The New England Patriots slipped past the Bills 23-21 on a
last-minute field goal, the St. Louis Rams topped the Cardinals
27-24 on a field goal with 40 seconds left, the Miami Dolphins
beat the Cleveland Browns 23-10, and Kansas City downed the
Jaguars 28-2 in Andy Reid’s first game as the Chiefs’ coach.  Kelly’s Debut  Reid’s replacement in Philadelphia, Chip Kelly, makes his
NFL coaching debut tonight as the Eagles visit the Washington
Redskins. Mike McCoy also will coach his first NFL game tonight
as the San Diego Chargers host the Houston Texans.  The New Orleans Saints beat the Atlanta Falcons 23-17 in
Sean Payton’s return as coach after a season-long suspension,
while the Seattle Seahawks rallied past the Carolina Panthers
12-7 on Russell Wilson’s 43-yard fourth-quarter touchdown pass
to Jermaine Kearse.  Matthew Stafford passed for 357 yards and two touchdowns as
the Detroit Lions overcame three touchdowns by Adrian Peterson
in a 34-24 win against the Minnesota Vikings. Peterson, the
NFL’s reigning Most Valuable Player, had a 78-yard touchdown run
on his first carry of the season, the longest such score since
the league’s merger with the American Football League in 1970.  Colts’ Comeback  The Indianapolis Colts topped the Oakland Raiders 21-17 as
quarterback Andrew Luck threw two touchdown passes and also ran
for a 19-yard go-ahead score with 5:20 left. Luck has led his
team to eight game-winning drives in the fourth quarter or
overtime since entering the league in 2012, the most by any
quarterback through his first 17 games since the merger.  Also yesterday, the Tennessee Titans beat the Pittsburgh
Steelers 16-9. In the opening game of the NFL regular season on
Sept. 5, Peyton Manning tied a league record with seven
touchdown passes as the Denver Broncos beat the defending Super
Bowl champion Baltimore Ravens 49-27.  Manning’s younger brother was done in by turnovers last
night, with two interceptions on the Giants’ first three
possessions. Romo returned from a rib injury to complete 36 of
49 passes for 263 yards for the Cowboys, who totaled 16
takeaways during the 2012 season.  “More than anything, we haven’t created as many turnovers
in the last few years as we’d like,” Romo said. “That’s been
our number one mantra since training camp.”  Anquan Boldin had 13 catches for 208 yards and a touchdown
in his debut for the 49ers after being acquired in an offseason
trade with the Ravens. Kaepernick also threw two touchdowns to
tight end Vernon Davis, while Frank Gore had a one-yard
touchdown run with just under six minutes remaining to give the
49ers the lead for good against the Packers.  The Jets beat the Buccaneers on a 48-yard field goal by
Nick Folk that came after Tampa Bay’s Lavonte David was flagged
for a 15-yard penalty for hitting New York rookie quarterback
Geno Smith as he ran out of bounds following a 10-yard run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  