-- Neiman Marcus to Be Bought by Ares, Canada Fund
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-09-09T16:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/neiman-marcus-said-to-be-near-6-billion-sale-to-ares.html
Neiman Marcus  Inc., the Dallas-based
luxury chain, agreed to sell itself to Ares Management LLC and
the  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board for $6 billion.  Ares and the pension fund will hold an equal economic
interest in Neiman, and the chain’s management will retain a
minority stake, the buyers said in a statement today. The deal
probably ends prospects for a Neiman initial public offering.  Neiman’s private-equity owners TPG Capital and Warburg
Pincus LLC paid about $5.1 billion for the Dallas-based retailer
in 2005. Neiman’s sales haven’t returned to the level seen
before the 2008 financial crisis as luxury shoppers have been
slow to return to stores.  “Neiman is an excellent brand and an excellent company,”
Michael Appel, founder of Appel Associates LLC, a retail
consultancy, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The question
is what can the buyers do with it? Hope springs eternal. Perhaps
they feel that their management and their ability to work with
companies will get them the return they are looking for.”  Revenue at Neiman rose 8.6 percent to $4.35 billion in the
fiscal year ended July 28 2012. The company runs 41 stores under
the same name across the U.S. and two Bergdorf Goodman
department stores on  New York  City’s Fifth Avenue.  Luxury spending in the Americas grew 5 percent on a
constant-currency basis in 2012, less than half the 13 percent
gain of the previous year, according to Bain & Co. estimates.  Second Deal  The Neiman sale is the second deal in the luxury retail
industry in recent months.  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC)  agreed to buy Saks
Inc. for $2.4 billion in July, combining Canada’s largest-department store chain with one of the most prestigious U.S.
luxury retailers in a deal that may spur the creation of a real
estate investment trust. The transaction, which brings together
the Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth Avenue brands, creates a
company that will operate 320 stores.  The deals come at time when the U.S. retail sector has
cooled as some consumers have switched their spending to bigger
items including cars, homes and home furnishings. The chains
that sell apparel and other discretionary goods have suffered,
including  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M) , which reported second-quarter sales that trailed analyst estimates.  “It is a difficult environment for luxury companies these
days because we’ve seen fewer foreign visitors and the domestic
shopper is cutting back because of the uncertain environment,”
Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a New York-based
retail consulting firm, said in a phone interview today.  Poor Climate  The poor climate may have persuaded Warburg and TPG to go
for an outright sale rather than an IPO, Appel said. Neiman
filed an IPO registration in June.  Neiman Marcus was founded in  Dallas  by Herbert Marcus, his
sister and her husband A.L. Neiman in 1907. Marcus bought out
the Neimans in 1928 and his son Stanley ran the stores from 1952
to 1979. Stanley’s son Richard then became chief executive until
1988, when he resigned, ending 81 years of family management of
the chain.  The chain is known for its Christmas catalog, which offers
such gifts as limited-edition McLaren cars for $354,000.  Chief Executive Officer Karen Katz has been working to spur
sales growth by introducing the chain’s Cusp contemporary
fashion concept into its namesake stores to attract younger
customers, opening an e-commerce site in  China , and rolling out
more Last Call outlets.  CEO Stays  Katz will remain CEO, Ginger Reeder, a spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. She didn’t provide details of the management minority
stake.  Los Angeles-based Ares has invested in Smart & Final Stores
Corp., Floor & Décor Outlets of America Inc., and 99 Cents Only
Stores, its website says.  Credit Suisse was Neiman’s financial adviser, while  RBC
Capital Markets  and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. represented
Ares and CPPIB. The three firms provided debt financing.
Neiman’s legal counsel was  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP .
Proskauer Rose LLP was transaction counsel and Latham & Watkins
LLP was finance counsel to the buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ; 