-- Nestle’s Brabeck Ponders L’Oreal Lift for Sagging Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-09-09T16:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/nestle-s-brabeck-ponders-l-oreal-lift-for-sagging-growth.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  is figuring out whether
 L’Oreal SA (OR)  is worth it.  Ahead of April’s expiry of restrictions on selling its 29.4
percent stake in the French cosmetics maker, Nestle has said it
is keeping all options open. That brings in the possibility of
raising the holding, according to Natixis analyst Pierre Tegner,
a scenario not envisaged by most analysts and investors.  For Nestle, increasing its stake in Paris-based L’Oreal
would create “the indisputable worldwide leader in consumer
staples,” Tegner said, and “would be a good way of leveraging
this very profitable investment.”  It would also enable Nestle to look beyond food and
beverages, where sales growth has slowed over the past year,
making the company’s long-term goals a push for 2013. L’Oreal
last month reported an estimate-beating 7.7 percent increase in
first-half earnings on stronger sales in  emerging markets .  While in the short-term the Nespresso maker probably won’t
increase the stake, “if their growth has slowed, and the push
into new areas does not work, then something like L’Oreal looks
better,” said  Martin Schulz , head of international equities at
PNC Capital Advisors and a Nestle investor since 1997.  Most analysts say Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle is more
likely to sell and exit about 22.4 billion euros ($29.5 billion)
richer or simply maintain the position since the holding today
generates about a 10th of its  net income . Nestle bought a stake
in L’Oreal in 1974 from the Bettencourt family, the billionaire
heirs of the cosmetics maker’s founder.  Stake Restrictions  L’Oreal shares fell 0.8 percent to 124.80 euros at the
close of trading in Paris today. Nestle dropped 0.7 percent to
60.90 francs in Zurich.  The question of whether to stick, twist or fold on L’Oreal
has taxed Nestle since 2000, when Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe was chief executive officer and proposed a stronger
push into cosmetics. The board deemed that too ambitious and
Brabeck decided instead to focus on nutrition and health,
according to the company’s official history.  The restrictions on Nestle’s stake -- imposed by a
shareholder  agreement  with the Bettencourt family -- have
gradually been expiring. Nestle can already sell its shares,
though it has to offer them first to the family, which owns 30.6
percent of L’Oreal. That preemption right expires April 29,
along with a provision forbidding alliances with third parties.  Takeover Obstacle  Still in effect will be an agreement barring Nestle from
acquiring more L’Oreal shares until six months after the death
of the daughter of L’Oreal founder  Eugene Schueller  and family
matriarch,  Liliane Bettencourt , who turns 91 in October. A court
in 2011 put Bettencourt under the care of her family, ruling she
was no longer mentally fit to manage her affairs.  Nestle’s first-half organic sales growth was its worst in
four years, hurt by price reductions in  Europe  and decelerating
expansion in emerging markets. The slowdown has made achieving 5
percent growth in 2013 a “stretch,” Chief Financial Officer
Wan Ling Martello said on an Aug. 8 conference call.  A deeper push into personal care would follow a path blazed
by peers  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Unilever (UNA) , which are benefiting
from faster growth in shampoos, deodorants and skin creams and
have sold billions in food assets over the past decade.  The global personal-care industry will grow 16 percent over
the next five years, versus 12 percent for packaged food,
according to data tracker Euromonitor. Boosting its stake in
L’Oreal could provide Nestle “an entree to a range of new
products,” Marcia Mogelonsky, an analyst in  New York  for market
researcher Mintel, said in an interview.  Gradual Sale?  Buying the family out now would cost 22.5 billion euros and
require lifting Nestle’s pledge not to buy more shares until
after Bettencourt dies. The shareholder agreement isn’t “etched
in tablets of stone,” according to Exane BNP Paribas analysts
Jeff Stent and Eamonn Ferry.  A buyout, though, may alienate shareholders as it “would
be against the wishes of virtually every investor that I speak
to,” said  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  A gradual sale of Nestle’s stake is more likely, the Exane
analysts said. The Bettencourt family remains committed to
L’Oreal and has no plans to sell its stake, the family said in a
statement Aug. 21. L’Oreal Chairman and CEO Jean-Paul Agon has
said he doesn’t see any synergies with Nestle.  Jenny Craig  Nestle has said it may sell underperforming units, though
it hasn’t disclosed which brands. Analysts say candidates for
divestment include PowerBar snacks, Jenny Craig diet centers and
some North American bottled water brands.  Nestle has little experience in beauty products besides two
joint ventures in skincare with the French cosmetics company,
which operates in 130 countries. In 2009, Brabeck said it
“could make sense to have L’Oreal as a strategic investment”
rather than simply holding the stock.  France  could also seek to block a foreign takeover of a
“national champion,” according to Exane. French lawmakers
voiced opposition to a potential buyout of Paris-based  Danone (BN)  in
2005 following reports that  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  was readying a bid.  “If yogurt is a strategically important industry in
France, we would suggest that L’Oreal Paris is akin to an
extension of the tourist board,” Stent and Ferry wrote. “The
only real choice for Nestle is one of either maintenance of the
status quo or a sale of the stake.”  Upon selling its stake, Nestle could use the cash on a big
food acquisition, said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec
Securities. “Why would Nestle want to enter personal care and
battle Unilever and P&G? I struggle with the idea.”  Brabeck, 68, who stepped down as CEO in 2008 when Nestle
agreed to sell a majority stake in contact-lens maker Alcon Inc.
to Novartis AG for about $39 billion, could entrench his legacy
at the company by settling the L’Oreal issue.  “Nestle moves slowly,” said  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at
 Liberum Capital . “But presumably Peter wants to tidy things up
before he steps down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  