-- Norway Set for Power Shift as Voters Embrace Conservatives
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-09-09T08:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/norway-set-for-power-shift-as-voters-embrace-conservative-policy.html
Norway ’s Conservatives are heading
for an election victory that would oust Prime MinisterJens Stoltenberg after eight years, as voters in Scandinavia’s
 richest nation  choose tax cuts over promises of more welfare.  Voters in the Nordic nation of 5.1 million cast their
ballots today, with a result expected after polling stations
close at 9 p.m. local time. The Labor-led government trails the
Conservative-led four-party opposition bloc by almost 15
percentage points, according to a weighted average of polls.  “There’s a tiredness of the current government and voters
would like to see new faces in positions of power,” Knut
Heidar, political science professor at the University of Oslo,
said by phone. “It’s pretty certain that we will have a change
of government.”  Just two years after being dubbed the “father of the
nation” for his handling of the July 22 twin terror attacks by
Anders Behring Breivik, Stoltenberg is headed for defeat as
Norwegians seek a new leader for  Europe ’s second-richest
economy. Conservative leader Erna Solberg has wooed voters with
promises of tax cuts and more investments in infrastructure as
well as a restructuring of the nation’s $750 billion sovereign
wealth fund. Her coalition partner, the Progress Party, has
vowed to spend more of the nation’s oil wealth.  Government Dynamic  The four-party opposition would get 98 of parliament’s 169
seats, in a weighted average of 26 opinion polls as of Sept. 9
by the website Pollofpolls.no. Stoltenberg’s three-party
coalition, which also includes the Socialist Left and the Center
Party, had 70 seats in the same polls. The surveys indicate that
Labor will remain the largest party with 29.2 percent support,
while the Conservatives are set to get 27.4 percent.  “Maybe a change will put Norway in a better position to
get social spending a little lower,” said Kjetil Ertnaes, a 53-year-old  management consultant , after voting today for the
Conservatives at  City Hall  in Oslo.  Solberg, 52, will need to form a government with the anti-immigration Progress Party, the smaller  Christian Democrats  and
the  Liberal Party . The parties have yet to decide who will be
part of the Conservative-led government and will need to
negotiate after the election if they win.  Opposition parties have been trying to carve out their own
policy corners by criticizing their allies, with the smaller
groups questioning the Progress Party’s economic and immigration
stance. The group, led by Siv Jensen, is an outlier in seeking
to spend more of Norway’s commodities wealth, rejecting a rule
that limits spending to 4 percent of the oil fund.  Common Platform  Online bookmaker Betsson last week paid out gamblers who
had bet on a victory for Solberg as the next prime minister.  “The difficulties of agreeing on a platform will be
severe,” Knut Anton Mork, chief economist at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, wrote in a client note. “They have been
unable to agree on even a minimal common platform before the
election.”  While Norway has weathered Europe’s economic crisis better
than most and registered unemployment remains below 3 percent,
the next premier will take power amid an economic slowdown.  Norway Better  Once a haven from Europe’s debt turmoil, the $500 billion
economy is now struggling to spur demand just as the rest of
Europe surfaces from half a decade of economic pain.  DNB ASA (DNB) ,
Norway’s largest bank, predicts the country will be the only
European nation of the 15 it tracks whose economic growth won’t
accelerate next year. Still, growth will exceed the average in
Europe, according to DNB estimates.  “Most things are better in Norway than in most other
countries, that’s why people are coming to Norway,” Stoltenberg
said in an interview with TV2 today. “We’re allowed to have
high demands in Norway and while a lot is going well, there are
always things that can go better.”  Solberg, a native of Bergen in western Norway, joined
parliament in 1989, just three years after finishing a degree in
sociology, political science, statistics and economics at the
University of Bergen. She took over as leader of the
Conservatives in 2004.  “There has never been such a clear decision by all parties
on the non-socialist side to form a coalition government after
an election,” Solberg said at a meeting with the Foreign Press
Association. “In the election campaign it has never been as
clear as today that an election result where the opposition wins
the majority will lead to a new government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  