-- To Ease Pakistan Violence, Turn on the Lights
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K u g e l m a n
-- 2013-09-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/to-ease-pakistan-violence-turn-on-the-lights.html
It has been a bloody few weeks in
 Pakistan , even by the country’s violent standards. Sectarian
extremists assaulted an open-air market. Separatist militants
executed bus passengers. Terrorists bombed a children’s soccer
game and a policeman’s funeral. A deadly jailbreak freed more
than 200 jihadis. And the nation’s capital went on lockdown
after rumors of impending high-profile attacks.  This unrelenting terror makes all the more striking a
recent  statement  by Khawaja Asif, Pakistan’s water and power
minister. Energy, he declared in an interview, is a greater
challenge than terrorism.  Asif’s statement is striking -- and spot-on. Militancy
grabs headlines internationally, and it’s undoubtedly of grave
concern. But Pakistan’s energy crisis directly affects many more
people than the Taliban. More than anything else -- corruption,
sectarianism, inadequate public services-- a lack of power is
destabilizing Pakistan, a nuclear-armed nation of 193 million
people.  Pakistanis -- including those in the militant-choked
northwest -- suffer as much as 20 hours of daily power outages.
Energy shortfalls have exceeded 40 percent of national demand
and cost the country 4 percent of  gross domestic product .
Hundreds of factories, including those in the dominant  textile
industry , have shut down, leaving scores unemployed. Hospitals
have had to curtail services, putting patients’ lives at risk.
Doctors report the crisis is increasing stress and depression.  Energy Insecurity  Militants have naturally exploited Pakistan’s energy
insecurity. In April, the Pakistani Taliban destroyed the
largest power station in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, the restive
province bordering Pakistan’s tribal belt. Half of  Peshawar , the
provincial capital, lost power. Power shortages have also
sparked violent protest among ordinary citizens. Rioters have
attacked utility offices,  law enforcement , banks, shops, and the
homes and offices of ruling and opposition party politicians.  The root cause of Pakistan’s power crisis is a
dysfunctional energy sector that even Asif, the power minister,
admits is a “nightmare.” With multiple ministries and agencies
responsible for energy matters and no clear lines of authority,
the policy-making process is wholly uncoordinated. Inefficiency
is rife; transmission and distribution losses have approached 30
percent. Finally, the sector is burdened by so much debt that
Pakistan literally can’t afford to provide energy.  These are big problems, and solving them will require big,
politically risky moves: expanding Pakistan’s  tax base , cracking
down on theft and restructuring the power sector. Encouragingly,
Pakistan’s new government has made energy its top priority, and
proposed a new national policy.  Unfortunately, some of its correctives could be as
destabilizing as the crisis itself. The new  energy policy  calls
for emphasizing cheaper, unexploited indigenous reserves. These
include coal in Thar, an impoverished desert region in Sindh
province. For decades, Pakistan has extracted natural gas from
another arid, poor, resource-rich region: Baluchistan. Over
time, the fruits of this extraction have largely eluded locals,
fueling an anti-government insurgency that blows up gas lines
and severs electricity wires.  If Pakistan targets Thar’s coal fields, the consequences
could be similarly explosive. Sindh is already embroiled in
natural resource disputes, as locals blame their province’s
water shortages on dams in upstream Punjab province. Islamabad’s
plans to expand generation capacity by building more dams could
drive up tensions between Pakistan’s fractious provinces.  This all has troubling implications for the U.S., which has
a strategic interest in a stable Pakistan. More unrest heightens
the operational challenges of the U.S. withdrawal from
 Afghanistan , which requires the use of Pakistani supply routes.  Mere Sliver  During his recent trip to Pakistan, Secretary of State  John Kerry  announced that U.S.-funded projects have added more than
1,200 megawatts of power to the national grid. This is a mere
sliver of Pakistan’s daily demand, which averages 15,000 MW. It
hardly makes up for the estimated 4,000 MW that would be
generated by a proposed  gas pipeline  with  Iran , which Washington
staunchly opposes. There’s only so much $1.5 billion in annual
economic assistance for Pakistan -- authorized by Congress
through next year -- can do.  Still, modest efforts are better than none at all -- and
now is the right time to pursue them. Relations with Islamabad
have softened, and a broad-based strategic dialogue, suspended
for several years, is expected to resume. Washington should use
this opportunity to supplement its financing of high-cost
generation projects (such as dams) with cheaper, smaller
projects that subsidize electricity costs for the urban poor.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration should also work
with Pakistan to establish a more welcoming environment for
American energy investors and entrepreneurs. A bilateral
investment treaty, now under negotiation, would be an excellent
start. This wouldn’t improve Pakistan’s security situation or
tax-to-GDP ratio, but it could strengthen intellectual property
rights. That would facilitate the entry of U.S. technology,
including solar-powered lanterns and electricity-independent
sterilization technology for medical equipment.  Finally, Washington should encourage more Pakistan-India
energy cooperation. The two countries have agreed to a deal that
will export electricity to Pakistan, and a joint working group
is considering further possibilities. Such cooperation can be
enhanced if, as expected, the two eventually normalize their
trade relationship.  None of these measures will end the blackouts. Yet we have
too often ignored the roots of instability in Pakistan. Any
efforts to address its power crisis can only benefit us all.  (Michael Kugelman is the senior program associate for  South
Asia  at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in
 Washington .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kugelman at  Michael.Kugelman@wilsoncenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 