-- Local Pleasures Make a Global Comeback
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-09-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/local-pleasures-make-a-global-comeback.html
Emerging one recent evening from a
theater in downtown Chatham,  Massachusetts , I felt again the
appeal of conservatism in the age of globalization. I stood on
this  Cape Cod  city’s Main Street, which is still dominated by
small, family-run businesses of the kind that originally
underpinned the strengths of both American democracy and
capitalism. The play I had just seen, “ Shakespeare in
Hollywood ,” takes a caustic look at the usually grisly fate of
literary classics in Hollywood in the 1930s through the German
director Max Reinhardt’s attempt to film “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” The actors were young drama students (with the
exception of the writer Bernard Cornwell, a longtime resident of
Chatham), reminding with their talent and energy how a play can
be more engrossing and stimulating than a movie.  The large audience, which seemed to know Shakespeare’s
subversive wit as well as it did the commercial imperatives of
Warner Brothers, had responded enthusiastically. Indeed their
keen intimacy with the play’s themes reminded me of spectators
at “Ramlila,” the popular North Indian  re-enactment  of the
life of Lord Rama. In both cases, viewers shared certain
cultural codes and references, participating in, and prolonging,
a tradition.  This was also how it had been for men and women in the past
who watched Elizabethan tragedy at  London ’s Globe Theatre or
sang Bach’s Chorales in Heidelberg,  Germany ’s churches. For
centuries, such communal gatherings had helped transmit ideas,
values and feelings from generation to generation.  Endangered Art  Standing outside Chatham’s  Monomoy Theatre , which had begun
hosting plays in the 1950s, the golden age of American drama, I
couldn’t avoid the feeling that I had witnessed a still
flourishing art form in an endangered habitat. The number of
downtown theaters in the U.S. has dramatically dwindled, from
20,000 to about 250. For the first time in decades, there was no
“Ramlila” last year near my village in India due to lack of
performers.  Much of this is, of course, blamed on the easy dominance of
the moving image, whether emanating from Hollywood or  Bollywood .
Worked harder than ever before, most people settle for pre-packaged entertainment in their leisure time. It is also true
that for the jaded wielders of remote controls there is much
more to choose these days, from Hollywood’s factory-processed
products to suave Scandinavian political thrillers (“The
Killing”) and bracing panoramas of inner-city breakdown (“The
Wire”). For the more culturally venturesome, there are  Turkish
soap operas  and startlingly good Brazilian and Iranian films --
all these offerings liberated from hermetic Film Club screenings
and summoned up on your iPad.  But this quick availability of books and movies, while
financially empowering for their makers, has come at a price.
The global is now a standard, against which all aspiration,
inevitably locally sourced, is to be judged. The actor in
regional theater is haunted by dreams of success on Broadway,
Hollywood and beyond. The writer of novels, even when blessed
with a loyal readership in his language, hankers for translation
into English, invitations to literary festivals in Patagonia,
and the final benediction by the  five wise men  of  Stockholm .  But those abandoning the unremunerative provincial for the
abstract space, or the jackpot, of the global are often obliged
to renounce the intricate web of shared experience and knowledge
that binds audiences at Chatham or a village “Ramlila”
together. Dramagoers around the world were often defeated -- I
certainly was -- by the heavy Scottish accents of the actors in
“Black Watch,”  Scotland ’s most successful and unexpected
theatrical export. But the primary and unself-conscious loyalty
to regional audiences that marked the films of Akira Kurosawa or
Satyajit Ray is missing in the many artworks that travel to
international metropolises today.  Global Trash  The local has been altered in the process of globalizing
itself, and not usually for the better: Bollywood’s films were
never as awful as when they were tailored for nonresident
Indians in the U.S. and  Europe . The awareness of a global
audience has subtly distorted the work of, among others, the
talented Hong Kong film director Wong Kar-wai. BBC television
dramas that play up their exotic Englishness -- “Downton
Abbey” is particularly cringe-making in this regard -- have an
eye on the large U.S. market.  That said, it is too early to write off the local. One
could even argue that we are experiencing a return to it, in
culture as well as politics. I was surprised to find an
overwhelmingly young and riveted audience at a performance in
Taipei of  Taiwan ’s indigenous opera. Last year, the crowds at
“Ramlila” in Shimla, the capital city near me, were bigger
than ever; presumably many of them came from now defunct smaller
venues. Dastangoi, the oral tradition of storytelling in Urdu,
has experienced a mini-revival, following the worldwide success
of the Sufi  devotional music  known as qawwali.  Bollywood has a new generation of indie filmmakers, whose
engagement with the real texture of Indian life may yet rescue
the prolific industry from mediocrity. Mumbai’s  Prithvi Theatre ,
which has nurtured many of the country’s acting talents, remains
as vibrant as ever. Even theater in Indian languages, such as
Marathi, is making a comeback.  Demographic and political shifts are partly responsible for
this: The immigrant in Mumbai from  India ’s coastal Konkan region
wants an art form that addresses him directly. So do the
Scottish, who also seek political distance from London, or, for
that matter, the tony youth of Taipei who are not ready yet to
embrace their philistine big brother across the  Taiwan Strait .  Liberal arts education in the U.S. may continue to steep
many people in the older arts, and ensure a significant enough
number of patrons and performers for small-town theaters like
Monomoy. Certainly, the currency of the global, so relentlessly
imposed upon us in recent years, has suffered some depreciation.
Things, you knew, had gotten bad when the word “cosmopolitan,”
the name of the preferred cocktail of the ladies of “Sex and
the City,” became the most commonly deployed adjective in the
Times of India’s matrimonial ads. More people now suspect, after
a series of crises, that the extensive flattening of the world,
the thoroughgoing remaking of many societies, which was often
justified by a rhetoric of endless and universal progress,
benefited only a tiny minority.  Rootless Pleasures  A transnational elite embellished its pleasures of rootless
cosmopolitanism, and made exaggerated claims for cultural and
intellectual as well as economic globalization. “Some claim,”
says a character in “The Brothers Karamazov,” “that the world
is gradually becoming united, that it will grow into a brotherly
community as distances shrink and ideas are transmitted through
the air. Alas, you must not believe that men can be united in
this way.” Dostoevsky registered his skepticism in 1880. We
know now that it was well-founded. Despite the quantum increase
in the connectedness of societies, the local remains the primary
reality for most people, the place where they first know a
shared sense of community, identity and culture. It is this
experience of meaningfulness that has produced the world’s most
enduring art; its preservation is what makes attractive, even
necessary, a principled conservatism in our time.  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ” and a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 