-- Tokyo Celebrates 2020 Olympic Host Role, With a Few Reservations
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-09-08T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/tokyo-celebrates-2020-olympic-host-role-with-a-few-reservations.html
Screams of joy and clouds of
confetti filled the air at Tokyo’s Komazawa Olympic Park early
yesterday as Japan’s capital won the host role for the 2020
Summer Games, its second staging of sports’ biggest global
event.  “Wow!” Masayoshi Shibuya, 27, said at the park. “It’s
pretty exciting that it’ll be held in Tokyo. I play basketball,
but for the  Olympic Games  I want to watch something you don’t
often get to see, like the long jump.”  Tokyo out-polled Istanbul 60-36 in a runoff vote among
members of the International Olympic Committee meeting in  Buenos
Aires  over the weekend.  Madrid  was eliminated in the first round
of voting after tying for second place with the Turkish city.  Enthusiasm among the city’s 13 million residents swelled
this year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe led a government push to
sell the Olympics as an engine for  growth  and recovery from
2011’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster. While public
apathy derailed an attempt to host the 2016 Games, a survey in
March showed 70 percent of Tokyo’s population supporting the
2020 bid.  “I expect this to bring a ‘fair wind’ to  Japan ’s economy
and growth,” Abe said on Fuji Television after Tokyo’s victory
was announced.  For Kazuyoshi Shimamura, 63, the news that Tokyo won the
bid brought a smile and a memory of the  1964  Summer Olympics .  “I was a Boy Scout back then, and had the opportunity to
raise a national flag for one of the events. I can’t remember
which it was now. I still have the memorial medallion I
received.”  Fukushima Concern  While Japan was able to soothe concern among IOC members
that radiation from the wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant might
endanger athletes and spectators, leaks of contaminated water
and slow progress in fully containing the reactor meltdowns
remain an issue for some.  “I’m excited, but also worried that the problems at
Fukushima may be forgotten,” Misato Suzuki, 35, said yesterday.
“You don’t really see that much progress is being made, so
maybe this will bring more pressure from outside for faster
action.”  Miyuki Taniguchi, 49, said she was born in the Olympic year
of 1964 and is happy at the prospect of being able to see the
Games in Tokyo. “I was anxious about Tokyo’s chance to win,
given the nuclear issues,” she said.  The 2020 Olympics will mark Japan’s fourth time as host,
after the Tokyo Summer Games in 1964 and the  Winter Games  in
Sapporo in 1972 and Nagano in 1998.  “I threw my arms in the air in celebration,” said
Yoshifumi Kuwamura, 68, a resident of Hiroshima, in Tokyo
yesterday for sightseeing. “This could provide an  economic
boost . I’m looking forward to Japan winning gold medals in
swimming and gymnastics.”  For Ryota Kawano, an 11-year-old in the park to play
soccer, the Games aren’t a big deal, mostly.  “I don’t really see the point,” he said. “You need to
pay to go and watch, right? I’d rather watch on TV at home with
my friends. But, yeah, I’d like to see the soccer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  