-- Osborne Backs Carney’s Forward Guidance Plan as Yields Increase
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-09T10:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/osborne-to-say-tighter-market-conditions-may-curb-u-k-recovery.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said that a tightening of market conditions too
quickly could impede the economic recovery as he backed  Mark Carney ’s signature forward-guidance policy.  “These are still the early stages of  recovery,”  Osborne
said today in London, according to extracts of a speech released
by the Treasury. “Avoiding an unintentional and premature
tightening of financial conditions,” while “staying the course
with our deficit-reduction plan” will help counter domestic
risks to growth, he said.  Osborne’s comments come a month after  Bank of England 
Governor Carney introduced forward guidance and signaled
 interest rates  won’t rise before late 2016. While investors are
betting that rates will increase before then, the chancellor
said the BOE’s message is getting through to consumers and
executives and will help strengthen confidence.  “Some have interpreted more recent increases in gilt
yields as a sign that forward guidance has somehow failed, but
that is, I believe, a misunderstanding,” Osborne said. Recent
market movements “vindicate the need for guidance: the
counterfactual would have been even bigger increases in yields
in response to positive economic data.”  U.K. gilts declined today, pushing the 10-year yield up 2
basis points to 2.96 percent, close to the highest since 2011.  Short-sterling futures have dropped in the past month,
indicating investors are adding to bets on higher  interest
rates . The implied yield on the March 2015 contract has risen
about 32 basis points to 1.13 percent in that period.  ‘Tough Choices’  While Osborne said the economy “has turned a corner,” he
cautioned that abandoning his austerity plans “would be
disastrous.” He also said his decision to press on with
spending cuts has been vindicated and that “tough choices”
will be needed to lower the  budget deficit  even after the 2015
election.  The economy grew 0.7 percent in the second quarter, and
 surveys  last week showed services expanded the most since 2006
in August and manufacturing accelerated to a 2 1/2-year high.  Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said in an
interview with the Sunday Times newspaper yesterday that
consumer and business confidence numbers were “quite striking”
and that guidance has helped convince businesses and households
of the bank’s plans.  “The evidence suggests tentative signs of a balanced,
broad-based and sustainable recovery, but we cannot take this
for granted,” the chancellor said. “Plenty of risks remain,
and more years of hard decisions lie ahead.”  Osborne also said euro-area turmoil has abated, though he
highlighted the possibility of further turbulence. He noted the
slowdown in emerging-market economies and the risk that
instability in the  Middle East  will push up  oil prices .  He also sought to counter criticism that his housing
policies, describing his Help-to-Buy program as a “sensible,
time-limited and necessary financial intervention.” The
 International Monetary Fund  warned that the program, which
follows the BOE-run Funding for Lending Scheme, may stoke  home
prices .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  