-- Most Read on Bloomberg in August: JPMorgan, FOMC, Brevan Howard
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-09-08T04:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/most-read-on-bloomberg-in-august-jpmorgan-fomc-brevan-howard.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports for August.  STORIES  1. JPMorgan Bribery Probe Said to Expand as Spreadsheet Found  Aug. 29 (Bloomberg) -- A probe of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
hiring practices in China has uncovered red flags across  Asia ,
including an internal spreadsheet that linked appointments to
specific deals pursued by the bank, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  2. FOMC Minutes Highlight Bernanke’s Taper Plan Has Broad
Support  Aug. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve policy makers
considering when to reduce bond buying were “broadly
comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper this
year if the economy strengthens, with a few saying a reduction
may be needed soon, minutes of their last meeting show.  3. Brevan Howard Traders Said to Depart as Fund Posts Loss in
June  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Two Brevan Howard Asset Management
LLP credit traders left in recent weeks, as the firm scales back
after its biggest hedge fund had the worst monthly loss since
2008 in June, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  4. Repo Market Decline Raises Alarm as Regulation Strains Debt  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Regulations aimed at reducing the
risk of another financial crisis are starting to upend a key
part of the  bond market  that expedites trading in everything
from Treasuries to  junk bonds .  5. Ex-JPMorgan Trader Released, Saying He Opposes U.S.
Extradition  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- Former JPMorgan Chase & Co. trader
Javier Martin-Artajo was released from police custody after
telling a Madrid court he opposed attempts by U.S. prosecutors
to extradite him on charges he hid trading losses that cost the
bank $6.2 billion.  6. Currency Spikes at 4 P.M. in London Provide Rate-Rigging
Clues  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- In the space of 20 minutes on the
last Friday in June, the value of the  U.S. dollar  jumped 0.57
percent against its Canadian counterpart, the biggest move in a
month. Within an hour, two-thirds of that gain had melted away.  7. Stocks Fall as Oil Reaches 18-Month High on  Syria , Gold
Rallies  Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks slid the most since June and
oil surged to an 18-month high amid concern the U.S. will take
military action against Syria. Treasuries, the yen and gold rose
while Turkey’s lira and India’s rupee reached record lows.  8. Bond Salesman Who Wasn’t Reveals RBS Human Error at Many
Levels  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- KK Ho appeared out of nowhere last
year on the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s London trading
floor.  9. Tourre’s Junior Employee Defense May Have Led to Trial Loss  Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) --  Fabrice Tourre , the former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. vice president found liable for his role in a
failed $1 billion investment, may have lost his case because
jurors rejected his defense that as a junior employee he wasn’t
primarily responsible for the transaction.  10. Brothels in Nevada Suffering as Internet Disrupts Oldest
Trade  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- In a dim parlor furnished with red
velvet couches and a stripper pole, Brooke Taylor is having a
sale on herself.  COLUMNS  1. Warning to Americans: Be Afraid, Very Afraid:  Jeffrey
Goldberg   Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- It seems as if al-Qaeda, or its
Arabian Peninsula branch, has succeeded in terrorizing the
 United States of America  again, but this time without -- as of
this writing -– detonating an ounce of C4.  2. If You Think Europe Is Fine, Take a Look at Italy:  Simon
Johnson   Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- It has become fashionable not to
worry about Europe and the euro area. This complacency has a
serious flaw: Italy.  3. Krugman’s Attempt to Bury Friedman Buries Itself: Caroline
Baum  Aug. 15 (Bloomberg) -- It’s good that  Milton Friedman  is
dead, because for the past week  Paul Krugman  has been trying to
kill him off and discredit his monetarist theories.  4. Love Your Job? Thank the Country Where You Live: Edmund
Phelps  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- It is widely assumed that people in
economically “advanced” countries do not differ significantly
in how satisfied they are with their jobs. Because they are
about equally productive, the reasoning is, they must produce
things the same way, and so their work experience must be the
same, too.  5. All  Miami Dolphins  Should Have Gone to See Obama:  Stephen
Carter   Aug. 22 (Bloomberg) -- In 1903, President  Theodore
Roosevelt  invited naturalist John Muir, founder of the  Sierra
Club , to be his guide for his famous camping trip through
Yosemite National Park. Muir was about to decline when a friend
warned him that one must always accept the president’s
invitation. Muir was offended by this notion, because it seemed
to treat the president like a king. In the end, Muir decided to
make the journey after all: “I suppose I shouldn’t refuse just
because he happens to be president,” he said.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says Economy to Stabilize, Recover at Slow Pace  Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  speaks at a news conference in Frankfurt about the
decision to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent for a third month.  2. Greenwich Stilt Houses Portend Impact of New Flood Maps  Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Some homeowners in Greenwich,
Connecticut, are raising their houses on stilts after the U.S.
government issued new flood insurance maps in the wake of
 Hurricane Sandy .  3. Nevada Brothels Squeezed by Recession, Web Prostitutes  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- Nevada brothel owners and sex
workers talk with Bloomberg’s Alison Vekshin about the impact of
the U.S. recession on their business and the growing use of the
Internet to arrange liaisons with prostitutes.  4. BMW’s $115,000 M6 Gran Coupe Unites Beauty and Power  Aug. 15 (Bloomberg) -- The 2014 BMW M6 Gran Coupe is seen
in a promotional video from BMW of North America LLC.  5. Abandoned Dogs Roam Detroit’s Streets as Humans Dwindle  Aug. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Thousands of stray dogs roam the
streets and vacant homes of bankrupt Detroit, replacing
residents, menacing people who remain and overwhelming the
city’s ability to find them homes or peaceful deaths.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  