-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Microsoft-Nokia, Oil, Brenneman, Hiring
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-09-08T04:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/most-read-on-bloomberg-microsoft-nokia-oil-brenneman-hiring.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Microsoft Will Buy Nokia’s Handset Business for $7.2 Billion  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Microsoft Corp. is spending 5.44
billion euros ($7.2 billion) to buy  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset unit so
it can gain ground on Apple Inc. and Google Inc. in a smartphone
market it let get away -- gaining a possible new chief executive
officer in the process.  2. Oil Advances on Syria as Stocks Rise, Treasuries Drop on
Economy  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Crude oil and gold advanced amid
concern America is moving closer to striking Syria, while U.S.
stocks rose and Treasuries retreated for a second day as a
report showed faster-than-forecast growth in manufacturing.  3. David Brenneman, Morgan Stanley Equity Risk Manager, Dies  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- David Brenneman, a Harvard-trained
lawyer who crossed into finance and was an executive director in
equity risk management at Morgan Stanley, has died. He was 37.  4. Jobs Gain Less Than Forecast as U.S. Workers Drop Out:
Economy  Sept. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Payrolls in the U.S. climbed less
than projected in August and gains for the prior two months were
revised down, pointing to an expansion that’s struggling to gain
momentum.  5. Erdoes Managing Money Since 6 Proves JPMorgan Trillions No
Fluke  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Mary Callahan
Erdoes got her first assignment managing money when she was 6
years old. The eldest of four children, Erdoes showed an early
aptitude for math that was fostered at her grandmother Kay’s
suburban Chicago breakfast table, where she helped balance her
grandparents’ checkbook on an adding machine.  6. How 37-Year-Old Teacher Imperils Pimco’s Bond Bet:  Mexico 
Credit  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- For Pedro Hernandez, a striking
elementary-school teacher from the southern state of Oaxaca, his
union’s protests disrupting Mexico’s capital aren’t just about
education. They’re about stopping President Enrique Pena Nieto.  7. Pimco Total Return Loses 14% of Assets Amid Four-Month Rout  Sept. 4 (Bloomberg) -- The world’s biggest mutual fund
keeps getting smaller.  8. U.S. Stocks Gain While Middle-East Shares Slump, Metals
Decline  Sept. 4 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks rose for a second day,
led by chipmakers and automobile companies, and Treasuries fell
as the Federal Reserve said the economy maintained a “modest to
moderate” pace of growth. Shares in the Middle East sank as the
U.S. moved closer to a military strike against  Syria .  9. Obama Gets Boehner’s Support for Military Strike on Syria  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- President Barack Obama urged
Congress to take a “prompt” vote authorizing military action
against Syria and won support from the two top House Republicans
even as two polls found opposition from the American public.  10. Treasuries, Gold Rise on Fed Bets as Oil Gains on Syria
Concerns  Sept. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Treasury yields slid, the dollar
sank and gold rose as slower-than-forecast jobs growth eased
concern the Federal Reserve will cut stimulus. Oil jumped to the
highest since May 2011 and U.S. stocks erased gains amid tension
between American and  Russia  over Syria’s civil war.  COLUMNS  1. Why Not Make Everyone Rich With $50 Minimum Wage?: Caroline
Baum  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Last week, fast-food workers staged
a one-day strike in 60 U.S. cities to demand a minimum wage of
$15 an hour, more than double the current federal minimum of
$7.25. The nationwide effort, “Fight for 15,” was organized by
the Service Employees International Union.  2. Why Do We Even Care About Chemical Weapons in Syria?: Ezra
Klein  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- The United Nations estimates that
more than 100,000 Syrians have died since the country’s civil
war began in March 2011. More die every day. But the U.S. is not
considering military action to save them.  3. Samsung’s Galaxy Mega Is a Lumbering Giant:  Rich Jaroslovsky   Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- The most common reaction to
Samsung’s new Galaxy Mega smartphone may be: You’ve got to be
kidding.  4. Wall Street Pay Is a Model of Clarity? No Kidding: Jonathan
Weil  Sept. 6 (Bloomberg) -- If you want to know how much money a
U.S. company’s top five executives make, there is lots of
information to be found. As for total employee pay? Not so much.  5. Popular Misconceptions About Quantitative Easing: Joseph
Gagnon  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- To combat the recession that began
in 2007, the Federal Reserve and some other central banks have
been buying large amounts of long-term bonds. The novelty of
this quantitative easing makes the policy especially prone to
popular misconceptions.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says Confidence Indicators Confirm Better Growth  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi speaks at a news conference in  Frankfurt  about the
decision to keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged at a
record low of 0.5 percent for the fourth month. (This is
Draghi’s statement only. Source: European Central Bank)  2. Erdoes a ‘Force’ in Asset Management: Bloomberg Markets  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s Dawn Kopecki talks about
her profile of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset management’s chief
executive Mary Erdoes as part of Bloomberg Markets “50 Most
Influential” list featured in the magazine’s October issue.  3. Obama Says He Was Elected to ‘End Wars, Not Start Them’  Sept. 6 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. President  Barack Obama  speaks
about the debate over whether military action against Syria is
warranted.  He spoke at a news conference at the close of the meeting
of Group of 20 leaders in St. Petersburg, Russia.  4. World’s Biggest Ship: The $185 Million Maersk Triple-E  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- On a dry-dock in South Korea Maersk
is building the world’s biggest ship. A container vessel, it
will ply the route between Northern Europe and  China . It is
called the Triple-E and the Danish shipbuilder has ordered 20 of
them, at a cost of $185 million each.  5. Davis ‘Seriously’ Considering Run for Texas Governor  Sept. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Texas state Senator Wendy Davis, a
Democrat, speaks about the possibility that she may run for
governor of the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  