-- Pakistan’s President Zardari Steps Down as His Party Founders
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-09-08T11:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/pakistan-s-president-zardari-steps-down-as-his-party-founders.html
Asif Ali Zardari stepped down as
Pakistan’s president and plans to rejuvenate his party after it
was voted out of power in May’s general elections.  Mamnoon Hussain of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-N
replaces Zardari, whose Pakistan Peoples Party’s strength was
reduced to a third in parliament in the May 11 polls. Prime
Minister  Nawaz Sharif  won a record third term. Zardari’s
departure today was announced by state-run Pakistan Television.  Zardari planned to focus on reorganizing his party after
stepping down, the  Hindustan Times  cited him as saying this
month. The Peoples Party led the ruling coalition following a
victory in 2008 after its leader and former prime minister,
 Benazir Bhutto , was assassinated at an election rally. Zardari,
Bhutto’s widower, took over the party leadership.  “The Peoples Party had the worst showing in the election
in its history,” said Ahmed Bilal Mehboob, chief executive of
Pildat, an Islamabad-based research group. “The biggest
challenge will be to recover from that shock. If Zardari is
going to be an active political player, that is very good news
for the party.”  Zardari became president after former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  was forced to resign in 2008. While the constitutional
changes in 2010 removed presidential powers amassed by Musharraf
to dismiss the prime minister and appoint military leaders,
Zardari remained a key player in Pakistani politics as head of
the party that led the last ruling coalition.  In spite of leading the first administration to complete
its full term in the country’s history, Zardari’s popularity
faded amid a slide in the $231 billion economy, with growth
falling to an  average  3 percent.  Power Cuts  Power cuts as long as 18 hours a day shut factories and
terrorism deterred investment. The growth rate was less than
half the annual pace of the previous five years.  Ties with the U.S.,  Pakistan ’s largest aid donor, weakened
amid the war on terrorism, and clashes at home with the
judiciary -- one over corruption allegations against Zardari in
Swiss courts -- also distracted him from focusing on domestic
issues.  At a Sept. 5 farewell reception, hosted by Sharif, who
alternated two terms as prime minister with Bhutto’s Peoples
Party in the 1990s, Zardari struck a conciliatory tone. “We are
with you prime minister. We will strengthen your government for
the next five years,” he said.  Loyalist President  The president-elect, Hussain, who was born in the Indian
city of Agra prior to the partition of the subcontinent at the
end of British colonial rule, is a former governor of Sindh
province. He joined the Muslim League in 1969 and runs a
textiles business in Karachi, the  News daily  reported July 26,
calling him a “low profile” politician.  Sharif’s victory in May 11 parliamentary polls kicked off a
year of transition in Pakistan. General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani’s
three-year term as army chief ends in November, while Chief
Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry will complete his period in office in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  