-- Reinvention Time for Australia’s Abbott
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-08T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/reinvention-time-for-australia-s-abbott.html
If ever an election was lost not
won, it was the weekend’s  vote  in Australia. Exhausted by the
 Labor Party ’s feuding, the country ditched  Kevin Rudd ’s
government and elected the Liberal-National coalition led by
 Tony Abbott . The new prime minister, once seen as gaffe-prone
and unelectable, has said he’ll grow into the role. He’d better,
or it won’t be long before Australia regrets its choice.  To call the coalition’s platform weak would be generous.
Mostly, it was empty -- and its few specific ideas were notable
for being bad ones.  Abbott has promised to scrap Australia’s carbon-pricing
program, rejecting the best approach to dealing with  climate
change . He’s also said he’ll scrap the mining tax, without
saying what will replace it. And he’s promised six months’ paid
maternity leave at taxpayers’ expense -- while calling himself a
fiscal conservative.  In truth, Abbott campaigned as the worst sort of populist
conservative, bolstering his stance with a pledge to get tough
on asylum seekers. His coalition is offering no alternative to
carbon pricing, but merely denounces it as an unpopular measure.
The maternity-leave proposal is even more nakedly political.
 Julia Gillard , who ousted Rudd as prime minister in 2010 only to
be replaced by Rudd in another Labor Party leadership contest in
June, relentlessly attacked Abbott for  his misogyny . To deflect
this charge, Abbott committed himself to the costly new
entitlement.  During the campaign, neither party had much to say about
the real challenges facing the country -- namely, adapting more
intelligently to Australia’s  economic dependence  on China and
boosting the country’s productivity growth.  China’s long surge has been the key to Australia’s 22
uninterrupted years of  economic growth . Booming exports of
natural resources, especially coal, fueled the expanding
economy, keeping employment high and throwing off  tax revenue 
that let successive governments raise spending without
borrowing. Thanks to  China , Australia came through the global
crash unscathed.  With  China’s growth fading , Australia has to adjust -- and
an uncharacteristically anxious country knows it. The fruits of
the resources boom would have been better invested in a national
fund to provide income in later years, but that wasn’t done.
With the tax base under threat, other taxes and cuts in public
spending will have to bear the burden. At the same time,
employment and investment have to shift from mining into new
high-productivity export businesses. Far from advancing such a
program, Abbott’s proposals on carbon pricing and entitlements
set things back.  Abbott is an easy man to underestimate: Rudd and Labor
certainly made that mistake. The new prime minister is smart,
and a serial self-reinventor: Rhodes scholar, priest-in-training, industrial manager, journalist, politician. In the
past he’s been clumsy and belligerent. However irresponsible,
though, his campaign was disciplined and effective, and his
critics aren’t laughing now.  To be a good prime minister, Abbott will need to reinvent
himself again -- drop the cheap populism, become the fiscal
conservative he says he is, and lift his attention from short-term tactics to  Australia ’s real challenges.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 