-- Retail Sales Probably Rose at Faster Pace: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-09-08T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/retail-sales-probably-rose-at-faster-pace-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales probably rose at a
faster pace in August as Americans bought more cars and trucks,
a sign spending will help sustain economic growth in the second
half of the year, economists said before a report this week.  Purchases (RSTAMOM)  climbed 0.4 percent after a 0.2 percent advance
in July, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before Commerce Department figures on Sept. 13.
Other figures this week may show a pickup in August producer
prices and little change in consumer optimism this month.  Industry data showing the strongest pace of vehicle sales
since 2007 indicate job and wage gains, along with improvement
in household wealth, are giving consumers the wherewithal to
spend. The retail report is one of the last pieces of data
before next week’s  Federal Reserve  meeting as policy makers
consider whether to dial back record monetary stimulus.  “There’s some momentum here,” said  Chris Christopher , a
U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “Wage increases, even though they’re anemic, are
outpacing price increases as long as those  gas prices  stay down.
That gives consumers a little bit of spending power.”  Employment growth may need to pick up to provide a bigger
boost to  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy. Payrolls grew by 169,000 last month, less than
projected, and gains for the prior two months were revised down,
figures from the Labor Department showed last week. Unemployment
fell to  7.3 percent , the lowest since December 2008, as workers
left the  labor force .  “These are not the type of payroll numbers that will make
people go out and spend like crazy,” Christopher said.  The data also showed average hourly earnings climbed 2.2
percent in the 12 months ended in August, the biggest gain since
July 2011.  Fed Meeting  Fed officials, who meet Sept. 17-18, are debating when to
begin scaling back $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, which
they’ve pledged to continue until the job market shows
substantial improvement. The central bank’s stimulus has helped
drive a global equity rally, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rising 16 percent this year.  Last week’s employment report was “worrisome” and may
give the Fed incentive to delay tapering its pace of asset
purchases, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in  New York .  “Growth has already been fairly disappointing this year
and yet hiring had held up fairly well,” she said. “That
tension seems to be being resolved with slower hiring.”  Cars and light trucks continue to be a bright spot in the
economy, selling in August at the fastest annualized rate since
November 2007, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.
Sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Toyota Motor Corp.
and Honda Motor Co. all exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Minus Autos  The Commerce Department’s retail report may show sales
excluding auto dealers climbed 0.3 percent in August after a 0.5
percent gain a month earlier. Industry reports showed some
merchants struggled to attract customers. Retailers from Macy’s
Inc. to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. missed second-quarter sales
estimates.  Americans’ confidence was restrained in September as
concern mounted about a U.S. military strike against  Syria ,
which also pushed up prices at the gas pump. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary measure of
 sentiment  for this month is forecast at 82 after a final reading
of 82.1 in August, according the Bloomberg survey median before
the Sept. 13 report.  The same day, the Labor Department may report prices paid
to producers climbed 0.2 percent in August after no change a
month earlier. The core measure, which excludes volatile food
and energy costs, increased 0.1 percent for a second month, the
Bloomberg survey showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  