-- Scottish Voters Are Unaware of Powers of Parliament, Poll Shows
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/scottish-voters-are-unaware-of-powers-of-parliament-poll-shows.html
Only one in seven Scottish voters
have a “very good” idea about the powers of the Scottish
Parliament set up in 1999 with two in five having “very
little” idea of its duties, showed a poll published today.  The poll, commissioned by billionaire U.K. lawmaker and
businessman Michael Ashcroft, said that people who support the
governing  Scottish National Party  are better informed than
voters backing other political parties. Men also have a greater
understanding than women of the powers of the semi-autonomous
legislature, the poll showed.  The Parliament, based in the capital Edinburgh, legislates
on transport, health, justice, education and social affairs
while the U.K. parliament in  London  controls broader economic
policy as well as defense, foreign affairs and welfare.  Voters want the government to focus most on the economy and
jobs rather than on seeking independence for  Scotland  from the
rest of the U.K., according to the poll of 1,013 people
conducted between Aug. 2 and Aug. 9. Independence is the SNP’s
flagship policy and a referendum will be held on Sept. 18 next
year.  A separate poll of 10,007 voters conducted between February
and May showed 65 percent opposed to independence and 26 percent
in favor, Ashcroft said. A poll of 3,090 Scots Ashcroft
undertook in January showed 61 percent wanting to stay in the
U.K. with 39 percent opting to leave.  Still, the SNP would win an election to the Parliament
ahead of Labour, according to a third survey of 1,000 adults
carried out in June by Ashcroft.  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  has the highest
positive rating of any of the four main party leaders as well as
the highest negative rating. Johann Lamont, who heads the main
opposition  Labour Party , is the only leader with a net positive
rating.  The polls didn’t specify a margin of error.  NI POL
NI GOV
NI SCOTS
NI UK
NI POLLS
NI GEN
NI ELECT  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  