-- Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull Wins Italian F-1 Grand Prix
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-08T15:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/sebastian-vettel-of-red-bull-wins-italian-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull won the
Italian Grand Prix today to extend his lead in the Formula One
drivers’ standings.  Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  was second at Monza, 5.5 seconds
behind in his team’s home grand prix, and Red Bull’s  Mark Webber 
was third after the 53 laps.  It was Vettel’s sixth win from 12 races so far this season,
the 32nd victory of his career and his third at Monza. The 26-year-old German is seeking a fourth consecutive Formula One
drivers’ title.  Vettel, starting from pole position, controlled the race
throughout and never looked in danger. Alonso, fifth on the
grid, quickly moved up to second as teammate  Felipe Massa  let
him past, and maintained his grip on that position.  “Great job by the whole team today,” Vettel said at the
post-race ceremony, amid booing from thousands of Ferrari fans
massed on the track in front of the presentation stage. “The
car’s been absolutely fantastic. For me it’s great to win here
and to see all the fans. I’m very proud to be up here.”  Webber overcame gearbox problems to get a first-ever podium
position at Monza in his last race there before he retires from
Formula One at the end of the season.  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes, who’d been looking for a fifth
straight pole, could only start 12th after a poor performance in
qualifying. He battled up the field after a slow puncture and
problems with his team radio sent him as low as 19th, and
finished ninth.  ‘Difficult Weekend’  “It was a difficult weekend,” Hamilton told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “I’m ninth and we should have been much
further ahead. I’m very disappointed, I blew it in qualifying.
Overall a disaster of a weekend.”  Massa was fourth, ahead of Sauber’s  Nico Hulkenberg ,
Mercedes’s Nico Rosberg, Daniel Ricciardo of Toro Rosso and
 Romain Grosjean  of Lotus. Hamilton and McLaren’s  Jenson Button 
rounded out the 10 scoring positions.  Vettel extended his lead in the standings to 53 points. He
has 222, followed by Alonso (169), Hamilton (141),  Kimi
Raikkonen  of Lotus (134) and Webber (130). Red Bull leads the
constructors’ standings on 352, ahead of Ferrari (248), Mercedes
(245), Lotus (191) and McLaren (66).  The next event on the 19-race calendar is the Singapore
Grand Prix on Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  