-- SJM to Buy Share in Land to Triple Size of Casino Resort
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-09-09T09:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/sjm-to-buy-share-in-land-to-triple-size-of-casino-resort.html
SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Asia’s biggest
casino operator, plans to invest in land that will triple the
size of its planned casino resort in Macau’s Cotai area.  SJM, founded by gambling mogul  Stanley Ho , will buy a stake
in a neighboring plot controlled by the mother of Ho’s youngest
children, Chief Executive Officer Ambrose So said, without
giving a price. SJM plans to finalize terms of the purchase by
the end of this year, So said.  SJM is expanding in the increasingly popular Cotai area to
catch up with rivals including  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  and  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  in the world’s largest gambling hub.
SJM, which runs 20 of Macau’s 35 casinos, has none in Cotai and
is the last of the Chinese city’s six casino operators to
receive government approval to develop the resort in the area.  “By combining the two pieces of land, we’ll have a bigger
site to develop a full-fledged resort,” So said in a Sept. 5
interview in  Macau . The expansion will “give us a leg up on
competition with other casino operators.”  SJM will use the parcel to expand the non-gambling portion
of its first Cotai gambling resort, initially planned on a
70,500-square-meter site.  The 180,000-square-meter expansion site is owned by a
company controlled by Angela Leong, SJM’s executive director and
a Macau legislator. The plot has been approved for non-gaming
entertainment uses.  SJM shares were unchanged at HK$20.15. in Hong Kong
trading. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.6 percent.  Family Appeal  Ninety-one-year-old Ho held a Macau gambling monopoly for
four decades until 2002, when the government issued licenses to
operators based outside Macau such as Sands and  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN)   Ho was initially reluctant to copy the Las Vegas-style
glitz of his U.S. competitors, which added hotels with spas,
penthouses and family-style entertainment.  Family-friendly attractions have boosted the appeal of
Sands China, controlled by U.S. billionaire  Sheldon Adelson  and
which overtook SJM’s top spot in Macau’s mass-market casino
business in the first quarter.  “SJM has grand plans of setting up an integrated resort,
there’s no way it can be done on a small plot of land,” said
Jeremy Tan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Kim Eng Securities HK
Ltd. “SJM still needs to step up in building non-gaming
facilities to compete with rivals as it’ll probably be the last
operator to enter Cotai.”  Increased Budget  SJM said last week it will boost the budget for its new
resort to HK$25 billion ($3.2 billion) from HK$20 billion
because of rising labor and construction costs. The project will
have as many as 700 gambling tables, 1,000  slot machines  and a
luxury hotel in partnership with Italian fashion house Gianni
Versace SpA.  The five-star Palazzo Versace hotel will have as many as
270 rooms and is slated to open in 2017. Construction will begin
in the next few months, the company said.  Smallest Site  SJM’s pre-expansion site is the smallest among casino
operators that have been granted land in Cotai, the Asia
equivalent of the  Las Vegas Strip . It is still waiting for the
government to grant it a construction permit for the planned
resort, while the others have either a presence in the area or
have begun construction.  Galaxy Entertainment , controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo, has 2 million square meters of land, the biggest in the
area, according to Yoko Ku, a spokeswoman for the Hong Kong-based company.  MGM China (2282) ’s $2.6 billion Cotai resort broke ground in
February and will open by mid-2016. Sands is building its fifth
resort, to be called the Parisian.  Macau had a record of $38 billion in casino revenue last
year, six times that of the Las Vegas Strip. Two-thirds of that
came from high-stake bettors mainly made up of mainland Chinese
visitors.  SJM last month reported a 12 percent increase in second-quarter earnings, beating analyst estimates as mainland Chinese
gamblers spent more at its Macau casinos.  Growth Forecast  Macau gambling revenue from high rollers will probably
increase by a percentage in the “mid-teens” in the fourth
quarter and the mass-market segment to grow by more than 20
percent, So said.  SJM is also looking to expand into  Japan  and Taiwan should
those countries legalize casinos, he said.  Earlier this year, SJM conducted on-site studies in
Taiwan’s Penghu, and Kinmen area close to China, he said.  The company is interested in partnering with a local
investor to set up a casino in Japan, he said.  “We can bring technical know-how to a local partner in
Japan,” he said, adding that the company would prefer  Osaka 
over  Tokyo  as the capital is too crowded and doesn’t offer much
land for a large development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  