-- SK Hynix Partly Resumes Operations After Fire at China Factory
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-08T06:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/sk-hynix-partly-resumes-operations-after-fire-at-china-factory.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  resumed part operation
yesterday on a  production line  damaged in the Sept. 4 fire at a
Chinese plant that sent prices of memory chips soaring the most
in three years on concern supplies might fall short.  The world’s second-biggest maker of memory chips is still
inspecting the damaged section of the line, the company said
today. The blaze occurred during the installation of equipment
at the factory, which makes dynamic random-access memory chips
used in smartphones and personal computers. Prices for the chips
climbed 19 percent as SK Hynix, which supplies nearly a third of
the world’s DRAM chips, suspended operations at the Wuxi plant.  “It is one of the two parts of the line that was damaged
and we’re inspecting the line and the clean room thoroughly to
resume normal operations in the shortest time possible,” Park
Seong Ae, an SK Hynix spokeswoman, said by phone. It is not
known when the company can resume full production or how much
the delay will affect supplies, Park said.  The price of benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM jumped 30 cents,
the biggest increase since September 2010, to $1.90 on Sept. 5,
according to DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s largest market for the
components. SK Hynix shares fell 3.7 percent to close at 27,100
won in Seoul on Sept. 6. Competitor  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) 
gained 3.4 percent in  New York  trading in the two days through
Sept. 6 before closing at $15.26.  ‘Cause Disruption’  “It’s pretty impactful,” said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst
for Wedbush Securities in  San Francisco . “When you’re taking 15
percent of capacity offline you are going to cause disruption.
We were concerned that pricing was going to go down. We think
that’s off the table now.”  Chinese mobile phone makers may suffer the most from any
shortages because they have been aggressive in price
negotiations with chipmakers and have avoided long-term
contracts, said Van Hees, who recommends buying Micron shares.
Larger companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.
will get the chips they need, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  