-- Putin Foe Navalny Claims Fraud as Putin Ally Keeps Moscow
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-09T11:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/sobyanin-poised-to-win-moscow-mayor-election-amid-voter-apathy.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s
ally won Moscow’s mayoral election over opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who claimed the ballot was rigged even after getting
more votes than polls predicted.  Sergei Sobyanin , appointed in 2010, got 51.4 percent of the
vote, exceeding the 50 percent barrier needed to avoid a runoff,
according to official  results  released today. Navalny finished
second with 27.2 percent, capturing almost twice the share of
votes predicted by state-run pollster VTsIOM.  The race pitted the Russian authorities against an
opposition candidate in  Moscow  for the first time since
allegations of voter fraud sparked a wave of protests in 2011
and 2012 in  Europe ’s biggest city. Navalny, 37, a leader of the
anti-Putin demonstrations, has campaigned on an anti-graft
platform that’s mobilized a grassroots movement.  “Such results increase the likelihood of mass street
protests later today,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for
 Russia  at Bank of America Corp. in Moscow, said in e-mailed
comments. The “very narrow margin of first round victory gives
the opposition more reason to talk about ‘another stolen
election,’” and will “add to market pressure on concerns over
political risks,” he said.  Evening Rally  Navalny supporters plan to protest this evening in Moscow’s
Bolotnaya Square, the site of earlier opposition rallies, Ekho
Moskvy radio reported. The opposition candidate published exit
polls that gave him 36 percent and Sobyanin 46 percent.  “We regard this as a clear falsification,” Navalny said
in televised comments. “I call on the Kremlin to hold a second
round as should happen.”  In a  blog  post, Navalny called for Sobyanin to meet with
him for talks where he plans to demand a partial recount
focusing on voting stations where the acting mayor received a
suspiciously high number of votes and on ballots cast from home.
Sobyanin invited the opposition leader to meet at a news
conference today,  gazeta.ru  reported.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , which has fallen 1.8 percent
this year, 1.8 percent to 1,448.37 as of 2:44 p.m. in Moscow.
The ruble was little changed at 33.2765 per dollar.  Yekaterinburg Victory  Direct gubernatorial elections were restored after tens of
thousands took to the streets in the biggest demonstrations of
Putin’s rule. He won  48 percent  of votes in Moscow in his re-election last year, less than anywhere else in the country.  In a separate mayoral election, a Putin-backed candidate
lost in Yekaterinburg, Russia’s fourth-largest city, to an anti-drug activist. Yevgeny Roizman, supported by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , won 33 percent of the vote, compared with 30 percent
for United Russia candidate Yakov Silin in an election that
doesn’t require a runoff.  Turnout for the Moscow vote, which featured another four
candidates, was 32 percent, according to the Central Election
Commission. The low participation was responsible for Navalny’s
unanticipated surge in support, according to Alexander Oslon,
president of the Moscow-based  Public Opinion Fund .  “That worked to Navalny’s advantage because his backers
are enthusiastic and motivated,” Oslon said. Navalny was
projected to get 15.7 percent in a Sept. 2 VTsIOM poll.  ‘Great Result’  Since taking over as mayor from Yury Luzhkov, who was
forced out, Sobyanin, has sought to ease Moscow’s traffic
congestion and revamp infrastructure such as public parks. He
served as a deputy prime minister in 2008 to 2010 as Putin
completed a four-year stint as premier before reclaiming the
presidency.  “It’s a great result,” Sobyanin, 55, who resigned in June
to call the ballot, said in televised comments. “We’ve met the
test of fair elections: hard-won votes are worth far more than a
few percentage points.”  Moscow, a city of 12 million people, has a $50 billion
budget and accounts for about a quarter of Russia’s gross
domestic product, official data show. The city plans to sell as
much as 160 billion rubles ($4.8 billion) of debt by year-end to
trim borrowing costs, according to the Moscow finance
department. Its ruble bonds due June 2022 yielded 7.98 percent
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ritz Dinner  Navalny, who raised about $3 million for his mayoral
campaign, has pledged to reduce corruption, make Moscow’s
government more efficient and rein in illegal immigration, a
theme Sobyanin has also pursued.  He courted bankers from OAO Sberbank and Deutsche Bank AG
at a dinner at Moscow’s Ritz Carlton hotel and last month won
the backing of 38 Russian Internet entrepreneurs, who endorsed
his candidacy in a manifesto that called for the rule of law to
be upheld and government officials held accountable.  Navalny has also sought to challenge Sobyanin’s
credibility, asserting in August  blog  postings that two of the
acting mayor’s daughters own apartments worth $3.5 million and
$5 million. Sobyanin said the property holdings are legal.  Navalny’s participation in the Moscow ballot had been in
doubt after a court in the city of Kirov sentenced him in July
to five years in prison for defrauding a state timber company, a
verdict denounced by the U.S. and Europe. He was released a day
later pending appeal after thousands protested in Moscow and
other major cities. If upheld, the conviction would preclude him
from ever holding public office.  While analysts including Gleb Pavlovsky, head of the
Effective Policy Foundation in Moscow, have suggested Sobyanin
may become a candidate to replace Putin in 2018 elections, the
Moscow mayoral battle may prove to be a launch pad for an
assault by Navalny on the higher echelons of power.  The low turnout in Moscow doesn’t invalidate Navalny’s
showing, according to  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales and
trading at BCS Financial Group in  London .  “Navalny did quite well and the Kremlin needs to take
notice,” Saenz said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  