-- South Africa Car Strike Ends After Workers Accept Revised Offer
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w ,   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-09-08T14:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/south-africa-car-strike-ends-after-workers-accept-revised-offer.html
South African carworkers will end a
three-week strike and return to work tomorrow after accepting a
revised wage offer from employers including  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “We are officially announcing the end of the nationwide
strike and hope our members will go back to work tomorrow,”
National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa, or Numsa,
Secretary General Irvin Jim told reporters in Johannesburg
today. “At Toyota in Durban and BMW in  Pretoria  there are some
specific issues, which make our membership unhappy to accept the
offer. We are working to resolve these issues.”  A wage increase of 11.5 percent for this year, 10 percent
next year and 10 percent in 2015 was agreed upon. Night shift
and transport allowance was also part of the settlement. Numsa
and the Automobile Manufacturers Employers Association, or AMEO,
agreed to study an industry medical aid and housing program.  The strike is costing the industry as much as 700 million
rand ($68.66 million) each day, Thapelo Molapo, chairman of
AMEO, said Sept. 4. The carmakers won’t be able to recover the
losses, according to AMEO. Automotive accounts for about 7
percent of South Africa’s gross domestic product, the Department
of Trade and Industry said.  South Africa has been plagued by strikes as unions
representing workers from construction to gold mining have asked
for wage increases. More than 60,000 of the country’s gold
miners began returning to work Sept. 6 following a 48-hour
walkout after they accepted an 8 percent pay increase.  The motor industry will now face strikes by gas station
attendants, panelbeaters, car and spare parts dealers and
fitment workshops starting tomorrow, Jim said. The union is
demanding “double digit” wage increases for these workers,
while employers are offering 5.6%, Numsa Deputy Secretary
General Karl Cloete told reporters today.  Consumer prices rose  6.3 percent  in July, exceeding the
central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target for the first time
in 15 months. Africa’s biggest economy is forecast to expand by
2 percent this year, its slowest pace since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  