-- U.K.’s Hague Says Further Lawmaker Vote on Syria Action Possible
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-08T10:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/u-k-s-hague-says-further-lawmaker-vote-on-syria-action-possible.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said Parliament may be asked to vote again on attacking  Syria  if
circumstances there change.  While Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government accepts the
House of Commons’ Aug. 29 decision to block U.K. involvement in
military action, it will continue to pressure Assad, Hague said
in an interview with BBC TV.  “Parliament has spoken so we’re not planning to go back
again,” Hague said in an interview on the Andrew Marr show.
“But if circumstances change dramatically, of course everybody
will be looking at things in a different light.”  Cameron led the international drive for military strikes
against the Syrian government following reports it used chemical
weapons in an Aug. 21 attack near Damascus, then was forced to
back down after failing to persuade enough allies and the Labour
opposition to support action.  Cameron has been “left on the sidelines” in the
international community and the U.K. is “diminished in the
world” as a result of the vote, former Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said in an interview with the Sunday Telegraph newspaper
today.  A  poll  by ICM Research Ltd. for the Sunday Telegraph found
19 percent of voters favor military action while 46 percent
oppose a further vote even if the Syrian government is proved to
be behind the attacks.  “There is a lot of public unease about intervention
overseas, you hear it if you go talking to people around the
country,” Hague said. “To that I say be reassured, we have
learned the lessons of  Iraq , we are not seeking to be drawn into
wars in the  Middle East , we now make decisions in a completely
different way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  