-- U.K. Lawmakers Say Government Is Unconvincing on High-Speed Rail
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/u-k-lawmakers-say-government-is-unconvincing-on-high-speed-rail.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
government has failed to make a convincing case for building a
high-speed rail line between  London  and the north of  England , a
cross-party panel of lawmakers said.  The decision to go ahead with the 50 billion-pound ($78
billion) project was based on 10-year-old evidence and
inaccurate estimates of the economic benefits, the House of
Commons Public Accounts Committee said in a report published
today. The Department for Transport also lacks the expertise to
see the project through, the panel said.  “The department has been making huge spending decisions on
the basis of fragile numbers, out-of-date data and assumptions
which do not reflect real life,” Margaret Hodge, the opposition
Labour Party lawmaker who chairs the committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “It has yet to present a convincing strategic
case for High Speed 2.”  Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin should publish the
evidence for HS2 as the best option for increasing rail capacity
and update the business case to reflect the fact that business
passengers can work while traveling by train, the committee
said.  There should also be tighter control of the contingency
fund for the line so it isn’t used to compensate for “weak”
costings, the committee said.  “The pattern so far has been for costs to spiral -- from
more than 16 billion pounds to 21 billion pounds plus for phase
one -- and the estimated benefits to dwindle,” Hodge said.
“The department lacks the commercial skills necessary to
protect taxpayers’ interest on a programme of this size.”  Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg used a speech in  Scotland 
on Sept. 5 to reaffirm the government’s support for the new
line, which will run initially from London to Birmingham, and
then on to Manchester and Leeds. It will help to tackle the
north-south economic divide in the U.K. by increasing capacity
and cutting journey times, Clegg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  