-- U.S. Clinches Walker Cup Golf Title on Investment Adviser’s Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/u-s-team-wins-golf-s-walker-cup-17-9-over-britain-and-ireland.html
The U.S. captured golf’s Walker Cup
as Nathan Smith, a 35-year-old investment adviser, scored the
clinching point in a 17-9 victory against Britain and Ireland in
the sport’s top amateur team competition.  The U.S. team, which held an 8-4 lead after the first day
of competition, split yesterday’s foursomes matches and then won
seven of  10 singles matches  at National Golf Links of America in
Southampton,  New York .  While the 10-member U.S. team featured eight collegiate
stars who may play golf professionally, it was Smith and 45-year-old  Todd White , a high school teacher from Hilton Head
Island,  South Carolina , who scored the 13th and 14th points to
secure the Walker Cup, where a total of 26 points are available.
After White won his match 4&3, Smith won by the same score to
give the U.S. a 35-8-1 record in the biennial event.  “I never wanted a point so much in my life,” said Smith,
a four-time U.S. Mid-Amateur champion who’s played in four
Masters Tournaments. “I was honestly tearing up out there.”  Smith, a former Division III All-American golfer now in his
fifth year with Executive Wealth Counselors in Pittsburgh, was
previously on the past two U.S. squads, including the team that
lost the 2011 Walker Cup by a score of 14-12 at Royal Aberdeen
Golf Club in  Scotland .  The U.S. had  won three straight  Walker Cup titles before
the 2011 loss. Earlier this year, the U.S. Golf Association made
it mandatory that the U.S. include two mid-amateurs -- players
at least 25 years of age -- on its team.  Singles Domination  “How could I write a better script?” U.S. captain Jim
Holtgrieve said about the match-play wins by his two oldest
players. “That’s what this competition is all about. That’s
what golf is all about -- developing these relationships. Now
these two guys will be able to able to go talk to their
communities and young people and go grow the game.”  The U.S. had a 13-4-1 record in singles matches at National
Golf Links, which hosted the first Walker Cup competition in
1922 and was designed by Charles Blair Macdonald, who helped
found the USGA in 1894.  “What I really wanted was for 10 young men to have the
greatest golfing experience of their career and we did that,”
Holtgrieve said. “To play really hard for their country and to
come and win this at this historic golf course, it doesn’t get
any better.”  The American roster featured three players from the
 University of Alabama  team that won the 2013 national
championship -- Justin Thomas, Cory Whitsett and Bobby Wyatt --
and another three who played together at the  University of
California , in  Michael Kim , Michael Weaver and Max Homa. Wyatt
collected a team-high 3 1/2 points in going undefeated, while
Kim, the low amateur at the 2013  U.S. Open , went 3-0.  Turning Pro  “It’s an unbelievable way to go out,” said Thomas, 20,
the 2012 NCAA Player of the Year who said he’d turn pro
following the Walker Cup. “I was so excited for this week. For
this to happen is truly unbelievable.”  The Walker Cup is named after former USGA President George
Herbert Walker, who originally created the event as the
International Challenge Match. He’s a great-grandfather of
former U.S. President  George W. Bush , who visited with both
teams this week and attended the matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  