-- Snowden Documents Show U.S. Spied on Petrobras, Globo TV Reports
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-09-09T02:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/u-s-government-spied-on-brazil-s-petrobras-globo-tv-reports.html
The U.S. government spied on
Brazil’s state-controlled  oil company , Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Globo TV  reported , citing classified documents obtained by
former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.  The television network, which reported a week ago that the
U.S. National Security Agency intercepted phone calls and e-mails of Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , aired slides from
an NSA presentation from 2012 that explained the agency’s
capability to penetrate private networks of companies such as
Petrobras, as the oil company is known, and Google Inc.  One slide in the presentation listed “economic” as an
intention for spying, as well as diplomatic and political
reasons. None of the documents revealed the motivation for the
alleged spying on Petrobras, according to Globo.  The NSA allegedly shared its spying capabilities and
information with peer agencies in the U.K.,  Canada , Australia,
and  New Zealand , according to Globo.  American journalist Glenn Greenwald collaborated with Globo
News to report tonight’s story. He first presented accusations
that the NSA intercepted phone calls and e-mails from Rousseff
on Globo television on Sept. 1. Greenwald has said the
information revealed earlier this month was part of the first
batch of documents he received from Snowden when they met in
 Hong Kong .  NSA Statement  The presentation appears to contradict a statement made by
an NSA spokesman to the Washington Post in an August 30  article ,
in which the agency said that the U.S. Department of Defense
“does not engage in economic espionage in any domain, including
cyber.”  Petrobras declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions. An official at the NSA told Globo that the agency
gathers economic information in order to monitor for signs of
potential instability in financial markets, and not to steal
commercial secrets, according to tonight’s program.  A press official at the presidential palace in Brasilia had
no immediate comment when reached by phone earlier today.  Rousseff told reporters at the Group of 20 summit in Russia
last week that her state visit to the U.S. next month is still
pending as U.S. President  Barack Obama  works to ensure that
spying allegations won’t harm the countries’ mutual interests.
Brazilian officials have denounced the case as a violation of
their nation’s sovereignty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  