-- Munich Re Aims for Stable Rates in January Renewals
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-09-08T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/munich-re-aims-for-stable-rates-in-january-renewals.html
Munich Re, the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said it expects stable rates for its property and
casualty reinsurance at January price negotiations.  “Prices will remain largely stable, chiefly due to the
still comparatively low interest rates,” for proportional
business in which a quota of claims and premiums is shared with
a primary insurer, the company said in a statement in Monte
Carlo today. The Munich-based company “predicts no significant
changes in prices and conditions” in other business, it said.  Reinsurers such as Munich Re,  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and  Hannover Re (HNR1) 
are meeting with brokers and their clients, primary insurers, in
 Monte Carlo  to negotiate terms and conditions of next year’s
property and casualty policies. The industry is under pressure
to shore up earnings hurt by low interest rates and as near-record capital available for coverage weighs on prices.  Executives from Allianz Re, the reinsurance arm of
 Germany ’s  Allianz SE (ALV) , and the international reinsurance business
of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said on Sept. 6 they expect prices to
be unchanged or even fall slightly next year. Terms and
conditions of the treaties might also see some deterioration,
they said.  More Capital  The reinsurance industry had capital of $510 billion at the
end of June, just below a record $515 billion three months
earlier,  according to  Aon Benfield, the reinsurance broker of
 Aon Ltd. (AON) , which mediates deals for primary insurers. Capital
inflows have been driven by new entrants, such as hedge and
pension funds.  Talks with customers and brokers will continue next month
in Baden-Baden, Germany. Allianz SE,  Axa SA (CS)  and other primary
insurers buy reinsurance to help them shoulder claims from
costly events such as natural disasters.  Munich Re, Swiss Re and Hannover Re are among reinsurers
typically renewing about two-thirds of their annual property and
casualty contracts in January. Munich Re said on Aug. 6 prices
declined 0.9 percent in July renewals, while Zurich-based Swiss
Re, the second-biggest reinsurer, reported a drop of 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  