-- Vettel Defies Italian Jeers to Win Monza F1 Race Ahead of Alonso
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-08T23:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/vettel-defies-italian-jeers-to-win-monza-f1-race-ahead-of-alonso.html
Sebastian Vettel of  Red Bull  won the
Italian Grand Prix, defying the jeers of Ferrari’s home fans as
he extended his lead in the Formula One championship.  Vettel finished 5.4 seconds ahead of Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  at Monza yesterday, with Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber 
third after the 53 laps. It was Vettel’s sixth win from 12 races
so far this season and the 32nd of his career. The 26-year-old
German is seeking a fourth straight world title.  Vettel, starting from pole position, controlled the race
throughout. Alonso, fifth on the grid, moved up to second as
Ferrari colleague  Felipe Massa  let him past, and maintained his
position until the end to stay second in the drivers’ standings.  “You can hear the difference when you don’t win in a red
suit,” Vettel said at the post-race ceremony, amid booing from
thousands of Ferrari fans massed on the track in front of the
presentation stage. “I said to the guys on the in-lap, the more
we get booed the better we have done.”  Vettel had to overcome problems with a tire and with his
gear-shift before wrapping up the victory.  Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner said the Italian
fans’ reaction will urge Vettel forward.  “Anybody racing a Ferrari and beating a Ferrari at Monza,
in Italy, is never going to be cheered,” Horner told reporters.
“So the reaction didn’t surprise us. If anything it fuels
motivation, certainly of Sebastian, to go out there and continue
to improve.”  Webber’s Landmark  Webber overcame gearbox problems to secure his first podium
placing at Monza in his last race there before he retires from
Formula One at the end of the season.  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes, who’d been looking for a fifth
straight pole position, started 12th after a poor performance in
qualifying. He battled his way up the field after a slow
puncture and problems with his team radio sent him as low as
19th, and finished ninth.  “That was a difficult weekend,” Hamilton said in a team
statement. “We paid the price for not qualifying far enough up
the field. It’s just tough fighting so far down the field when
our car was clearly really quick.”  Massa was fourth, ahead of Sauber’s  Nico Hulkenberg ,
Mercedes’s  Nico Rosberg , Daniel Ricciardo of Toro Rosso and
 Romain Grosjean  of Lotus. Hamilton and McLaren’s  Jenson Button 
rounded out the 10 scoring positions.  Vettel extended his lead in the standings to 53 points with
175 points available from the remaining seven races. He has 222,
followed by Alonso (169), Hamilton (141),  Kimi Raikkonen  of
Lotus (134) and Webber (130). Red Bull leads the constructors’
championship with 352 points, ahead of Ferrari (248), Mercedes
(245) and Lotus (191).  The next four races on the 19-event calendar are in Asia,
starting with the Sept. 22 Singapore Grand Prix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  