-- Vingroup Delays Singapore Listing on ’Difficult Market’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-09T02:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/vingroup-delays-singapore-listing-as-foreign-investors-pu.html
Vingroup Joint Stock Co., Vietnam’s
largest shopping mall owner, is putting on hold plans to sell
shares and have them traded in Singapore as foreign investors
pull capital out of  emerging markets .  The Hanoi-based company is also delaying an international
bond sale, Le Thi Thu Thuy, Vingroup’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview Sept. 6. Vingroup said in April it planned
to sell as many as 150 million shares and have them traded on
the bourse operated by  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  this year.  “The whole market has been quite difficult, and doing a
Vietnam deal is not easy,” she said. “There has been a lot of
outflow from the emerging markets.”  Foreign investors have sold $8.9 billion in stocks so far
this year in Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea amid
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce monetary
stimulus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies
throughout Asia have delayed IPO plans this year, including a
unit of  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , the region’s biggest commodity
supplier.  Global Telecommunications Infrastructure Trust, the
undersea cable unit of  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , said in
July it will delay a $1 billion share sale in Singapore, and
machinery maker  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  postponed a $2 billion
share sale in  Hong Kong .  Thuy didn’t rule out a listing later this year. “We still
have a few more months to go,” she said. “We have to watch the
market. We’ll see.”  Vingroup shares dropped 0.8 percent at today’s open to
63,000 dong. Vingroup announced in May that Warburg Pincus LLC,
the private-equity owner of Neiman Marcus Group Inc., is leading
a consortium to invest as much as $325 million in the company.
 Joseph Gagnon , a Warburg Pincus managing director, joined
Vingroup’s board in June.  Vingroup opened  Vincom Mega Mall Royal City  in Hanoi, one
of Asia’s largest underground malls, in late July. During the
three-day National Day weekend that ended Monday, the mall
attracted about 100,000 visitors each day, Thuy said. “Its
success has been beyond our expectations,” she said.  The mall’s underground area of 180,000 square meters has a
retail occupancy of 95 percent, and the two above-ground levels
of coffee shops,  convenience stores  and restaurants aimed at the
complex’s apartment residents has an occupancy of nearly 50
percent, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  