-- Who’s Who in Australia’s New Coalition Leadership Under Abbott
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-09-08T21:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/who-s-who-in-australia-s-new-coalition-leadership-under-abbott.html
Australia ’s  Liberal-National
coalition  led by  Tony Abbott  defeated Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s  Labor party  in the Sept. 7 federal election. The
following are likely senior members of the next government.  Abbott, 55, a former trainee priest who decided against a
life of celibacy, becomes prime minister after almost four years
as opposition leader. His criticism of former Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s new taxes helped spur her downfall and Rudd’s
recall in June as Labor leader. An endurance triathlete and
volunteer lifesaver, Abbott has been described as “hyper
masculine” by Greens leader  Christine Milne . Gillard labeled
Abbott a misogynist after he blamed her carbon pricing mechanism
for increasing the cost of housewives’ ironing.  Before politics ,
Abbott worked as a journalist at The Australian newspaper and in
1990 became a  press secretary  to then-Opposition Leader John
Hewson, who later described Abbott as a “fairly extreme
conservative Catholic.” Abbott entered parliament four years
later and was minister for health and ageing, and employment and
workplace relations in the mid-2000s. He graduated in economics
and law from Sydney University and was an Oxford University
scholar and boxer.  Joe Hockey , 48, a  self-described  modern liberalist, has
been shadow Treasurer since 2009 and will take command of
Australia’s $1.5 trillion economy. In April last year, Hockey
 called  for an end to “the age of entitlement.” In a speech in
 London , he said governments must be funded by revenue rather
than debt, and state welfare in developed nations had
compromised economic sustainability. He has been tagged “Sloppy
Joe” by Labor lawmakers critical of his grasp of the portfolio.
He worked as a finance and banking lawyer before entering
parliament in 1996. Like Abbott, Hockey held a range of
ministerial posts under then-Prime Minister  John Howard . Between
1998 and 2007, Hockey’s roles included small business, tourism,
and employment and workplace relations. He studied arts and law
at the  University of Sydney , where on the rugby field he was
once knocked out by a young Abbott.  Warren Truss, 64, a third-generation Queensland  farmer  and
leader of the Nationals in the coalition, is set to be deputy
prime minister. Truss was a minister under Howard for 10 years,
spending most of them in agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
Relations between the Nationals and Liberals haven’t always been
happy. Truss, who has a lower public profile than other senior
members of Abbott’s team, said in August 2009 his party had
discussed leaving the coalition. Hockey said this month in
 Western Australia , where the coalition parties are separately
contesting two seats, that the Nationals wouldn’t have a strong
voice in government, the  Australian Broadcasting Corp . said.
Truss said the parties are united despite their squabbles, the
ABC reported. Truss is Abbott’s shadow minister for
infrastructure and transport.  Julie Bishop , 57, is deputy leader of the Liberal Party and
shadow minister for foreign affairs and trade. The job of
foreign minister is her “ultimate dream,” she  told  the
Australian newspaper in February. She abandoned a career as a
commercial litigator to win a seat in parliament in 1998. The
coalition’s highest-ranking female, Bishop in June accused
Gillard of waging a  “false gender war”  against Abbott, just
weeks before Gillard was ousted by the Labor party. Bishop led
several ministries in the mid-2000s under Howard, including
education, science and training. A  keen runner , she grew up near
 Adelaide  on a fruit orchard. She has a law degree from Adelaide
University.  Andrew Robb, 62, is shadow minister for finance,
deregulation and debt reduction. After  growing up  on a dairy
farm north of  Melbourne , Robb’s early career was dominated by
agricultural politics. During the 1970s and 1980s he was an
animal health officer, an agricultural economist and director of
the National Farmers’ Federation. He directed the  Liberal
party ’s successful election campaign in 1996 before working for
late-billionaire Kerry Packer and setting up a direct  marketing
company . On  entering parliament  in 2004, he called for lower
taxes and fewer “draconian regulations” on business. He became
minister for vocational and further education during Howard’s
final term in office. In 2011, Robb released a book on his
struggle with depression, “Black Dog Daze: Public Life, Private
Demons.”  Peta Credlin, 42, is Abbott’s top adviser and set to be his
chief of staff. In a rare  interview  in 2011, Credlin told The
Australian she regarded herself as an “alpha female.”
Describing Credlin as “the scariest woman in Canberra,” the
newspaper said Liberal lawmakers and staff view her with a
mixture of fear and awe. She is married to Brian Loughnane, the
Liberal party’s federal director. Credlin  told  Marie Claire
magazine in January that she’s a “right-wing feminist.”
Credlin  grew up  in rural Victoria, according to the 2011 profile
in The Australian, and has a law degree. In the mid-2000s she
worked for then-Defence Minister Robert Hill, who also led the
government in the Senate, to help steer key policies including
the Telstra sale through the upper house, the paper said. She
also advised the last two opposition leaders -- Brendan Nelson
and  Malcolm Turnbull .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  