-- World Gaining Faith in Japan as Topix Index Gets Cheaper
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o ,   T o m   R e d m o n d   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-09-09T07:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/world-gaining-faith-in-japan-as-topix-index-gets-cheaper.html
Japanese shares are getting cheaper
faster than any developed market as global investors regain
faith in the world’s third-largest economy, with valuations
declining even as the benchmark Topix index rallies.  The  price-earnings ratio  for the nation’s companies dropped
to 14.6 times estimated profits from 17.1 at the start of 2013
because the Topix’s 36 percent surge, the biggest among 24
developed countries tracked by Bloomberg, has failed to keep up
with analyst forecasts for 60 percent income growth. Nowhere
have valuations contracted faster than in Japan. Multiples have
increased in the U.S.,  France  and the U.K.  Bears say the best of the rally that began in November is
already over because  earnings  have failed to translate into
stock gains for much of the past decade. Bulls say profit
estimates are returning to pre-financial crisis levels as the
yen weakens amid confidence in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
policies to end 15 years of deflation and the central bank’s
promise to double the amount of currency in circulation.
Earnings estimates by analysts and companies are based on an
even stronger yen.  “This time is for real,” Sergi Martin Amoros, who helps
oversee $4 billion as chief executive officer of Credit Andorra
Asset Management in Andorra, said in a Sept. 6 phone interview.
“Their previous efforts were never accompanied by such a
decisive monetary policy and the government’s willingness to
commit to structural reforms is also something we haven’t seen
before. This is the real one.”  Credit Andorra made its first Japanese investments in
“many years” this quarter, he said.  Topix Diverges  Earnings growth did little to lift  equities  after the
financial crisis. The Topix ended last year at 859.80, less than
a point above its 2008 close. During the four years in between,
earnings doubled, while the index never rose more than 16
percent above its starting level, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The yen soared to a post-World War II record in 2011.  Stocks rose today after  Tokyo  won the right to host the
2020 Olympics and data showed the economy grew more than
initially estimated in the second quarter. The Topix climbed 2.2
percent to 1,173, the highest close since Aug. 6, extending  last
week ’s 3.8 percent advance. The benchmark gauge for Japanese
shares has gained 36 percent in 2013 and its 62 percent rise
since mid-November is the biggest advance in a quarter century.  More Revisions  “We’re positive on Japanese equities,” Stephen Corry,
Hong Kong-based chief investment strategist at LGT Group, a
private banking and asset-management firm that oversees about
$115 billion, said in a phone interview Sept. 6. “We’ll
continue to see more positive earnings revisions. Abe wants to
leave a legacy in Japanese politics as the man who altered the
economy and that’s encouraging.”  Foreigners speculating that Abe will succeed in stimulating
economic growth and halting deflation have been pouring money
into the Tokyo stock market. They  added  $93 billion to holdings
this year, Finance Ministry data show.  Topix companies will  earn  a combined 80.43 yen a share this
year, up from 50.29 yen in 2012 and 38.05 yen in 2011, when
 Japan  had its biggest earthquake and nuclear disaster, according
to more than 6,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Fifteen of 18 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the gauge
to rise by year-end, with the median forecast for an 8.3 percent
increase to 1,270. Nomura Holdings Inc. is the most bullish,
projecting a 28 percent jump to 1,500.  “Japanese stocks still have big upside,” said Miyuki Kashima, head of Japanese equity investment at BNY Mellon Asset
Management Japan Ltd., which oversees about $13 billion. “The
correlation with the currency will weaken and the market will
become more linked to earnings, like it was in the past.”  The index’s ratio of 14.6 times estimated earnings compares
with the average valuation of 28.7 over the last decade, based
on historical earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  World Valuations  The 2.5-percentage-point narrowing in the ratio comes as
multiples expand in developed countries. In the U.S., where a
four-year bull market lifted the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
more than 145 percent to a record high, stocks trade for 15
times forecast 2013 earnings, up from 13.1 in January.
Valuations rose 17 percent to 12.9 for France’s CAC-40 Index and
13 percent to 12.8 for the U.K’s FTSE 100 on Sept. 6, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Optimism about Abe’s policies has prompted analysts to push
profit projections up 16 percent in 2013, leaving them within 6
percent of their level in February 2007, the year before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., when the Topix
reached a 16-year high of 1,816.97. Even though more than $650
billion has been restored to  Japanese share values  since
December, the gauge remains 35 percent below the 2007 level.  Earnings Influence  The yen’s 19 percent decline against the dollar since
elections were announced in November has been behind much of the
profit gain.  The currency still isn’t weak compared with its level of
108 per dollar before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, Finance Minister Taro Aso said at a Sept. 6 press
briefing in St. Petersburg,  Russia , after a Group of 20 nations
summit. The yen traded at 99.63 as of 3:30 p.m. in Tokyo.  Nissan Motor Co., which gets more than 80 percent of its
revenue outside of its  home market , said in May that a one-yen
drop against the dollar boosts operating income by 15 billion
yen ($150 million).  The currency has distorted typical relationships between
share prices and earnings growth, according to Takashi Miyazaki,
general manager of strategic research and investment at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of the nation’s
biggest bank.  Catching Up  “Share prices should depend on company profits, but stocks
in Japan haven’t followed the recovery in earnings after the
Lehman shock primarily because of the strong yen,” Miyazaki
said in an Aug. 28 phone interview from Tokyo. “That said, the
BOJ’s unprecedented easing caused a change in the currency level
and because of this we expect shares to catch up.”  Analysts boosted annual profit estimates for Japanese
companies about 9 percent during the last five months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yen weakened 0.7 percent over
that period, falling to its lowest point of 103.74 per dollar on
May 22 and trading as high as 93.79 on June 13.  That’s a shift from the same period in the last two years,
when analysts cut earnings projections as the yen strengthened.
A 4.2 percent appreciation against the dollar from April 9, 2012
to Sept. 9 of that year coincided with an 7.8 percent decline in
forecasts. Profit estimates fell 14 percent in that part of
2011, when the yen strengthened 9.2 percent.  ‘Still Attractive’  “Earnings momentum is strong and valuations are still
attractive,” said Toshiyuki Miwa, head of money management for
Japanese equity at the local unit of Invesco Ltd., which
oversees $729 billion of assets globally. “Cyclically, Japan is
recovering. That’s why the market should be higher.”  One reason for caution is heightened volatility. Investors
in Japanese shares have endured the biggest  swings  since the
financial crisis. The Topix has risen or fallen by an average of
1.32 percent a day this year through Sept. 6, compared with the
10-year average of 1 percent and 1.95 percent in 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The index  tumbled  more than 18 percent from May 22 to June
13, about four times the drop in the MSCI All-Country World
Index, on speculation that reduced stimulus for the U.S. economy
would slow the rate of global growth.  Overvalued Japan  Japan remains overvalued and will suffer steeper losses
should Abe decide to allow a national sales tax to increase,
according to Shinkin Asset Management Co., the biggest bear
among 18 Japanese strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. It predicts
a 32 percent drop for the measure to 800.  “Earnings are already near their peak and likely to start
falling soon,” said Hiroshi Fujimoto, a fund manager for
Shinkin, which manages the equivalent of about $6.4 billion, in
a phone interview from Tokyo on Sept. 4. “Expectations for
Abenomics, which have been driving the market forward, will fall
off, and if the government decides to raise the sales tax, a
negative impact on the economy will be unavoidable.”  A law enacted last year allows Abe to permit the sales tax
to rise to 8 percent in April and 10 percent in 2015 from 5
percent today, or to hold off if he concludes Japan’s economy
isn’t strong enough. Raising the levy would reduce gross
domestic product 1.42 percentage points in the fiscal year to
March 2015, according to a Sept. 3  report  by Daiwa Institute of
Research Ltd.  Profit Outlook  Sony Corp., the country’s No. 1 consumer-electronics
exporter, lifted its revenue outlook by 5.3 percent after first-quarter profit topped estimates. The Tokyo-based manufacturer
said in May it’s assuming an exchange rate of 90 yen to the
dollar for the fiscal year. Its price-earnings ratio has fallen
45 percent to 29.8 since May.  Honda Motor Co. and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.’s Subaru led
U.S. sales gains in August as auto demand beat projections and
Asia-based carmakers, buoyed by Toyota Motor Corp., combined for
their best month ever. Honda’s deliveries jumped 27 percent,
topping analysts’ estimates, and Toyota outsold Ford Motor Co.
for a second month in a row.  Net income at Toyota will climb to a six-year high for the
year through March 2014, Japan’s largest company by market value
said in August, when it raised its forecast by 8 percent. The
automaker’s shares trade for 16.1 times reported profit,
compared with about 22 just over three months ago.  Auto Companies  The nation’s six biggest carmakers reported total net
income of about 848 billion yen for the three months ended June,
beating analyst estimates by 14 percent.  Exporters in the Topix generally use a yen value of 93.5
per dollar for forecast earnings, according to Okasan Securities
Co. The currency hasn’t been stronger than that level since
April, giving companies a boost for beating estimates, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings at financial companies, which account for about 19
percent of the  Topix index , are also surging. Net income at
Japan’s three biggest banks climbed 63 percent in the first
fiscal quarter from a year earlier on higher fee income and
equity investments, according to their earnings statements.  First-quarter profit at Nomura, the country’s largest
securities firm, soared to 65.9 billion yen from 1.9 billion
yen, as the stock rally spurred brokerage commissions and fees
from managing share sales.  Abe’s Arrows  The yen slumped as Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party reclaimed
power, promising “three arrows” of monetary easing, fiscal
stimulus and reforms to boost the economy. The government will
spend 10.3 trillion yen to spur growth and encourage private
investment, officials said in January, before the Bank of Japan
on April 4 pledged to double the monetary base in two years to
reach a 2 percent inflation goal.  Profit at Topix companies this reporting season  jumped  93
percent from the previous quarter, compared to a 3.3 percent
gain for companies in the S&P 500. Japanese output expanded an
annualized 3.8 percent in the three months through June from the
first quarter, higher than an initial estimate of 2.6 percent,
reflecting stronger private capital investment, the Cabinet
Office said in Tokyo today.  “Monetary easing has driven stocks upward and reversed the
yen trend, but its impact has only been factored in to a small
extent,” said BNY Mellon’s Kashima. “The other two arrows of
Abe’s policy program, fiscal stimulus and growth strategy, can
also be expected to have a positive effect in the medium to long
term. Earnings per share are likely to return to pre-Lehman
levels and the Topix will probably do the same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in 東京 at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Redmond in Tokyo at 
 tredmond3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  