-- IOC Reinstates Wrestling as Olympic Sport for 2020, 2024 Games
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-09T03:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-08/wrestling-wins-vote-to-retain-spot-in-2020-summer-olympic-games.html
The  International Olympic Committee 
voted to reinstate wrestling for the 2020 and 2024 Games after
threatening to remove the sport in an effort to increase
interest in the summer event.  Wrestling was selected by IOC members at their annual
meeting in  Buenos Aires  yesterday, receiving a majority 49
votes, 25 more than a joint bid from baseball and softball.
Squash, the remaining candidate for inclusion, got 22 votes.  A part of the Olympics in both its ancient and modern
formats, wrestling was forced to win back its spot after being
surprisingly cut from the 2020 program in February. That
decision sparked a global outcry, bringing together nations
including the U.S.,  Iran  and  Russia  to fight for its return.  “Wrestling has shown great passion and resilience in the
last few months,” IOC President  Jacques Rogge  said. “They have
taken a number of steps to modernize and improve their sport.”  In the six months since losing its Olympic status,
wrestling made a series of changes to appease IOC members who
demanded the sport refresh itself. After ousting its president,
the sport’s governing body, known as FILA, changed rules to make
bouts more broadcast-friendly, added weight categories to boost
female participation and focused on adding women to its
management body.  Wrestling has been part of the modern  Olympic Games  since
their 1896 start. The sport was included in the ancient games in
Olympia, Greece, as early as 708 B.C.  Pillow of History  “Every sport, even the oldest one like ours, must be
updated and we failed to do so,” FILA President Nenad Lalovic
said in interview before the vote. “We were sleeping all that
time on the pillow of our history. That was our problem. You
have to know your history, but in a way you can clearly see your
future. We saw very well our history but we didn’t use that to
see our future.”  Addressing the IOC membership in a final appeal yesterday,
Lalovic said the vote was “the most important day in the 3,000-year history of our sport.”  By securing reinstatement, wrestling wrote a new chapter in
Olympic history: it’s the first sport to earn an immediate
return onto the games program.  “Normally this is done in a few years, we did it in a few
months,” Lalovic said. “It was a question of our survival. We
did all we could, we changed our sport and the federation was
successful.”  Almost losing its Olympics spot has brought renewed
interest in the sport, he said.  ‘Big Impact’  “Wrestling has been spoken about more in the last six
months than during the last 60 years,” said Lalovic, a Serb who
took over as FILA president in May. “If we move successfully
from this crisis, this decision from the IOC will have had a big
impact on our sport. It gave us the strength to show our
strength by changing in such a short time.”  Rich Bender, executive director of USA Wrestling, said the
sport’s February Olympic ouster had “woken a sleeping giant.”  “Those of us in the sport understand its greatness and the
gravity of the sport,” Bender said in an interview. “We’ve
been given the opportunity to preach the gospel of wrestling to
a very broad audience now and I think the sport will be better
for it.”  After the IOC’s decision to drop wrestling, high-profile
followers of the sport such as actors  Tom Cruise  and  Ashton Kutcher  supported the campaign to prevent its demise. William
Baldwin, the star of films including “Backdraft,” traveled to
Buenos Aires as part of the Wrestling 2020 campaign team.  Perfect Partners  Baldwin said he and his friends in the movie business would
be perfect partners as wrestling seeks ways to make itself more
appealing to television viewers.  “When you’re talking about the style, the color, the
fabrics, the lighting, how the cameras will be moving to make
this more palatable for television, who better than us?”
Baldwin said in an interview. “Obviously I have a very deep
bench of friends that I could call that can help.”  Yesterday’s vote followed the award of the 2020 games to
 Tokyo  the previous day. The IOC’s 125th session ends tomorrow
with the election of a new president to replace Rogge, who is
retiring after 12 years in the role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Buenos Aires at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  