-- African Leaders Meet on Congo as UN Seeks to Halt Rebels
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-24T12:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/african-leaders-meet-on-congo-as-un-seeks-to-halt-rebel-advance.html
Regional leaders gathered in the
Ugandan capital, Kampala, to discuss the rebel capture of Goma
and other towns in eastern Congo as United Nations peacekeepers
sought to halt their advance in the resource-rich region.  The  World Food Programme  said it’s begun distributing aid
to at least 81,000 people displaced by fighting this week, while
UN peacekeeping spokesman Kieran Dwyer said the organization is
investigating reports the rebel M23 group is recruiting child
soldiers in Goma and the nearby town of Sake.  Leaders from the 11-nation African Conference on the Great
Lakes Region are meeting after the presidents of Rwanda and
Uganda, whose administrations have been accused by UN experts of
backing the rebellion, called for M23 to withdraw from Goma.
Rwanda and Uganda deny they support the rebels. M23 seized the
city on Nov. 20 after ending an unofficial three-month cease-
fire, forcing Congo’s army to retreat.  “We are looking at a possibility of putting our observers
in Goma,” James Mugume, permanent secretary in  Uganda ’s Foreign
Ministry, said in an interview before the summit. “For
observers, we can put them in immediately, while a neutral force
may come later.”  Congo’s North and South Kivu provinces are one of the
world’s largest sources of columbite-tantalite, the mineral
known as coltan that’s used in mobile phones and computers. The
Central African nation is also the continent’s biggest producer
of tin ore, most of which is mined in the Kivus.  Banro Corp. (BAA) ,
based in Toronto, operates the Twingiza gold mine about 200
kilometers (124 miles) south of Goma.  Rebel Proxies  Eastern Congo has been overrun by armed groups since the
mid-1990s, when violence in the aftermath of the  Rwandan
genocide  spread across the border. Rwanda and Congo have battled
for influence in the region directly or by rebel proxies for
more than a decade.  The relationship between the two countries improved after a
2009 peace accord between Congo and Rwandan-backed rebels. M23,
which takes its name from the date in March 2009 when the
agreement was signed, says the government didn’t respect the
accord, which forced it to mutiny.  More than 1.6 million people are currently displaced in the
Kivu provinces, Adrian Edwards, spokesman for the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees, told reporters in Geneva, according
to an e-mailed transcript.  ‘Alarming Situation’  “The situation in eastern Congo remains alarming,” Dwyer
said. “The M23 are now present in Sake, with reports indicating
that they may be on the move toward Masisi territory, which is
their stronghold.”  UN peacekeepers still control the airport in Goma and are
carrying out patrols throughout the city, he said.  “The mission is also positioning itself to try to prevent
further advances of the M23, including toward Bukavu,” though
UN forces won’t act as a substitute for Congolese security
forces, Dwyer said.  The  World Food Programme  estimated that about 140,000
civilians in Goma may need food aid, and appealed for funding to
help it respond to the crisis.  “The spiral of violence in North Kivu has cut many people
off from their regular food supplies and they need emergency
assistance to survive,” Martin Ohlsen, the food agency’s
country director in Congo, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 