-- Thai Protest Leader Quits as Tear Gas, Roadblocks Damp Turnout
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-11-24T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/thai-protest-leader-quits-as-tear-gas-roadblocks-damp-turnout.html
Thai anti-government forces called
off a rally yesterday aimed at toppling Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra because of a poor turnout after clashes left two
police officers in critical condition.  “I quit,” Boonlert Kaewprasit, a retired general leading
the demonstration, said in an interview after he called off the
rally. “I told the truth. I needed a million people, but we
were interrupted when police fired tear gas and blocked people
from coming.”  Police said as many as 20,000 protesters attended the rally
on a rainy day in Bangkok, short of the 500,000 that
demonstration leaders had predicted. Boonlert had earlier
threatened to storm Yingluck’s office complex after police used
tear gas and detained about 100 people who attempted to breach a
road block set up as part of crowd-control measures.  The demonstration represented the latest effort by an
alliance of generals, royalists and middle-class urbanites to
oust a party linked to Yingluck’s brother Thaksin Shinawatra,
whose allies have won the past five elections dating back to
2001. While the rally’s quick demise gives the government a
short-term victory, Thaksin’s opponents remain a “potent
force,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute
for Strategic and International Studies at Bangkok’s
Chulalongkorn University.  “It’s a desperate plea to ask for another government when
they cannot win at the polls,” he said by phone, referring to
the anti-Thaksin group. “Time is not on their side. The tide of
history, the forces at work, are going toward electoral
democracy.”  Tear Gas  Protesters set up a stage under a large tent that
demonstrators huddled under as monsoon rains poured down. People
held up pictures of King Bhumibol Adulyadej and waved yellow
flags bearing the royal insignia while listening to speeches
blasted on loudspeakers.  “The military should come in to take over the parliament
and let the king choose who runs the country,” said Kaew
Yopying, 52, who runs an office-supply store in Bangkok. He wore
goggles to protect himself from tear gas and a shirt that said
“I love the king more than anyone in the world.”  “We don’t want another election for five years,” he said.
“We want a new generation of good people to govern  Thailand .
Another election will bring more corrupt people.”  Boonlert leads Siam Pitak, which means Protect Thailand.
The group, which hasn’t specified how it aims to remove Yingluck
from office, is calling for a suspension of the political
system.  ‘Corrupt Politicians’  “Those corrupt politicians must be frozen,” Boonlert told
supporters yesterday before stepping down. “We will let good
ones govern us.”  In 2008, demonstrators pushed for a parliament in which 30
percent of lawmakers were elected and the rest appointed from
various professions, including teachers, doctors and farmers.
Tit-for-tat protests by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents since
the 2006 coup have killed more than 100 people and led to road
blockages and arson attacks.  The clash yesterday between police and protesters who
attempted to cut through razor wire left nine protesters and 10
officers injured, including two who are in critical condition,
Anchulee Theerawongpaisarn, a police spokeswoman, told
reporters. Police also detained 132 people, including some
carrying knives and bullets.  “The demonstrators are trying to ignite violence,” Piya
Utayo, a police spokesman, told reporters. “They tried to break
our barricade, so the tear gas is to stop them and control
them.’  Yingluck’s government approved using an internal security
law to manage the protests after police warned of violence and a
plot to abduct her. Police measures to control the crowds
include tear gas, water cannons and rubber bullets, according to
a statement issued to reporters.  Incitement  ‘‘If a large number of people is mobilized by incitement,
led by those who seek to overthrow an elected government and
democratic rule -- which is against the constitution -- and
there is evidence that violence may be used to achieve those
ends, then this is a case of national security,” Yingluck said
in a national address three days ago. “It is the government’s
duty to preserve law and order.”  The protest came less than a week after U.S. President
 Barack Obama  visited Thailand to bolster relations on a three-
country trip to the region. During the visit, he had meetings
with Yingluck and Bhumibol, who turns 85 next month and has been
head of state since taking the throne in 1946.  “What you’re seeing here in Thailand is a democratically
elected prime minister who is committed to democracy, committed
to rule of law, committed to freedom of speech and the press and
assembly,” Obama said in a joint briefing with Yingluck at
Government House on Nov. 18. “But obviously, what’s true in
Thailand, as is true in America, is that all citizens have to
remain vigilant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  