-- Manchester United Beats QPR 3-1 to Take Premier League Lead
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-24T19:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/manchester-united-beats-winless-qpr-to-take-premier-league-lead.html
Manchester United came from behind
to move into first placee in English soccer’s Premier League and
deny Queens Park Ranger its first win of the season.  Jonny Evans, Darren Fletcher and Javier Hernandez scored in
an eight-minute span of the second half for United’s 3-1 win at
Old Trafford. Jamie Mackie scored for QPR, which today confirmed
it had appointed Harry Redknapp to replace fired manager Mark Hughes.  West Brom won 4-2 at Sunderland to climb above Chelsea into
third place, Wigan beat Reading 3-2, Stoke defeated Fulham 1-0,
Norwich tied 1-1 at Everton, while Aston Villa and Arsenal
played a 0-0 draw.  United is now two points ahead of defending champion
Manchester City, which visits Chelsea tomorrow. The Red Devils
are unbeaten in 11 Premier League meetings with QPR.  With Redknapp watching from the stands, Mackie gave the
visitors a lead with a shot into the lower left corner early in
the second half. Evans tied the game with a header in the 64th
minute and Fletcher put United in front just four minutes later
with another header.  Hernandez, who earlier came on as a substitute for Paul Scholes, made it 3-1 with a shot into the bottom corner in the
72nd minute.  Redknapp has signed a two-and-a-half-year contract in place
of Hughes who was fired yesterday after QPR picked up just four
points in its first 12 games.  Hat Trick  Zoltan Gera, Shane Long, Romelu Lukaku and Marc-Antoine
Fortune scored as West Brom won its fourth straight match and
moved two points ahead of Chelsea. Craig Gardener and Stephane
Sessegnon scored for Sunderland, which lost for the third time
in four league games.  Jordi Gomez clinched a second-half hat trick with a third
goal coming in stoppage time as Wigan beat Reading for its
second win in seven home matches this season.  Stoke remained unbeaten at home as Charlie Adam’s goal
lifted the Potters past Fulham. Sebastien Bassong scored with a
header in the final minute as Norwich, which beat Manchester
United last week, drew with Everton to extend its unbeaten run
to six matches.  Aston Villa’s tie with Arsenal moved it out of the three
relegation spots at the bottom of the standings. Villa’s Andreas
Weimann had a goal disallowed for offside in the first half and
Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny tipped Brett Holman’s shot
off the crossbar in the second half.  Liverpool is at Swansea, Newcastle visits Southampton and
Tottenham hosts West Ham in tomorrow’s other games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 