-- Larry Hagman, J.R. Ewing on Television’s ‘Dallas,’ Dies at 81
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-11-24T06:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/larry-hagman-j-r-ewing-on-television-s-dallas-dies-at-81.html
Larry Hagman, whose portrayal of a
rapacious, roguishly charming  Texas  oilman on the nighttime soap
opera “Dallas” left a worldwide television audience wondering,
“Who shot J.R.?”, has died, the  New York  Times said. He was 81.  Hagman died in a Dallas hospital yesterday of complications
from cancer, the newspaper reported, citing a statement from the
family.  The son of Mary Martin, the musical-theater star indelibly
linked to the role of Peter Pan, Hagman also had a knack for
creating memorable characters. One of them was Major Anthony
Nelson, the U.S. astronaut who meets and marries a 2,000-year-
old genie-in-a-bottle on “I Dream of Jeannie,” which aired on
NBC from 1965 to 1970.  The long-running CBS series “Dallas” enshrined Hagman in
popular culture as J.R. Ewing, the ruthless, hard-drinking heir
to his father’s oil business who pursued riches and women with
an impish grin and without regard for family, friends or
scruples.  “My concern was just how bad could I make this bad boy and
still keep him lovable,” Hagman wrote in “Hello Darlin’,” his
2001 memoir, written with Todd Gold.  He said the show “made greed, treachery and blackmail seem
like good, sexy, all-American fun. As J.R. said, ‘Once you get
rid of integrity, the rest is a piece of cake.’”  It was at the end of the second full season, in an episode
that aired on March 21, 1980, that J.R. received comeuppance, in
the form of two bullets fired by an unseen assailant who entered
his office as he worked late.  Enemies List  The cliffhanger episode left viewers debating a list of
prospective assailants, all with the requisite resentment to
pull the trigger. Was it J.R.’s put-upon, alcoholic wife, Sue
Ellen? Her onetime lover, Dusty Farlow? J.R.’s business rival,
Vaughn Leland? J.R.’s own brother, Bobby?  For six months, the question “Who shot J.R.?” fueled
conversation around the TV-watching world. President  Jimmy
Carter , visiting Dallas, told supporters he came “to find out
confidentially who shot J.R.” Bookmakers in  England  and  Las
Vegas  took bets on the shooter’s identity. There were “I Shot
J.R.” T-shirts. Time magazine put Hagman on its cover, under
the word, “Whodunit?” Besieged by autograph requests, Hagman
began handing out fake $100 bills engraved with, “In Hagman We
Trust.”  “I won’t ask you,” the Queen Mother, Elizabeth, told
Hagman after a charity gala in  London , according to a United
Press International account. “I couldn’t tell you anyway,”
Hagman replied, “not even you, ma’am.”  The Shooter  The answer -- Kristin Shepard, J.R.’s scorned former
mistress and sister of his wife, played by actress Mary Crosby,
daughter of Bing -- was revealed in the fourth episode of the
following season.  That broadcast on Nov. 21, 1980, set a record for
viewership, with 53.3 percent of U.S. households with
televisions tuning in, according to A.C. Nielsen Co. That
translated to about 41.4 million homes, or 83 million people.
The previous record-holder was the final episode of the ABC
miniseries “Roots” on Jan. 30, 1977. (The “ Dallas ”
viewership mark would last until the finale of “M*A*S*H” in
February 1983.)  Hagman said he began drinking heavily as a teenager and
kept up the habit right through the 14-year run of “Dallas,”
which went off the air in 1991. Diagnosed with cirrhosis of the
liver, he underwent a transplant in 1995 and became an activist
for organ donation.  Citigroup Lawsuit  In his memoir, he described with wonder, not regret, his
experiences with drugs ranging from marijuana to peyote and LSD.
Once a two-pack-a-day cigarette smoker, he quit that habit and
became a spokesman for the  American Cancer Society  in its anti-
tobacco campaigns.  In a real-life battle over money, Hagman and his wife
challenged how the Smith Barney brokerage, when it was part of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , had run some of their investment accounts. In
2010, three arbitrators ordered Citigroup to pay $1.1 million in
compensatory damages and, as a punitive award, $10 million to
charities chosen by Hagman. After a federal judge dismissed the
arbitration ruling, the two sides reached a settlement on
confidential terms.  “Dallas” returned to television in 2012 on the TNT
network, with Hagman, Patrick Duffy and Linda Gray reprising
their roles alongside a new generation of Ewings. “Evil Never
Dies,” Entertainment Weekly declared on its cover, alongside a
photo of Hagman as cowboy-hatted J.R.  “Look at the money I’m making,” Hagman told the magazine.
“Look at the fame I have. I love every moment.”  Attorney’s Son  Larry Martin Hagman was born on Sept. 21, 1931, in  Fort
Worth , Texas, the only child of then-17-year-old Mary Martin and
Benjamin Hagman, a criminal-defense attorney. He grew up in
Weatherford, Texas, his mother’s hometown. Hagman was raised by
his maternal grandmother as his mother pursued her career, first
by opening the Mary Hagman School of Dance in Weatherford, then
moving to Hollywood to perform and audition.  His parents divorced when he was about 4, and Hagman split
time between them. After his mother married Richard Halliday, a
story editor at Paramount Pictures Corp. -- the two had a
daughter, Heller -- Hagman moved with them to New York and
enrolled in the Trinity School. In his book, he portrayed
Halliday as a heavy drinker who tormented him and his stepsister
“with ridiculous head games.”  At 13, his mother sent him to  Vermont  to attend the
Woodstock Country School. He finished high school back in Texas,
where, one summer, he hit the road with his father, who was
running for state senator.  Texas Characters  “I met all the dudes down there,” he told Time in 1980.
“Oil, cattle, politics, everything. Let me tell you, my
character is milquetoast compared with some of those people.
Fratricide, patricide, brothers and sisters shooting each other
-- it was unbelievable.”  Hagman spent a year at  Bard College  studying drama and
dance. After making his professional acting debut in a 1951 New
York production of “The Taming of the Shrew,” he joined his
mother in a London staging of “South Pacific.”  He served in the U.S. Air Force during the  Korean War ,
landing a London-based post arranging entertainment for troops
and for visiting military brass. On Christmas Day, 1954, he
married Maj (pronounced “My”) Irene Axelsson, a Swedish
clothing designer. They would have two children, Heidi and
Preston.  Back in New York, Hagman landed a two-year recurring role
as a police officer on the daytime soap opera “ The Edge of
Night .” He appeared in “Fail-Safe” (1964), with  Henry Fonda 
and Walter Matthau.  ‘Real Breakthrough’  “I Dream of Jeannie,” co-starring Barbara Eden, premiered
in September 1965 and lasted 139 episodes, through 1970.  In 1977, reviewing scripts sent by Lorimar Inc., Hagman was
drawn to a proposal by writer and producer Leonard Katzman for
“Dallas.” As Hagman recalled, it “was Romeo and Juliet set
among the  oil fields , except there wasn’t one likable character
in the entire episode. Not one nice person. For television at
the time, that was a real breakthrough.”  Hagman said he shaped J.R. Ewing based on his memories of
working after high school for Jess Hall Jr., whose Weatherford-
based company made equipment used in oil drilling.  Of Hall, who  died  in 2011, Hagman wrote: “He was a
respected pillar of the community. But he also once drove his
Jeep up the front steps of my dad’s house at 2 a.m. and left it
on the porch for a week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  