-- Baxter Said to Near Deal to Buy Gambro for $4 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-24T12:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/baxter-said-to-near-deal-to-buy-gambro-for-4-billion.html
Baxter International Inc. (BAX) , the U.S.
maker of blood products and intravenous drugs, is near an accord
to buy Swedish kidney-dialysis competitor Gambro AB for about $4
billion, according to a person familiar with the talks.  An agreement may be signed in one or two weeks as the two
parties discuss final terms, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because talks are private. Baxter, which has been
negotiating with Gambro for almost a year after weighing a bid
for years, would be able to cut costs in areas such as research
and development at the combined company, the person said.  The combination would help Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter
expand its dialysis-equipment business, whose machines can be
used in home treatment. Gambro, which is jointly controlled by
Sweden’s EQT Partners AB and  Investor AB (INVEA) , sells its equipment
largely to hospitals and clinics.  Baxter  gained  4.1 percent to $68.81 at the close of trading
in  New York  yesterday, its biggest single-day gain in a year and
highest price since September 2008, after the Wall Street
Journal originally reported the talks.  Investor AB (INVEB) ’s policy “is not to comment on rumors,”
Magnus Dalhammar, a spokesman for the company, said in a phone
interview today. Investor owns 49 percent of Gambro.  Jussi Saarinen, a spokesman for EQT, which owns the other
51 percent through its IV fund, wasn’t immediately available. A
spokeswoman at Baxter couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment outside normal office hours.  Renal Products  Baxter is the world’s second-largest provider of  kidney
dialysis , trailing  Bad Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius Medical
Care AG, according to a Fresenius annual report. Gambro is
ranked third. Renal products accounted for about 18 percent of
Baxter’s $13.9 billion in  revenue  last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor, the holding company for Sweden’s billionaire
Wallenberg family, and EQT, a private-equity firm backed by the
family, bought Gambro in 2006. The two investors sold non-core
businesses and invested in Gambro after sales were dented by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s decision in 2006 to ban some
of its dialysis monitors because of production flaws.  Gambro last year sold its CaridianBCT blood-machine unit
for $2.63 billion, including debt, to  Terumo Corp. (4543) ,  Japan ’s
largest medical-device maker.  Baxter’s shares have risen 39 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of about $38 billion. The company also
had about $3.2 billion in  cash  and near-cash items at the end of
September.  Baxter has completed four acquisitions this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, with the largest being its $325
million purchase of Synovis Life Technologies Inc. for its line
of soft-tissue repair products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  