-- Disney’s ABC Asks Judge to Block Dish’s Autohop
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-24T21:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/disney-s-abc-asks-judge-to-block-dish-s-autohop.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC television
network is trying to shut down  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s ad-skipping
TV recording feature two weeks after a federal judge denied a
similar bid by a different broadcaster.  ABC said it will seek a preliminary injunction from U.S.
District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, according to a filing late
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court. On Nov. 7, U.S. District
Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles rejected a motion for an
injunction by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting. Fox appealed the
ruling.  The dispute over Dish’s ad-skipping technology, which
broadcasters warn threatens their very survival, is being played
out in federal courts on both coasts. Dish sued ABC,  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC in New York in May seeking a judgment
that its AutoHop feature, which allows viewers to skip ads,
doesn’t violate network copyrights or contracts. Fox, CBS and
NBC sued Dish in  Los Angeles  for copyright infringement and
breach of contract on the same day.  Dish , based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its new
digital video recorder, the Hopper, in March. Its PrimeTime
Anytime feature can record all the major networks’ primetime
shows and store them for eight days after their initial
broadcast. AutoHop, introduced in May, allows viewers, with the
touch of a button, to skip all the ads automatically, without
having to manually fast-forward through them.  ‘Ultimately Destroy’  The broadcasters claim that AutoHop “will ultimately
destroy the advertiser-supported ecosystem” the networks depend
on for revenue. Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, declined to
comment on the filing.  Dish said in court papers that AutoHop “complies with
Dish’s bargained-for contractual rights,” The company, which is
the third-largest subscription-TV provider in the U.S., said it
pays the networks “hundreds of millions of dollars per year in
retransmission fees, collected from its subscriber base, for the
right to rebroadcast these signals.”  The biggest U.S. pay-TV companies are Comcast and  DirecTV. (DTV)   Gee, in denying Fox a preliminary injunction to shut down
AutoHop, said, “Although Dish defines some of the parameters of
copying for time-shifting purposes, it is ultimately the user
who causes the copy to be made.” She also said Fox hadn’t
proved there would be “irreparable damage” if no injunction
was issued. Any harm to Fox, she said, could be relieved by
monetary damages.  ‘Judicial Economy’  In a separate matter, NBC has asked the New York judge to
transfer the AutoHop case to Los Angeles. Swain ruled in July
against NBC’s motion to transfer the case and NBC claims that
the legal circumstances have changed since then.  “Having two district courts on separate coasts interpret
the same contract would not serve the interests of judicial
economy,” NBC said in the motion for the venue change.  Dish, in a reply brief to NBC’s motion, said, “NBC
presents no grounds for the court to reconsider its prior
ruling.”  The  New York  case is In re AutoHop Litigation, 12-04155,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The Los Angeles case is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network LLC,
12-04529, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  