-- Euro Gains Most in Nine Months Versus Yen on Greek-Deal Optimism
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/euro-gains-most-in-nine-months-versus-yen-on-greek-deal-optimism.html
The euro had its biggest gain
against the yen in nine months on speculation Europe’s policy
makers will agree to keep aid flowing to  Greece  next week.  The shared currency gained the most in two months versus
the dollar as German business confidence unexpectedly rose from
the lowest in 2 1/2 years. The yen fell at least 1.2 percent
against all of its 16 most-traded counterparts as exports waned
and amid speculation Japanese elections next month will hand
power to an opposition party that advocates aggressive monetary
easing. The dollars of Australia and  Canada  gained after the
International Monetary Fund said the two may be classified as
reserve currencies.  “The euro’s strength is mostly short covering -- investors
getting nervous in case we do get some kind of announcement on a
Greek debt buyback or cuts to the interest rates on loans,”
Eimear Daly, a currency-market analyst at Monex  Europe  Ltd. in
London said Nov. 23. “Comments by the potentially new political
leader have really been driving the yen in a way we really
haven’t seen play out before. Low market volatility is really
letting the yen weaken off.”  A short is wager an asset will weaken, and short covering
involves investors buying an asset to offset a prior sale.  The euro rallied to 106.98 yen on Nov. 23, the highest
since April, before trading at 106.94 for a 3.2 percent weekly
advance, the most since the five days ended Feb. 24. The shared
currency touched $1.2991 on Nov. 23, the strongest in three
weeks versus the dollar, and ended the week 1.8 percent stronger
at $1.2976. The yen fell for a second week against the dollar,
declining 1.3 percent to 82.40. It reached 82.84 on Nov. 22, the
weakest in more than seven months.  ‘Technical Problems’  European finance ministers said a further meeting on Greece
had been arranged for Nov. 26 and that only “technical
problems” are holding up a deal. Among the options they are
considering include recycling European Central Bank profits on
Greek bonds, charging Greece lower interest rates and extending
repayment deadlines.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its business climate
index climbed to 101.4 this month, compared with an estimated
reading of 99.5 based on the median of 48 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey.  The yen has fallen 3.8 percent in the past month, the most
among the 10 developed currencies measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro is the second-worst
performer, losing 0.5 percent, while the dollar has declined 0.4
percent.  Yen Declines  Shinzo Abe, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party that is
favored to topple the ruling Democratic Party in Dec. 16
elections, has advocated an increase in the central bank’s
inflation goal to as much as 3 percent from 1 percent.  The yen extended its decline even after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
completed a two-day policy meeting this week where Bank of  Japan 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the opposition party’s proposals
to weaken the currency are unrealistic.  Japan’s  exports  decreased for a fifth straight month,
falling 6.5 percent in October from a year earlier, leaving a
trade deficit of 549 billion yen ($6.7 billion), according to a
report on Nov. 20.  “The yen got an extra push because of the trade-balance
figures,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York, said Nov. 21. “It showed a
deficit that was larger than expected, which is putting pressure
on the yen because Japan is an export-driven economy.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped 1.3 percent to 80.217. It was the first weekly
decline since the five days ended Oct. 19.  ‘Aren’t Stupid’  The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts as
U.S. lawmakers expressed optimism the $607 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect at the
beginning of 2013 unless Congress acts would be avoided. The
dollar usually gains in times of economic stress as investors
seek the world’s reserve currency as a haven.  House Speaker John Boehner, who called Nov. 16 discussions
with Obama “constructive,” said Republicans are willing to put
revenue on the table in exchange for spending cuts.  “I’m assuming these people aren’t stupid, but I’d like
them to prove it,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research at Societe Generale SA in  London , said Nov. 23. “If
you remove the problem of the fiscal cliff, there is a danger
the U.S. economy could surprise on the upside next year.”  Aussie, Loonie  The Canadian and Australian dollars advanced after the
International Monetary Fund said in a Nov. 14 report that the
two currencies “are to be considered for inclusion” separately
in the IMF’s “Currency Composition of Official Foreign-Exchange
Reserves” data. They’ve previously been included in an “other
currencies” category in the Washington-based lender’s COFER
reports.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie, advanced 0.8
percent to 99.29 cents per U.S. dollar, in the biggest weekly
gain since Aug. 10. The Aussie was 1.2 percent stronger at
$1.0461.  Sweden’s krona was the best performer against the dollar
after a survey of Swedish industrial companies showed
investments are expected to rise 9 percent this year, Statistics
Sweden said Nov. 21. The report damped concern over the economy
amid reports of slumping exports and job cuts.  The krona rallied 2.5 percent against the dollar to 6.6228,
the largest weekly gain in nine months. The Swedish currency
advanced 0.7 percent to 8.5937 versus the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  