-- Houston Rockets, Jeremy Lin Rout NBA’s New York Knicks 131-103
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-24T05:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/houston-rockets-jeremy-lin-rout-nba-s-new-york-knicks-131-103.html
The  Houston Rockets  defeated the New
York Knicks 131-103 in their first National Basketball
Association meeting since Jeremy Lin rejoined the Rockets.  The Rockets improved to 6-7, while the Knicks fell to 8-3
after last night’s contest at the Toyota Center in Houston. The
Knicks lead the Eastern Conference’s  Atlantic Division  by one
game over the Brooklyn Nets (7-4), who beat the Los Angeles
Clippers 86-76 last night.  James Harden  had 33 points and Chandler Parsons scored a
career-high 31 for the Rockets, who led 72-57 at halftime.
Lin added 13 points for Houston.  “This was an unacceptable performance,” Knicks coach  Mike Woodson , whose team has lost two straight games for the first
time this season, told reporters. “We weren’t ready to play,
and that’s on me.”  Carmelo Anthony  had a season-high 37 points for the Knicks,
who also lost two nights earlier in  Dallas .  Raymond Felton  added
17 points.  Lin, 24, had a short stint with the Rockets before signing
with the Knicks in December 2011 and becoming a starter two
months later. He moved back to Houston as a free agent before
this season.  Lin had seven rebounds and three assists in 35 minutes last
night.  Same Style  “They are playing the style he played in New York with
us,” Woodson said of Lin. “He’s got the ball in his hands a
lot.”  It’s been about nine months since Lin, a Harvard University
graduate, drew global acclaim after helping a Knicks’ turnaround
that ended with a playoff berth.  Lin’s inclusion in the Knicks’ starting lineup sparked a
six-game winning streak and a surge in television ratings,
ticket prices and merchandise sales, as well as increased
coverage of the team in Asia.  Interest in his play may have also helped settle a contract
dispute between  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , which owns the team
and its television network, and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  The craze
became known as Linsanity.  A knee injury forced Lin to have surgery at the end of
March, ending his season, and the Knicks went on to lose 4-1 in
a best-of-seven opening-round playoff series against the
eventual NBA-champion  Miami Heat .  Despite the marketing boon he created for the Knicks, the
team opted in July not to match a three-year, $25 million
contract offer for Lin by the Rockets because the back-loaded
deal would have placed too much of a financial burden on New
York under the league’s luxury tax.  Felton’s Turn  “He doesn’t need to do anything special because he used to
play on the Knicks,” Parsons said of Lin. “He’s with us now
and he just needs to do all the little things.”  Instead, the Knicks turned to Felton, a former Knick whom
they reacquired in a trade with the  Portland Trail Blazers . They
also signed 39-year-old Jason Kidd, a 10-time All-Star and the
NBA’s active career leader in assists and steals.  Felton, 28, entered last night’s game averaging 15.7 points
and 6.9 assists per game, while Kidd had 8.3 points and 2.1
steals per contest. Lin was averaging 10 points and 6.3 assists
for the Rockets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net 
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  