-- S. Korea, Japan Finance Ministers Meet to Repair Ties
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-11-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/s-korea-japan-finance-ministers-meet-in-effort-to-repair-ties.html
Japanese and South Korean finance
ministers met to discuss boosting economic and financial ties as
the two nations work to repair relations marred by a territorial
dispute.  “It was a very significant and meaningful financial
discussion,” Koriki Jojima told reporters yesterday after talks
with his South Korean counterpart Bahk Jae Wan in Gwacheon,
south of  Seoul . In a joint statement, the two reaffirmed the
importance of resuming negotiations on a free trade agreement
and resolved to work closely to strengthen collaboration on
issues ranging from finance to the environment.  The meeting, which was postponed from August, suggests
Asia’s second- and fourth-largest economies are trying to
improve relations after a territorial dispute damaged ties and
led to the cancellation of an extension of a currency swap
agreement.  Japan  is also involved in a row with  China  over the
ownership of islands in the  East China Sea .  “There are difficult issues,” Jojima said. “But on the
other hand, especially on the economic front, Japan and  Korea 
have a large influence on the regional economy and they should
link up in the areas where that is possible.”  Bahk said the talks were “aimed at deepening relations”
and that “Jojima and I shared views on policy direction across
tax, foreign exchange and fiscal soundness.” He declined to
elaborate on the currency discussions.  Excessive Fluctuation  The yen last week fell to the weakest level since April
against the  U.S. dollar  while the won rose to a 14-month high.
The South Korean currency has strengthened about 9 percent
against the yen since the end of June.  The won has appreciated about 5.5 percent versus the dollar
since the end of June, the best performer among Asia’s 11 most-
traded currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yen weakened about 3.2 percent against the greenback during the
same period.  South Korea ’s Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said Nov.
22 the government will take action to curb excessive fluctuation
in the won.  South Korea is Japan’s third-biggest trading partner, with
merchandise trade between the two rising almost 4 percent to 8.4
trillion yen ($102 billion) in 2011, according to Japan’s
Ministry of Finance. Sales of Japanese carmakers in South Korea
in October dropped 13 percent from the previous month, according
to data provided by the  Korea Automobile Importers and
Distributors Association .  Political tension between Japan and South Korea escalated
after President  Lee Myung Bak  visited islands claimed by both
nations in August. The islands, controlled by Korea, are called
Dokdo in Korean and Takeshima in Japanese.  Japan in May unveiled a plan to buy South Korean  government
bonds  as part of efforts to diversify its foreign-exchange
reserves. It didn’t specify the amount it would buy or provide
other details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  or
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  