-- Saudi Arabian Shares Snap Longest Losing Streak in 20 Months
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-11-24T13:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/saudi-arabian-shares-snap-longest-losing-streak-in-20-months.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose for the
first time in 11 days, snapping the longest losing streak in 20
months, as regional tensions eased and investors speculated the
holiday shopping season in the U.S. will boost the economy.  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , the second-largest telecommunications
operator in  Saudi Arabia  also known as Mobily, had the biggest
gain in almost three weeks, and  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , the
kingdom’s second-biggest lender, jumped to a one-week high.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.8 percent, the biggest
advance since Nov. 6, to 6,665.49 at the 3:30 p.m. close time in
Riyadh. The gauge fell 4.8 percent in the previous 10 days to a
four-month low. The benchmark index’s relative strength  index 
closed at 29 on Nov. 21. A reading below 30 signals an asset
will rebound, according to some technical analysts. The Arab
world’s biggest bourse has gained 3.9 percent this year.  “The market was beaten down in the past two weeks which
suggests that most negative news has been priced-in and now we
are seeing some recovery in stock prices,” Asim Bukhtiar,
senior analyst at Riyad Capital, said in an e-mail. “Easing
regional tension may be contributing factor but investors are
also looking ahead to  holiday shopping season  in the U.S., which
could raise domestic optimism.”  Egypt and the U.S. brokered a cease-fire between Israel and
Hamas that ended eight days of air strikes and missile firing.
It was announced late on Nov. 21 and has largely held, though
both sides said there were breaches yesterday.  Shares Rally  U.S. stocks  capped their biggest weekly rally since June on
the last day of trading this week as the American holiday
shopping season began. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
1.3 percent on Nov. 23, the best post-Thanksgiving performance
since 2007, extending the week’s rally to 3.6 percent as
President  Barack Obama  expressed confidence on a budget
agreement with Congress and data from China to Germany bolstered
optimism about global growth.  Concern that Obama’s re-election set up a budget showdown
with the Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  sent the
 S&P 500  down 7.7 percent from its 2012 high in September through
Nov. 15. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Nov.
20 that the central bank doesn’t have the tools to offset the
potential harm to the economy from the fiscal cliff.  Mobily increased 1.4 percent to 72.75 riyals. Samba rose
1.6 percent to 44.70 riyals, the highest level since Nov. 18.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian gulf
bourse operating Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  