-- South Africa Defeats England to Extend Rugby Unbeaten Run
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-24T19:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/south-africa-defeats-england-16-15-to-extend-rugby-unbeaten-run.html
South Africa continued its
domination of England by holding on for a 16-15 win in an
international rugby Test match at Twickenham in London.  Willem Alberts scored the only try of the game and Pat
Lambie kicked three penalties as South Africa extended its
unbeaten run over England to 11 games. Owen Farrell booted three
penalties and  Toby Flood  kicked two for the hosts.  “We were a bit fortunate, it was a hard-fought battle and
it could have gone either way,” South Africa coach Heyneke
Meyer said in a news conference. “The defense from both sides
was awesome.”  World champion  New Zealand  routed  Wales  33-10, Australia
held on for a 22-19 win over Italy, Ireland beat Argentina 46-
24, Tonga upset Scotland 21-15 and France defeated Samoa 22-14.  The autumn series of games in Europe will affect the
seedings for the 2015 Rugby  World Cup . The International Rugby
Board rankings as of Dec. 3 will be used to band the 12
automatic qualifiers in the 20-team tournament in England, with
the first four placed at the top of the five-team groups.  South Africa  made it 10 victories in the past 11 with
England on a rainy day at Twickenham. England earned a 14-14
draw when the teams last met in South Africa in June, ending a
nine-game losing run in the series.  Flood kicked two penalties and Lambie booted three in the
first half to give South Africa a 9-6 lead. Alberts then went
over three minutes after the break, with Lambie converting, to
push the Springboks’ advantage to 16-6.  Robshaw’s Decision  Farrell kicked a pair of penalties to cut the deficit to
16-12. England won another penalty with just over a minute
remaining and captain Chris Robshaw had Farrell attempt a kick
instead of putting the ball into touch and going for a try.  Farrell made the kick to pull the host within a point, but
England was unable to gather the ball on the restart and South
Africa clinched the match.  “The players have to make decisions on the field,”
England coach  Stuart Lancaster  said. “The purpose of having a
captain in a team is that he makes decisions and the players
back it and that’s what happened.”  England, which lost to Australia last week, closes its
autumn schedule against New Zealand on Dec. 1.  Liam Meessam,  Tony Woodcock  and Luke Romano scored tries
and Aaron Cruden kicked 18 points in place of injured  Dan Carter 
in Cardiff as New Zealand handed Wales its sixth straight loss.
The All Blacks extended their unbeaten run to 20 Test matches
and also beat Wales for the 25th consecutive time.  Australia Wins  Nick Cummins scored a try and  Berrick Barnes  booted three
penalties as Australia held on for the win in Florence, Italy.
Robert Barbieri touched down and Luciano Orquera kicked four
penalties for Italy, which trailed 22-6 at the half.  Ireland ended a run of five straight Test defeats by
beating Argentina.  Jonathan Sexton  and  Tommy Bowe  touched down
twice each as Ireland ran in seven tries in Dublin. Sexton also
kicked a penalty and three conversions to finish with 19 points.  Tukulua Lokotui and Fetu’u Vainikolo scored tries and
Fangatapu Apikotoa kicked 10 points as Tonga secured its first
win against Scotland. Greig Laidlaw accounted for the Scotland
points with five penalties.  Frederick Michalak scored a try and finished with 19 points
as France beat Samoa in Paris. The win gives France a sweep of
its three-game autumn series after beating Australia and
Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 