-- U.S. Yields Rise First Time in 5 Weeks on Fiscal-Cliff Optimism
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-24T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/u-s-yields-rise-first-time-in-5-weeks-on-fiscal-cliff-optimism.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
note yields higher for the first in five weeks, on optimism
President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers will reach an agreement to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff, damping refuge demand.  The benchmark  yield  touched a two-week high yesterday as
finance ministers from the euro area prepare to hold a meeting
on Nov. 26 to discuss unlocking bailout funds for  Greece , after
failing to reach an agreement earlier this week. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said earlier this week an agreement to
reduce long-term U.S. deficits may remove an impediment to
economic growth next year. The U.S. will sell $99 billion in
notes next week.  “The key market focus will be how the negotiations are
proceeding” on the fiscal cliff, said  Priya Misra , head of U.S.
rates strategy at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , one of the
21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The last thing we
heard from Congress was positive.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point on the week, to 1.69 percent in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 lost 1 point, or $10
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 13/32.  The yield rose for the first five-day period since Oct. 19
and touched 1.70 percent yesterday, the highest since Nov. 7.  Mideast Update  The  yield  on the two-year note rose to 0.27 percent
yesterday, the highest level in more than two weeks, after a
cease-fire accord between  Israel  and the Palestinian militant
group Hamas on Nov. 21 damped refuge demand.  The U.S. market was shut Nov. 22 for Thanksgiving holiday.
It closed at 2 p.m. in New York yesterday.  Treasuries traded at the least expensive levels in more
than two weeks. The 10-year  term premium , a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.87 percent
yesterday, the least costly since Nov. 6. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value. The average this year is negative 0.76
percent.  Volatility dropped to a five-year low on Nov. 20. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings
on Treasuries based on options, dropped to 53.7, the lowest
level since May 2007.  Trading Pace  Treasury trading volume  dropped  to $163 billion on Nov. 21,
compared with the 2012 daily average of $241 billion, according
to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government
debt .  “The conversation is entirely fiscal-cliff related,” said
 Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at the broker-dealer BTIG
LLC in New York. “Where conversations are headed will be
important to investors.”  The fiscal cliff refers to the $607 billion combination of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take
effect in January unless lawmakers reach an agreement on long-
term deficit reduction.  The 10-year yield has risen since it reached a two-month
low of 1.55 percent on Nov. 16 when President Obama met with
congressional leaders about the fiscal cliff. House Speaker  John
Boehner  and White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  last week
both described the discussions as “constructive.”  Bernanke View  “Cooperation and creativity to deliver fiscal clarity --in
particular, a plan for resolving the nation’s longer-term
budgetary issues without harming the recovery -- could help make
the new year a very good one for the American economy,”
Bernanke said Nov. 20 in a speech to the  Economic Club of New
York . “Failure to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff would pose a
substantial threat to the recovery.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  said Nov. 8 the tax
increases and spending cuts would cause gross domestic product
to contract 0.5 percent in 2013. The  U.S. economy  is forecast to
grow by 2.2 percent in 2012, and 2 next year, according to
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Commerce Department may say on Nov. 27 that bookings
for  goods  meant to last at least three years fell 0.8 percent in
October from the prior month, according to the median projection
of economist surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed Plans  The Fed is scheduled to conduct six purchase operations
next week as part of its $667 billion Operation Twist program to
strengthen the economic recovery. It will conduct two separate
operations on Nov. 28 of securities maturing from February 2036
to November 2042 and November 2018 to November 2020. The program
is scheduled to end in December.  Primary dealers expect expanded buying of Treasuries to
continue next year after the program ends. The Fed has purchased
$2.3 trillion in securities in two so-called quantitative easing
programs since 2008 to spur economic growth.  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $35 billion of two-year
notes on Nov. 27, an equal amount of five-year securities the
next day and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Nov. 29.  “I don’t think the supply should weigh the market down too
much,” said Justin Lederer, an interest rate strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, a primary dealer. “We have
six Fed operations.”  Ten-year notes will yield 1.74 percent by Dec. 31 and 1.97
percent by June 30, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  