-- Vietnam’s November Inflation Accelerates to 6-Month High
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-24T04:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/vietnam-s-november-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-since-may.html
Vietnam ’s inflation quickened to a
six-month high as health care and education costs climbed.  Consumer prices  gained 7.08 percent in November from a year
earlier, after rising 7 percent in October, the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi said today. That was the biggest
increase since May and the third straight acceleration. Prices
rose 0.47 percent from the previous  month .  Inflation is at risk of accelerating toward the end of the
year as the government encourages banks to cut lending rates and
help businesses, Do Thi Nhung, deputy head of the central bank’s
monetary policy department, said on Nov. 5. Rising health-care
and education-related costs are adding to price pressures that
may limit the monetary authority’s scope to support an economy
set to  grow  at the slowest pace in 13 years.  “The normal policy in Vietnam on government-related
services like health and education is to stop prices in those
areas from increasing at times of high inflation,” said Adam McCarty, a Hanoi-based economist with Mekong Economics. “But
the government has to let them go up eventually.”  Vietnamese Dong  The Vietnamese dong rose 0.1 percent against the dollar
yesterday, taking its gains for this year to 0.9 percent. The
benchmark VN Index slipped 0.4 percent yesterday.  Prices in the category that covers health care and
pharmaceuticals surged 45.4 percent from a year earlier, while
education costs jumped 16.9 percent, according to today’s
statement. Transportation-related costs gained 7.4 percent.  Vietnam’s government has let prices of health-care services
and tuition rise “to take advantage of benign food inflation,
as last year’s high inflation did not allow the government to
raise health care and education fees,” HSBC Holdings Plc said
in a report last month. “This is considered positive, in our
view, as it allows the government to reduce the  budget deficit 
and normalize prices.”  The nation is targeting  growth  of 5.2 percent for the full
year, faster than the 4.73 percent rate of the first nine months
and the slowest pace since 1999. Elevated inflation, partly due
to a weak macroeconomic management framework, is a “major
downside risk” for Vietnam, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a Nov. 18 report.  The central bank has cut its refinancing rate to 10 percent
from 15 percent at the start of the year, and its repurchase
rate to 8 percent from 14 percent. Vietnam will reduce borrowing
costs in 2013 as price pressures decrease, Prime Minister Nguyen
Tan Dung told the National Assembly earlier this month.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . With assistance from Oanh Ha in Hanoi. Editors: Nerys Avery, Amit Prakash  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  