-- Winless QPR Names Redknapp Manager, Replacing Hughes
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-24T15:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/winless-qpr-names-harry-redknapp-manager-replacing-fired-hughes.html
Queens Park Rangers, which sits last
in English soccer’s Premier League without a victory, hired
 Harry Redknapp  as manager to replace  Mark Hughes .  Redknapp signed a 2 ½-year contract to take over the west
 London  club after Hughes was fired yesterday.  “I’m delighted to be back in the managerial hot-seat at
QPR,” Redknapp said in a statement on the  club’s website  today.
“When I spoke to the shareholders and they told me about their
plans I knew this was too good an opportunity to turn down.”  Redknapp, 65, left Tottenham in June after a nearly four-
year run in which he led Spurs to their first appearance in the
 Champions League . He was favored to replace Fabio Capello as
manager of the England national team when the Italian resigned
in February before the job went to  Roy Hodgson .  Redknapp has also managed Bournemouth, West Ham, and
sandwiched two stints at Portsmouth with a spell with
Southampton. He guided Portsmouth to the 2008 F.A. Cup title.  QPR Chairman Tony Fernandez called Redknapp the club’s
“No. 1 target.”  “He has a proven track record in the Premier League and
has all the characteristics we are looking for to get us out of
the current situation we find ourselves in,” Fernandez said.
“We believe we have a manager with significant experience at
the highest level of football who can come in and immediately
deliver our objectives.”  QPR gave Hughes a 2 ½-year contract in January to replace
the fired Neil Warnock with the newly promoted club in 17th
place. It finished the season in that same spot, one point above
the three-team relegation zone.  Four Points  QPR, the only Premier League team without a win this
season, has four points from 12 games and is four points behind
Southampton in 19th place.  “There’s no doubt there’s a lot of ability in the squad,
but for one reason or another things haven’t gone as well as
everyone expected since the start of the season,” Redknapp
said. “I can’t wait to get to work and get the results
necessary to kick-start our season.”  QPR plays at  Manchester United  today, with assistant
coaches Mark Bowen and Eddie Niedzwiecki in charge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 