-- Killing of 4 Shiites in Yemeni Capital Sanaa Increases Tension
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-11-24T23:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-24/yemen-blast-kills-four-shiite-muslims-during-religious-festival.html
Four Shiite Houthi Muslims were
killed in an explosion at a worship site in the Yemeni capital
of Sanaa in an increase of tension in the poorest Arab country.  The attack on people gathered for a religious festival
yesterday left 10 others wounded, the  Defense Ministry  said on
its website. The Shiite Houthi have fought against the
government in the predominantly Sunni Muslim country.  “It seems to be quite an escalation of an ideologically-
based armed conflict,” Abdulwahab Alkebsi, regional director
for  Africa  and the  Middle East  at the Washington-based  Center
for International Private Enterprise , said in an interview.
“This brings the conflict into the capital, with an attack on
worshippers during a time of prayers and reflection.”  Yemen suffers from terrorism and civil unrest as it makes
the transition to democracy under Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi, who was
elected president in February. The so-called Arab Spring, which
began almost two years ago in  Tunisia , led to the resignation of
President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  “An important element of the transition is an all-
inclusive national dialogue, scheduled to take place later this
year,” the  United Nations  said in a statement on its website
Nov. 23. The creation of a constitution is scheduled to
“conclude in late 2013, enabling general elections to take
place in February 2014,” according to the statement.  The Shiite Houthis were attacked as they were leaving al-
Mad’en Hall where they were celebrating a religious festival for
the first time, the al-Masirah satellite television of a Shiite
group reported. The assailants fired a rocket-propelled grenade,
the  Associated Press  reported.  Yemen has accused Shiite-led Iran of arming the Houthi
rebels, who have been fighting the government in the
northwestern  province  of Saada since 2004.  The conflict with Houthis in the north of Yemen has in the
past drawn in  Saudi Arabia , a Sunni Muslim-led monarchy that
last month sent troops to help suppress a Shiite-led uprising in
another neighbor, Bahrain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net 
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  