-- AMR Pilot Board Reaches Accord Needed for US Airways Merger
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-12-29T23:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/amr-pilots-board-reaches-agreement-needed-for-us-airways-merger.html
The board representing  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines pilots reached a transition agreement that
removes another hurdle to a combination with  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  that would form the world’s largest carrier.  By an 11-5 vote, the Allied Pilots Association’s board
approved a memorandum of understanding to be considered by the
managements of AMR and US Airways and the U.S. Airline Pilots
Association, which represents US Airways’ pilots, APA said today
in a  statement . No terms were disclosed.  Ed Stewart, a US Airways spokesman, told Bloomberg News in
an e-mail that the airline cannot comment because of a non-
disclosure agreement. American Airlines spokesman Mike Trevino
said by e-mail that the company “remains actively engaged in
discussions with US Airways, APA and USAPA to develop a
framework for the terms of employment for pilots in the event of
a merger.”  The accord takes the carriers closer to a possible merger
by minimizing the risk of labor objections and easing the two
pilot groups toward a joint contract that would align pay and
work rules. AMR, which has been in bankruptcy since 2011, has a
board meeting set for Jan. 9 to decide whether to go ahead on a
combination, people familiar with the matter have said.  The Allied Pilots Association represents about 8,000 active
pilots who fly for the Fort Worth, Texas-based American, while
the U.S. Airline Pilots Association represents 5,200 who fly for
Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways.  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways would surpass United Continental Holdings
Inc. as the world’s largest airline, based on passenger traffic.  AMR filed for Chapter 11 protection in November 2011 ahead
of a fourth straight annual loss, listing $24.7 billion in
assets and $29.6 billion in debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  