-- Manchester United Wins 2-0 to Stay Atop England’s Premier League
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-12-29T18:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/manchester-united-wins-2-0-to-stay-atop-england-s-premier-league.html
Manchester United beat West Brom 2-0
at home to retain its seven-point lead atop English soccer’s
Premier League, while 10-man Manchester City held on to win 4-3
at Norwich.  Gareth McAuley deflected in a cross by United’s  Ashley Young  in the 9th minute for an own goal, and then substitute
Robin van Persie finished the scoring in the 90th minute at Old
Trafford. United manager  Alex Ferguson  rested forward  Wayne Rooney  and striker  Javier Hernandez  for the match.  “We’re in a good position,” Ferguson said in a broadcast
interview. “We’re halfway there. We’ve a game on Tuesday away
from home at Wigan and we’ve got a few players to freshen it up.
We’ll look forward to the next game and try and win it.”  City led the entire game after taking a 2-0 lead in the
fourth minute with two Edin Dzeko goals, although Norwich came
back to pressure the defending champions after City forward
Samir Nasri was dismissed for an attempted headbutt. The hosts
got two goals from Russell Martin and one from Anthony
Pilkington.  “With 10 men, it was difficult,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said in a broadcast interview. “The guys played very
well.”  Tottenham got two second-half goals to come back to win 2-1
at Sunderland to move into third place. The hosts led 1-0 after
40 minutes on captain John O’Shea’s goal. Tottenham got back
into the match when Carlos Cuellar headed in an own-goal in the
48th minute, and  Aaron Lennon  scored three minutes later.  Wigan won 3-0 at Aston Villa, Swansea beat Fulham 2-1 in
London, and Reading defeated West Ham 1-0 at home. Stoke came
back from 3-1 down at half to draw 3-3 at home with Southampton.  Arsenal hosts Newcastle in the last game of the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  