-- Argentina Asks Court to Overturn Order on Defaulted Debt
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-29T05:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/argentina-asks-court-to-overturn-order-on-defaulted-debt.html
Argentina  asked a U.S. appeals court
to reverse rulings that would help Elliott Management Corp.’s
NML Capital Fund among other creditors collect on sovereign debt
the country repudiated more than a decade ago.  Argentina, which defaulted on a record $95 billion of bonds
in 2001, filed a brief yesterday with the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New York, arguing the rulings illegally interfere with its
immunity as a sovereign nation and improperly exert authority
over third parties.  “There is no authority permitting a U.S. court to order a
sovereign to bring its immune assets into the U.S. in order to
‘turn over’ or distribute them to its creditors,” Argentina
argued in the filing.  On Oct. 26, the appeals court ruled that Argentina can’t
treat holders of its restructured debt more favorably than the
so-called “hold-out” creditors, who declined to participate in
two rounds of debt restructuring. Argentina argued yesterday
that the court should ask  New York  State’s highest court to
determine that issue under state law.  The appeals court also sent part of the case back to U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa, who then ordered Argentina to make
a $1.3 billion payment into escrow, the amount claimed by the
defaulted bondholders in the case, when it makes scheduled
payments on the restructured bonds. Griesa also barred third
parties, including banks, from helping Argentina evade his
orders. Those issues are set to be argued before the court on
Feb. 27.  New Offer  The country said its executive branch plans to present to
Congress a new exchange offer to holders of the defaulted debt,
on the same terms as a 2010 restructuring.  The U.S. government, citing concerns about its assets and
foreign relations, filed a friend-of-the-court brief yesterday
supporting Argentina’s request for a rehearing in the case. The
appeals court ruling improperly restricts the legal immunity
afforded to foreign state property and also threatens the future
resolution of sovereign debt crises, the U.S. argued in its
filing.  Argentina defaulted on its sovereign debt in 2001 and
offered to exchange the bonds in 2005 and 2010 for 25 cents to
29 cents on the dollar as part of a restructuring effort,
according to court papers.  The country argued yesterday that linking the $1.3 billion
payment to its obligation to service at least $24 billion of
restructured debt improperly harms the interests of the
restructured bondholders.  Third Parties  Argentina also said that Griesa’s order improperly
implicates third parties, including the bond trustee and what
Argentina called “broad, ill-defined categories of banks,
clearinghouses, depositories and other entities comprising the
international payment system.”  Restructured debt holders including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
Gramercy Funds Management LLC and Brevan Howard Asset Management
LLP said in a court filing yesterday that Griesa’s order would
likely result in no bondholders being paid.  The group, whose holdings total more than $1.5 billion,
said in the filing that it is a “near certainty” that
Argentina won’t make payments on any bonds if the lower-court
order stands, according its papers.  Argentina has said previously that it doesn’t intend to pay
holders of the defaulted debt who opted not to accept the
country’s exchange offers, according to the filing. The
country’s law also prohibits the payment of defaulted debt, the
exchange bondholders argued.  Restructured Bonds  If the injunction isn’t vacated, it is “certain” that
either the country will fail to pay the exchange bonds or that
the payments will be frozen, the restructured bondholders group
said in the filing.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , trustee for restructured
Argentine bonds, has told the court that Griesa’s order would
force it to violate contractual obligations to the investors.
BNY Mellon is responsible for ensuring that the restructured
bondholders receive payments, it said in a filing to the appeals
court. Under Griesa’s order, the bank would have to withhold the
payments if Argentina doesn’t pay defaulted debt holders,
according to the filing.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  