-- Lawmakers to Hold Weekend Talks on Averting Budget Change
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-12-29T16:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/lawmakers-to-hold-weekend-talks-on-averting-budget-change.html
U.S. lawmakers entered a weekend of
budget negotiations in a final effort to prevent at least some
of more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
from taking effect in January.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said they’ll try to reach a deal by tomorrow, likely
focusing on a relatively narrow range of issues rather than the
full list of tax and spending changes. They face the same
partisan mistrust and divides on fiscal policy that have
prevented a budget deal for more than two years -- compounded by
the Dec. 31 deadline to thwart the tax increases and spending
reductions, as well as the Jan. 3 start of the next Congress.  “The hour for immediate action is here,” President  Barack Obama  said yesterday at the White House, declaring himself
“modestly optimistic” about a deal while complaining about
Congress’s tendency to wait until the last minute to act.  “The American people are not going to have any patience
for a politically self-inflicted wound to our economy,” he
said.  Both sides are positioning themselves to embrace a
bipartisan deal as a welcome and rare accord in a polarized
government. They’re also trying to demonstrate willingness to
compromise so they can blame the other party if talks collapse
and the so-called fiscal cliff occurs.  Market Reaction  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for a fifth day
yesterday, by 1.1 percent to 1,402.45 at 4 p.m. in New York. The
benchmark Treasury 10-year  yield  declined four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.7 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Beyond extension of the tax cuts set to expire and expanded
unemployment insurance, Reid and McConnell will consider
provisions to prevent a reduction in Medicare payments to
doctors, avoid some automatic spending cuts and prevent a
scheduled increase in milk prices, said a person familiar with
the talks who requested anonymity to discuss the private
conversations.  Any agreement probably won’t raise the federal debt limit,
which is almost at its ceiling, the person said.  Income Threshold  During a meeting with congressional leaders, Obama left
open the possibility of setting the threshold where tax
increases would start at $400,000 in annual income instead of
the $250,000 he prefers, said a Republican aide who was briefed
on the talks and requested anonymity.  The automatic spending reductions aren’t likely to be
addressed in an immediate agreement, the aide said. About half
of the spending cuts would affect defense programs, and defense
contractors including Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  have been lobbying to prevent them.  In his weekly address today, Obama said leaders in Congress
are working to prevent a middle-class tax increase. “We may be
able to reach an agreement that can pass both houses in time,”
he said.  “For the first time, you’re seeing an opportunity for a
real result rather than the phony-baloney acts that they’ve been
engaged in,” Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican, said
yesterday. “Republicans know that they’re losing the PR battle
but the president knows that history will judge him.”  Senate Veterans  Reid and McConnell participated in an afternoon meeting
yesterday at the White House with Obama, House Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. Reid, 73, and
McConnell, 70, are veteran senators who have worked side by side
in their current roles for almost six years, sparring in public
and negotiating in private.  If Senate leaders can’t agree on a bill, Obama said he will
ask Reid to hold a vote on a plan he outlined Dec. 21 that would
let taxes rise on annual household income exceeding $250,000.  The president’s proposal to raise taxes on the top two
percent of Americans “would only fund the government for eight
days,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Republican from  Missouri , said
today in the weekly Republican address. “What does the
president propose we do for the other 357 days of the year?”  If Congress doesn’t act, taxes would rise by more than
$3,400 per household, automatic spending cuts would start taking
effect and expanded unemployment benefits would lapse. If there
is no resolution soon, the economy would likely go into
recession in the first half of 2013, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, haven’t agreed on details, said a Senate Democratic
aide who spoke on condition of anonymity yesterday to discuss
the talks.  Reid’s Bill  Reid said in a statement yesterday that he was readying a
bill for a vote by Dec. 31 that would extend expiring tax cuts
on income up to $250,000 and other provisions.  “In the next 24 hours, I look forward to hearing any good-
faith proposals Senator McConnell has for altering this bill,”
Reid said in a statement after 6 p.m. in Washington yesterday.  Senate Republicans, including John Cornyn of  Texas , said
they were resigned to their inability to prevent higher tax
rates for some top earners.  “We have to bow to the inevitable, which is we are in the
minority in the Senate, and that’s likely to happen no matter
what we do,” Cornyn said in an interview.  Senator Kelly Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican, said she
could accept a $500,000 threshold for higher tax rates.  “I want to be able to save as many people as possible from
a tax increase,” she said.  McConnell, who said yesterday that he was “optimistic”
about an agreement, won’t agree to something that Boehner and
the House can’t support, said Senator Jon Kyl of  Arizona , the
second-ranking Senate Republican.  ‘Get a Result’  “Our effort here is to try to get a result,” Kyl told
reporters. “If you know the House isn’t going to do something,
then why go through the charade?”  A Reid-McConnell deal would shift pressure to Boehner, who
would probably need to rely on Democratic votes to pass a bill
that would allow some tax rates to go up.  Boehner and the House could accept a Senate-passed bill or
change it and send it back to the Senate. The House and Senate
are scheduled to return to Washington tomorrow for an unusual
Sunday session. It would be the first time since Oct. 29, 2000
when both the House and Senate are casting votes on a Sunday,
according to congressional records.  “All he can recommend is for the Senate to find a position
and send it to us and he’ll be happy to see how it flies,”
Representative Lynn Jenkins of  Kansas , a member of the incoming
Republican leadership, said in an interview.  Tax Rates  Tax policy remains the most substantial divide between the
two parties. Any deal between Reid and McConnell would have to
address tax rates on ordinary income, capital gains, dividends
and estates, all of which are scheduled to increase on Jan. 1,
Kyl said.  Republicans have resisted rate increases for any income
level, maintaining that they would hurt the economy and
particularly businesses that pay their taxes on their owners’
individual returns. On Dec. 20, because of opposition from his
own party, Boehner scrapped a plan that would have let taxes
increase on incomes above $1 million.  Any rate increase would hurt small businesses, Kyl said.  “I’m not going to predict what we would or wouldn’t agree
to,” he said.  Narrowing Scope  As the deadline nears, the potential scope of a deal is
getting narrower. Obama and Boehner had spent several weeks
negotiating toward an agreement that might have included cuts in
entitlement programs such as Medicare, a debt-ceiling increase,
permanent extensions of miscellaneous tax breaks and language to
prevent an expansion of the alternative minimum tax.  The absence of a debt ceiling agreement would make the
limit on U.S. borrowing authority the next major event forcing a
fiscal debate. Republicans plan to use it as leverage to force
Obama to accept spending cuts.  The government will hit the $16.4 trillion limit Dec. 31,
and the Treasury Department will begin using so-called
extraordinary measures to finance about $200 billion of deficits
into 2013. That would typically be enough to last about two
months; Treasury hasn’t provided a specific estimate on when
those measures would run out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  