-- Dockworkers Deal Gives Retailers No Guarantee on Strike
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/dockworkers-deal-gives-retailers-no-guarantee-on-strike.html
Retailers and manufacturers avoided
the worst when dockworkers agreed yesterday to continue contract
talks and keep major U.S. ports open. The next five weeks will
determine whether a strike can be ruled out completely.  The  International Longshoremen’s Association  and the  U.S.
Maritime Alliance , representing container carriers, struck a
tentative agreement on a royalty payment for workers that had
been a sticking point in negotiations, federal mediators  said 
yesterday. The two sides will push back a deadline for reaching
an overall contract from midnight tonight until Feb. 6.  While the extension averts a strike that would have halted
the flow of goods through ports responsible for about 45 percent
of U.S. commerce, it didn’t guarantee supply-chain stability.
Retailers including  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  rely on the
ports, stretching from  Maine  to  Texas , to deliver supplies for
the lucrative home and garden season starting in April.  “Only until we have a final contract will retailers and
others have the certainty they need,” Matthew Shay, president
of the  National Retail Federation , said in a  statement 
yesterday. “A coast-wide port shutdown is not an option. It
would have severe economic ramifications for the local, national
and even global economies and wreak havoc on the supply chain.”  After reaching the tentative agreement on  container
royalties , used to supplement wages, the next step is for
dockworkers and their employers to reach a binding contract that
includes the deal. The two sides should have a smoother path
now, said Mike Asensio, a labor lawyer at Baker Hostetler LLP in
Columbus,  Ohio .  ‘Critical Issue’  “In every negotiation, there is always a critical issue or
set of issues, and from what’s been available publicly, it’s
been apparent that this container royalty issue has been the
primary obstacle to a deal,” he said in a phone interview.
“With the most contentious one out of the way, I would say the
prospects look good for resolving the remainder.”  Contract negotiations had broken down with the alliance
seeking to cap royalty payouts it says totaled  $211 million  last
year, or an average of $10 per hour, while the Longshoremen
called the fees  “untouchable.”   George Cohen , director of the federal mediation agency,
declined to give more details on the royalty fee agreement, as
did Beth Monica, a spokeswoman for the Maritime Alliance. Jim McNamara, a union spokesman, didn’t return phone messages
seeking comment.  ‘Long-Term Cost’  Both sides have been outspoken in the past about their
unyielding stances on royalty fee demands, signaling the dispute
may not be fully resolved, said Ed Sands, a logistics specialist
at procurement management firm Procurian in  King of Prussia ,
 Pennsylvania .  The USMX isn’t “going to give up an opportunity to reduce
the long-term cost structure,” while Longshoremen President
Harold J. Daggett probably “didn’t hand over the keys to the
kingdom,” Sands said in a phone interview. “I think it’s going
to be a battle for another 30 days.”  The lack of a definitive solution forces retailers who
rushed to prepare contingency plans in advance of this month’s
looming strike to grapple with ongoing uncertainty, according to
the retail federation.  “We continue to urge both parties to remain at the
negotiating table until a long-term contract agreement is
finalized,” Shay said.  More Damaging  A strike may prove more damaging to the industry if it
occurs in February, according to  Jock O’Connell , international
trade adviser for Los Angeles-based Beacon Economics LLC.
January is typically a slower month for shipping, while cargo
should increase heading into spring, particularly if the U.S.
averts the so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases set for next month, he
said.  “The good news is that they didn’t go on a strike this
month,” O’Connell said in a phone interview. “The bad news is
that they might go on strike at a time when the economic impact
is likely to be greater.”  While most retailers have their biggest quarter around the
year-end holidays, Home Depot may generate 28 percent of its
annual revenue in the quarter ending in July as consumers stock
up for home and garden projects, according to  analysts  surveyed
by Bloomberg. Lowe’s may get 29 percent of its revenue in the
period, analysts estimate.  Contingency Plans  Home Depot has contingency plans in the event of a strike,
Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based company, said
this week by e-mail, while declining to discuss those
preparations. Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , is
monitoring the situation and will make changes to its shipping
and transportation if needed, Maureen Wallace, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Dockworkers and their employers may have extended
negotiations to avoid competition with the fiscal cliff for
federal attention, said K.C. Conway, executive managing director
at consultant Colliers International in Atlanta. Calls by the
retailers group and Florida Governor  Rick Scott  for President
 Barack Obama  to intervene and pre-empt a strike earlier this
week went unheeded.  “The strategy just kicks the strike down the dock,”
Conway wrote in an e-mail. “We just wait another 30 days and
put retailers at risk for uncertainty about inbound
spring/summer merchandise imports. Now manufacturers and
retailers have to decide as to whether they should accelerate
imports and absorb warehousing costs to avoid the uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  