-- Egypt to Start Foreign Exchange Auctions as Reserves Plunge
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-29T16:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/egypt-to-start-foreign-exchange-auctions-to-stem-reserves-plunge.html
Egypt ’s central bank will start
foreign-exchange auctions tomorrow in order to preserve foreign
reserves after they plunged to “minimum and critical” levels.  The North African nation’s central bank said the sales and
purchases of U.S. dollars will take place periodically and aim
to “preserve foreign-currency reserves and ration their use,”
according to an e-mailed statement today. The new mechanism will
support the dollar interbank market, it said. Egypt’s  net
international reserves  have slumped almost 60 percent in the two
years since the start of an uprising that ousted former
President  Hosni Mubarak .  “The current level of foreign-currency reserves
constitutes the minimum and critical level that must be
preserved” to meet necessary needs like repaying external debt
and importing “strategic commodities,” the central bank said
in the statement.  The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, has
weakened 1.2 percent so far this month according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, amid political unrest and after  Standard
& Poor’s  lowered Egypt’s credit rating to the same junk level as
Greece and  Pakistan . That’s the second-biggest depreciation in
the  Middle East  and North Africa, and took the currency to
6.1858 a dollar yesterday, near the lowest level in eight years.  ‘Grave Challenges’  The government has struggled to pry economic growth from
last year’s 19-year low as industries including tourism suffer
from continued unrest. Egypt has faced growing tension in recent
weeks as a vote on a new constitution sparked clashes between
opponents of President Mohamed Mursi and his Islamist backers.  The central bank said it was committed to honoring external
debt payments, and called the financial position of the banking
sector “is strong and sound.” S&P lowered the credit ratings
of three Egyptian banks, including  Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE (COMI) , the biggest publicly traded lender, on Dec. 26.  “The Egyptian economy since the beginning of 2011 has been
facing many grave challenges due to the length of the
transitional period and the political instability” has
contributed to hurting economic indicators, the central bank
said.  The central bank also urged Egyptians to “ration” their
foreign currency use and to support national industries. The
pound is likely to weaken to 7.3 to the dollar in 12 months,
reflecting bets it will depreciate 15 percent in that period,
non-deliverable forwards data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  