-- Mursi Urges Egypt Opposition to Cooperate on Reviving Economy
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-12-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/egypt-s-mursi-says-unity-imperative-for-stability-and-economy.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
called on the opposition to work alongside the government to
stabilize the country, revive the economy and end violence.  The Islamist president said yesterday it is time for the
nation to realize the goals of the uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak  almost two years ago. The new Egypt is a country to be
built by all its citizens, said Mursi, 62, adding that violence
of any sort, whether from groups, individuals or even the
government, was “totally rejected.”  The speech was Mursi’s first before the newly-empowered
upper house of parliament, to which he has assigned legislative
authority until parliamentary elections that are likely to start
in two months. That voting will test whether Mursi’s Islamist
backers, facing a fragmented opposition, can maintain the
majority they held under the previous legislature, whose lower
house was dissolved earlier in 2012 by a court order.  The remarks, Mursi’s first before parliament since his June
election, came at a point when the president has “lost a lot of
his legitimacy,” Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst at Durham
University in the U.K., said by phone beforehand. Mursi so far
hasn’t provided “any real concessions to pacify the opposition
or push the process of democratization forward,” he said.  Mursi said an almost 60 percent decline in foreign reserves
-- to about $15 billion -- isn’t acceptable. Gains in some
sectors such as tourism have been hurt by the latest unrest, he
said. The government, which he said is operating under “very
difficult circumstances,” has been able to push economic growth
from last year’s 19-year low.  Foreign-Currency Auction  Egypt ’s central bank today will start foreign-exchange
auctions in order to help preserve currency reserves.  “It is now time for us to work toward the advancement of
the Egyptian people as whole,” Mursi said. “There is no room
for tyranny, discrimination or the absence of social justice.
Regardless of the differences, all citizens are equal before the
law and under this constitution.”  Mursi’s comments were a response to the polarization
exposed by the passage of the nation’s new constitution last
week. That was one of the factors that led Standard & Poor’s on
Dec. 24 to cut the country’s credit rating, moving it deeper
into junk status. Three days after S&P’s cut, the Egyptian pound
slid to an eight-year low.  Mursi said it is not the first time Egypt’s rating has been
downgraded and talk of its bankruptcy is without merit.  “You who speak of bankruptcy,” he said, “are the ones
that are bankrupt.”  Constitution  Mursi’s opponents and his Islamist backers clashed in the
weeks preceding passage of constitution, which was approved by a
majority of 64 percent in a two-stage referendum earlier this
month. The Islamists said it was necessary to push through the
constitution to revive the economy while the opposition argued
it further enshrined Islamic law at the expense of freedoms and
did not represent the nation’s interests as a whole.  Mursi sought again to allay those concerns yesterday,
saying that all are equal under the law and the coming period is
one that demands unity and cooperation in a climate of
accountability and transparency imperative for a new democracy.  Mursi, a U.S.-trained engineer who was backed by the Muslim
Brotherhood for the presidency, called on the parliament’s upper
house, or Shura Council, to work on legislation that is needed
for the coming period.  Opposition  The opposition, comprised of a mix of secularists, minority
Christians and youth activists, has so far rejected calls for
dialog. Some groups have set Jan. 25, the second anniversary of
the start of the uprising, as a date to overturn the new
charter. The National Salvation Front, an umbrella group of
opposition parties, rejected the president’s call to attend the
speech, Al-Jazeera reported yesterday.  The country’s top prosecutor has announced an investigation
into opposition leaders Mohamed ElBaradei, a Nobel laureate, and
former presidential candidates Amre Moussa and Hamdeen Sabahi on
allegations of inciting to overthrow the government.  ElBaradei, the former UN nuclear watchdog agency head, said
on his Twitter account that it was as if the “revolution never
happened and a regime had not fallen.”  Two of Mursi’s cabinet ministers resigned last week amid
the dispute about the constitution. The president called on his
premier to change the government as needed to address the coming
challenges.  Egypt asked the International Monetary Fund to delay a $4.8
billion loan agreement, originally planned for this month, and
has said it would initiate a public debate about planned tax
increases. Fitch Ratings said on Dec. 27 it would become “more
concerned” about dwindling foreign reserves if the deal is
delayed beyond January.  The Egyptian government intends to invite IMF officials
back to the country in January to discuss the loan, Finance
Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said in a phone interview yesterday.  “Egypt, God willing, will never go bankrupt and will not
kneel down as long as the people remain present and aware of
what should be done no matter what,” Mursi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  