-- Egypt’s Mursi to Outline State Priorities as Upper House Meets
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-12-29T10:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/egypt-s-mursi-to-outline-state-priorities-as-upper-house-meets.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi is
likely to outline government priorities in a speech today
before parliament’s newly empowered upper house meets amid rifts
between his Islamist backers and largely secular opposition.  Mursi will identify economic and political priorities,
including those on which the legislature should focus,
presidential spokesman Yasser Ali was quoted as saying on the
Facebook page of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party. The president will discuss security and steps to restore
stability and revive production, Al-Ahram newspaper said today.  Egypt  has faced growing tension in the past month as a vote
on a new constitution sparked clashes between Mursi’s opponents
and his Islamist backers. The upper house, including 90 new
members sworn in on Dec. 26 following a divisive vote on the
charter, will assume temporary legislative powers until
parliamentary elections, expected to start in two months. The
Shura Council, whose about 90 members were chosen by Mursi, had
until now been a consultative entity.  Mursi’s speech, his first before parliament since his June
election, comes as the president has “lost a lot of his
legitimacy,” Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst at the U.K.’s
Durham University, said by phone. Mursi hasn’t provided “any
real concessions to pacify the opposition or push the process of
democratization forward,” he said.  Divisions  Mursi, a U.S.-trained engineer who was fielded for the
presidency by the Muslim Brotherhood, faced criticism for
pushing ahead with a constitutional referendum even as groups
comprising secularists, minority Christians and youth activists
expressed concern over the charter’s contents. Two of Mursi’s
Cabinet ministers resigned earlier this week amid the turmoil.  The constitution passed with 64 percent of the vote,
although almost 70 percent of those eligible refrained from
casting their ballots. The charter’s supporters argue its
passage will help get the economy back on track, while opponents
say it further enshrines Islamic law at the expense of certain
freedoms and doesn’t broadly represent the nation’s interests.  Political unrest prompted Standard and Poor’s on Dec. 24 to
push Egypt’s credit rating deeper into junk status. The Egyptian
pound slid to an eight-year low against the dollar three days
later. Egypt has drawn down almost 60 percent of its  foreign
reserves  since the 2011 uprising that ousted President  Hosni
Mubarak  and the government has struggled to pry economic growth
from last year’s  19-year low .  The country this month asked the  International Monetary
Fund  to delay a $4.8 billion loan agreement, originally planned
for this month, and has said it would initiate social dialog on
planned tax increases.  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 27 it would
become “more concerned” about dwindling foreign reserves if
the deal is delayed beyond January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  