-- French Court Says 75% Tax Rate on Rich Is Unconstitutional
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-29T15:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/french-court-says-75-tax-rate-on-wealthy-is-unconstitutional.html
President Francois Hollande’s 75
percent millionaire-tax is unconstitutional because it fails to
guarantee taxpayer equality,  France ’s top court ruled today.  The tax, one of Hollande’s campaign promises, had become a
focal point of discontent among entrepreneurs and other wealth
creators, some of whom have quit French shores as a result. The
ruling comes as the president seeks to cut France’s public
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year from a
projected 4.5 percent this year.  “Politically, this has an impact because it was a symbol
for French public opinion, and was considered abroad as the
emblem of French tax excess, of French tax hell,” said
 Dominique Barbet , senior economist at BNP Paribas SA in Paris.
“In deficit terms, it’s truly negligible.”  The court said Hollande’s plan would have added extra
levies of 18 percent on individuals’ incomes of more than 1
million euros ($1.32 million), while regular income taxes and a
4 percent exceptional contribution for high earners would have
been based on household income, an e-mailed statement shows.  As a result, two households with the same total revenue
could end up paying different rates depending on how earnings
are divided among members of those households. That runs counter
to a rule of equal tax treatment, the Paris-based court said.  Government Response  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said in an e-mailed
statement that the government “takes note” of the court
decision on the 75 percent tax band and “will present a new
proposal in line with the principles laid down by the
Constitutional Court.” The ruling doesn’t call into question
deficit targets or the path set out to get there, Ayrault said.  The court’s decision will lower tax revenue by less than
500 million euros in 2013, according to a spokeswoman for the
prime minister’s office who declined to provide her name.  French billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer
of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , filed an application for
Belgian nationality in September. While he promised to continue
paying taxes in France, the action prompted fierce criticism
from Hollande and his supporters.  Movie star Gerard Depardieu, 64, said he was leaving France
“because you consider success, creativity, talent, anything
different are grounds for sanction.”  The decision could be positive for France’s bond market
because it shows there is a limit to the government’s ability to
raise taxes on the wealthy and may decrease the flight risk of
more rich French citizens, Barbet said.  Wealth Tax  The constitutional court lowered a series of other tax
increases, calling them excessive or saying they also violated
equality of treatment for taxpayers. The tax rate on stock
options and free shares was lowered to a maximum of 64.5 percent
from a rate of as much as 77 percent. The marginal tax rate on a
type of private retirement benefit, known as “retraites
chapeau,” was cut to a maximum of 68.34 percent from a planned
rate in 2013 of 75.34 percent.  Looking at France’s wealth tax, the court said that
unrealized gains couldn’t be included in assessing the tax
because it ignores the requirement to take into account a
payer’s ability to meet his obligations.  Hollande called on the “patriotism” of the country’s rich
to do their part during  Europe ’s more than three-year-old
financial crisis.  A new tax proposal will be presented next year and will
apply to earnings for 2013 and 2014, Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said on BFM television.  Budget Constraints  Former President Nicolas Sarkozy’s opposition Union for a
Popular Movement political party had asked the court earlier
this month to overturn the measure.  The tax, which Hollande said would be in place for two
years, is part of the 2013 budget law and would have gone into
effect starting on Jan. 1.  Hollande’s 2013 budget relies on 20 billion euros in
additional taxes: 10 billion euros from companies and 10 billion
euros from individuals. In addition to the millionaire tax,
Hollande has added new charges on capital gains, an increased
tax on wealth, a boost to inheritance charges and an exit tax
for entrepreneurs selling their companies. His government has
also created a new 45 percent tax bracket for incomes exceeding
150,000 euros per year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Katz in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  