-- Olympic Gold Medalists Dominate U.K. New Year’s Honors
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/olympic-gold-medalists-dominate-u-k-new-year-s-honors.html
Britain’s Olympic gold medalists
dominated a New Year’s honors list that celebrated a year of
sporting triumph, with Tour de France winner Bradley Wiggins
receiving a knighthood.  Sebastian Coe, the runner-turned-politician who delivered
the London games, was named a Companion of Honor. Paralympic
cyclist Sarah Storey, who won four golds, was made a Dame of the
British Empire, and Ben Ainslie, the most decorated sailor in
Olympic history, was knighted.  In finance,  Hector Sants , the former chief executive
officer of the Financial Services Authority, was knighted, as
was  Alan Budd , who came out of retirement to set up the  Office
for Budget Responsibility . In culture, artist Tracey Emin and
singer Kate Bush were named Commanders of the Order of the
British Empire, entitling them to put CBE after their name.  In total, 1,223 people were granted civic honors in today’s
biannual awards, the Cabinet Office in London said. They include
community and charity workers nominated by the public as well as
business leaders, public servants and entertainment stars.  Wiggins was voted the BBC Sports Personality of 2012
earlier this month. In the space of 10 days over the summer, the
32-year-old became the first British winner of the  Tour de
France  and then took the gold medal in the London Olympic
cycling time trial.  Sir Bradley  As a knight, Wiggins will be able to put “Sir” in front
of his name. He will receive a medal from  Queen Elizabeth II  at
a ceremony at which she touches them on both shoulders with a
sword. Storey will now be known as “Dame Sarah.”  In the case of Coe, already a member of the House of Lords
and a knight, there were few honors left to give him. The title
Companion of Honor, which entitles him to put the letters CH
after his name, is one of the highest the Queen can bestow.
There are only 65 members of the order at any time.  Joining Coe among their number is Peter Higgs, the
Edinburgh University theoretical physicist who predicted the
existence of the Higgs boson, a particle that could help explain
how the universe is built. Scientists at CERN, the European
Organization for Nuclear Research, working on the origins of
matter, said this year they discovered a particle that may
support the Higgs theory.  CBEs for Olympic achievement also went to athletes Mo Farah
and Jessica Ennis, rower Katherine Grainger and cyclist Victoria
Pendleton, with Paralympic wheelchair racer David Weir similarly
honored. The performance directors of the cycling and rowing
teams, Dave Brailsford and David Tanner, were knighted for their
contributions to Britain’s tally of 29 Olympic golds in London,
the most since 1908.  Murray Achievement  Andy Murray , who took Olympic tennis gold and then became
the first British man to win a grand-slam tournament in more
than 70 years at the  U.S. Open , was named an Officer of the
Order of the British Empire, entitling him to put the letters
OBE after his name.  Stella McCartney , who designed the Olympic team’s outfits,
also received an OBE.  Industry and the economy made up 12 percent of the awards.
As well as Budd and Sants, David Wootton, the  Lord Mayor  of
London, was given a knighthood. DeAnne Julius, a founding member
of the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, who served
from 1997 to 2001, was named a Dame for her work as chairwoman
of the  Chatham House  international-affairs institute. Tim Breedon, former CEO of  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , was named a
CBE.  Digital Honor  Martha Lane Fox, founder of Lastminute.com Ltd., was given
a CBE for her work on the digital economy.  Quentin Blake, the children’s illustrator who gave form to
Roald Dahl’s creations, also received a knighthood. Ian Livingstone, who helped create new types of game when he co-
wrote the “Fighting Fantasy” books and co-founded  Games
Workshop Group Plc (GAW) , was given a CBE. He is life president of
Eidos Plc, maker of the “Tomb Raider” games.  Ewan McGregor, who played the heroin-addicted Renton in
“Trainspotting” and Obi-Wan Kenobi in episodes one to three of
the “Star Wars” franchise, was given an OBE. Jeremy Lloyd, co-
creator of the “Are You Being Served?” and “Allo! Allo!”
television comedy series, was given an OBE.  Two of Britain’s spy chiefs were given knighthoods,
 Jonathan Evans , the director-general of the Security Service,
generally known as MI5, and Ian Lobban, director of Government
Communications Headquarters, responsible for keeping Britain’s
communications secure and intercepting those of other countries.  Bernard Hogan-Howe, the commissioner of London’s
Metropolitan Police, was also knighted. He is currently under
pressure over allegations that one or more of his officers
conspired to force the resignation of government minister  Andrew
Mitchell  in October.  And  Cherie Blair , wife of former Prime Minister  Tony Blair ,
was given a CBE for her work for charity and women’s issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  