-- PBOC Targets Financial Risk After Non-Bank Lending Surge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/pboc-to-control-risks-seek-appropriate-growth-in-financing.html
China ’s central bank said it will
focus on controlling risks in the financial system and seek
“stable and appropriate” growth in aggregate financing, a
measure of funding that includes loans and stock and bond sales.  The  People’s Bank of China  also said it will stick to a
prudent monetary policy next year and try to stabilize growth,
rebalance the economy and contain inflation. The four-paragraph
statement released late Dec. 28 after a quarterly meeting of the
monetary policy committee, mostly reiterated the stance set out
at a government work conference earlier this month.  The PBOC’s addition of “controlling risks” as a policy
objective may signal growing concern that a surge in non-bank
lending over the past two years will lead to defaults that could
trigger social unrest. Citic Trust Co., a unit of China’s
biggest state-owned investment company, said on Dec. 21 that it
missed a bi-annual payment to investors in one of its  wealth
management  products after a steel company didn’t make interest
payments on the underlying loan.  Regulators “may tighten control on the quality and
quantity of credit supply, particularly through non-bank
channels such as trust loans” in the first half of 2013, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong
Kong, said in a note after the central bank report. A slowdown
in credit growth would feed through to a moderation in economic
expansion, he said.  The central bank in 2011 introduced  aggregate financing  as
an indicator designed to capture broader funding sources in the
economy, such money raised through trust investment products and
bond and stock sales.  ’Reasonable Scale’  The wording of “stable and appropriate growth” of
aggregate financing in the PBOC statement differed from previous
statements that referred to a “reasonable scale” of financing.  Loans made outside the formal banking system, including
funds raised through wealth management vehicles that offer
higher  interest rates  than  bank deposits , expanded at a faster
pace than bank credit this year.  Local currency  bank loans  accounted for 45.8 percent of
aggregate financing in November, down from 58.8 percent in the
same month last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
At the same time, the share of  trust loans  rose to 17.5 percent
from 7.5 percent.  “China’s central bank is in a very delicate situation,”
said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “It wants more bank loans and greater
financial support for economic growth next year, but it also has
to keep a close eye on risks in the shadow banking system.”  Wealth Management  Shadow banking in China refers to lending that isn’t
subject to the same regulation as bank loans and includes banks’
off-balance-sheet vehicles, such as commercial bills and
entrusted loans, and wealth management products as well as
underground lending by individuals.  In its Dec. 28 statement, the central bank said it will use
various tools to ensure steady and appropriate growth in credit
and money supply and reiterated that it will push ahead with
overhauling interest rates and the yuan’s  exchange-rate  system
while keeping the currency basically stable.  It omitted comments made in previous statements that it
would increase the currency’s “two-way movement.”  “Whether the PBOC explicitly said it or not, the trend
toward a freer yuan exchange rate won’t change,” said Shen, who
previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  The central bank said  China’s economy  is “stable” and
prices are “basically stable,” while the global economy
remains “relatively weak” with lingering uncertainties.  The statement is a summary of a meeting of the central
bank’s monetary policy committee, an advisory body that includes
academics and officials from ministries and government agencies.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing and
Helen  Yuan  in  Shanghai . Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  