-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Head for Record Low on Demand for Haven
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-12-29T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/treasury-10-year-yields-head-for-record-low-on-demand-for-haven.html
Treasury 10-year note yields were
poised for the lowest annual average since at least World War II
as investors spent 2012 seeking haven from Europe’s debt crisis,
tepid global growth and a U.S. budget showdown.  The benchmark note  yield  traded below 2.4 percent
throughout the year as sluggish job growth led the  Federal
Reserve  to expand debt purchases to push investors toward
higher-yielding assets and stimulate growth. The yield’s decline
was tempered as risk appetite improved and reports signaled
economic advances. U.S. employers added 150,000 jobs in
December, data next week were forecast to show.  “The key thing is not what the Fed did, it’s that the Fed
was thwarted in its attempts by the demand for safety despite
the lack of return,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt
research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “That’s
impossible to have predicted.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  has declined 18 basis points,
or 0.18 percentage point, to 1.7 percent this year in New York
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
was headed for a third yearly loss, its longest streak since the
2000-2002 period. The yield touched a record low 1.379 percent
on July 25 at the height of concern that Europe’s leaders were
struggling to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The 10-year yield averaged 1.79 percent this year. The
previous low was 1.95 percent in 1941, according to “A History
of  Interest Rates ” by Sidney Homer and  Richard Sylla . Last
year’s average was 2.77 percent.  Yields on 30-year bonds decreased three basis points to
2.87 percent, little changed from the end of 2011.  Budget Stalemate  Ten-year notes posted their first  weekly gain  in a month
yesterday, pushing the yield below its 200-day moving average of
1.74 percent, as President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders met before the year-end deadline in a budget showdown.  The U.S. faces $600 billion in spending cuts and tax boosts
starting next month if an accord isn’t reached. If that happens,
the economy would probably enter a recession in the first half
of 2013, the  Congressional Budget Office  has said.  Obama said after the meeting he’s “modestly optimistic”
Congress can pass a bill to avert the tax and spending changes.
He said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
and Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  agreed to work
on “a potential agreement.”  The Republican-led House is
scheduled to convene on Dec. 30 in a rare Sunday session.  “I don’t anticipate any sense of optimism to be the net
result of what transpires over the weekend,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “Anyone looking for a grand compromise or anything
other than a temporary stop-gap bill on Monday will be
disappointed.”  Fed Stimulus  The Fed expanded monetary stimulus this year as Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  called unemployment “a grave concern.” It began
a third round of securities-buying with open-ended purchases of
$40 billion of mortgage bonds a month, and said it will acquire
an additional $45 billion of Treasuries each month beginning
next year.  The purchases are forecast to absorb 90 percent of net
fixed-income issuance in 2013.  Economic output in the U.S. is likely to increase 2 percent
next year after having grown 2.2 percent in 2012, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 86 economists.  “I don’t think we’re solving a lot of problems here,”
said Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees $83 billion.
“Obviously the big thing that fixes lots of, or even all,
problems is significant economic growth, and that has proved
elusive for pretty much everybody.”  Jobs, Housing  The U.S.  jobless rate  held steady in December at 7.7
percent, the lowest level since 2008, economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast before the Labor Department reports
employment data on Jan. 4. The average rate from 2000 through
2007 was 5 percent. The  U.S. economy  created 1.7 million jobs in
this year through last month, department data show.  Home builders in November capped the strongest three months
for residential construction in four years as record-low
borrowing costs buoyed the housing market, data showed.  “We’ve seen disappointingly slow but still positive
movement in the employment situation and the housing market,”
said Gregory Whiteley, who manages investments in government
debt at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which has $50
billion in assets. “Progress on the employment front is at risk
with this fiscal-cliff situation.”  Record Demand  Treasury auctions drew record demand as investors sought
the safety of  U.S. government debt . Investors submitted $3.15 in
bids for every dollar of the $2.153 trillion of notes and bonds
sold this year, surpassing last year’s record $3.04.  The primary dealers that trade with the Fed boosted
holdings of Treasuries to a record $145.7 billion as of Dec. 19
from this year’s low of $59 billion in March, Fed data show.  Treasuries returned 2.3 percent this year through Dec. 27,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Treasury Index.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 15 percent, including
reinvested dividends. U.S. bonds returned less than 0.1 percent
this quarter and lost 0.4 percent this month, the data show.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in five-year note futures in the week
ending Dec. 25 to the lowest level since May 2010, according to
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 9,329 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions fell by 56,678 contracts, or
86 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  