-- Sandy Aid Worth $60 Billion Passes Senate as House Balks
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-12-29T00:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/senate-approves-60-billion-hurricane-sandy-aid-package.html
The  U.S. Senate  approved a $60
billion disaster-aid package for victims of  Hurricane Sandy ,
forwarding it to the House where lawmakers are balking at the
price tag.  The chamber today voted 61-33 for the plan that would pay
to clean up debris, repair mass-transit systems, rebuild flooded
buildings and myriad other expenses, some only tangentially
related to the storm.  House Republicans  have expressed doubts that so much money
is needed anytime soon, though they haven’t said how much
they’re inclined to provide.  The funding request, made earlier this month by the Obama
administration, is intended to help Northeastern states recover
from an October storm blamed for more than 125 deaths.  “There’s been so much hardship, so much heartbreak and
this is a very good step in the right direction of beginning to
meet the needs of New Yorkers,” said Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York Democrat.  The request has hit Congress at an awkward time because
lawmakers are preoccupied with trying to cobble together a
package of spending cuts that would allow them to stave off the
so-called fiscal cliff. Votes on amendments to the package were
delayed this afternoon so that party leaders could meet with
President  Barack Obama  to discuss what to do about more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to begin
taking effect next week.  Even as lawmakers struggled with the cuts demanded by the
fiscal cliff, Democrats sought to add money to the Sandy aid
package for other initiatives.  King Crab  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat, tried
unsuccessfully to add funding to help the Pacific island of
Palau cope with a recent typhoon. Montana Democrat Jon Tester’s
bid to add funding to fight wildfires also failed.  Republicans, who complained the package included funding
for items unrelated to Sandy, were unsuccessful in their efforts
to strip money out of the measure. Oklahoma Republican  Tom Coburn ’s amendment targeting aid to fisheries as far away as
Alaska was easily defeated, 35-60.  “Fish swim big distances as do crabs as do lobster,
particularly those big king crabs,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, defending the provisions.  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, tried
unsuccessfully to delete $58 million set aside to subsidize tree
planting. An alternative $23.8 billion aid package offered by
Republicans fell on a 41-54 vote.  A sore point for many Republicans is funding for
construction projects aimed at mitigating the damage from future
storms. Democrats such as New York’s  Charles Schumer  say it
would be foolish to scrimp on efforts to prevent a repeat of the
damage inflicted by Sandy.  Lard Up  Republicans, pointing to estimates showing much of that
money won’t be spent before 2015, said those items could wait,
saying they need more time to consider them.  “We are not against mitigation,” said Senator  Dan Coats ,
an Indiana Republican. “But we are saying, ‘let us focus on
Sandy -- let us get the emergency help to those who need it
now’’ and not ‘‘lard up’’ the legislation with ‘‘all kinds of
excessive spending that isn’t needed for this particular
emergency.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  