-- Spain’s Iberdrola Has 4 Units Taken Over by Bolivian State
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-12-30T11:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/spain-s-iberdrola-has-4-units-taken-over-by-bolivian-government.html
Bolivian army and police seized
buildings occupied by  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  yesterday, hours after
President  Evo Morales  ordered the nationalization of four
business units owned by Spain’s largest utility.  “We have been forced to make this decision as we want to
have egalitarian electricity rates in rural and urban areas,”
Morales said yesterday morning in a broadcast from the
presidential palace.  Morales has moved to put the telecommunications, energy and
water industries under state control since taking power in 2006.
In June, the government nationalized the Colquiri tin and zinc
mine owned by  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)   As in past takeovers, Bolivian authorities seized several
buildings from the nationalized Iberdrola units in Bolivia’s
capital of  La Paz , Argentine CN23 TV showed. Employees didn’t
oppose their entrance.  Iberdrola was notified by  Bolivia  that the government has
nationalized its electricity holdings in the South American
country, spokesman Jose Luis Gonzalez Besada said in a telephone
interview. He declined to comment further.  The units include two electricity distributors, a service
company and an investment firm tied to the power business, said
a Bolivian government official in a telephone interview from La
Paz. He asked not to be identified as he isn’t an authorized
spokesman.  Fair Compensation  Iberdrola should receive compensation after an independent
review of its assets within the next six months, Morales said in
his television broadcast.  “Even as those businesses represent a tiny part of
Iberdrola’s revenue and the impact is very limited, Iberdrola
has to defend itself through international law in order to get a
fair value for the assets,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said by phone today. “In the end,
the real loser from such a move is the government as it damages
its credibility.”  At least 15 companies have been nationalized in Bolivia
since 2006.  “ Spain  laments Bolivia’s government’s decision to
nationalize these four businesses, which have Spanish,
Argentinian and North American companies among their
shareholders,” Spain’s Foreign Affairs Ministry said in a
statement sent by e-mail yesterday.  “The Spanish government hopes the process of evaluating
the value of the nationalized company is carried out with strict
objectivity criteria that allow to set up a fair compensation to
which shareholders have the right without unnecessary delays,”
it said.  Iberdrola’s electricity distributors are the largest in La
Paz and the city of Oruro. Only 33 percent of homes in rural
Bolivia and 87 percent of urban homes have access to
electricity, the Energy Ministry said on its  website .  Agence France-Presse  earlier reported the nationalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  