-- Syrian Forces Retake Town as Assad Vows to Finish Term
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-30T10:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/syrian-forces-retake-town-as-assad-vows-to-finish-term.html
Syrian forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad recaptured a town in western  Syria  after days of
heavy fighting, Al Jazeera television reported.  Government troops yesterday took control of Deir Balbah
near Homs, the news channel reported. The forces executed some
220 residents, who were among at least 392 people killed across
the country, according to the Local Coordination Committees, an
opposition coalition. The figures are unconfirmed.  The fighting came the same day that Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov said Assad had told a top United Nations
envoy that he won’t quit before his term ends in 2014. Syrian
forces today attacked the Hom’s area of Khalidiya with mortars
while air force planes bombed towns outside of Damascus, the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed
statement.  “It’s impossible to change his position,” Lavrov said at
a joint press conference after talks in Moscow yesterday with
the UN and Arab League special envoy to Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi,
who met Assad in Damascus on Dec. 24.  Russia, Syria’s main international backer, on Dec. 28
called on Assad to make efforts toward a political settlement by
holding talks with the opposition on all options. The U.S. and
Russia, which have clashed over efforts by President  Barack Obama ’s administration to oust Assad, are working together in a
bid to negotiate a peaceful outcome to the uprising that started
in March 2011.  “When the opposition says that only Assad’s departure
would allow for the start of talks on the fate of the country --
we think that’s incorrect,” Lavrov said. Maintaining that
position is fueling the Syrian death toll, he said.  44,000 Dead  In the 21 months of violence that has pitted the mainly
Sunni Muslim opposition against the Alawite-dominated security
forces loyal to Assad, more than 44,000 people have been killed,
according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
The conflict is becoming increasingly sectarian, Lavrov and
Brahimi said yesterday.  “If  Russia  has a proposal to stop the bleeding in Syria,
it should submit it and we will respond,” Mouaz al-Khatib, head
of the main bloc of Syrian opposition groups, told Al Jazeera in
a telephone interview. “We can’t meet with the Russians without
a clear agenda.”  Russia has accused Saudi Arabia and Qatar of fueling the
conflict by arming the Syrian opposition.  Syrian forces in Deir Balbah found tunnels that rebels were
using to smuggle weapons, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency
reported. They seized machine guns and rifles, dismantled
explosives, and killed and injured “several” rebels, SANA
reported.  Brahimi, who met Assad and opposition representatives in
the Syrian capital last week, is proposing an interim government
with full executive powers to prepare for elections in Syria.  Only Alternative  “It is indispensable that this conflict is ended in 2013
and hopefully at the beginning of 2013,” the UN diplomat said
yesterday. “If the only alternative is really hell or a
political process, then we have got all of us to work
ceaselessly for a political process. It is difficult, it is very
complicated but there is no other choice.”  Russia on Dec. 28 said it has invited al-Khatib for talks
to discuss a solution to the fighting in Syria. Al-Khatib, head
of the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition
Forces, said that while he won’t travel to Moscow, he is open to
talks, Al Jazeera reported.  He also demanded from Russia a “clear condemnation of the
crimes committed by the Syrian regime,” according to Al
Jazeera.  ‘Neutral Venue’  Russia is prepared to meet the opposition in a “neutral
venue,” Lavrov said yesterday, adding that it was in the Syrian
opposition’s interests to hear the Russian position. The talks
could be held in Moscow, Geneva or Cairo, Deputy Foreign
Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said on Dec. 28, state news service
RIA Novosti reported.  “If they feel Russia has a useful role to play in this
drama, they should be ready to meet Russian representatives
without any preconditions,” Lavrov said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s spokesman,  Martin Nesirky , denied media reports that Brahimi had said that Assad
could stay in power until 2014 under the peace plan.  The U.S. and Russia will hold a joint meeting next month
with Brahimi to discuss the efforts to reach an agreement on
Syria, Bogdanov said, according to RIA Novosti.  Russia, which has blocked UN sanctions against Syria during
the conflict, has a naval base in the Syrian port of Tartus and
billions of dollars of arms contracts with the Middle Eastern
state. After the overthrow of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein in
2003 and Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi last year, Syria is the
last major customer for Russian weapons in the region.  The Syrian president inherited power in 2000 from his
father, Hafez al-Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three
decades and received weapons and financial support for the Arab
standoff against  Israel .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  