-- Russia Says No Chance of Convincing Assad to Quit
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-29T12:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/un-envoy-brahimi-to-hold-moscow-talks-to-promote-syria-accord.html
Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad
told a top United Nations envoy this week that he won’t quit
before his term ends in 2014, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said.  “It’s impossible to change his position,” Lavrov said at
a joint press conference after talks in Moscow today with UN and
Arab League special envoy to  Syria , Lakhdar Brahimi, who met
Assad in Damascus on Dec. 24.  Russia , Syria’s main international backer, yesterday called
on Assad to make efforts toward a political settlement by
holding dialog with the opposition on all possible options. The
U.S. and Russia, which have clashed over efforts by President
 Barack Obama ’s administration to oust Assad, are working
together in a bid to negotiate a peaceful outcome to the
uprising that started in March 2011.  “When the opposition says that only Assad’s departure
would allow for the start of talks on the fate of the country --
we think that’s incorrect,” Lavrov said. Maintaining that
position is fueling the death toll, he said.  The 21 months of violence, which has pitted the mainly
Sunni Muslim opposition against the Alawite-dominated security
forces, has killed more than 44,000 people, according to the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . The conflict is
becoming increasingly sectarian, Lavrov and Brahimi said today.  Russia has accused  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar of fueling the
conflict by arming the Syrian opposition.  Brahimi, who met Assad and opposition representatives in
the Syrian capital this week, is proposing an interim government
with full executive powers to prepare for elections in Syria.  Only Alternative  “It is indispensable that this conflict is ended in 2013
and hopefully at the beginning of 2013,” the UN diplomat said
today. “If the only alternative is really hell or a political
process, then we have got all of us to work ceaselessly for a
political process. It is difficult, it is very complicated but
there is no other choice.”  Russia yesterday said it has invited Mouaz al-Khatib, head
of the united Syrian opposition grouping, for talks to discuss a
solution to the fighting in Syria. Al-Khatib, head of the
National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition
Forces, said yesterday that while he won’t travel to Moscow, he
is open to talks,  Al Jazeera  television reported.  He also demanded from Russia a “clear condemnation of the
crimes committed by the Syrian regime,” according to Al
Jazeera.  ‘Neutral Venue’  Russia is prepared to meet the opposition in a “neutral
venue,” Lavrov said today, adding that it was in the Syrian
opposition’s interests to hear the Russian position. The talks
could be in Moscow, Geneva or Cairo, Deputy Foreign Minister
Mikhail Bogdanov said yesterday, state news service RIA Novosti
reported.  “If they feel Russia has a useful role to play in this
drama, they should be ready to meet Russian representatives
without any preconditions,” Lavrov said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s spokesman,  Martin Nesirky , denied media reports yesterday that Brahimi had said
that Assad could stay in power until 2014 under the peace plan.  The U.S. and Russia will hold a joint meeting next month
with Brahimi to discuss the efforts to reach an agreement on
Syria, Bogdanov said, according to RIA Novosti.  Russia, which has blocked UN sanctions against Syria during
the conflict, has a naval base in the Syrian port of Tartus and
billions of dollars of arms contracts with the Middle Eastern
state. After the overthrow of Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein  in
2003 and Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  last year, Syria is the
last major customer for Russian weapons in the region.  The Syrian president inherited power in 2000 from his
father, Hafez al-Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three
decades and received weapons and financial support for the Arab
standoff against  Israel .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  