-- Maduro Arrives in Cuba to Visit Cancer-Stricken Chavez
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-29T14:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-29/venezuela-s-maduro-will-visit-cancer-stricken-chavez-in-cuba.html
Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  arrived in Cuba early today to visit President  Hugo Chavez , who had surgery Dec. 11 on the communist island for an
undisclosed cancer.  After landing at the Havana airport, Maduro went directly
to the hospital where Chavez is being treated to meet Chavez’s
family members and establish a time to visit the ailing leader,
Cuba’s state-run Granma newspaper  said  on its website.  Maduro, speaking on state television yesterday, said
Electricity Minister Hector Navarro would stand in as vice
president in his absence. Maduro read a Christmas message
earlier yesterday sent by Chavez to the South American country’s
Armed Forces.  “I have had to battle again for my health to continue
dedicating myself fully to  Venezuela ’s happiness,” Chavez said,
according to the letter read by Maduro on state television. “I
am full of faith due to the commitment and loyalty the
revolutionary Armed Forces has shown in this complex and
difficult time.”  January Inauguration  Chavez, 58, who won a third presidential term on Oct. 7,
hasn’t appeared in public since flying to Cuba 19 days ago for
his fourth cancer operation. He said on Dec. 8 that voters
should elect Maduro to protect his legacy if his illness
prevents him from remaining in office.  Maduro and National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello
have said that Chavez can be sworn in after the Jan. 10
inauguration date by the  Supreme Court . Cabello said Dec. 26
that Chavez’s electoral victory outweighs swearing-in protocol
and the constitution doesn’t limit the time and place of the
ceremony.  “We can’t take away the wish of the majority from Oct. 7
simply to satisfy the Venezuelan bourgeoisie,” Cabello said.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before Jan. 10,
Maduro would serve the rest of the current term and then hand
over power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30
days. If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10 and
doesn’t step down, the National Assembly president must
determine if the absence is temporary or permanent.  Venezuela’s Supreme Court is open to any constitutional
questions that might emerge if Chavez isn’t able to be sworn in
for a new six-year term on Jan. 10, Supreme Court President
Luisa Estella Morales said Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  