-- 
ABN Amro Reports Doubling in Profit, May Boost Savings Goal

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-05-20T10:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/abn-amro-reports-doubling-in-profit-may-boost-savings-goal-1-.html
ABN Amro  Group NV, the state-owned
bank that includes Fortis’s former Dutch banking assets, may
increase its target for cost cuts after first-quarter profit
doubled.  Net income rose to 539 million euros ($772 million) from
250 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based company
said in a statement today. Operating expenses fell 10 percent to
1.18 billion euros as it reduced the workforce by 12 percent, or
3,440 jobs, and sold assets.  ABN Amro is “on or ahead of schedule” in its efforts to
integrate former ABN and Fortis assets, the bank said. The
Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance units
and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV in 2008 after the company
ran out of short-term funding. Following the 30 billion-euro
bailout, Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager indicated he
plans to sell ABN Amro shares as early as 2014, preferably
through a stock exchange listing.  “With the initial phase of the integration behind us, we
are in a position to reflect and review the targets initially
set in 2009,” Chairman Gerrit Zalm said in the statement.
“There is room for more ambitious targets in the medium term.”  ‘Not Settling’  ABN Amro previously set goals for a cost-income ratio of 60
percent to 65 percent by 2012, a reduction of 4,500 positions,
and forecast annual pretax savings of 1.1 billion euros compared
with 2008 after completion of the integration next year. Costs
as a proportion of revenue declined to 58 percent in the first
quarter from 71 percent a year ago.  “We are not settling for where we are now,” Chief
Financial Officer Jan van Rutte told reporters on a call today.
“Next to integrating, we’ll look at increasing efficiency
further.”  Underlying profit, which excludes merger-related costs,
rose to 583 million euros from 314 million euros. That should
not be “extrapolated for the remainder of the year,” ABN said,
as it expects loan impairments and pressure on interest margins
to rise.  The firm does expect full-year underlying profit to be
higher than last year’s result of 1.1 billion euros, it said.  The bank set aside 125 million euros for doubtful loans in
the first quarter, compared with 79 million euros a year earlier
and 257 million euros in the fourth quarter, ABN said.  ABN is considering appealing a European Union imposed ban
on larger acquisitions as it may limit the firm’s flexibility
after a partial exit by the government, Van Rutte said today.  While the ban, among the EU’s conditions for approving
ABN’s bailout, currently doesn’t hamper its strategy, that could
change after the state sells a minority stake and ABN becomes a
listed company, the CFO said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Spain ’s Banco Santander
SA and Fortis bought ABN Amro in 2007 for about 72 billion euros
in the world’s biggest banking takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  