-- 
Acid-Rain Reduction Kit at U.K. Electricity Plants Too Costly, SSE Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-20T10:26:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/acid-rain-curbing-kit-at-power-plants-in-the-u-k-too-costly-sse-says.html
Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , the
U.K.’s second-largest power producer, said equipment needed to
curb acid rain pollutants at two of its coal-fed power stations
in northern  England  is too costly.  SSE’s Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge power stations have
until 2023 to comply with European Union limits on pollutants
including nitrogen oxides. Rival EON AG is in the process of
fitting selective catalytic reduction kit, known as SCR, onto
its Ratcliffe plant near  Nottingham  to reduce the emissions
blamed for acid rain.  “It’s our assumption that those two stations will shut in
2023,” Ian Marchant, chief executive officer of the Perth,
Scotland-based utility said today on a conference call after
publishing financial results. “Our view was that SCR was not an
economic proposition and with the U.K. carbon price support
mechanism, that’s been further vindicated.”  The U.K. government plans to impose a tax on carbon dioxide
emissions from power stations in 2013 to raise revenue and
provide an incentive to invest in low-carbon energy generation.
This is at the same time that utilities are required to invest
in existing plant to meet European standards under the
Industrial Emissions Directive from 2015.  SSE is investigating the availability of cheaper
alternative technologies to comply with the IED, Marchant said.  Cheaper Technologies  “If there are other technologies that appear to work that
appear to be cheaper that means you can comply,” he said “We
are continuing to investigate to see whether that makes sense.
“We’ve got a year or two before we have to make a decision.” A
2023 closure isn’t a “foregone conclusion,” Marchant said.  The company won planning approval from U.K Department of
Energy and Climate Change to fit SCR equipment at the Fiddlers
Ferry site on Feb. 23, according to a government statement.  Britain’s power market is the third-most competitive in
 Europe , he said. The industry is dominated by six energy
companies that generate and supply electricity. U.K. lawmakers
proposed this week a “radical reform of the wholesale energy
market” to spur power trading and increase pricing transparency
for longer-dated contracts.  The U.K supply market has “six playing, who really don’t
like each other,” Marchant said. “We fundamentally do not
accept that between us, we have a dominant position.”  SSE does “broadly support” proposals to improve liquidity
in the market, he said. “Anything that can be done to improve
liquidity actually helps us manage our business on behalf of our
customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  