-- 
Macklowe Says He’s Proceeding With ‘Monumental’ Development in Manhattan

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-20T22:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/macklowe-says-he-s-proceeding-with-monumental-development-in-manhattan.html
Harry Macklowe , the New York real
estate developer, said he is moving ahead with plans for
building at the site of the former Drake Hotel on Park Avenue in
 Manhattan .  “I’m pleased to tell you we’re moving forward on a piece
of land that we own free and clear,” Macklowe said today at a
conference sponsored by Massey Knakal Realty Services. The
development, planned for the site at Park and East 56th Street,
“will be a capstone. It will be a monumental building and will
be as much of an icon as the Apple cube,” in front of the
General Motors Building, he said.  Macklowe was the owner of the GM tower in midtown Manhattan
when he conceived and built the “cube,” a glass entryway to an
underground showroom that’s become one of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s most
successful stores and a tourist attraction. He had to sell the
skyscraper in 2008 after failing to refinance seven other towers
he bought the year before from Equity Office Properties Trust
using almost all short-term debt.  Macklowe, who rarely speaks in public, described his loss
of the towers as “mishegoss,” a Yiddish word meaning
“craziness.” Still, he’s proud of paying his creditors and
that “nobody sued me,” he said.  “I made a very, very bad bet in 2007,” Macklowe said.
“But I’m making new investments, I’m doing new deals and I’m
very pleased to be an active participant in our real estate
community.”  Macklowe is working with Los Angeles-based  CIM Group , which
bought the Drake site. His firm has filed plans with the city to
erect a building there. Neither he nor CIM has disclosed what
kind of development they’re planning. The developers have been
trying to buy small buildings nearby to increase the site’s
frontage on 57th Street, a major shopping thoroughfare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  