-- 
IMF Board Aims to Select New Leader by June 30

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/lagarde-is-favored-to-head-imf.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it will aim to pick a leader to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn
by the end of June and promised to choose the most-qualified
candidate from among front-runners announced by the agency.  “The executive board has adopted a procedure that allows
the selection of the next managing director to take place in an
open, merit-based and transparent manner,” Shakour Shaalan, the
senior member of the IMF’s 24-person board, said in a statement
yesterday in Washington.  The pledge of transparency came in response to calls by
 Brazil ,  China  and other developing economies for an end to
Europe’s 65-year lock on the top job in favor of a selection
process that is based on qualifications alone. Among the
requirements for the job cited by the board is an understanding
of “challenges facing the fund’s diverse global membership.”  Officials in Thailand,  Russia  and  South Africa  said the
next managing director should come from a developing nation even
as they failed to unite behind one candidate. By contrast,
Europe has moved to maintain control of the post as officials
closed ranks behind French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said earlier that
the U.S. is “prepared to support a candidate with the requisite,
deep experience and leadership qualities, and who can command
broad support among the fund’s membership.”  Arturo Porzecanski, a professor of international economics
at American University in Washington, said he was skeptical the
selection process would be based on merit alone.  ‘Walking the Walk’  “In political organizations, many of them are talking the
talk but not necessarily walking the walk,” Porzecanski said in
a telephone interview.  Any of the IMF’s 187 member nations will be able to
nominate candidates for the managing director’s position between
May 23 and June 10, the agency said. The board will draw up a
short list of three candidates and publicize the names.  The IMF said the board’s objective is to select the
managing director by consensus. Nations have weighted votes,
with the U.S. holding almost 17 percent of the total.  The procedure for a short-list “means that there’s clearly
going to be a lot of horse-trading beforehand,” said Bessma
Momani, a professor in at the University of Waterloo in  Canada 
who specializes in the IMF. “They are obviously expecting a lot
of names.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said a European is best
placed to lead the IMF given the demands of the euro-area debt
crisis. The IMF approved a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and provides a third of the euro-area’s bailout
packages.  Euro’s Problems  “Naturally the developing countries have a claim on the
highest position of the IMF or  World Bank , but the current
situation speaks for a European candidate given the considerable
problems of the euro,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin May 19.  Her chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said he couldn’t
confirm a Handelsblatt report that the government is preparing
to throw its support behind Lagarde.  The euro fell versus the dollar for the first time in five
days yesterday as a policy maker for the  European Central Bank 
said it may not be able to accept Greek sovereign debt as
collateral if the bond maturities are extended.  The European currency weakened 1.1 percent to $1.4161 at 5
p.m. in  New York , cutting a weekly gain to 0.3 percent, after
earlier advancing to $1.4346, the strongest level since May 11.
The euro sank 0.9 percent to 115.69 yen, after gaining to as
much as 117.17.  Greek Rating  Greece’s credit rating yesterday was cut three levels by
 Fitch Ratings , which said that even a voluntary extension of its
bond maturities being studied by European Union policy makers
would be considered a default.  Italy and Sweden also backed Lagarde, while German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said he holds her in high esteem, the
first public hint of German support.  “ Christine Lagarde  has outstanding credentials,” Swedish
Finance Minister Anders Borg said in a Bloomberg Television
interview May 19. Her sex is an “advantage” since “half of
the world has not been represented as managing director” of the
IMF, Borg said.  Lagarde is now the “odds-on” favorite for the job after
being a “20-1 outsider when betting began,” London-based
bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH)  said in an e-mailed statement.  Porzecanski said the choice of a European could introduce a
potential conflict of interest. “If we ever need Europe’s
financial problems to be handled in an impartial way, it is
now,” he said. “We don’t need the IMF to be taken over by the
EU.”  Thailand ,  Philippines   While Chinese officials haven’t publicly endorsed any
candidate, Thailand and the Philippines backed Singapore Finance
Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam as a possible choice to succeed
Strauss-Kahn at the IMF.  Brazilian ex-central banker Arminio Fraga, South Africa’s
Trevor Manuel,  India ’s Montek Singh Ahluwalia and Shanmugaratnam
would all make “fine candidates” to lead the IMF, Raghuram
Rajan, a professor at the University of Chicago and a former
chief IMF economist, wrote in the Financial Times.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, a former French finance minister,
resigned IMF four days after his arrest in New York on sexual-
assault charges. He was discharged from New York’s Rikers Island
yesterday after being granted bail. While he has denied the
accusations, he hasn’t entered a formal plea to any of the
charges, which include attempted rape.  World Bank  Europeans have picked IMF heads since its founding at the
end of World War II under a deal that also gives the U.S.
control over the top World Bank post. The No. 2 person at the
IMF has traditionally been chosen by the U.S.  John Lipsky , 64, the No. 2 official at the fund, has been
named acting leader. Lipsky, a former chief economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., is scheduled to retire in August.  Strauss-Kahn’s five-year term had 17 months remaining. In
past successions, some managing directors were appointed to
fresh five-year tenures.  Strauss-Kahn will receive a $250,000 severance package, IMF
spokesman Bill Murray said. He earned an annual salary of
$441,980 after taxes as of July 2009, plus an expense allowance
of $79,120, also tax-free.  The allowance would enable him to maintain “a scale of
living appropriate to your position as managing director,”
according to his contract. In addition, he could be reimbursed
for “reasonable” entertainment expenses as well as first-class
travel.  Selection by Consensus  Lagarde, 55, declined to comment on her potential candidacy
when questioned by reporters in Paris. She said that the
successor to Strauss-Kahn should come from  Europe .  Lagarde’s chances may hinge on how she resolved a two-
decade-old dispute involving a supporter of President Nicolas Sarkozy. The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers in agreeing
in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in a 385
million-euro ($551 million) award to Bernard Tapie, a former
Socialist minister who endorsed Sarkozy’s presidential effort.  The matter stems from the 1993 sale of Tapie’s Adidas AG,
which was handled by then-state-owned Credit Lyonnais SA. At the
time, Lagarde was a partner with the Chicago-based law firm
Baker & McKenzie LLP, 12 years before she joined the government.
The minister has rejected accusations her decision to take the
matter to arbitration and not appeal the award was a reward for
Tapie’s support of Sarkozy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 