-- 
Boeing 787 Woes Won’t Be Repeated on Airbus A350, Umeco Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-05-20T12:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/airbus-a350-to-escape-787-woes-as-composites-improve-umeco-says.html
Airbus SAS’s A350 jet should prove
less problematic to build than the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 because of
advances in producing the composite plastics from which it will
be made, said  Umeco Plc (UMC) , which is working on both models.  Advances in carbon-fiber technology mean that parts can be
molded using a curing process that supplies the required heat
without the need for high-pressure ovens known as autoclaves,
Umeco Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss said in an interview.  “If you can avoid the high pressure it’s much easier and
cheaper,” said Moss, whose company produces composites and the
tooling needed to make parts from the plastic for Boeing, Airbus
and major suppliers such  GKN Plc (GKN)  and  Senior Plc. (SNR)   Boeing has postponed 787 deliveries seven times, resulting
in a three-year delay, after grappling with new materials and
production systems required for the world’s first composite
airliner and handing work to outside companies to cut costs. The
first Dreamliner is now due for handover to All Nippon Airways
by September, with the rival A350 slated for delivery in 2013.  Airbus aims to begin assembling the first A350 by the
year’s end after completing curing of the plane’s largest
fuselage panel in March. Sections are being built in factories
across  France ,  Germany  the U.K. and  Spain  for final assembly at
the company’s headquarters in Toulouse, France.  Wing Flaps  Like the 787, the A350 will be about 50 percent composite
by weight. Umeco will supply materials for so-called secondary
structures such as wing components and access panels, Moss said.
On the Dreamliner, the U.K. company is producing parts for the
wing and fuselage, as well as ducting and overhead lockers.  “The industry learns as time moves on,” the CEO said.
“Boeing’s technology was revolutionary, and I’m sure Airbus have
had a bit more time to think about things and work out how
they’re going to tackle the challenges they face.”  Delays to the Dreamliner were prompted by glitches
including the discovery of flaws in horizontal stabilizers built
by  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia Aeronautica unit.  Planemakers are developing composite models to help reduce
the weight of aircraft and improve fuel burn as airlines seek
to cut costs and secure long-term profitability. The 787 should
offer operational savings of about 20 percent over traditional
aluminum models, according to Chicago-based Boeing.  Component Exit  Umeco has agreed to sell aerospace-components business
Pattonair to Exponent Private Equity LLP for 145.8 million
pounds ($237 million) to sharpen its focus on higher-margin
composites and resins, the Leamington Spa, England-based company
said today in a statement.  “It is in the best interests of the company and its
shareholders to focus Umeco’s resources on its composites
business, which it considers has attractive long-term growth
prospects in its core markets of aerospace and defense,  wind
energy , automotive and marine,” Chairman Neil Johnson said.  Moss, formerly Umeco’s chief operating officer, took over
as CEO today from Clive Snowdon, who resigned from the board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at   anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  