-- 
Taiwan Seeks Life in Prison for General in China Spy Case

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-05-20T09:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/taiwan-seeks-life-in-prison-for-general-in-china-spy-case-1-.html
Taiwan ’s military prosecutors
indicted a former major general on suspicion of spying for China
after he was detained in January in the highest profile military
espionage trial in decades.  Prosecutors will seek life in prison for Major-General Lo
Hsien-che, the Ministry of National Defense  said  today. Lo was
initially held on suspicion of leaking classified information to
the mainland.  Lo has “hurt the national interest and national security,
and is a big blow to the reputation and morale of the army,”
according to the statement. Because Lo has confessed and
surrendered the bribes he took, the requested sentence was
reduced to life in prison from the death penalty, it said.  “The incident won’t have any major effect on cross-strait
relations as Taiwan and  China  are committed to closer economic
and trade relations now,” Liao Da-chi, director of the
Institute of Political Science at National Sun Yat-sen
University, said by phone today.  Lo is accused of collecting information, passing on
military intelligence, spying and taking bribes, according to
the statement. The information involved U.S. arms sales and Lo
was the highest-ranking member of the military to spy for China
in half a century, the Taipei-based China Times has reported.
China regards Taiwan as part of its territory and has made
reunification one of its “core interests,” threatening to
attack the island if it declares formal independence.  Separate Rule  Taiwan and China have been ruled separately since Mao Zedong’s Communist Party took over the mainland in 1949 and the
Kuomintang fled to Taiwan after losing the civil war. The
opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  has expressed concern
President Ma Ying-jeou may put Taiwan’s sovereignty at stake as
he pushes for closer economic ties with the mainland.  China has deployed more than 1,000 missiles on the opposite
side of the 150-kilometer (93 miles)  Taiwan Strait , which
separates the two sides.  Ma took office in May 2008 and dropped his predecessor’s
pro-independence stance and made economic relations the priority
of his administration.  Wang Jen-Ping, a former official at Taiwan’s presidential
office, was sentenced to three years in jail by the Taipei
District Court for leaking state secrets to China, the state-run
 Central News Agency  reported in November.  President Ma this month called for the U.S. to end years of
stalling and provide submarines and F-16 fighter jets to
maintain “leverage” over China as the two civil war foes
negotiate closer ties.  The U.S. goal of strengthening China ties has faltered
repeatedly on arms sales to Taiwan. Ma, who will seek re-
election next year, has been accused by opposition candidate
Tsai Ing-wen of selling Taiwan short with a policy of
rapprochement that was “boxed in a frame set by China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  