-- 
Taiwan Dollar Strengthens Most in a Week on Growth Prospects

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-20T08:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/taiwan-dollar-poised-for-weekly-advance-on-growth-prospects.html
Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened by the
most in more than a week on optimism economic growth will
continue to draw funds from global investors.  Government bonds 
dropped.  Taiwan’s economy expanded 6.55 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, compared with 6.92 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics bureau said after the  currency
market  closed yesterday. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 6.20 percent growth. Global funds
have bought $2.6 billion more local stocks than they sold this
year, according to exchange data.  “Good economic growth will continue to attract foreign
funds,” said Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based currency trader at
the Union Bank of Taiwan. “The trend of long-term appreciation
of the  Taiwan dollar  hasn’t changed. The central bank’s attitude
toward the rise of the currency will determine the extent of the
appreciation.”  The Taiwan dollar rose 0.3 percent from yesterday to
NT$28.780 against its U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. local
time close, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It was the biggest
one-day advance since May 11. The currency, which was little
changed this week, has strengthened 5.5 percent this year, the
best performance among the 10 most-traded Asian currencies.  The government reported after the close of  currency trading 
that the current-account surplus was $10.8 billion in the first
quarter, up from $10.1 billion in the previous three months.  The yield on the 1.375 percent note due March 2021, the
most-traded government debt, increased five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, this week to 1.447 percent, according to
Gretai Securities Market. The rate gained one basis point from
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 