-- 
Takeda-Nycomed Agitating Investment Too Familiar With 40% Loss: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-20T02:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/takeda-nycomed-agitating-investment-too-familiar-with-40-loss-real-m-a.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. is pursuing
its biggest acquisition after destroying more value for
shareholders than any drugmaker and hoarding the most cash.  Owning Takeda has cost investors almost 40 percent of their
money in the past five years, the most of any pharmaceutical
company with more than $10 billion in market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Over that span, the average
drugmaker returned 35 percent as the  Osaka , Japan-based company
held onto $10.4 billion more cash than debt.  Now, Takeda President Yasuchika Hasegawa is betting his
$9.1 billion acquisition of Zurich-based Nycomed will offset
declining sales in Japan and boost earnings that may slump to
the lowest in more than a decade by 2013. While the deal, the
largest by a Japanese drugmaker, gives Takeda a business that
gets more than a third of its revenue in emerging economies, its
last billion-dollar takeover has left shareholders with a 27
percent loss since it closed three years ago.  “Takeda has just gone absolutely nowhere,” said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer at First Empire Asset
Management in Hauppauge,  New York , which manages more than $4
billion. “It’s a traditional knee-jerk reaction of a large
pharmaceutical company without much growth to acquire somebody.
You always have to question whether it’s really worth it.”  Tobias Cottmann, a spokesman for Nycomed, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail requesting comment
outside normal business hours.  ‘Great Contribution’  “The deal will enhance our European and emerging markets
franchise,” said Mihoko Shinomiya, a spokeswoman for Takeda.
“We believe that this deal will be a great contribution.”  Takeda, which traces its  origins  to a medicine wholesale
business opened by Chobei Takeda in Osaka in 1781, has dropped
39 percent since May 2006, including dividends, through May 18,
the day before the deal was announced. That’s the biggest
decline among the 21 drugmakers worth more than $10 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 10 largest by
market value, none fell more than 10 percent.  New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker,
had a total return of 13 percent, while London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the largest in the U.K., gained 11 percent.  “Takeda has been an underperforming stock,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, which
manages $1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California . “That certainly
has been a problem, obviously, for its shareholders in recent
years.”  Hoarding Cash  Even as Takeda’s shareholders lost out,  Asia ’s largest
pharmaceutical company was still hoarding the most cash. Takeda
had $10.6 billion in reserves and less than $200 million in debt
at the end of March, more than twice the net cash of any other
pharmaceutical company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Takeda’s cash holdings represented about a third of its
equity value, the data show. On average, the biggest drugmakers
had $3.7 billion more debt than cash.  Hasegawa, 64, who joined Takeda in 1970 and has led the
company since 2003, is now using some of that cash on the
largest takeover in the company’s history. Takeda is paying
Nycomed’s  owners , including Stockholm-based  Nordic Capital  and
Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit, 6.3
billion euros ($9.1 billion) in cash.  Including net debt, the purchase values Nycomed at 9.6
billion euros ($13.7 billion), dwarfing Takeda’s $8.9 billion
acquisition of Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2008.  Jury’s Out  “Companies typically employ a strategy -- if they’ve had
problems -- to go out and buy growth. The acquisition is
probably an attempt on their part to try to do that,” YCMNet’s
Yoshikami said. “The jury’s out on whether that is going to be a
reasonable strategy that will work for them.”  The purchase of Nycomed,  founded  in  Norway  in 1874 by
pharmacist Morten Nyegaard as an agent for imported
pharmaceutical products, comes three years after Hasegawa
completed Takeda’s takeover of Millennium. That deal led to a 27
percent loss for Takeda’s owners, including dividends, the data
show. Without the payouts, the decline widens to 36 percent.  Hasegawa is spending 31 percent more for Nycomed than prior
deals in the industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The takeover values Nycomed at 11.3 times its adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
last year. That includes the results of the company’s U.S.
dermatology business, which it isn’t buying. Acquirers paid a
median of 8.6 times Ebitda in drug takeovers of $2 billion or
more in the past two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  Takeda said it plans to fund part of the deal with a loan
of as much as 700 billion yen ($8.6 billion). Moody’s Investors
Service placed the company’s credit rating on review for a
likely “multi-notch” downgrade. The drugmaker is rated Aa1,
Moody’s second-highest investment grade.  “It seems they’re attempting to change things, but these
big acquisitions have a very poor track record,” said First
Empire’s Obuchowski. “An acquisition could bring new products,
a new team, new research. But it’s always a double-edged
sword.”  Nycomed will boost Takeda’s sales in  Europe  and emerging
markets including  China  and  Latin America . Takeda’s annual
revenue and per-share earnings will increase by more than 30
percent and bolster operating income, excluding certain items,
by more than 40 percent, Takeda said.  Emerging Markets  Takeda generated 85 percent of its 1.42 trillion yen of
revenue in  Japan  and the U.S. in the last fiscal year. Nycomed
makes pantoprazole for heartburn and the smokers’ cough drug
roflumilast, sold in the U.S. as Daliresp and as Daxas in
Europe. Emerging economies accounted for 39 percent of Nycomed’s
3.17 billion euros in revenue last year, while Europe was the
dominant region making up 44 percent of sales, according to the
company’s annual  report .  Drug sales in the 17 fastest-growing emerging markets will
expand 13 percent to 16 percent annually over the next five
years, reaching as much as $315 billion by 2015, the  IMS
Institute  for Healthcare Informatics in Parsippany,  New Jersey ,
said this week. That compares with growth of 1 percent to 4
percent in developed economies.  Takeda’s Nycomed deal comes after Japan fell into its third
recession in a decade. The Cabinet Office said yesterday the
economy shrank an annualized 3.7 percent in the first quarter.  Atsushi Seki, a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said
that Nycomed may not be enough to offset the decline in revenue
after generic versions of Takeda’s best-selling drug Actos go on
sale in 2012. Actos, first sold in the U.S. in 1999 and now the
world’s top-selling diabetes medicine, accounted for 27 percent
of Takeda’s sales last year.  ‘Had to Happen’  “This deal was something that had to happen, given their
cash position, their drug pipeline over the next few years and
the cost of debt right now,” said Paul Gyenge, an investment
analyst at Sydney-based PM Capital Ltd., which manages more than
A$1 billion ($1.1 billion). “But you have to be mindful of the
returns you get on a deal like this versus the potential returns
you would get from R&D or doing buybacks.”  Overall, there have been 9,528 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $942.4 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $771.4 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 