-- 
Al-Qaeda Interested in Energy Targets, Including Oil Tankers, U.S. Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-20T22:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/al-qaeda-documents-show-interest-in-attacking-oil-gas-targets-u-s-says.html
The al-Qaeda terrorist network is
interested in targeting oil and natural gas supplies, including
tankers, the federal government has told law enforcement
officials.  There is no “specific or imminent” threat, said Matt
Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of  Homeland Security .  The information came from materials seized by U.S. Navy
SEALs during the raid earlier this month that killed al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden, a U.S. official said.  Earlier today, President  Barack Obama , speaking at the
Central Intelligence Agency, said the materials taken from bin
Laden were “the largest treasure trove of intelligence ever
seized from a terrorist leader.”  An intelligence note sent to state and local law
enforcement by  Homeland Security  and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  referred to al-Qaeda’s focus on maritime energy,
specifically oil tankers, two U.S. officials said. The
officials, lacking permission to talk publicly, asked for
anonymity.  As of 2010, al-Qaeda showed it wanted to attack  oil tankers 
and “commercial oil infrastructure” at sea, Chandler said in
an e-mailed statement.  ‘Companies Are Concerned’  Energy companies were alerted, said Robin Rorick, an
American Petroleum Institute official.  “The companies are concerned” and “will be working very
closely with DHS,” he said in an interview.  The  API , based in Washington, is an industry-funded trade
group that represents more than 470 companies.  Graham Westgarth, president of Teekay Marine Services, a
unit of  Teekay Corp. (TK) , the world’s biggest tanker company,
declined to comment on the note. “We take the safety of our
crew very seriously and are constantly assessing our state of
preparedness,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Kate Perez, a spokeswoman for the Houston-based rig-
contractor  Pride International Inc. (PDE) , also declined to discuss
the intelligence note and said that the company had a policy of
limiting access to facilities to trained personnel.  Materials in Compound  The materials found in bin Laden’s compound in Abbottabad,
 Pakistan , showed a broad interest in targeting transportation
and energy infrastructure, the first U.S. official said. The
group in the past has tried to target such facilities, the U.S.
officials said.  Earlier this month, U.S. officials said documents from the
compound showed the terrorists were plotting in February 2010 to
target railroads. A third U.S. official had said the assault
would mark the 10th anniversary of al-Qaeda’s Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks on the U.S.  The U.S. intelligence note also underscored the importance
of “random screenings, personnel briefings describing possible
threats, procedures for reporting suspicious activities and the
need for vigilance,” Chandler said. The government remains in a
“heightened state of vigilance” and isn’t issuing an alert, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 