-- 
Hall of Famer Jerry West Joins Board of NBA’s Golden State Warrriors

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-05-20T16:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/hall-of-famer-jerry-west-joins-board-of-nba-s-golden-state-warrriors.html
Jerry West , who won seven
championships as player and front-office executive for the  Los
Angeles Lakers , joined the Golden State Warriors as one of the
National Basketball Association club’s board members.  West, 72, will have responsibilities ranging from
basketball operations to business, sponsorship and marketing,
the team said today in a statement. Terms weren’t disclosed.  West, a Hall of Famer and 14-time All-Star from 1960-74,
spent three years as coach of the Lakers before moving to the
team’s front office for 18 years. He won one championship as a
player and six more while running the team’s basketball
operations. He then joined the  Memphis Grizzlies  as president
from 2002-07.  As a Lakers executive, he traded for Kobe Bryant three
weeks after Bryant was drafted by the then-Charlotte Hornets.
Bryant has been on five championship teams with the Lakers.  “This role is appealing at this particular time because it
will provide me an opportunity to remain close to the game and
contribute to an organization in a meaningful, all-encompassing
manner,” said West, who will travel to the  San Francisco  Bay
Area while maintaining his home in  Los Angeles .  West will report directly to owners Joe Lacob and Peter Guber, who bought the team last July for $450 million. The
Warriors have missed the playoffs in 16 of the past 17 seasons.  “His accomplishments in this business as both a player and
executive are almost beyond comprehension and certainly well-
documented,” Lacob said. “He’s simply a winner and, quite
honestly, you can never have too many of those in your
organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  