-- 
Allergan, Shire, Benihana, Google, Kindle Sales: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-20T11:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/allergan-shire-benihana-google-intellectual-property.html
Allergan Inc. received a mixed U.S.
appeals court ruling in its effort to prevent Apotex Inc. and
Exela PharmSci Inc. from selling a generic version of the
glaucoma treatment Alphagan P.  After failing to persuade the court to invalidate four of
five Allergan patents, closely held Apotex may not market its
version of the eye drops until 2022. Exela, though, won a ruling
that its generic wouldn’t infringe the lone patent asserted
against it, according to an  opinion  posted yesterday by the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington .  Alphagan P, along with Alphagan and Combigan, generated
$100.2 million in sales in the first quarter for  Irvine ,
California-based Allergan, or about 8 percent of total revenue.
Alphagan P, with the active ingredient brimonidine tartrate, was
developed to limit allergic reactions associated with the
earlier treatment, Alphagan. The drops limit the pressure on the
eye that is associated with glaucoma.  Apotex, based in Toronto, had conceded it infringed the
patents, so the only matter on appeal was whether the patents
were properly issued. The court said one patent was an obvious
variation of earlier research, but the Federal Circuit rejected
Apotex’s arguments that the other four patents simply covered a
combination of Alphagan with another Allergan product called
Refresh Tears.  Exela, based in Reston,  Virginia , sought approval in 2006
to sell Alphagan P 0.15 percent, and doesn’t yet have tentative
approval from the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , according
to an Allergan spokeswoman, Caroline Van Hove. Alcon Inc.
already sells a generic version of that form, she said.  She said yesterday’s ruling prevents Apotex from selling
Alphagan in the 0.10 percent formula as well as 0.15 percent.  Exela focused its appeal on the single patent asserted
against it, for a brimonidine solution with a specific pH level.
Exela’s petition to sell a generic version of the drug was at a
different pH level, the court said.  Apotex and Exela representatives didn’t yet respond to
requests seeking comment.  The case is Allergan Inc. v. Exela PharmSci Inc. and Apotex
Inc., 2010-1102 and 2010-1103, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is In re
Brimonidine Patent Litigation, 07md1866, U.S. District Court for
the District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  Sandoz Signals Intent to Compete With Shire in Vyvanse Market  Shire Plc (SHP)  announced yesterday that it was notified by
Sandoz Inc., the generic subsidiary of  Novartis AG (NOVN) , of its
intent to manufacture a generic version of Vyvanse, a drug for
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.  Sandoz advised Shire, in what’s known as a Paragraph IV
Notice Letter, that it filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application
for a generic version of all strengths of Vyvanse.  In its statement, Shire said it is currently reviewing the
letter and, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, has 45 days to determine
if it will file a patent-infringement lawsuit. If Shire sues,
the Food and Drug Administration must impose a 30-month stay of
approval.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Benihana Sues Founder’s Widow Over Trademark Ownership  Benihana Inc., operator of the chain of Japanese-themed
restaurants, sued Benihana of Tokyo Inc., Keiko Aoki and
Takanori Yoshimoto in state court in Florida May 17.  The complaints alleges that Aoki, the widow of Benihana’s
founder, tried to interfere in a sale of the company and claims
that the defendants are misrepresenting the ownership of the
company’s trademarks.  Alan Fein, of Miami’s Stearns Weaver Miller Weissler
Alhadeff & Sitterson PA, represents Benihana in the litigation.  A representative of Aoki didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  The case is Benihana Inc. v. Aoki, 2011-015372-CA-01 Florida
Circuit Court (Miami).  Apple Denies Amazon’s Claim That ‘ App Store ’ Is Generic Term  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , suing Amazon.com Inc. for trademark
infringement, denied the retailer’s claims that “app store” is
a generic term and that the words together stand for a store for
application programs.  “Apple denies that, based on their common meaning, the
words ‘app store’ together denote a store for apps,” the
company said in a filing yesterday in federal court in Oakland,
 California .  The term isn’t commonly used by businesses to describe
download services and “app store” isn’t generic, Apple said in
the filing.  Apple is seeking a court order to prevent Amazon from using
“App Store” to sell software applications for mobile devices,
according to a March 18 complaint. Amazon countered in an April
26 court filing that the words together are a generic term that
Cupertino, California-based Apple doesn’t have exclusive rights
to use.  The online retailer asked a federal judge to throw out
Apple’s lawsuit and provide an order allowing it to use the term
to sell programs for Android devices. Apple said Seattle-based
Amazon isn’t entitled to an order allowing it to use the phrase.
Amazon’s Appstore, offering downloads of software for Android
devices, opened March 22.  Mary  Osaka , a spokeswoman for Amazon, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  The case is Apple v. Amazon, 11-01327, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Privacy  Lawmakers Aim Mobile Privacy Push at Apple, Google, Facebook  U.S. lawmakers, considering legislation aimed at protecting
consumers’ online privacy, said the market for smartphone
applications needs to be regulated to prevent the inappropriate
sharing of user data.  As mobile devices “become more powerful, more personal
information is being concentrated in one place,” Senator  Jay
Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said yesterday during a
Senate Commerce subcommittee hearing in Washington on mobile
privacy. “These devices are not really phones -- they are
miniature computers.”  “The mobile marketplace is so new and technology is moving
so quickly that many consumers do not understand the privacy
implications of their actions,” Rockefeller, who chairs the
Commerce Committee, said in prepared remarks released before the
subcommittee hearing.  Apple Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc., along with the
thousands of developers who make applications for their
platforms, are facing increasing scrutiny from Congress over how
they collect, use and store customer information, including data
gathered from smartphones and other wireless devices. Executives
from the three companies appeared before the panel yesterday.  In its testimony, Google defended its handling of user data
tied to mobile devices using its Android software, telling U.S.
lawmakers that the company seeks consent for the collection and
use of location information.  “Google is also very careful about how we use and store
the data that is generated by these services,” Alan Davidson,
the  Mountain View , California-based company’s director of public
policy, said in his testimony.  Rockefeller  said  yesterday that he sent letters to Apple
and Google asking them whether applications that run on their
mobile platforms comply with online privacy laws for children.  Catherine Novelli, vice president of worldwide government
affairs for Cupertino, California-based Apple, told lawmakers
yesterday that the company doesn’t knowingly collect any
information on children under age 13.  Facebook Chief Technology Officer Bret Taylor told
lawmakers that the  Palo Alto , California-based company has
“robust privacy protections.” If customers “lose trust in a
service like Facebook, they will stop using it,” he said.  For more, click here.  Internet  Amazon.com Says Kindle E-Book Sales Top Printed Books  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  now sells 105 books for its Kindle
electronic-readers for every 100 printed ones.  Sales of the e-books for the Kindle, introduced in 2007,
surpassed hardcover titles in July 2010, and overtook paperbacks
six months later, the Seattle-based company said yesterday in a
statement.  “We had high hopes that this would happen eventually, but
we never imagined it would happen this quickly,” said  Jeff
Bezos , Amazon’s founder and chief executive officer, in the
statement.  The retailer got its start in 1995 as an online bookseller.
It has since expanded into thousands of products, selling
everything from DVDs to baby clothes.  Amazon may have sold more than 8 million Kindles last year,
accounting for about 5 percent of sales, according to Benchmark
Co. Amazon doesn’t disclose Kindle sales figures, other than
saying it’s the company best-selling product. 