-- 
Justice Department Opens Probe of Airline Fare Distributors

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-20T21:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/american-airlines-says-it-s-cooperating-in-u-s-probe-of-fare-distributors.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  is
investigating possible antitrust violations by companies that
distribute airline fare and flight data as they spar with
carriers over control of the information.  Sabre Holdings Corp., of Southlake,  Texas , and Atlanta-
based Travelport Ltd. said today they were asked by the agency
for information.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American
Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  also received requests.  The inquiry escalates tensions between airlines led by
American and the so-called global distribution systems over the
handling of price and schedule data used by most consumers to
purchase travel. Sabre and Travelport are the largest U.S.-based
GDS operators.  “This has been going on for many, many years and it’s
culminated in a situation where the airlines feel they’re being
bullied very harshly,” Richard Clarke, director of Travel
Technology Research, said in an interview. “The GDSs feel they
have the right to exercise their economic influence the way they
have. To go to court now, on the basis of antitrust, is kind of
the last straw.”  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the
agency is investigating possible anticompetitive practices in
the global-distribution industry. Sabre and Travelport said they
are cooperating.  Market Control  The two closely held companies, along with Amadeus IT Group
SA in  Europe , handle more than 90 percent of worldwide airline
data distribution, AMR said in an earlier legal filing. Sabre
and Travelport dominate the U.S. market.  Credit-default swaps on Sabre rose 57 basis points to 738
basis points, according to data provider CMA, the highest since
September 2009. The swaps protect against a default on a
company’s debt, and typically climb as investor confidence
worsens.  American in April sued Travelport and its  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  unit for alleged antitrust violations, and is in talks with
Sabre to settle a separate suit over distribution of data.  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline wants to use its Direct
Connect system to provide data to online and traditional travel
agents, cutting distribution costs and letting American sell
travel packages tailored for individual fliers. These may
include services such as early boarding that would add revenue.  AMR’s View  “We need to raise more money to be successful,” American
Chief Executive Officer Gerard Arpey told shareholders on May
18. “More merchandising is part of that, and Direct Connect is
a vehicle for it.”  Travelport “is confident that it is in complete compliance
with the antitrust laws,” Jill Brenner, a spokeswoman, said in
an interview. “Travelport welcomes the GDS industry
investigation.”  Sabre was asked for information and is cooperating, Nancy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The request, she
said, included “no allegations.”  Spokesmen for American and Atlanta-based Delta said they
were cooperating with the Justice Department, while Tempe,
Arizona-based  US Airways  declined to comment. Spokesmen for
Southwest Airlines Co. and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
which together with the other three carriers make up the five
biggest in the U.S. industry, also declined to comment.  GDS companies historically have collected fees from the
airlines for handling fare and flight data, and have shared a
portion with the travel agents who sell the tickets.  US Airways also has sued Sabre for alleged antitrust
violations. More than 35 percent, or $3.5 billion, of the Tempe,
Arizona-based airline’s annual revenue is booked through Sabre
or Sabre-affiliated travel agents.  AMR fell 6 cents to $6.66 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Delta rose 13 cents to $11.51 and US
Airways slipped 15 cents to $10.17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  