-- 
Anadarko Seen Following Mitsui in Settling BP Spill Costs

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T20:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/anadarko-seen-following-mitsui-in-reaching-bp-spill-settlement.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , holder of a
25 percent stake in the Macondo well that caused the biggest
offshore U.S. oil spill, is likely to settle with  BP Plc (BP/)  after
one partner agreed to help pay for the disaster, analysts said.  BP announced an agreement today with MOEX Offshore 2007
LLC, the unit of Tokyo-based Mitsui & Co. that had a 10 percent
stake in the well. Under the agreement, the first settlement
among the project’s partners, Mitsui will pay $1.07 billion to
cover all claims between the two companies related to the spill.  “Clearly, this increases the likelihood of a settlement
between Anadarko and BP,” said John Lutz, who helps oversee
$6.8 billion in assets, including about 200,000 Anadarko shares,
at Frost Investment Advisors LLC in  San Antonio . “It’s a
significant positive.”  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , saw its share
price drop by more than half after the April 20, 2010 explosion
in the Gulf. The shares have since recovered and rose $2.94, or
4.1 percent, to $74.58 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  BP has sent Anadarko bills for more than $5 billion to
cover spill-related costs, the London-based company said today.
Anadarko has said it owes BP nothing.  Not Liable  Reaching a settlement with Anadarko may not be as easy for
BP as it was to deal with Mitsui, said Philip Dodge, an analyst
with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research Inc. in  New York .
Anadarko will continue to say it’s not liable for anything and
the company may want more protections in areas such as punitive
damages and fines, Dodge said in a telephone interview today.  BP’s indemnity of Mitsui excludes civil, criminal or
administrative fines and penalties, claims for punitive damages,
and certain other claims, according to a statement today. Mitsui
said BP had billed it for about $2.1 billion and the settlement
was for $1.07 billion.  The agreement with  Japan ’s second-largest trading house is
the first payment by a company other than BP toward the cost of
the disaster, which BP estimates will be more than $40 billion.  “It would surprise me if BP could give Anadarko a better
deal than they gave Mitsui,” Dodge said. He said he has no
reason to think Anadarko-BP negotiations are over or that a
settlement will occur soon.  $2.65 Billion Implied  BP’s settlement with MOEX suggests that Anadarko could
reach a $2.65 billion agreement for its 25 percent stake,  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets ,
wrote today in a note to clients. RBC expects a $2 billion to $3
billion settlement, according to the note.  Anadarko is “prepared to come to the table under the right
circumstances” to resolve its dispute, Chief Executive Officer
Jim Hackett said on a May 3 conference call. Its position
“remains consistent with our previous statements,”  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Hackett told reporters on May 17 that Anadarko may be
interested in broader talks that involve federal and state
governments as well as other parties in the disaster. He said
then that nothing was imminent for his company.  “We view BP’s willingness to reach settlement with MOEX as
a positive step,” Christiansen said today.  Anadarko had $3.5 billion in cash and $5 billion in
available credit as of March 31, according to the company.  Settlement Positive  Unlike MOEX, “Anadarko continues to avoid its
responsibilities, refusing to pay for any damages, cleanup or
restoration,”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, said in an e-
mailed statement. “In further contrast, whereas MOEX does not
have sufficient assets to meet its responsibilities, Anadarko
has substantial resources available to contribute.”  The 2010 Macondo well blowout in the  Gulf of Mexico  killed
11 workers and led to hundreds of lawsuits against BP, its
partners and contractors. BP said today that other parties,
including Anadarko, rig owner  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and well-services
provider  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , must contribute “appropriately.”  Transocean said BP is liable for the environmental damages
and costs associated with the Macondo disaster, said Brian
Kennedy, a spokesman for the Vernier, Switzerland-based rig
owner. BP’s financial settlement with MOEX has no bearing on the
contractual clause indemnifying Transocean from liability, he
said.  Cathy Mann , a spokeswoman for Houston-based Halliburton,
declined to comment on the settlement.  MOEX Offshore is a wholly owned subsidiary of MOEX USA,
which in turn is wholly owned by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.,
Ltd. (MOECO), in which Mitsui holds a 69.91% equity interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 