-- 
Analysts Punished as Fewer Than 1% of ‘Sells’ Work Since 2009

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-20T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/analysts-punished-as-fewer-than-1-of-sells-work-since-2009.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. had
rallied 40 percent from its spinoff when Adnaan Ahmad started
covering the stock with a “sell” rating. The mobile-phone
maker has lost nearly all its gain since his Jan. 21 report.  “The market was pricing in strong profits for its handset
business, which I found outrageous for a company that’s not a
low-cost leader or a niche vendor,” said Ahmad, a London-based
analyst at Berenberg Bank who has also covered phone stocks for
Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch & Co.  Ahmad is one of the few analysts who issued “sell”
recommendations and fewer still whose advice turned out to be
right during the biggest U.S. market rally since 1955. Just 5.1
percent of analyst ratings are “sells,” according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Among 1,890 analysts tracked by Bloomberg
for this story, fewer than 1 percent advised investors to unload
a  Standard & Poor’s  500 stock that later showed a decline, or
rose only after they upgraded it, the data show.  “Any calls that an analyst makes that’s right deserves
some praise and sells are so few and far between,” said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert
W. Baird & Co., which oversees $85 billion. “An analyst who’s a
good analyst and does great, honest work, if he puts out a
‘sell’ signal, it should be looked at.”  Oil Drilling  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  had rallied 73 percent by
October 2009 from its March low when  Scott Gruber  of Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. initiated coverage with “underperform.” The
Houston-based deepwater oil driller fell 33 percent, from $94.17
to $62.83, compared with an 11 percent decline by the S&P 500
Oil & Gas Drilling Index, through July 26, when New York-based
Gruber lifted his rating to “market perform.” Diamond Offshore
has since climbed back to $72.06.  Charles Cerankosky, the Cleveland-based analyst of
Northcoast Research Holdings LLC, has maintained his “sell”
call since June 2009 for  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , when the  Eden Prairie ,
Minnesota-based owner of Save-A-Lot and Albertsons grocery
stores was trading at about $13. The stock has declined 20
percent in the past year, and is now at $11, as sales slumped
7.5 percent in fiscal 2011 from the prior period.  Motorola, after pioneering mobile-phone technology in the
1980s and 1990s, saw its market share fall to 2.4 percent last
year from 21.9 percent in the second quarter of 2006, according
to researcher Gartner Inc. Motorola Mobility, made up of the
mobile-phone and set-top box businesses, was spun off from what
is now Motorola Solutions Inc. after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  pressed for a split to improve performance.  Competition Concern  More than 50 percent of analysts recommend the stock today,
while 38 percent rate it as a “hold.” Three analysts have a
bearish recommendation. Ahmad said that while some analysts may
think Motorola Mobility will get help from an improving industry
and Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha’s leadership, he’s
concerned about the company’s competition.  “I thought the company was going to be stuck between a
rock and a hard place, and hence margins were going to come
under pressure,” Ahmad said. “That’s been happening much more
quickly than I anticipated.”  The Libertyville, Illinois-based company’s stock has lost
31 percent since Ahmad’s “sell” rating, falling from $34.88 on
Jan. 21 to $23.96 yesterday.  The bearish recommendations identified by Bloomberg
preceded a decline in the stock price between January 2009 to
April 6, 2011. The  S&P 500  companies tracked were those with at
least 15 ratings and the analysts had to have given at least one
recommendation in 2011.  Analysts give fewer “sell” ratings because stocks tend to
rise over time, according to Eric Teal of First Citizens
Bancshares Inc. and  Timothy Ghriskey  of the Solaris Group LLC.
That makes calls like Ahmad’s notable for their rarity and
accuracy, they said.  Market Doubles  The S&P 500 doubled from its March 2009 low to 1,363.61 on
April 29, its highest level since June 5, 2008, as government
stimulus measures and corporate earnings that have topped
analyst estimates. Only 10 stocks in the S&P 500 are lower now
than when the  bull market  began in March 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,343.6 at 4
p.m. yesterday.  “Analysts are swimming upstream,” said Teal, chief
investment officer at First Citizens in Raleigh,  North Carolina ,
which manages about $5.2 billion. “History indicates that
markets rise over time, so it’s challenging for analysts to
identify those companies that won’t benefit from at least a
rising tide.”  The S&P 500 rose 5.7 percent annually from 1930 through
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark gauge did
fall 57 percent from its October 2007 record through March 2009,
amid the worst recession since the Great Depression.  ‘A Lot Easier’  “It was a lot easier to put ‘sells’ on in the fall of 2008
than it is today,” said Ghriskey, chief investment officer at
Solaris in  Bedford Hills , New York, which manages $2 billion.  Christopher Blansett, a San Francisco-based alternative
energy analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., covers 12 companies,
according to Bloomberg data. Five are rated “underweight,”
four are recommended “overweight” and three are “neutral.”  Blansett, who has worked at JPMorgan for almost seven
years, rated  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  in June 2009 with an
“underweight.” The stock traded as high as $20.94 at the time.
The maker of silicon wafers for semiconductors and solar panels
has lost about half its value since then, at $10.40 yesterday.  “We’re probably the most bearish people on the solar
outlook on the Street” among larger firms, Blansett said. “You
tie that with the fact that MEMC has increasingly shifted their
business toward solar and they’ve increasingly impaired their
balance sheet in order to increase the company’s focus on that
sector. We just don’t see any reason why the stock’s going to
work anytime soon.”  Note Sale  MEMC has missed analyst estimates for the past four
quarters. The St. Peters, Missouri-based company has 10 “buy”
ratings, 11 “holds” and four “sells.” It sold $550 million
of senior notes March 3, according to Bloomberg data.  “Tech investors really dislike companies owning debt,”
Blansett said. “The fundamental concept is these stocks and
these industries are cyclical. Tech investors look for companies
with good balance sheets to have buffer when the cycle rolls
over. You get very concerned when there’s a company with a lot
of debt.”  Blansett said that analysts that have built strong
relationships with investors may be more confident in making
bearish calls, while newer analysts may find it harder until
they build their investor base and contacts with company
management.  “It’s tough to be negative on a stock. That might reduce
your level of corporate access and overall interaction with the
company,” he said. “Some people don’t have the stamina to deal
with being underweight companies for a very long time because it
can be very painful.”  Housing Crisis  Michael Widner, a Baltimore-based analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., rated D.R. Horton Inc. with a “sell” twice, in
April 2009 and August 2009. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based
homebuilder plunged more than 70 percent in about two months to
a low of $4.34 in November 2008 during the housing crisis.  Horton slumped 9.1 percent after Widner’s first “sell”
recommendation in April when it had climbed to about $10, and 12
percent after his second, when it again approached $12. He
lifted his rating to a “hold” in June. The stock closed at
$11.76 yesterday.  “I’m not in a business for a popularity contest,” he
said. “Investors recognize there’s a value to honesty. My niche
is to provide good research and tell people what I think. Even
though people may not like to hear ‘It’s time to sell,’ they
respect it when it turns out you were right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  