-- 
Manhattan Builders Plan Biggest Decade for Towers Since ’80s

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-20T17:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/manhattan-developers-plan-biggest-decade-for-skyscrapers-since-the-1980s.html
Manhattan developers are planning the
city’s biggest decade of office construction since the 1980s,
betting on rising demand for modern space even with tenants
unsigned and the availability of financing more limited.  More than 25 million square feet (2.3 million square
meters) of projects are under construction or may be built in
the next nine years, according to brokerage Cassidy Turley.
Developers including Related Cos. and real estate investment
trusts  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  are in
talks with potential tenants as they step up plans for towers.
Some, including Vornado, may proceed without lease agreements.  Builders and brokers say Manhattan is ready for the boom,
citing corporate appetite for the latest in comfort,  energy
efficiency  and technological capability in an area where more
than 60 percent of buildings are at least half a century old.
The risks for developers are that they are competing for tenants
and may have to put up more money as banks are reluctant to fund
new projects just three years after the credit crash.  “The developers anticipate improvement in the fundamentals
that we haven’t seen yet,” said  Sam Chandan , adjunct professor
at the Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania  and
chief economist at real estate research firm Real Capital
Analytics Inc. “The lenders that could support new construction
remain circumspect. It’s fair to say that developers will have
to work creatively with lenders to line up financing.”  Vacancy Rate Improving  The  Manhattan  office-vacancy rate fell to 12.2 percent as
of April 30, after peaking at 13.5 percent in March of last
year, according to New York-based Cassidy Turley. That compares
with a low of 6.7 percent in September 2007. Class A rents --
rates at the highest-quality buildings that would be most
similar to the new towers -- rose for a seventh month in April
to $59.65 a square foot. The record was $88.37 in May 2008.  Including buildings completed last year, Manhattan could
see about 28.5 million square feet of new  office space  in this
decade. Only 7.4 million square feet was built in the 1990s, and
18.5 million in the 2000s, according to Cassidy Turley. The
1980s had 47.2 million square feet of offices built.  Manhattan’s 450 million square feet of offices makes it the
biggest U.S. market.  “We’re getting to the point where new construction is
logical and the developers are ready to come out of the
ground,” said Robert Sammons, Cassidy Turley’s vice president
of research. Property companies that stockpiled money during the
recession now want to be “ahead of the curve,” he said.  Restarting Stalled Project  Boston  Properties, the largest U.S. office REIT, may be the
first to start building, with construction of a stalled project
poised to start in the fourth quarter. The Boston-based company
is in the final stages of negotiations with law firm  Morrison &
Foerster LLP  to anchor the planned 1 million-square-foot tower
at Eighth Avenue and West 55th Street, said a person with
knowledge of the discussions. An agreement may be reached within
weeks, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private.  “We are working on the marshalling of resources to be in a
position to start the project,” Boston Properties President
Douglas Linde said in a telephone interview. “There’s been a
fundamental shift in people’s outlooks on where they’re going
and where they want to be, and the city of  New York ’s
availability of high-quality real estate.”  Linde declined to comment on discussions with Morrison or
any other potential tenant. On a May 3 conference call, he said
the company was in “active” negotiations with an unnamed
tenant who would take about 20 percent of the building.  $1 Billion Project  The company said it has invested about $480 million in the
roughly $1 billion project, which was suspended in 2009 after
another law firm withdrew as an anchor tenant. Foundations and
below-the-street concourse floors are already in place, Linde
said in the interview. The steel is sitting in a yard in South
Carolina, and the makings of metal frames for the curtain wall
are in storage outside of Boston, he said.  Manhattan’s Far West Side, the area roughly between
Pennsylvania Station and the  Hudson River , may be one of the
biggest areas for development as Related and Brookfield Office
Properties take the first steps to attract tenants and start
construction on a potential 10 million square feet of offices.
 Penn Station  is the busiest U.S. commuter rail hub, with its
590,000 passengers a day approximating the population of
Milwaukee.  Much of the construction there will involve building
platforms over railroad tracks throughout that area.  Construction Loans  Financing new development may not be easy. Across the U.S.,
there were only a few large office-construction loans in the
first quarter, Chandan said. One was for the 600,000-square-foot
600 Brickell Ave. project in Miami, which got a $130 million
loan from Canyon Capital Realty Advisors LLC  in February .  Construction loans have fared the worst among all types of
commercial real estate loans, according to Richard Parkus, a
real estate debt analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York. Ninety-
day delinquency rates peaked close to 19 percent, and have
dropped “only minimally” since then, he said in an e-mail.  Commercial construction loans outstanding in the U.S. have
fallen each quarter since early 2009, according to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. The fourth-quarter total of $163.2
billion is a little more than half the $297.9 billion it was
when lending peaked in the first quarter of 2009. Those figures
include retail, industrial and hotel loans as well as offices.  Spending on U.S. office construction fell to $24.4 billion
in 2010, down 36 percent from 2009, and 56 percent from the peak
year of 2008, according to the Census Bureau.  Prudential Lending  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , an investor in about $60 billion
of U.S. property since 1999, is concentrating on funding
apartment construction, and isn’t yet seeking to finance
offices, said Kevin Smith, senior portfolio manager at
 Prudential Real Estate Investors , the property-investment unit
of the  Newark , New Jersey-based life insurer.  Prudential provided most of the equity on SJP Properties
Inc.’s 11 Times Square, a 1.1 million-square-foot tower at
Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street that remains more than half
unrented more than a year after its completion.  These days, Prudential prefers buildings “that are up and
leased,” Smith said. “Talking about financing new
construction, that’s a whole different kettle of fish.”  Rents in New York haven’t risen enough yet to entice banks
to write new loans, said Greg Reimers, northeast market manager
for real estate banking at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets.  80% Vacant  “If a banker gets a call from someone who owns land, the
first question he’s going to ask is, ‘Who’s your tenant?’”
Reimers said. “Twenty percent pre-leased for an office building
is not going to be sufficient to get a non-recourse construction
loan. Twenty percent leased is another way of saying 80 percent
vacant.”  Publicly traded REITs such as Boston Properties, having
accumulated cash and raised equity during the worst months of
the recession, are in a better position than private developers
to self-finance their building pipelines, Chandan said.  Boston Properties is prepared to use cash and access to
unsecured credit to start its 55th Street project, Linde said.
In its most recent quarterly report, the company said it had
$747.3 million of cash and equivalents, and $1 billion of
undrawn credit.  “I was with a major New York City bank last week, and they
encouraged us to talk to them about doing a construction loan,
if we wanted to go in that direction,” Linde said. “This was
an inbound call to me, not an outbound call to them. I feel very
comfortable with my liquidity. I feel comfortable with my
availability of future cash to build the building.”  Vornado Projects  Vornado has two Midtown projects in the works. One is 15
Penn Plaza, a 2.8 million-square-foot tower planned for the site
of the Hotel Pennsylvania, across Seventh Avenue from Penn
Station. Anthony Malkin, operator of the Empire State Building,
last year fought to stop the building, saying the 1,215-foot
skyscraper was too close to his and would mar the view. The New
York City Council approved the project anyway.  Vornado Chairman  Steven Roth  said in an April 15 letter to
investors that the company won’t proceed on that tower without a
major tenant.  He said at a luncheon last month that the other project, a
1.5 million-square-foot tower that would be constructed on top
of the Port Authority Bus Terminal at 42nd Street and Eighth
Avenue, may start without a signed tenant, a practice known as
building “on spec.”  Chinese Investment  An unidentified Chinese investor agreed to put $500 million
to $700 million into the project, Crain’s New York Business
reported in March. The bus terminal was built in 1950 with
footings strong enough to support a skyscraper.  Roanne Kulakoff, a spokeswoman for New York-based Vornado,
declined to comment.  Roth isn’t the only New York developer considering building
on spec. Edward Minskoff, who as an executive of now-defunct
Olympia & York Developments helped build downtown’s World
Financial Center, said he will erect a 413,000-square-foot, 13-
story office building at 51 Astor Place, across from the Cooper
Union engineering school, from whom he leases the ground.  “There’s 26 million square feet of leases rolling in 2013
and this building will be operational April of 2013,” he said.
“There are no blocks of space in any brand-new, A-plus building
that are going to be available in that same time frame.”  Minskoff declined to give the cost of the building or
detail its financing.  “We’ll go conventional financing and my personal equity,”
he said. “It’ll be one of the big major banks that are
sophisticated and understand how to finance construction
loans.”  Hudson Yards  Related, led by billionaire Stephen Ross, has been
marketing the $3 billion-plus first phase of the Hudson Yards
development. The company a year ago lined up the Oxford
Properties, a real estate investment unit of Ontario Municipal
Employees Retirement System, or OMERS, to serve as an equity
partner in the 26-acre development, Manhattan’s largest unbuilt
space. Related has declined to say how much the Canadian pension
fund is investing.  It’s “always been our expectation” that Related and its
partners would raise about $2 billion of equity for the entire
$12 billion project, said Jay Cross, president of the Related
unit overseeing the site. Related and Oxford have said they
could start the first phase of as much as 4.5 million square
feet as early as next year should tenant commitments and
accompanying construction financing be secured.  Additional Partners  They intend to seek additional equity partners for future
phases of the 26-acre site.  The firm has held talks with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  to be a
tenant, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.
Related built the media company’s current home, Time Warner
Center, at Midtown’s Columbus Circle. Others who have inquired
about anchoring the complex include leather-goods maker Coach
Inc., while department-store chain  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  has been
considering a retail location, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private.  Calls to Keith Cocozza, a Time Warner spokesman, and Colin
Johnson, a Nordstrom spokesman, weren’t immediately returned.
Andrea Shaw Resnick, vice president for  investor relations  at
Coach, declined to comment.  Related is talking to about a dozen potential large-scale
users, said Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for the developer. Ross
said last month at a luncheon that he expected to have about 3.5
million square feet of leasing done by the end of the year.  Brookfield Plans  Brookfield, owner of downtown’s World Financial Center, is
seeking to start its 5.4 million-square-foot Manhattan West
project a block east of the Hudson Yards site. The New York-
based company shut down preliminary work on the project in 2008.
The company envisions two towers, one of them exceeding 1,200
feet in height.  “We could have the first tower up and a tenant in by
2015,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Clark said on a
conference call last month. “Our hope is as we turn the year,
we’ll be able to get out there and start to do the work.”  Melissa Coley, a Brookfield spokeswoman, declined to
comment beyond Clark’s public statements.  Latest Technology  About 64 percent of Manhattan’s office buildings are more
than 50 years old, according to CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. That
means most are incapable of satisfying the desires of financial,
media and technology industries for wide-open, high-ceilinged
space with the latest environmentally conscious technology, said
Lawrence Longua, director of the REIT Center at New York
University’s Schack Institute of Real Estate.  If building gets ahead of demand or the economic recovery
stalls, rents may fall and vacancies may increase, said Stuart Saft, a real estate attorney with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in New
York. Without an influx of outside renters, tenants may simply
shift from existing offices to newer ones, as has happened in
previous construction booms.  “Businesses want the newest buildings,” Saft said. “The
problem is each time you build a building and seduce people over
to it, then you empty out a Class A building, potentially making
it a B building if you don’t upgrade it.”  Many companies also have been cutting back on space due to
telecommuting and shifting employees from offices and cubicles
to open floors, he said.  Gem Tower  After developer Gary Barnett’s 750,000-square-foot
 International Gem Tower  in the Diamond District opens next year,
a new building isn’t scheduled to be finished until 2013, when
Minskoff’s project and World Trade Center towers One and Four
are completed, according to Cassidy Turley.  Developers stretching to make office projects happen are
“making a good bet,” said Douglas Hercher, who brokers capital
for commercial-property deals as executive vice president and
principal for Cushman & Wakefield Sonnenblick Goldman.  “They’re looking at it and saying that, given where land
prices are today and construction costs are today, we can build
cheaper than we can buy,” he said. “And we’ll be well-
positioned if we build brand new state-of-the-art office in
great locations. When those buildings open in three to four
years, we’ll be sitting pretty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  