-- 
Apple Is Said to Secure Music Accords for ITunes Cloud Service

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-05-20T01:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/apple-is-said-to-secure-music-accords-with-labels-for-itunes-cloud-service.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has reached agreements
with three major record labels to let users of its new music
service access their song collections from handheld devices via
the Internet, people with knowledge of the deals said.  The new iTunes offering will let users store content on
Apple’s servers and access it using the Web, rather than loading
songs into a device’s memory, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans haven’t been made public. The
plans could be previewed as early as Apple’s  developers
conference , set to begin June 6, the people said.  Apple, the largest U.S. music retailer, follows  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in letting consumers stream music from the
so-called cloud instead of downloading it to a hard drive.
Unlike competing products, Apple’s cloud music service won’t
require users to upload online collections, two people said.
Record labels are counting on cloud services to reignite sales
of digital tracks, which have stagnated in recent years.  Apple has reached licensing accords with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s music
division, EMI Group and Warner Music Group, the people said.
 Universal Music Group , the largest recording company, is close
to a deal, another person said. The company also would need to
reach agreements with music publishers, which control different
rights than the labels.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment, as did representatives of the music labels.  MobileMe  Whether Apple will charge a fee for the cloud service and
when it will become widely available to the public aren’t yet
known. The music plans may be part of a broader overhaul of
Apple’s MobileMe platform to let users store pictures, contacts
and other files on Apple’s servers and access them from the Web,
two of the people said.  An expanded MobileMe service may help Apple as it competes
for customers with Google, whose Android operating system is
used by rival handset and tablet makers such as Samsung
Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Cnet.com  reported earlier that Apple had agreements with
 Warner Music  and EMI.  Amazon.com and Google didn’t secure licensing deals before
opening their cloud music services.  The cloud service is an extension of talks Apple had been
holding earlier with music companies about rights that would let
users download songs they have already purchased to multiple
devices.  Labels Under Pressure  Record labels are seeking ways to jump-start music sales as
millions of people flock to rival services, including Internet
radio company Pandora Media Inc., where users can listen for
free from anywhere with an Internet connection.  Licenses with the music labels may help Apple make its
services more efficient by eliminating the need to store
separate copies of a song for each customer. Instead, multiple
users could stream tracks from the same copy housed on the
company’s server.  Apple’s annual Worldwide Developers Conference will be held
next month at Moscone Center in San Francisco. In past years,
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  has used the event as a
showcase to unveil the newest versions of the iPhone. This
year’s event isn’t expected to include a new iPhone, two people
familiar with the plan said in April.  When announcing the event, Apple said it will be focused on
software, including the new version of the iOS mobile software
for the iPhone and iPad tablets, as well as the latest Mac
operating system, called Lion.  Apple will accommodate the data and networking demands of
its planned cloud services with a new $1 billion  data center  in
 North Carolina . Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said
at the company’s annual shareholder meeting in February that the
facility will be a hub for the iTunes and MobileMe services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  