-- 
Asian Stocks Fall for Third Week on Greece Crisis, Japan Economy

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-20T22:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/asian-stocks-fall-for-third-week-on-greece-crisis-japan-economy.html
Asian stocks fell, dragging the
region’s benchmark index to the longest streak of weekly
declines since November, as  Greece ’s debt crisis grew,  Japan ’s
economy contracted and disappointing U.S. economic data fueled
concern about a global recovery.  HSBC Holdings Ltd.,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value,
slumped 2.5 percent in Hong Kong.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
world’s No. 1 carmaker, dropped 3.5 percent in  Tokyo .  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
which counts Europe as its biggest market, slipped 1.5 percent.
Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the crippled nuclear
reactor damaged after Japan’s strongest earthquake and tsunami,
plunged 19 percent after reporting a 1.25 trillion yen ($15
billion) loss.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981) ,
 China ’s biggest chipmaker, tumbled 20 percent after reporting
net income plunged.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index declined 1.1 percent to 134.61
this week, its third straight drop. The gauge retreated 1
percent the previous week as China restricted bank lending,
stoking concern anti-inflation policies may slow growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  “The Greece issue is worrying markets because it’s clear
the situation hasn’t been resolved yet,” said Nader Naeimi, a
Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
has almost $100 billion under management. “Global growth has
hit a soft patch, and that’s negative for Asian exporters
overall. Investors have become more risk-averse, with the
defensive sectors taking leadership.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.4 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi index dropped 0.4 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index climbed 0.4 percent in the week.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
index slid 0.3 percent while China’s Shanghai Composite Index
lost 0.4 percent.  Greece Pressure  Authorities stepped up pressure on Greece to sell assets
and deepen spending cuts to win an increase of its 110 billion-
euro ($156 billion) aid package and more time to repay the loans.
In deliberations clouded by the absence of arrested
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn, who resigned on May 19, Europe’s rich countries also
weighed whether to make holders of Greek bonds assume some
losses.  A Greek default would be “highly destabilizing” for banks,
causing losses that “far exceed” the size of their loans and
investments there, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
European banks would lose 34.4 billion euros in a worst-case
scenario, less than the total 95 billion euros of outstanding
Greek assets they hold, Moody’s said in a note May 16, citing
public and non-public data for 97 lenders.  Overseas Sales  HSBC slumped 2.5 percent to HK$81 in Hong Kong.  Cosco
Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at Piraeus,
Greece’s largest port, slipped 2 percent to HK$15.84. Toyota,
which receives 73 percent of its sales abroad, declined 3.5
percent to 3,280 yen. Canon, the world’s biggest camera maker,
dropped 1.5 percent to 3,695 yen.  “The European debt issue is reheating and the momentum of
U.S. economic growth may slow,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general
manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $28 billion. “Investors cannot help avoiding
taking risks.”  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded at a slower
pace than anticipated in May as the cost of raw materials surged.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index
fell to 11.9 from a one-year high of 21.7 in April, the central
bank reported on May 16. Manufacturing growth in the
Philadelphia region also unexpectedly grew in May at the slowest
pace in seven months, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index showed on May 19, a sign the  U.S. economy 
may get less of a boost from the industry that led it out of its
last recession.  ‘Investors Are Wary’  “Expectations for the U.S. economic outlook are slightly
decreasing and there’s a mood investors are wary of buying
stocks,” said Norikazu Kitta, a strategist at Tokyo-based Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s largest
publicly traded lender, slid 2.1 percent to 375 yen.  Shinsei
Bank Ltd. (8303) , the Japanese lender partly owned by J. Christopher
Flowers, slumped 14 percent to 83 yen.  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ,
Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, slumped 3.9 percent to 2,066
yen.  Japan’s economy shrank more than estimated in the first
quarter after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami disrupted
production and prompted consumers to cut back spending, Cabinet
Office data showed on May 19, sending the nation to its third
recession in a decade.  ‘Weaker Earnings’  “There could be a further weakening in Japanese corporate
earnings following the worse-than-expected contraction in the
nation’s economy,” said Hong Kong-based Michiya Tomita, who
helps oversee about $65 billion for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co. “Investors are still skeptical given concerns
over rising inflation and Europe’s debt crisis.”  Utility shares fell the most among the 10 industry groups
on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this week, led by declines from
Tokyo Electric Power.  Tokyo Electric Power, also known as Tepco, plunged 19
percent to 367 yen in Tokyo, the biggest loss on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
this year. The company reported a full-year loss of 1.25
trillion yen, the biggest in Japan in eight years, and said its
president, Masataka Shimizu, 66, resigned to take responsibility
for the loss.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International tumbled 21
percent to 70 Hong Kong cents, the biggest loss on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index this week. The company said first-quarter net
income plunged 85 percent from the previous three-month period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 