-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as Euro, Greek Bonds Slide; Gap Shares Tumble

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-05-20T20:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/asian-stocks-gain-yen-weakens-on-bank-of-japan-outlook-metals-oil-rise.html
U.S. stocks fell, capping a third
straight weekly decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
after  Gap Inc. (GPS)  cut its earnings forecast and concern grew that
Greece will default. The euro sank, halting a four-day gain
versus the dollar, and Greek bonds tumbled.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.8 percent to 1,333.27 at 4 p.m. in New
York and slipped 0.3 percent in the week. Ten-year Treasury
yields decreased three basis points to 3.15 percent. The euro
sank against all 16 major peers, tumbling 1.1 percent versus the
dollar. Greek 10-year bond yield added 57 basis points, driving
the difference with German bunds to a record 1,352 basis points.
Oil reversed earlier declines after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported that fuel consumption increased in April.    Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, sank 17 percent for
its worst slide in nine years after slashing its full-year
earnings forecast because of higher costs. Stocks and the euro
extended losses as  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Greece’s debt and
said any potential extension of bond maturities would be
considered a default.  “People are moving away from risk-related trades,” said
 Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl &
Gaynor Inc., which oversees $3.6 billion. “There’s a perception
that there won’t be a quick fix for  Europe . Anyway you want to
cut it, people will see a de facto default. In the U.S., both
consumers and companies have been hit by higher energy costs.
You’re going to see that in the bottom-line of companies such as
Gap and others.”  Advance Halted  The S&P 500 halted a two-day advance and erased what would
have been its first weekly gain of the month. Alcoa Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and General Electric Co. lost at least 1.6
percent to lead declines in 28 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  surged 30 percent as the
bookstore chain received a takeover offer from John Malone’s
Liberty Media Corp.  The S&P 500 has fallen about 2.2 percent from an almost
three-year high at the end of last month as investors prepare
for the  Federal Reserve ’s exit from record stimulus efforts and
as economic data trails forecasts. Citigroup Inc.’s U.S.
Economic Surprise Index, which gauges the rate at which data is
exceeding or trailing estimates and reached a record in March,
turned negative in May and is at its lowest level since August.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said yesterday
“slow progress” in the economy justifies stimulus measures,
while his  New York  counterpart, William C. Dudley, said it’s
important not to “overreact” to inflation.  Euro Slumps  The euro weakened 1.1 percent to $1.4158 and dropped 1
percent versus the yen and 1.2 percent versus the Swiss franc.
The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six major
peers, rose 0.7 percent, trimming its weekly decline to 0.2
percent.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials slumped as much as
1.7 percent to below its lowest closing level in three months,
before the rebound in oil helped pull the gauge up 0.8 percent.  Crude oil for June delivery rose 1.1 percent to $99.49 a
barrel. Oil erased earlier losses as API reported total
deliveries of petroleum products, a measure of demand, climbed
5.2 percent last month from a year before. Heating oil, a
distillate fuel like diesel and jet fuel, jumped more than 1
percent.  Copper gained 1.7 percent to $4.1215 a pound in New York
amid declining stockpiles in  China  and the U.S., the world’s
biggest buyers of the metal. The price rose 3.5 percent this
week, the most n a month.  The yield on Greek 10-year bonds surged to 16.57 percent
this week, while the nation’s two-year debt yield increased 61
basis points to 25.47 percent.  Greece  Ratings  Fitch Ratings cut Greece three levels to B+, four steps
below investment grade, from BB+. Fitch said even a “soft”
restructuring of debt being studied by European Union policy
makers would be considered a default. Fitch said Greece could
face a further reduction in its creditworthiness. The yield on
Greek 10-year bonds is more than twice the level of a year ago
when Greece accepted an EU-led bailout.  The Portuguese 10-year yield increased 27 basis points to
9.39 percent, sending the spread with benchmark German bunds 33
basis points wider. Irish 10-year bond yields rose nine basis
points to 10.54 percent, with similar-maturity Spanish yields
nine basis points higher at 5.48 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.1 percent, erasing
earlier gains. Spanish lenders Banco Santander SA and Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA fell before elections in the
country this weekend. Italy’s Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and UniCredit
SpA also paced losses among banks.  BP Gains  BP Plc (BP/)  rallied 2.7 percent after saying it will receive
$1.065 billion in a settlement with a unit of Mitsui & Co. over
last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO) 
rose 7.8 percent after the Financial Times said Advent
International Corp. approached the company about a takeover.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.1 percent,
rebounding from earlier losses with the price of oil.  India ’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index jumped 1 percent after
Tata Power Co., the country’s largest non-state electricity
utility, posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Russia’s
Micex Index fell for the first time in three days, losing 1.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  