-- 
Baby Talk Zaps ‘Knickerbocker’; ‘Lucky Guy’ Camps It Up: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/baby-talk-zaps-knickerbocker-lucky-guy-is-cowboy-camp-stage-reviews.html
Pauline and Jerry are expecting their
first child, a boy. They’re nervous. That pretty much sums up
the situation in Jonathan Marc Sherman’s situation comedy,
“Knickerbocker.”  And “labored” pretty much sums up the comedy in this
well-meaning but airlessly predictable play, attractively
presented in the  Public Theater’s  low-price Lab series (all
tickets are $15).  Sherman -- still best known for his play “Women &
Wallace,” which began at the Public -- has a draftsman’s skill
at sketching contemporary characters but less success in
fleshing them out.  “Knickerbocker” is set (nicely, if sparsely by Peter
Ksander) at a circular booth in the popular Greenwich Village
restaurant of that name, where Jerry (Alexander Chaplin)
struggles to work out his anxiety over impending fatherhood with
a succession of tablemates beginning and ending with Pauline
(Mia Barron).  That includes the inevitable ex-girlfriend who still has a
thing for him; the been-there-done-that best friend who knows
what Jerry is about to go through; the other best friend, a
stoner, who warns Jerry about -- well, I won’t tell you what he
warns Jerry about, but it’s not very nice of him.  And then there’s Jerry’s father, Raymond, who honestly
would rather be discussing his sex life. He’s played by the
stage and film veteran Bob Dishy with irresistible
understatement and uncannily communicative eyebrows.  No wonder the pace of Pippin Parker’s deft production seems
to slow up just a bit for Raymond’s scene. It feels like truth.
(Jeremy Gerard)  Through May 29 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org  Rating: **  ‘Lucky Guy’  Hats off to anyone who can enjoy “ Lucky Guy ,” a country
and western musical featuring a drag queen, a diminutive gay
icon, and a story and score that could’ve been written over a
long weekend.  “Lucky Guy” is billed as a new musical comedy, even
though earlier versions were presented in  Dallas  in 1987,
Teaneck,  New Jersey , in 1999 and  Goodspeed Musicals  in
 Connecticut  in 2009. Willard Beckham -- who wrote the book,
music, lyrics and directed -- deserves a special Obie Award for
tenacity.  Catchy Tunes  Hunky cattleman Billy Ray Jackson ( Kyle Dean Massey )
arrives in Nashville from  Oklahoma , the winner of Wright Track
Records’ songwriting contest. His entry, “Lucky Guy” is simple
and catchy, the best number among the show’s two dozen.  Big Al Wright (tiny  Leslie Jordan , from television’s “Will
& Grace”) is a used car dealer who promises to put Billy Ray on
his television special starring washed-up country music legend
Jeannie Jeannine ( Varla Jean Merman ).  Al secretly seeks to snatch the record company from a
cousin and replace it with a car lot. Jeannie’s out to nab
“Lucky Guy” from Billy Ray.  There’s also Chicky (Jenn Colella), a songwriter who works
as a beautician at the Wigateria, a drive-through salon for the
lady on the run. And four chorus boys who tap dance dressed as
American Indians.  Massey and his love interest, Savannah Wise, are in fine
voice. Merman, aka Jeffery Roberson, is so adept you may not
realize she is a he until you read the Playbill. Costumes from
William Ivey Long are suitably outlandish. Beckham directs his
material with finesse.  The show and its silly puns and double entendres wasn’t for
me. But if country and western camp holds an allure, then sashay
over to the L’il Shubert Thee-ay-ter. (Philip Boroff)  Through July 24 at 422 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-239-
6200.  http://luckyguythemusical.com  Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard and Philip Boroff are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on this story:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net   Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 