-- 
Basel Methodology, EU Stress, Resona Pledge, Privacy Hearings: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-20T12:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/basel-methodology-resona-pledge-privacy-hearings-compliance.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said global regulators intend to release criteria for
identifying systemically important financial institutions in
July.  Regulators are working on the “methodology for identifying
these institutions, these handful of globally systemic
institutions,” Carney said during a conference at the
 International Monetary Fund  headquarters in Washington
yesterday.  Carney also said regulators may make changes to liquidity
standards that will be part of the Basel III global banking
framework.  The liquidity rules are being examined “for possible
systemic implications, and there would be potential adjustments
made,” Carney said. “Not to the underlying structure, but some
recalibration if that’s appropriate.”  Compliance Policy  EU Bank Stress Tests to Be More Demanding, Goldman Sachs Says  European Union regulators’ stress tests on banks will be
more demanding this year than a similar exam in 2010 that said
firms would need to raise 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion),
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts said.  European banks have raised 122 billion euros since last
year’s tests, London-based analysts including Jernej Omahen and
Jean-Francois Neuez said in a report to clients yesterday. The
European Banking Authority’s tighter definition of capital in
the 2011 tests may reduce Spanish banks’ core Tier 1 capital by
23 billion euros, they said.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Portuguese and
Austrian banks may also be “negatively affected,” they said.  Ninety banks will be expected to maintain a core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, according to the EBA, which is carrying out the
tests. This year’s exams will include a review of how lenders
would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area
in 2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European equity markets.  The “harsher methodology” in the 2011 tests “stops short
of testing for extremes,” the analysts wrote. The “EBA will
test for sharp declines in sovereign bond values, but not for a
restructuring.”  A theoretical haircut of Greek government debt by 40
percent would mean eight banks would need to raise new capital,
the Goldman Sachs analysts said.  Compliance Action  Sweden Vows to Implement EU Bank Capital Rules to Avert Suit  Sweden promised to bring its laws on capital requirements
for banks into compliance with European Union law after the EU’s
executive arm told the government to make the changes within two
months or face a lawsuit.  The new rules “are meant to come into force on June 30,”
Victoria Ericsson, a spokeswoman for Sweden’s  Finance Ministry ,
said by telephone in Stockholm yesterday. “In the wake of the
financial crisis, there has been a need for comprehensive
regulatory work both on a global and EU level and these things
take a bit of time to implement.”  The European Commission said 10 member states, including
Sweden, had failed to “fully” put in place rules on increasing
the capital reserves that lenders must hold against potential
losses. If the measures aren’t implemented within two months,
the commission may take offenders to the European Court of
Justice.  The Swedish government and central bank are pushing for
stricter requirements than those proposed by the Basel III
global capital framework that’s being worked out following the
global financial crisis.  Resona Chief Pledges to Repay Taxpayers Without Share Sale  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) , the Japanese bank that was bailed out
in 2003, plans to repay the remaining 872 billion yen ($10
billion) owed to taxpayers by boosting lending profit and using
cash reserves without selling shares.  Japan ’s fourth-biggest bank raised about 550 billion yen
from share sales in the last quarter to pay back public funds.
The lender will craft plans for repaying the rest as soon as
Japan’s Financial Services Agency sets out capital rules for
domestic banks in the wake of Basel III regulations announced
last year for banks operating worldwide, Chairman Eiji Hosoya
said in an interview on May 18.  Hosoya, 66, who joined Tokyo-based Resona in 2003 to lead
the bank’s recovery, expects the economy to rebound next
quarter, bolstered by rebuilding efforts after a record
earthquake and tsunami in March devastated coastal areas of
northern Japan.  Resona is the third-worst performer on Japan’s 83-stock
 Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  this year. Hosoya’s bank forecasts net income
will decline 6.3 percent to 150 billion yen in the year ending
March 2012.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision agreed in
November to boost the minimum capital requirements of global
banks over eight years. While all of Resona’s revenue comes from
Japan, it may face stricter capital rules as the FSA develops
domestic standards taking Basel norms into account.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Hedge-Fund Returns Jump as Ban on Prop Trading Looms  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which took a $45 billion U.S. bailout after
losses on subprime home loans, is boosting profits from a hedge
fund that bets the bank’s money on mortgage debt -- a practice
regulators plan to restrict.  Citigroup’s Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund climbed 16
percent in the first four months of 2011, almost doubling its
pace last year, according to internal reports obtained by
Bloomberg News. About 90 percent of the $395 million invested in
the fund is the bank’s own capital, said a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The fund, run by Rajesh Kumar, 41, has posted profits every
year since it began in 2008, letting New York-based Citigroup
benefit from an asset class that almost caused its collapse.
Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54,
himself a former hedge-fund manager, invested the initial $200
million when Kumar started the Mortgage/Credit fund.  U.S. lawmakers passed the Volcker rule last year to curb
risk-taking by banks that get federal assistance, such as
deposit insurance. Regulators are set to release a final
proposal in October for implementing the proprietary-trading
ban, which is named after former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul
Volcker. The Fed said in February that banks would generally
have two years to comply once the rule takes effect.  For more, click here.  Italy, Spain Fail to Implement Banker Bonus Rules, EU Says  Italy, Spain, Greece and four other European Union nations
have failed to implement rules on bank bonuses aimed at curbing
excessive risk taking and preventing staff from being rewarded
for poor results.  Poland, Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia have also missed a
Jan. 1 deadline to adopt the remuneration limits, the  European
Commission  said in a statement on its website. The commission
gave the countries two months to comply.  The EU law, approved last year, restricts cash payments of
bank bonuses and forces lenders to disclosure the number of
people earning more than 1 million euros ($1.4 million). Michel
Barnier, the EU’s financial services commissioner, has said
further action may be needed in the region to prevent payouts at
“unjustifiable levels,” claiming that lenders failed to heed
calls for moderation in this year’s bonus round.  Under the EU rules, as much as 60 percent of a bonus payout
for risk-takers and senior managers must be deferred for at
least three years, and half of the remaining amount must be in
the form of shares.  For more, click here.  BT Appeals U.K. Regulator’s Plan to Lower Internetwork Rates  BT Group Plc, Britain’s biggest phone company, filed an
appeal claiming U.K. market regulator Ofcom isn’t moving fast
enough to force  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and other mobile-phone
network operators to reduce some fees.  Ofcom said in March it would lower mobile termination rates
-- the wholesale fees that operators charge to connect calls to
each others’ networks -- about 80 percent by March 2015. BT
wants it done two years earlier, according to a summary of the
case filed yesterday in the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  in
 London .  U.K. operators gained about 3.5 billion pounds ($5.7
billion) in total revenue from termination rates in 2008,
according to Ofcom research last year. The London-based watchdog
said mobile operators are increasingly relying on Internet data
services to attract customers and boost sales.  Vodafone and the Everything Everywhere joint venture of
Deutsche Telekom AG and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the U.K.’s biggest
mobile-phone network, also filed appeals with the tribunal,
claiming Ofcom miscalculated the fee changes.  A Vodafone spokesman confirmed the appeal and declined to
comment further.  China  Unicom Says Audit Found Improper Procedures by Group  China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., the country’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, said a national audit of the company and
its parent found “improper measures and practices” that have
now been rectified.  The check last year by the National Audit Office of the
People’s Republic of China found issues with related-party
transactions between the listed company and the parent,
procurement procedures, operational management and accounting
procedures, the company said in a regulatory filing with the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. The issues won’t affect past
operating results, the statement said.  The phone company, with total assets of 512.7 billion yuan
at the end of 2009, has taken steps to address the issues raised
by the audit office, the agency said in a report on its website.  For more, click here.  Courts  HSBC Client Charged With Failing to Report Offshore Account  A managing director at SCG Consulting Group in Boston was
charged with failing to report his offshore account at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to U.S. authorities.  Michael F. Schiavo, 53, failed to file a Report of Foreign
Bank and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR, disclosing an account
at HSBC Bank Bermuda, according to a criminal charge filed
yesterday in federal court in Boston. Schiavo has agreed to
plead guilty, according to a Justice Department statement.  Schiavo, of Westford, Massachusetts, is one of at least
three clients of HSBC, the largest European bank by assets,
charged in a U.S. crackdown on offshore tax evasion. Prosecutors
also have charged at least two dozen clients of  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s largest bank, four UBS bankers, and five bankers
at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest bank.  Schiavo’s firm serves the venture capital and private-
equity industries, according to the charge. Since July 2003, he
has been a director at Boston Private Bank & Trust Co., a
Boston-based commercial bank.  James W. Lawson, an attorney for Schiavo, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Schiavo, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  U.K. Courts Have Granted Two Super-Injunctions, Judges Say  Senior U.K. judges dismissed criticism over media
restrictions, saying only two so-called super-injunctions were
granted since January 2010, and neither are in force at the
moment.  Prime Minister David Cameron has accused judges of making
privacy law without parliamentary authority. While a judicial
report on media gagging orders conceded there has been an
increase in U.K. courts granting anonymity orders blocking the
media from naming people involved in lawsuits over news stories,
Lord Chief Justice Igor Judge said at a press conference that
privacy laws come from the Human Rights Act of 1998 which
parliament passed.  Such orders, typically preventing the media from writing
about celebrity infidelities, have risen since Formula One
president Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his privacy was
violated by a story in the News of the World about a Nazi-themed
sex party. Former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief
Executive Officer Fred Goodwin yesterday withdrew part of an
injunction barring media from reporting on a “sexual
relationship” he had, hours after a lawmaker discussed details
of the matter.  The report said that the principle of open justice should
apply as much as possible, and that when judges grant anonymity
orders they should explain why with a public judgment. It also
called for media companies to be notified before a hearing on an
injunction takes place and that there should be a bias toward
open hearings on the matters.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches/Testimony  Apple, Facebook, Google Executives Defend Privacy Rules  David Vladeck, director of the Federal Trade Commission’s
 Bureau of Consumer Protection ; Bret Taylor, chief technology
officer at Facebook Inc.; Catherine Novelli, vice president for
worldwide government relations at Apple Inc.; and Alan Davidson,
director of public policy for the Americas at  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
testified about mobile technology privacy standards.  The  Association for Competitive Technology ’s Morgan Reed
and Common Sense Media’s Amy Shenkan also spoke before the
 Senate Commerce Committee ’s subcommittee on consumer protection,
product safety and insurance in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Mirow Says Basel III Doesn’t Suit Emerging Economy Banks  The new Basel III banking rules are tailored to banks in
developed countries and could freeze credit or promote bad
practices in emerging economies, European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development President Thomas Mirow said.  Basel III “can cause severe problems in financial systems
that simply do not yet have stable sources of long term
funding,” Mirow said in the text of a speech at an EBRD
conference in Astana, Kazakhstan, which was e-mailed yesterday.  “It may force banks in these economies to either curtail
long term lending, with harmful consequences for growth, or to
seek foreign sources of long-term funding,” he said. This, “as
we have seen, creates external vulnerabilities,” he added.  Zubrod Sees Dodd-Frank Rules Completed at Year End  Luke Zubrod, a director at Chatham Financial Corp., talked
about the impact of the overhaul of U.S. financial regulation on
derivatives.  Zubrod recently testified before Congress on derivatives.  He spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s “Fast
Forward,” about the use of derivatives to hedge risks, and the
differences between the way companies and banks will be treated
under the new hedging rules.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Lagarde Is Favored for IMF Top Spot, Faces Old Legal Dispute  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  emerged as the
leading contender to replace Dominique Strauss-Kahn at the
 International Monetary Fund  as developing nations failed to
unite behind a candidate.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner called for the
quick appointment of a new managing director yesterday while the
Obama administration avoided backing any one person.  Lagarde’s chances to be the first woman to run the IMF may
hinge on how she resolved a two-decade-old dispute involving a
supporter of President Nicolas Sarkozy.  The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers, while
working as an attorney, in agreeing in 2007 to send the case to
arbitration. It resulted in a 385 million-euro ($550 million)
award to Bernard Tapie, a former Socialist minister who endorsed
Sarkozy’s presidential effort. Tapie claimed Lagarde’s handling
of the legal matter was politically motivated.  Lagarde has rejected the accusations. Her spokesman
declined to comment on the possible investigation yesterday.  Lagarde, 55, emerged as a frontrunner following the
resignation of her compatriot Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who is
jailed in  New York  on charges of attempted rape and other
offences.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 