-- 
BlackRock Fund Manager Turned Farmer Birch Contending With Drought Stress

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-20T14:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/blackrock-fund-manager-turned-farmer-birch-contending-with-drought-stress.html
England’s hottest weather in more
than three centuries is making Graham Birch, the country’s best
natural-resources  fund manager  for a decade, concerned about the
state of his spring crop.  The corn and grasses grown for livestock on the 2,300-acre
farm in the southwestern county of Dorset are already beset by
the heat and lack of water, Birch said by phone on May 18. Rain
will be needed soon to keep yields for wheat and rapeseed
planted at the end of last year from dropping, he said.  European farmers are contending with the driest growing
conditions in more than three decades. The European Union warned
this week that soil moisture is now “critical” in at least six
countries after some places had their driest March on record.
 France ’s soft-wheat crop, the EU’s largest, will drop 12
percent, and German output will slide 7.2 percent, local
forecasters said May 18.  “It’s the spring crops I’m worried about because that’s
what’s seeing some severe drought stress,” said Birch. “It’d
be nice to have some rain in the next couple of weeks.”  Birch started a sabbatical from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest money manager, in 2009 and formally left in 2010, when
the team was managing $36.3 billion of assets. His BlackRock
Gold and General Fund was the top performer among 858 U.K.-
domiciled mutual funds over a decade, averaging gains of almost
23 percent a year, data from  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  show.  Ruined Crops  The former fund manager left BlackRock in a year in which
drought or flooding from Europe to  Canada  ruined crops and
spurred  Russia  to ban grain exports. Wheat rose as much as 90
percent and corn 87 percent, driving the United Nations Food
Price Index to a record and draining global stockpiles.  Weather is threatening crops again this year, from drought
in  China  to temperatures as high as 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38
degrees Celsius) in  Kansas . Wheat traded in  Chicago  rose as much
as 7.6 percent on May 18 as European forecasters predicted
smaller harvests.  On Birch’s farm, winter wheat and rapeseed were seeded in
the fall when the ground was moist and roots could grow deep.
Corn and grasses planted this spring in dry conditions didn’t
have those same conditions, he said.  “Forage, maize -- those crops are really suffering quite
badly from the weather because they didn’t have much of a chance
to establish deep roots,” he said. “The crops we planted in
the autumn, they’re looking OK at the moment.”  Record Keeping  The Central England Temperature gauge showed the region
bound by London, Bristol and Manchester was an average of 11.8
degrees Celsius in April, the warmest since record keeping
started in 1659, according to the  Met Office .  If rain doesn’t fall in the next two weeks, wheat yields
will suffer, Birch said. Irrigating crops isn’t an option
because the farm can only draw a set amount of water from
reservoirs, and most of those sources are dry, he said.  “Even if we could take out more, the water table is
dropping because of the drought,” Birch said. “The reservoirs
and little streams have all dried up. I’ve found in Dorset,
we’re probably not as badly off. If you speak to farmers in
Norfolk, you’ll hear a worse story on winter crops. They’re just
hanging in there.”  Light rain is forecast in northern  Europe  in the next 72
hours while next week will be dry, agriculture forecaster
Telvent DTN said in a report today. The U.K. is the EU’s third-
biggest wheat producer after France and  Germany , according to
the International Grains Council. The U.K. crop in the year
through July 1 was 15.1 million tons, or 11 percent of EU
output, IGC data show.  Milk Production  While rising prices for grains may offset losses caused by
dry weather, Birch’s farm is also paying more to feed its 500
dairy cows.  “Our biggest single cost for the milk production is the
feed,” he said. “We haven’t yet seen a sufficiently big
increase in the price we get for milk. Our margins have been
squeezed.”  Birch still prefers those worries to the ones he dealt with
in his days as a stock picker.  “The stress as a fund manager was relentless,” Birch
said. “Every day you have to beat the stock market again. With
farming, it’s physical challenges and practical challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  