-- 
Blockbuster Stockholders Hang on to Test Steep Bankruptcy Odds

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/blockbuster-stockholders-hang-on-to-test-steep-bankruptcy-odds.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) ’s stock must be
worth something, according to Ron Krenn, a 48-year-old day
trader in  Daytona Beach , Florida, who hopes to profit on the
equity of what was once the world’s largest movie rental chain,
seven months after it filed for Chapter 11.  He’s not alone. Since Sept. 23, the date that Dallas-based
Blockbuster declared bankruptcy, the stock price has ranged from
4 cents to 23 cents a share, with volume averaging 5.46 million
shares a day.  Krenn and others who buy stock in bankrupt companies such
as  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , Washington Mutual Inc., and
Borders Group Inc. hope there will be money left over for equity
holders after all the debt is repaid. It’s an increasingly risky
gamble, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its May 23 issue.  Bankruptcies are less likely than ever to return anything
back to stockholders, according to a new study. Once a company
files for Chapter 11, creditors are paid first in order of their
seniority, with shareholders coming last after senior lenders,
unsecured creditors, and holders of preferred stock. Unless
creditors are paid in full, shareholders get nothing. If the
company reorganizes, any stock in the new company usually goes
to creditors.  “Research shows shares are overpriced in bankruptcy, even
though it’s often already been decided that equity will get
nothing,” said  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy law professor at the
University of  California ,  Los Angeles . The most common reason is
a misunderstanding of the way the law works, he added.  Declining Recovery  Of 41 bankrupt companies that announced reorganization
plans in 2009 and 2010, only four delivered returns to
shareholders, according to a study by  Andrew Wood , a student at
UCLA’s law school who works with LoPucki.  Of the companies that went through bankruptcy from 1991
through 1996, 44 percent had returns for shareholders. The
figure was 78 percent for those that went bankrupt from 1982 to
1987.  “The number of cases in which equity makes more than a
nominal recovery has steadily declined since approximately
1987,” wrote Wood. The study cites an increase in the amount of
secured debt carried by companies as one reason for the decline
in shareholder recoveries. Wood also found a decline in
recoveries for unsecured creditors.  Beat the Odds  Still, penny-stock investors such as Krenn sometimes do
manage to beat the odds, LoPucki said.  “There are lots of bankruptcies where shareholders have
had recoveries,” LoPucki said, citing Tronox Inc., Tronox Inc.,
a producer of titanium dioxide pigment, which gave shareholders
5 percent of the new stock when it reorganized. Tronox trades at
about $133 a share, up from $123 a share when the company
emerged from bankruptcy on Feb. 15.  The study also showed that 90 percent of cases had
“nominal” recoveries, or those that gave old shareholders
warrants, or rights, to buy new stock.  Krenn said he made money by buying shares of Pilgrim’s
Pride Corp. in bankruptcy. Pilgrim’s Pride gave 36 percent of
its new equity to “stockholders existing immediately prior” to
the reorganization, the company said in 2009, the year it
emerged from Chapter 11.  Krenn, who bought Blockbuster for 6 cents a share in
February, objected in April to a report that said Dish Network
Corp.’s winning bid for Dallas-based Blockbuster left nothing
for shareholders. He cited the company’s foreign assets, the
fees being paid by franchisees and the value of its net
operating losses to support his view that the company must be
worth more than the $320 million that Dish bid.  Shareholder Group  Paul Rachmuth, a bankruptcy lawyer with Gersten Savage LLP
representing Blockbuster shareholders who tried to argue for a
recovery in the case, said the stock’s value has little
correlation with news in the case. “Shares are still trading at
a positive value, and on the day all of Blockbuster’s assets
sold, effectively removing the ability for them to have a
recovery, the stock went up by 10 percent,” Rachmuth said.  A group of seven shareholders represented by Rachmuth
hasn’t officially disbanded. Since Dish announced its offer
would leave no value for equity, there’s been no litigation that
would challenge that, however, Rachmuth said.  Yet stock-trading message boards such as Yahoo Inc.’s are
filled with posts about the promise of the stock, touting
business reasons such as the way the company compares with
online rival Netflix Inc. and news that executive  Michael Kelly 
would head Blockbuster. On May 6, about 15 messages debated the
idea that the stock was a “strong buy” based on such issues.  Finality for Shareholders  Finality for shareholders doesn’t come until a company
files its disclosure statement, which details the terms of
recovery for each class of creditor. Until then, secured
creditors and unsecured creditors will fight over the company’s
worth, investigating potential lawsuits that could bring money
into the bankrupt estate.  “I’ve never seen a company say independently from its
disclosure statement that they will cancel shares,” said
Matthew Morris, a bankruptcy lawyer at Wilmington, Delaware-
based Grant & Eisenhofer PA. He noted that they’re under no
obligation to do so, and haven’t breached any duty to
shareholders as long as they haven’t issued false information.  Short Positions  Meanwhile, short positions need to be worked out, causing
some confusion; Krenn said May 5 that Blockbuster’s rise
indicated to him that news is on the way. Short interest for the
most recent month isn’t yet available.  When investors who shorted shares -- or borrowed them to
sell them with the expectation that they can buy them back at a
lower price to turn a profit -- need to cover their positions,
it could result in a “short squeeze” or run-up in price
related to a lack of supply.  Opaque court proceedings can also mislead shareholders.
While bankruptcy proceedings are theoretically open to the
public, creditors haggle over a company’s worth behind closed
doors, and reports that value the company’s assets aren’t made
public.  “I kept Googling ‘Blockbuster bankruptcy,’ and couldn’t
find information,” said Jon Becker, 53, who owns a grocery
store in  Miami Beach ,  Florida . After buying shares for 10 cents
each in February, five months into the company’s Chapter 11
bankruptcy, he was still holding them in April, when Dish bought
the company’s assets. Even Rebecca Bauman, his 41-year-old
girlfriend with a brokers’ license, who had already lost
thousands on the stock, couldn’t persuade him to sell.  Some Warning  Becker said he doesn’t blame anyone, but can’t believe
there was no flashing on his screen to differentiate Blockbuster
from other stocks that he buys on E*Trade Financial: “It’s a
different category than normal risk,” he said. “If it’s
foreseeable shares would go to zero, I would think the powers
that be would flash something -- some kind of warning, maybe in
more than one language.”  Companies don’t have to offer such warnings, said  Nell Minow , editor for GovernanceMetrics International, a corporate
governance research company in New York. In fact, companies
often deny the possibility of a bankruptcy right up the day they
file, as they’re also bound to protect their own interests, and
those of creditors, she said.  “This is why people shouldn’t be retail shareholders,”
Minow said. “They don’t do their homework and sometimes they
pay the price.”  Icahn  Even sophisticated shareholders can lose money. One of
Blockbuster’s biggest shareholders, billionaire  Carl Icahn , also
a lender to Blockbuster and former director at the company,
still held 4.15 million shares, or 3 percent of the stock
outstanding, as of April 2010, the most recent filing according
to Bloomberg data. Icahn didn’t return a call for comment.  Icahn had supported a deal from the outset of the
bankruptcy under which there would be no recovery for stock.
Though that plan wasn’t followed, the company warned
shareholders online: “As you may know, when a company files for
Chapter 11, its primary obligation shifts to maximizing the
value of the company for its creditors. Shareholders of a
company in Chapter 11 generally recover value only if the claims
of the secured and unsecured creditors are fully satisfied.”  Blockbuster’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in September
listed assets of $1.02 billion and debt of $1.47 billion. When
it filed, it had 5,600 stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. Dish
hasn’t decided how many stores to keep.  “My thought was, this is Blockbuster, it will come back,”
Becker said. It didn’t. He finally sold at 7 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 