-- 
BOJ Refrains From Adding Stimulus Even After Economy Slips Into Recession

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-05-20T07:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/boj-refrains-from-adding-stimulus.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s policy board
unanimously voted to maintain monetary policy even after a
report yesterday showed the country slipped into a recession
following a record earthquake.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his eight colleagues decided
to maintain a 30-trillion yen ($370 billion) credit program and
a 10-trillion yen asset-purchase fund that represent the bank’s
main policy tools. Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura dropped
his call made last month to expand asset buys to provide more
stimulus. The key overnight rate was kept at zero to 0.1 percent.  Signs of a deteriorating economy put renewed pressure on
the BOJ to provide additional stimulus after it stepped-up asset
purchases and flooded money markets with cash in the wake of the
March 11 temblor. Shirakawa said the economy will rebound later
this year as production and supply constraints ease, while
warning about the outlook for electricity supply in the long run.  “Given that policy options are pretty limited, the BOJ
probably wants to preserve as much ammunition as possible,”
said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Chances for additional easing are
still alive and we could see the BOJ expand asset purchases by 5
trillion yen, as the deputy governor proposed, around August.”  Benchmark 10-year yields fell to a six-month low on May 16
amid expectations that the central bank will expand stimulus in
coming months. All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expected policy to be unchanged today. The yen was little
changed at 81.74 per dollar at 4:37 pm. In Tokyo.  Electricity Supply  Supply constraints will ease from autumn and the threat of
a power shortage in the summer isn’t as high as was expected,
Shirakawa told a news conference after the meeting. Still, he
“can’t be optimistic” about long-term power supply as the
closure of the Hamaoka nuclear power plant, west of  Tokyo  and
away from the quake-hit areas, increases uncertainty over the
fate of other nuclear facilities in  Japan , he said.  “The Bank of Japan will need to monitor the impact of this
on the economic outlook,” he said, adding that the power supply
issue is a risk factor that the central bank will watch.  Gross domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7 percent
in the three months through March, led by a slump in consumer
and corporate outlays as well as a decrease in inventories. GDP
in nominal terms shrank at a 5.2 percent pace, a reminder how
entrenched deflation is in the world’s third-largest economy.  Economic Contraction  “There’s no doubt that the economy will shrink in the
current fiscal year” which ends March 31, Toshiro Muto, a
former BOJ deputy governor and now head of Daiwa Institute of
Research, said yesterday in Tokyo.  The economy will contract between 0.4 percent and 0.5
percent in fiscal 2011 even though the country is expected
expand again in the fourth quarter, he said. BNP Paribas
Securities,  Barclays Capital  and Japan Institute of Research are
also predicting the economy will shrink in the fiscal year.  BOJ policy makers last month cut this fiscal year’s GDP
forecast to 0.6 percent in the wake of the March 11 disaster,
from the 1.6 percent growth projected in January.  “For the time being, attention should be paid to the
downside risks to economic activity, especially the possible
effects of the disaster,” the BOJ said.  ‘Flexible’ Action  There are signs that the central bank may be preparing to
add more stimulus should economic conditions worsen. The BOJ
last week said it’s seeking government approval to allow the
bank to increase legal reserves to maintain financial soundness.
More capital would help the bank implement “appropriate and
flexible action,” Masayoshi Amamiya, a BOJ executive director,
said in parliament on May 12.  “The decision signals its readiness to buy more assets,”
said Izuru Kato, chief market economist at Totan Research Co. in
Tokyo. The bank would move “should long-term interest rates
surge, risk premiums expand or the yen rises rapidly,” he said.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan yesterday told legislators that
the government hopes for “flexible action” by the central bank
to support the economy.  “It’s highly probable that the BOJ would implement
additional monetary easing by August,” when Kan’s
administration aims to compile a next round of stimulus to
finance reconstruction projects, said  Yasunari Ueno , chief
market economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Output Recovery  Recent data show a mixed picture for the outlook. Factory
output fell by a record and exports contracted in March while
 consumer confidence  slumped at an unprecedented pace in April.
At the same time, machinery orders unexpectedly rose in March,
pointing to a rebound in  capital spending .  Companies are already undertaking rebuilding efforts.
Toyota Motor Corp. last week said its domestic and overseas
productions will begin recovering in June, at least a month
earlier than previously announced.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) ,
the world’s biggest maker of microcontrollers used in cars, said
its production will resume at a quake-affected plant in Ibraki
prefecture in June 1, about two weeks earlier than initially
scheduled.  “Damages of supply-chains are apparently being fixed at a
faster pace, and this will help production rebound steadily,”
said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo.  BOJ policy makers have suggested their next action will be
additional easing, even as policy makers in  Asia  tighten and the
 European Central Bank  unwinds stimulus.  “BOJ policy makers will have no other choice but to pursue
a monetary easing bias for the time being,”  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset and Management Co. in
Tokyo, said before the report. “The bank will probably expand
asset purchases, as the deputy governor has proposed, sometime
between June and August.”  Of the 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this week,
eleven said the central bank will probably hold off a rate
increase until 2013, while one said the bank will increase the
rate next year. Two said borrowing costs won’t rise until 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  