-- 
BP Says Mitsui Will Pay $1 Billion in Gulf Spill Settlement

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-05-20T15:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/bp-says-mitsui-will-pay-1-billion-in-settlement.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said a unit of Mitsui & Co.
will pay $1.065 billion to settle claims from last year’s Gulf
of Mexico spill, the first payment by one of the U.K. oil
producer’s partners in the failed Macondo well.  BP reached an agreement with MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, which
had a 10 percent stake in the well, covering all claims between
the companies related to the spill, the London-based company
said today in a statement. Mitsui  said  BP had claimed about $2.1
billion. BP shares rose the most since January.  “To have one, admittedly the smaller of the two partners,
settling” and “joining sides is significant from the moral
point of view,” David Stedman, a London-based analyst at  Daiwa
Securities , said by phone. “It looks on paper as a reasonably
good deal for Mitsui.”  The Macondo well blowout, which killed 11 workers and
caused the biggest U.S. oil spill, led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors. BP said it’s
working to ensure other parties, including  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , which held 25 percent in Macondo, rig owner  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG)  and cement provider  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , contribute
“appropriately.”  “In our view the value of the settlement should be seen as
disappointing” because it’s about a half of the amount claimed
by BP,  Oswald Clint , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in an e-mailed report. “Recent comments
from Anadarko’s CEO suggested the company would be willing to
reach a settlement provided all parties were involved. With
Mitsui making the first step, the chances of Anadarko reaching a
settlement have increased.”  BP Rises  BP rose 2.7 percent to 460 pence in London. The stock is
down 30 percent since the accident on April 20 last year at
Macondo, which also destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig.  Mitsui has dropped 12 percent since the accident. The
shares closed at 1,345 yen in  Tokyo  today before the settlement
was announced.  The agreement with  Japan ’s second-largest trading house is
the first payment by a company other than BP toward the cost of
the disaster, which BP estimates will be more than $40 billion.  “MOEX is the first company to join BP in helping to meet
our shared responsibilities in the Gulf,” BP Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley said in a statement. “We call on the other
parties involved in the Macondo well to follow the lead of the
MOEX and Mitsui parties.”  BP’s indemnity excludes civil, criminal or administrative
fines and penalties, claims for punitive damages, and certain
other claims, today’s statement said.  ‘Under Pressure’  Sheila Williams , a London-based spokeswoman at BP, declined
to comment on talks with Anadarko.  “BP’s other partner in the Macondo license is likely to
come under pressure to settle as well now,”  Richard Griffith , a
London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd., wrote in an
e-mailed report. “Critically Mitsui has joined BP in
recognizing that the accident was the consequence of a number
risks and actions by multiple parties.”  MOEX Offshore is a wholly owned subsidiary of MOEX USA,
which in turn is wholly owned by Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.,
Ltd. (MOECO), in which Mitsui holds a 69.91% equity interest.  Japan’s Economy and Trade Ministry holds 20.03 percent of
 MOECO  with the rest split between 13 Japanese companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  