-- 
Rio de Janeiro Seeks to Raise $2 Billion Real Estate Fund to Renovate Port

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 
2011-05-25T15:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/bradesco-beats-banco-do-brasil-to-buy-rio-de-janeiro-bank-for-632-million.html
The city of Rio de Janeiro is seeking
to raise 3.5 billion reais ($2 billion) for a real estate  fund 
to renovate its downtown port area ahead of the  2016 Summer
Olympics .  The fund, called Fundo de Investimento Imobiliario da
Regiao do Porto, will raise the funds by selling 6.4 million
certificates authorizing developers to build in the port area at
a minimum of 545 reais apiece, according to an announcement
published in Valor Economico newspaper today.  The so-called Cepac certificates, which are to be regulated
by  Brazil ’s securities agency, will be sold in auctions and may
authorize developers to construct buildings higher than current
zoning laws allow. Cultural, historic and public buildings will
remain protected.  The private money from the certicificate sales will boost
city, state and federal government investment to revitalize the
area, the website says. A highway along the coast that divides
the Porto Maua port from the mostly commercial downtown area
will be demolished and the historic hillside neighborhood of
Morro da Conceicao will be renovated, the site says.  The overall design will be modeled after Puerto Madero in
 Buenos Aires  and Port de Barcelona in Spain.  The government plans to improve lighting, plant trees, fix
sidewalks and refurbish cultural centers in the neighborhood
surrounding the port, turning it into a tourist hub, according
to the site.  Brazil is boosting spending on infrastructure as it
develops the biggest oil fields in the Americas since 1976 and
prepares to host the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic
Games . Expenditures to improve airports, ports, highways and the
power grid are set to rise to 160 billion reais by 2012 from 121
billion reais in 2009, according to the Sao Paulo-based
 Association of Infrastructure and Industries .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in Rio de Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  