-- 
Brazilian Home Sales Depend on Interest Rates Below 14%, Gafisa Chief Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-05-20T20:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/brazilian-home-sales-depend-on-interest-rates-below-14-gafisa-ceo-says.html
Brazilian home sales are unlikely to
be affected by rising borrowing costs so long as the central
bank keeps the benchmark interest rate below 14 percent, said
Duilio Calciolari, the new chief executive officer of  Gafisa SA. (GFSA3)   “ Interest rates  and inflation are a concern,” Calciolari
said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York 
yesterday. “But we don’t see an impact if they go to 14 percent
to try to contain inflation.”  Gafisa, the third-largest homebuilder by revenue, and
competitor Cyrela  Brazil  Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes fell the most in the Bovespa index this year
through yesterday amid concern accelerating inflation will lead
to higher borrowing costs, dimming the outlook for companies
that depend on credit growth. The central bank raised the
benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point to 12 percent in
April, after increasing it half a percentage point in each of
its previous two meetings.  The combination of strong employment, banks’ willingness to
finance mortgages and better  income distribution  is “extremely
favorable” for Gafisa, said Calciolari, named interim CEO of
the Sao Paulo-based company this month. About 9.1 million
Brazilians plan to buy real estate this year, he said.  “The intention of buying is built through six to 12
months, and also dismantled through a similar period,”
Calciolari said. As long as there is employment “and inflation
is under control, you don’t lose this buying intention. So we
are confident,” he said.  Improving Employment  Brazil’s unemployment rate reached a record low of 5.7
percent in December before rising to 6.5 percent in March, the
lowest ever for that month. The economy is near full employment,
President  Dilma Rousseff  said last month.  Inflation is accelerating after  Latin America ’s biggest
economy expanded at the fastest pace in two decades in 2010.
Annual inflation soared to 6.51 percent in April, the highest
rate since 2005 and above the government’s target range. In
addition to raising rates, the central bank has increased banks’
reserve requirements to cool lending growth and curb rising
costs.  The benchmark rate is unlikely to reach 14 percent, said
Calciolari. It will probably end the year at 12.5 percent,
according to a central bank survey of 100 economists on May 13.  Gafisa this month said first-quarter net income fell 79
percent from a year earlier to 13.7 million reais ($8.5
million). The average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of 64.9 million reais.  First-Quarter Decline  The first quarter was hurt by a late Carnival holiday at
the end of March, and a natural slowdown after a “very strong”
fourth quarter, Calciolari said. The company expects to finish
the year with 5 billion reais to 5.6 billion reais in new
projects. It had about 500 million reais in new projects in the
first quarter.  While Gafisa’s sales fell 4 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, other builders showed gains.  Rossi
Residencial SA (RSID3) ’s sales increased 20 percent, PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes’s rose 26 percent and EZ Tec
Empreendimentos & Participacoes SA’s more than doubled.  Homebuying in Brazil is climbing as economic growth fuels
an expansion in the middle class and boosts income. Mortgage
lending jumped 51 percent last year, compared with a 12 percent
increase in Mexico and a 2.6 percent decline in the U.S.  Price Gains  Home prices  have surged 91 percent in Sao Paulo and 113
percent in  Rio de Janeiro  since the beginning of 2008, according
to the  FipeZap index , published monthly by FIPE, as the
Foundation Economics Research Institute in Sao Paulo is known,
and ZAP, a real estate website.  Real estate prices are “far away from a bubble,”
according to Calciolari. The gains are a “structural
correction” that follows the country’s shift toward mortgages
and away from all-cash transactions, he said.  Gafisa rose 0.4 percent to 8.25 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading.
The stock is down 32 percent this year, compared with a 9.7
percent decline for the Bovespa index. Cyrela, based in Sao
Paulo, has dropped 29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  