-- 
Brazil Inflation Gets ‘Temporary Relief’ as Increases in Food, Energy Slow

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-05-20T14:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/brazil-s-may-ipca-15-price-index-rises-0-7-from-month-ago.html
Smaller increases in  Brazil ’s food
and energy prices helped ease inflation more than economists 
expected in May, even as prices of services continued to rise.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.7
percent in the month through mid-May, the national  statistics
agency  said today on its website. Economists expected a rate of
0.74 percent after a 0.77 percent increase in the mid-April
reading, according to the median of 37 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey. Estimates ranged from 0.35 percent to 0.85 percent.  “It’s a temporary relief, inflation is getting stronger
and more disseminated,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul
America Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro. “Some seasonal factors, such as food prices, might
help reduce readings until July. That doesn’t mean a change in
the trend.”  Brazil has “work ahead” to bring inflation back to target
next year amid demand pressures and high commodity prices,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said yesterday.
Tombini, in a conference call with reporters, reiterated that
policy makers will adjust monetary policy for a period
sufficiently long to bring price increases down to the 4.5
percent mid-point of its target range.  Monthly inflation will be slower in the May to August
period than it was between October and April, central bank
economic policy director Carlos Hamilton said yesterday.  Upper Limit  Prices through mid-May rose 6.51 percent from a year ago,
matching the reading of the benchmark IPCA index in April, which
breached the upper limit of the government’s target range for
the first time since 2005. Yields on interest rate futures
contracts maturing in January 2013, the most-traded in  Sao Paulo 
today, were unchanged at 10:30 a.m. New York time. The real rose
0.1 percent to 1.6147 per  U.S. dollar .  Food prices rose 0.54 percent through mid-May after jumping
0.79 percent through mid-April, as prices for tomatoes and fruit
fell 9.18 percent and 2.9 percent respectively. Transportation
costs rose 0.93 percent after a 1.45 percent rise in the
previous month. Ethanol prices rose 0.01 percent, down from 16.4
percent in the previous month.  Housing expenses rose 0.93 percent after increasing 0.72
percent the previous month. Rises in personal expenses and
healthcare also quickened. Gasoline prices rose 5.3 percent, up
from a 4.28 percent increase in April, the agency said. Gasoline
sold to consumers contains 25 percent ethanol.  ‘Soft Patch’  “A seasonal soft patch in monthly inflation readings is
widely expected for the next few months, as usually happens at
this time of the year,” Marcelo Salomon, head of Latin America
research at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Yet longer-term underlying trends do not look
encouraging.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher  interest rates , spending cuts and measures to curb
credit growth to fight the fastest inflation in more than five
years.  Tombini said yesterday the economy is on a “consistent
path” to meet its inflation target in 2012 as economic
expansion slows. The central bank president said he expects
monthly consumer price increases to fall to a level in line with
the year-end target in the months ahead.  The central bank increased the benchmark interest rate by a
quarter-point to 12 percent in April, after raising it half a
percentage point in each of its previous two meetings.  “Sadly, services price inflation worsened from a month
earlier and continues to run high, reflecting strong domestic
demand conditions and very tight labor markets,” Salomon wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  