-- 
Brazil’s Robusta Trades at Premium on Rising Demand, Broker Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-20T12:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/brazil-s-robusta-trades-at-premium-on-rising-demand-broker-says.html
Robusta coffee from Brazil, the
world’s second-largest producer of the variety, is trading at a
premium to prices on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  as demand
outpaces supplies, according to Flavour Coffee.  The price of robusta beans in the South American country is
between 3-5 cents a pound above the NYSE Liffe value, data from
the Rio de Janeiro-based broker showed. Prices have been offered
at a premium since last week, and traded at a premium this week.  “Prices remain steady,” Flavour Coffee said in a report
e-mailed to customers yesterday.  Rising demand for robusta beans, the variety used in
instant coffee, was supporting prices in Brazil, Cepea, a
University of Sao Paulo research group, said earlier this week.  “The high demand for the robusta variety has been keeping
quotes at high levels,” analyst Margarete Boteon wrote in a
report on May 18.  Between 12 percent and 15 percent of the robusta trees in
 Brazil  may have been picked and most of the coffee has been
delivered to local roasters and exporters, Flavour Coffee said,
citing local dealers.  Robusta coffee for July delivery advanced $9, or 0.4
percent, to $2,558 a metric ton by 12:56 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in
London. Arabica coffee for July delivery was little changed at
$2.636 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Arabica is grown mainly in  Latin America  and favored for
specialty beverages such as those made by Starbucks Corp.
Robusta, used in instant coffee and espresso, is harvested
mostly in  Asia  and parts of Africa.  Vietnam  is the world’s largest producer of robusta beans
and Brazil is the biggest for arabica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 