-- 
BRICs Divisions Contrast With European Unity in Quest for Control of IMF

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-21T07:33:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/brics-divisions-contrast-with-european-unity-in-quest-for-control-of-imf.html
The failure of emerging-market
nations to rally behind a single candidate to head the
 International Monetary Fund  shows the effort still needed to
link diplomatic might with growing economic strength.  As the IMF begins its search for a successor to  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,  Russia  is endorsing Grigori Marchenko, the head of
Kazakhstan’s central bank, while the  Philippines  and  Thailand 
speak favorably of Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam.  India , China, Brazil and South Africa have yet
to throw their support behind anyone even as they urge selection
be driven by merit rather than nationality.  By contrast, European Union nations have given overwhelming
support to French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  to head the
Washington-based IMF, the institution that approved a record
$91.7 billion in emergency loans last year and provides a third
of the euro-area’s bailouts. That left Asians, South Americans
and Russia talking principles without agreeing on one person.  “The Europeans have the great advantage that they have
institutional mechanisms to agree on a candidate upfront,” said
Ousmene Mandeng, head of public-sector investment at Ashmore
Group Plc in London and a former IMF economist. “The emerging
markets may find it more difficult to identify a common
candidate and then lobby to ensure that he or she obtains
sufficient support from the U.S.”  As recently as last month the leaders of  Brazil , Russia,
India and China, known as the BRIC countries, were urging the
U.S. and Europe to end their 65-year monopoly on leadership
positions at the IMF and  World Bank , which has always been
headed by an American.  June 30 Goal  The IMF said it aims to complete the selection of a
successor to Strauss-Kahn by June 30. Countries will be able to
nominate candidates for the managing director’s position from
May 23 to June 10, the IMF said in a statement.  “The governing structure of the international financial
institutions should reflect the changes in the world economy,
increasing the voice and representation of emerging economies
and  developing countries ,” the BRIC leaders said in a statement
after meeting in Hainan,  China , on April 14.  Those positions were echoed by finance chiefs this week
following the arrest and subsequent resignation of Strauss-Kahn.
The new leadership should reflect changes in the world economy,
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said May 19.  ‘Increasingly Strong’  Their failure to follow such calls with action probably
highlights the political immaturity of the BRIC complex even
when “the case for the new IMF head to come from the BRIC
countries is increasingly strong,” said Jim O’Neill, who
created the BRIC term and chairs Goldman Sachs Asset Management
in London, said by e-mail on May 19.  Former Brazilian central bank chief Arminio Fraga, onetime
South African Finance Minister Trevor Manuel and Indian policy
maker Montek Singh Ahluwalia are among the emerging market
representatives capable of leading the IMF, according to the
fund’s former chief economist, Simon Johnson. He also suggests
the possibility of Bank of  Mexico  Governor Agustin Carstens and
Zhu Min, a former Chinese central banker now working at the IMF.  “The big political question is whether the largest
emerging markets -- Brazil, China, India,  South Africa ,  Turkey 
and perhaps Saudi Arabia,  South Korea , Russia,  Indonesia  and
Mexico -- can unify behind one candidate,” Johnson wrote in a
May 18 Bloomberg News column. “That would be a breakthrough but
it’s still not clear who will provide the diplomatic initiative
to organize them into a coalition that speaks with a single
voice.”  Chile, U.S.  The Chilean government said yesterday it has a “good
opinion” of former Finance Minister Alejandro Foxley as a
possible candidate and will consider nominating him.  Brazil Finance Minister Guido Mantega told the Wall Street
Journal that his nation is open to backing a European and that
“there should be no vetting based on nationality.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has refrained
from mentioning any names, insisting in a statement he wants a
quick decision on a candidate who can command broad support.  “We are consulting broadly with the fund’s shareholders
from emerging markets as well as advanced economies,” Geithner
said. “It is important that this be an open process and one
that moves quickly to select new leadership for the IMF.”  Shen Jianguang, a former IMF economist and now at Mizuho
Securites Asia Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television interview
that one option is to name Zhu Min the first deputy managing
director, the IMF’s No. 2 position.  “Zhu Min definitely can be a deputy CEO of the IMF” given
the growing importance of China in the world economy, he said.
“Emerging markets are not very happy with the situation that
the head of the IMF has to be from  Europe .”  Lipsky’s Term  John Lipsky , 64, is acting managing director after Strauss-
Kahn’s resignation four days after his May 14 arrest in  New York 
on charges of attempted rape and sexual assault. Lipsky’s term
in the IMF’s No. 2 post, which has traditionally been filled by
an American, ends in August.  The biggest emerging economies have focused on increasing
trade and financial links among their nations. The state
development banks of the BRIC countries agreed to help boost the
use of local currencies when making loans within the five
nations, Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said last month.  While early signs point to Lagarde, the mood could swing in
the weeks to come.  “The U.S. and Europe should take it upon themselves to
really open this up to all candidates that are qualified, not
necessarily just Europeans,” Philippine Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net 
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  