-- 
California Takes Aim at Public Pension Spiking

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/california-legislation-takes-aim-at-pension-padding-for-460-000-official.html
Robb Quincey made $460,000 last year
as city manager of  Upland , California, a middle-class suburb
east of  Los Angeles  at the foot of the San Gabriel Mountains.
His duties included overseeing 325 employees, a police
department with 25 cars, four fire stations and a library for
the community of 76,000.  Last year, Quincey, 51, negotiated a new contract in which
the city agreed to add reimbursements for his car, housing and
other costs directly into his paycheck, according to public
records. When he retired, the combined payments would be counted
in his final year’s salary and used as the basis for calculating
his pension for life.  Such loopholes allow some public employees to manipulate
overtime, unused vacation and special compensation to boost
their retirement pay. The practice, known as pension spiking,
has drawn protests at a time when U.S. state pension assets are
$479.5 billion under what is needed to pay promised benefits,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s upsetting and confirms that we need change in local
government,” said Gino Filippi, who was elected to the Upland
City Council in November, after Quincey’s new contract was
struck. “It’s an abuse of the system.”  The city manager was  fired  May 4 after using municipal
funds to settle a claim filed by a city police officer who said
he was passed up for a promotion as retaliation for
investigating a domestic dispute involving Quincey, according to
the Inland Valley Daily Bulletin. Quincey declined to comment
about the contract, said his lawyer, Michael Zweiback, a partner
with Nixon Peabody LLP in Los Angeles.  In  San Diego , a city 17 times bigger than Upland, the chief
operating officer made $269,740 in 2009, according to the state
controller’s office. In Merced, a city in the Central Valley
farming region with about the same population as Upland, the
city manager earned $182,000 that year.  Drawing Scrutiny  Spiking is not the only pension-related abuse drawing
scrutiny. Lawmakers from Washington state to  New Jersey  are
taking steps to curb so-called double dipping, where government
retirees go back to work on the public payroll while still
collecting a pension, such as a New York school superintendent
who earned $225,000 and also collected a $316,245 pension.  Lawmakers in California, under pressure in the wake of a
scandal in the small city of Bell, where the city manager gave
himself almost $1.2 million in 2009, are working on legislation
to clamp down on spiking and curtail public pension costs.  Backing From Brown  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat who won office with the
help of public employee unions, has said he supports efforts to
curb pension spiking by requiring all newly hired state and
local government workers to base their pensions on an average of
their base pay for the final three years and prohibit unused
vacation or sick leave in that calculation.  Assemblyman Warren Furutani, a Long Beach Democrat, has
sponsored an anti-spiking bill now working its way through the
legislature.  “We’ve had some real bad apples that have manipulated the
system for their benefit,” Furutani said. “And we are moving
to correct it.”  California  until recently based pensions for state workers
on a single year of salary, a practice that made it easier to
spike retirement payments by inflating salaries for a short
time. That increased to three years’ of salary beginning with
labor contracts in 2007, said Lynelle Jolley, a spokeswoman for
the Personnel Administration Department. The Legislature wrote
the three-year provision into state law in January.  Just how often pension spiking occurs in California is
unknown because there are more than 20 independent public
pension funds. The  Pacific Research Institute  estimated in 2007
that spiking cost California pension systems $100 million a
year. The San Francisco-based institute hasn’t produced a more
recent estimate.  Spiking ‘Institutionalized’  A San Francisco  civil grand jury  in 2009 concluded that
pension spiking “may be institutionalized and ongoing” in the
city’s police and fire departments. About 25 percent of those
who retired in the preceding 10 years received a salary increase
of 10 percent or more in their last year, costing the city at
least $132 million, according to the grand jury.  “It’s a fairly widespread practice to greater and lesser
degrees,” said state Senator Joe Simitian, a Palo Alto
Democrat. “Sometimes it’s pretty modest, other times it’s
pretty aggressive.”  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest public pension in the U.S. at $236 billion, has rules
intended to limit spiking.  Bonuses that pad a salary during the last year of
employment, for example, must be offered to all employees in the
same class. And the pension doesn’t allow accrued vacation that
is cashed out at retirement to be counted toward pension
calculations.  ‘Very Clear Guidelines’  “We have some very clear guidelines about what is
reportable compensation and what is not,” said Calpers
spokesman Ed Fong.  Yet with more than 2,000 public agencies participating in
the pension system, Fong said, legal pension padding is often
written into contracts at the local level.  The California State Teachers Retirement System bases
pensions on three years of salary for retirees with less than 25
years’ service and the top single year of salary for those with
25 years or more.  The Calstrs Benefits and Services Committee heard proposals
for limiting spiking April 7. Officials with the second-largest
pension system are proposing a unit to review cases where
salaries jumped unexpectedly, as well as a whistle-blower
hotline for people to report suspected abuses.  Employer Cooperation  “None of these are going to be foolproof internally to
Calstrs without the cooperation of our employers,” Peggy Plett,
deputy chief executive officer for benefits and services, told
the committee. “Key to that is that our employers set salary.”  In February, a state oversight panel called the  Little
Hoover Commission  released a report saying California should
scale back pension promises to public workers and reshape the
benefits system to make it similar to those used in industry to
rein in costs.  The commission noted a 50-year-old fire chief in Orinda,
about 10 miles east of Berkeley, retired in 2009 with a final
salary of $185,000 and pension of $241,000. The district hired
him back as a consultant earning $176,000.  The Hoover commission recommended a cap on the salary used
to determine pension benefits, or alternatively, a cap on
pensionable income. Under such an arrangement, compensation
above the cap would be factored into contributions toward an
employee’s hybrid or 401(k)-style plan.  The commission also said the state should set a uniform
definition of final compensation, computed on base pay only,
over a five-year average to discourage pension spiking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  