-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops as Inflation Slows More Than Forecast, Retail Stalls

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-05-20T21:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/canadian-dollar-slides-as-april-inflation-slower-than-economists-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped for the first
time in four days after government reports showed inflation
slowed more than economists forecast and retail sales
unexpectedly stalled.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell for a third week in
the longest losing streak this year on reduced speculation that
the  Bank of Canada  will resume boosting borrowing costs. The
Canadian dollar weakened against most of its major counterparts
including the yen and pound.  “The risks are primarily tilted for a weaker Canadian
dollar,” said John Shin, senior G-10 foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.
“Unless you got some type of substantial reversal back upward
in  oil prices , this is where we think you get into a longer-term
softening period for the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 97.42 cents
versus the  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 96.76 cents
yesterday. It fell 0.6 percent for the week.  One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0265. The Canadian dollar rallied on April 29 to
94.46 cents, the strongest since November 2007.  The consumer price index increased 0.3 percent in April
after a 1.1 percent gain in the previous month,  Statistics
Canada  reported today. The median forecast of 27 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent advance.  Inflation Outlook  “The market was expecting something a little higher for
CPI,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange at
Bank of  Montreal  in Toronto.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier,
matching the annual rate of advance in March. Economists
predicted a 3.4 percent increase.  The index  will be “above 3 percent in the short term,”
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in a speech on May 16
in Ottawa. Carney reiterated that annual inflation would slow to
2 percent by mid-2012.  The central bank on April 12 kept its target rate for
overnight lending between commercial banks at 1 percent, where
it has been since September, after raising it three times last
year. Royal Bank of Canada economists forecast policy makers
will leave the rate unchanged at their May 31 meeting before
raising it in July.  The yield on Canada’s two-year bond slumped as much as nine
basis points to touch 1.60 percent, the lowest level since March
18, before trading at 1.69 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The price of the 1.75 percent security
maturing in March 2013 rose 13 cents to $100.25.  U.S. Yield Spread  The difference in yield between Canadian two-year bonds and
Treasuries of equivalent maturity decreased to 110 basis points,
the narrowest in two weeks.  September 2011 bankers’ acceptance contracts yielded 1.42
percent, the least since August on a closing basis. So-called
Bax contracts average about 18 basis points above the central
bank’s overnight target, Bloomberg data since 1992 show.  The trading indicates there’s about a 44 percent chance
that the target lending rate will rise by a quarter-percentage
point at the Sept. 7 Bank of Canada policy meeting, compared
with odds of about 72 percent yesterday, according to  David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives at the brokerage Le
Groupe Jitney Inc. in Montreal.  “The Street was really worried about a higher-than-
expected number,” said Love, referring to the  consumer price
index . “That didn’t happen, so BAX popped a bit,” meaning
yields fell, indicating lower rate-increase expectations.  Stalled Retail  Canada’s currency extended losses after a report showed
retail sales were little changed in March, a result that was
weaker than all of the forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Sales were a seasonally adjusted C$37.3 billion, the
statistics agency said today. Retail sales were forecast to grow
0.9 percent, according to the median estimate of 26 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Today’s lower CPI and retail sales confirm a sidelined
Bank of Canada,” said  Michael Leavitt , a Montreal-based
institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global Canada Co. “The
Canadian dollar will suffer for it over the short term.”  The loonie depreciated 0.5 percent to 83.88 yen and
weakened 0.6 percent to C$1.5809 versus the pound.  Crude oil futures for June delivery increased 1.1 percent
to $99.49 a barrel in  New York  after dropping as much as 2.5
percent to $95.99.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  