-- 
Canada April Inflation Was Below Forecast as Food Tempered Gasoline Gains

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-20T14:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/canada-april-inflation-was-below-forecast-as-food-tempered-gasoline-gains.html
Canada ’s inflation rate and retail
sales were less than economists forecast, adding to evidence the
central bank will delay raising borrowing costs for several
months as the economy recovers.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in April from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa, less than the
3.4 percent gain economists predicted. Retail sales for March
were little changed, a result weaker than any economist had
forecast, with rising gasoline sales offset by declines in
furniture, clothing and entertainment.  Bond yields and the currency fell as investors raised bets
the  Bank of Canada  may wait until October to raise interest
rates from 1 percent. Governor  Mark Carney  said in a May 16
speech that inflation above the bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range would be driven by temporary increases in sales
taxes, food and energy costs.  “This report will soothe some fears of rising inflation,”
said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at Bank of Montreal in
Toronto. “In the near term, yes, it weighs towards a delay in
raising interest rates.”  Investors, on balance, are no longer betting on the central
bank raising its benchmark interest rate by its Sept. 7 meeting.
The odds of a September increase fell to 42 percent today from
55 percent yesterday, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on overnight index swap rates. The probability of an October
rate increase was 68 percent today, down from 77 percent
yesterday. The bank’s next meetings are May 31 and July 19.  Dollar Weakens  The Canadian currency weakened 0.8 percent to 97.57 cents
per U.S. dollar at 10:05 a.m. a.m. in Toronto, from 96.76 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0249. The Canadian dollar
rallied on April 29 to 94.46 cents per  U.S. dollar , the
strongest level November 2007.  “Underlying inflation is still pretty benign,” Societe
Generale SA economist Rudy Narvas said in a telephone interview
from  New York . “The dollar is doing most of the work for the
Bank of Canada” in restraining inflation, he said, adding “the
ability of businesses to pass on price increases to customers is
actually falling.”  Narvas and  David Tulk  of TD Securities moved their
forecasts this week for the next Bank of Canada interest-rate
increase to September from July.  Today’s reports follow others that pointed to weakening
consumer spending, including existing home sales, wholesale
sales and Statistics Canada’s index of leading indicators.  ‘Carefully Considered’  Carney said in his Ottawa speech that future interest-rate
increases will be “carefully considered.” He raised rates
three times last year.  The  consumer price index  rose 0.3 percent in April from
March, slower than the prior monthly jump of 1.1 percent and
below the 0.5 percent forecast by economists.  Energy prices rose 17 percent in April from a year earlier,
 Statistics Canada  said today. Gasoline prices rose 26 percent,
bringing them within 5 percent of their record high posted in
July 2008.  Canadian lawmakers will ask gasoline industry executives to
explain the recent jump in prices, Tony Clement said May 12.
Price movements aren’t transparent enough, Clement said. At the
time, Clement was industry minister and two days ago he was
named president of the Treasury Board by Prime Minister Stephen Harper in a cabinet shuffle.  Food Price Gains  Food prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier. Vegetable
prices gained 4.3 percent in April, slowing from the 19 percent
annual pace seen in March. On the month, vegetable prices fell
7.7 percent.  Other food prices were higher in April, with bakery
products rising 6.7 percent on the year and meat prices 5.5
percent higher.  “Food inflation is certainly the challenge of the year,”
Maple Leaf Foods Inc. Chief Executive Officer Michael McCain
said on an April 28 earnings call. “This is not only a
challenge in the quarter, but will likely roll its way through
the entire year, as the effects of a 122 percent corn-price
increase and a 90 percent wheat-price increase year-over-year
weaves its way through the food chain.”  The  core inflation  rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, slowed to 1.6 percent from a year
earlier in April, from March’s 1.7 percent advance. Monthly core
prices rose 0.2 percent, after March’s 0.7 percent gain. The
results matched economists’ forecasts.  Bank of Canada Deputy Governor Tim Lane said yesterday that
the bank had noted the impact of rising energy prices on
inflation.  “That’s something that we expect to have a temporary
effect on inflation,” Lane said. “Core inflation remains well-
anchored and we expect it to converge to the 2 percent target
over the period ahead.”  Alcohol and tobacco prices rose 2.4 percent on the year in
April, while clothing and footwear prices fell 1.1 percent from
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 