-- 
Canada March Retail Sales Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-20T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/canada-march-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's retail sales report for March as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales were flat in March, holding steady at
$37.3 billion. After removing the effects of price
changes, particularly higher food and gasoline prices,
retail sales in volume terms decreased 0.8%.  In current dollars, higher sales reported in four
subsectors, representing 50% of total retail sales.
However, these gains were offset by declines in the other
seven subsectors.  The largest increase, in dollar terms, among the
subsectors was registered at gasoline stations (+1.4%).
This was the eighth increase in nine months. Sales at
gasoline stations have been trending upward for the past
two years. Since March 2009, the Consumer Price Index for
gasoline has risen by nearly 40%.  Higher prices contributed to a 0.8% rise in sales at
general merchandise stores in March. Other general
merchandise stores led the gain, increasing 1.2%. Sales at
department stores edged up 0.3%, following a 1.1% decline
in February.  Sales at electronics and appliance stores (+2.1%)
increased for a second consecutive month, following three
months of declines. Sales at this store type have yet to
return to pre-economic downturn levels.  After three consecutive monthly declines, sales at
 motor vehicle  and parts dealers rose 0.3% in March. Sales
increased 0.8% at new car dealers while the rest of the
subsector showed declines.  Large decline at furniture stores  Furniture and home furnishings stores registered the
largest decline in March, falling 2.2%. This reflects a
4.4% decrease at furniture stores, where sales have been
trending down since early 2010. Sales at home furnishing
stores rose 1.7%.  Clothing and clothing accessories retailers registered
a 0.9% decline, with lower sales reported by all store
types.  Sales at sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores
fell for a fourth consecutive month, declining 1.9% in
March.  Sales at food and beverage stores edged down 0.1%,
largely as a result of lower sales at beer, wine and
liquor stores (-1.6%). Sales at supermarkets and other
grocery stores rose 0.3%, reflecting rising food prices.  Sales up in most provinces  Retail sales rose in seven provinces in March. The
largest increase in dollar terms was in  Quebec , where
sales increased 0.5%, offsetting the loss in February.  All of the Atlantic provinces registered sales
increases in March. Retailers in Nova Scotia (+2.4%) led
the gains following two months of declines.  Ontario (-0.8%) recorded the largest sales decline in
March. This was the third decrease in Ontario in four
months.  It is possible to consult the tables of unadjusted data
by industry and by province and territory from the Tables
by subject module of our website.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups
using consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained
dollars series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with
2002 as the reference year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  