-- 
Canada’s Millennial New Democratic Members of Parliament Descend on Ottawa

-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-05-20T19:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/canada-s-millennial-new-democratic-members-of-parliament-descend-on-ottawa.html
If Laurin Liu could run the country,
she’d fight to lower college costs. As a member of  Canada’s
Parliament , that’s what she plans to do.  “Tuition should be accessible,” says Liu, 20, who pays
C$2,067.90 ($2,130) a year to attend  Montreal ’s  McGill
University . Now she’s putting her education on hold to make
C$157,731 a year as a rookie politician in Ottawa, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its May 23 edition. She’ll be joined by
three fellow students from her campus political club, in
addition to a McGill doctoral student, all of whom campaigned
under the banner of  Canada ’s  New Democratic Party  in May 2
elections. “To be honest, I agreed to run as a favor to the
party,” says Liu. “I didn’t expect to win.”  Much has been made of the comfortable majority Conservative
Prime Minister Stephen Harper will enjoy when Canada’s new
Parliament convenes on June 2. Yet the election also produced
big gains for the NDP, which captured 103 seats, up from 36. The
result may be the youngest and most eccentric official
opposition in the country’s history. Along with the so-called
McGill Five, voters elected an NDP slate that includes a 19-
year-old political science student from another university and a
bartender who spent part of the six-week campaign in  Las Vegas .
Some of the newbie politicians have barely set foot in the
districts they represent. Liu, for one, spent most of her time
stumping for another NDP candidate and only learned of her
victory via a text message from a friend on election night.  Electoral Quirks  The phenomenon that is the McGill Five reflects the quirks
of the Canadian  electoral system . Citizens don’t vote directly
for Prime Minister. They vote for the party candidate at the
local level, and the leader whose party wins the most seats in
Parliament forms the government. In districts - or ridings, as
they are called in Canada -- where a party has had no success in
the past, a marginal candidate can get elected in an upset,
riding the wave of support for a national party.  That’s what happened in Québec, where the NDP swept up 59
federal seats, up from just one. “They’re called pylons,
traffic cones you put in place to fill out the party roster,”
says John Duffy, a policy consultant at StrategyCorp in Toronto.
“There’s no landslide big enough to have complete nonentities
get into the picnic in the  United States .”  It didn’t help, of course, that a no-confidence vote
suddenly toppled Harper’s minority government in late March,
leaving Canada’s political parties scrambling to assemble a full
slate of candidates for all the 308 seats in the House of
Commons. NDP officials say they’re thrilled with their new crop
of fresh-faced MPs. “Canadians are too often represented by
lawyers and businessmen,” says Kathleen Monk, a spokeswoman for
NDP Leader  Jack Layton .  Millennial Politicians  Maybe so, but some might wonder how much these Millennial
politicians will rally around an  NDP agenda  that’s focused on
protecting pensions and financial incentives for people to build
so-called granny flats for their aging parents. Certainly that’s
not what’s top of mind for Pierre-Luc Dusseault who, at 19, is
the youngest MP ever elected. Like Liu, he wants to bring down
the cost of postsecondary education by increasing federal
transfer payments for that purpose. As for those who may say
he’s too young for the job, Dusseault counters that “the House
of Commons is supposed to represent everyone.”  For Dusseault, the new job means giving up his summer job
at a golf course to hire a staff and finding a place to live in
Ottawa. McGill’s Charmaine Borg won’t be able to spend her
junior semester abroad in  Mexico  as she’d planned. Liu may get a
driver’s license to handle the commute.  With Harper’s sizable majority, the freshman MPs may find
their influence is limited. “Some may stay afloat and learn the
craft,” says Duffy. “Most will blow out to sea and remember
this as the best job they ever had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Brady in New York at 
 dbrady@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  