-- 
Carbon Traders Ask California Agency for Protection From Fake Offsets

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-20T18:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/carbon-traders-ask-california-agency-for-protection-from-fake-offsets.html
Companies that unknowingly buy fake
carbon-offset credits in  California ’s planned cap-and-trade
program for  greenhouse gases  shouldn’t be forced to replace them
with real ones, according to emissions traders.  The proposed carbon market, which is scheduled to start
next year, “cannot work” if the state doesn’t change the
“buyer liability” rules for offset credits, the Geneva-based
 International Emissions Trading Association  and four other
lobbying groups said in a May 2 letter to the  California Air
Resources Board  obtained today.  California’s cap-and-trade regulation seeks a 15 percent
cut in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from  power
plants , refineries, factories, cars and trucks by 2020.  The program, similar to the federal cap-and-trade system
President Barack Obama failed to get through Congress last year,
requires companies to buy state-issued carbon permits or offset
credits to account for their pollution. Offset credits come from
unregulated sources, such as farms and forests, that voluntarily
cut their pollution.  Some environmental groups have criticized  carbon offsets .
It’s hard to verify pollution levels at unregulated sources,
meaning some credits will be awarded for cuts that either didn’t
happen or would have occurred anyway without the cap-and-trade
program, according to  Friends of the Earth .  The risk of the Air Resources Board issuing offset credits
that are later tied to fake pollution cuts is “very small,”
the emissions trading group said in the letter. If buyers have
to replace fake offsets themselves, the risk is large enough
that they’ll probably “avoid buying offset credits
altogether.”  Buffer Account  The Air Resources Board should change California’s cap-and-
trade  regulation  to shield innocent offset buyers from this
risk, the lobby groups said in the letter.  The board can create a “buffer account” by holding back
1.5 percent of the credits, which would be used to replace any
carbon offsets found to be “flawed” after they’re issued,
according to the letter. Only companies guilty of
“malfeasance” would have to replace the fake offset credits
themselves, according to the letter.  Among groups that signed the carbon-offset letter were the
Carbon Offset Providers Coalition, the Coalition for Emission
Reduction Policy, the Western States Petroleum Association and
the Carbon Markets and Investors Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  