-- 
Gregorian as Man of Many Institutions Sees Most of Them Failing

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/carnegie-s-gregorian-as-man-of-many-institutions-sees-most-of-them-failing.html
A Chinese education minister once
said to  Carnegie Corporation of New York  President Vartan Gregorian: “You Americans, you always look at your watches. We
look at our calendar.”  The long-term view preoccupied the head of the
multibillion-dollar foundation, which turns 100 this year,
during an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York  on
Wednesday. Gregorian, 77, spoke of his concerns about the course
of the U.S., from its education system and President  Barack Obama  to moral failure on  Wall Street .  “The challenge is so great, not because we’re falling
behind,” he said. “The rest of the world is catching us.
They’re not dumb.”  Gregorian, awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in
2004, has served as president of the New York Public Library and
 Brown University , and has received almost 70 honorary degrees.
He got another on May 14 at  St. Edward’s University  in Austin.  “We need to be capable of real moral outrage and sensitive
to the pain and sorrow of our fellow men and women,” he said in
his commencement speech. “I have often said that perhaps
America is not perfect, but it is perfectible.”  The Penn Current, a publication at the  University of
Pennsylvania , where he became a history professor in 1972 and
was the university’s provost from 1978 to 1981,  once  described
him as “a man with an amiable visage framed by a gleaming white
goatee.” At Bloomberg’s offices, he was still goateed as he
alluded to Richard Brinsley Sheridan’s 18th-century play “The
Critic,” sports scores and George Orwell in the answer to one
question.  ‘Non-System System’  According to its  2010 annual report , the Carnegie
Corporation’s asset value was $2.5 billion as of Sept. 30, 2010.
It spent more than $2.3 billion on programs and administration
during the previous half-century.  Current work focuses on international peace and security,
Islam and higher education in the U.S. and  Africa .  “We have no system of education in the  United States . We
have a non-system system,” Gregorian said, speaking about
public-school districts.  “And then our schools of education are disasters, most of
them,” he said. In January, Carnegie  announced  it was
supporting a rating system for more than 1,000 teacher-
preparation programs. U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan has
 spoken  about reforming those programs, too.  Chess Pieces  Gregorian described his disappointment with foreign
policy’s obsession over chess pieces, with little attention paid
to the world’s board, where there is “irrationality, prejudice,
greed, ambition, hubris.”  He said he wanted the government to use anthropology,
literature and linguistics. He also spoke about everyday words:
their potential emptiness and their power. “Self-censorship is
the worst feature of our democracy,” he said.  Obama did not escape his criticism. Gregorian, who was born
in  Iran  to Armenian Christians, brought up the president’s
 unfulfilled  campaign pledge to publicly call the killing of more
than 1 million Armenians by Ottoman Turks in 1915 an act of
genocide.  “He did not have to promise that,” he said. “He could
have said, ‘I’ll look into it and I’ll do my best.’ So Armenians
now are hopping mad.”  Gregorian hasn’t been back to Iran since the 1979
revolution. “Not because I don’t want to, because I don’t
believe in dual citizenship,” he said. “They won’t allow me to
go without an Iranian passport.”  Asked about the Iranian Armenians, he said their numbers
weren’t significant: “You’re like an olive in the martini.”  Apartment Hunting  His heritage has caused Gregorian trouble. In 1981, when he
became the president of the  New York Public Library , the
institution had a hard time finding him a co-op apartment.  “With a member of a minority group living in the
building,” the head of the board at 1120 Park Avenue told  the
New York Times , “the value would go right down like that.”  By 1984, his tenure at the once-sleepy library was being
celebrated by a New York magazine  profile  that called him “all
twinkle-eyed, beaming ebullience.” That article ended with a
quote that said it was “destiny” he’d be a university
presidency.  In 1989 he left the library for Brown. “We’re the
ballerina of the  Ivy League , we’re always on our toes, because
we have no shoes,” he said, speaking about the school’s
endowment. “We always must dance.”  A Pocket Watch  He left Brown for the Carnegie Corporation in 1997, and
said he is happy to be handing out money instead of requesting
it from others. Asked about Wall Street, and the report this
week that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  will meet with New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  as part of an investigation into mortgage
securitization, Gregorian said that banking standards have
shifted.  “What is legal is considered ethical,” he said. “It was
not always that.”  He said he hasn’t offered that opinion to major bankers.
“Experience is like having a pocket watch: Wait until somebody
asks, ‘What time is it?’ And I say, ‘Oh! It’s 2 o’clock.’ But I
don’t go around town and say, ‘Do you want to know what time it
is? I have a watch!’ People will laugh at me.”  (Max Abelson is a reporter for Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 