-- 
Cheniere Surges After U.S. Expands Its LNG Export Approval

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-05-20T20:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/cheniere-surges-45-after-u-s-expands-its-lng-export-approval.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , the Blackstone
Group LP-backed owner of a U.S. liquefied natural-gas terminal,
surged 31 percent after it won government approval to export the
fuel to more countries.  Cheniere, based in Houston, rose $2.35 to $10.04 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
touched a 52-week high of $11.11, the biggest intraday gain
since November 2008. Before today, the shares had gained 39
percent this year.  The Energy Department will allow Cheniere’s Sabine Pass
terminal in Louisiana to export as much as 803 billion cubic
feet a year of U.S. gas, according to the company’s statement
today. Cheniere still needs Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
approval to build a $6.4 billion facility at the site that can
liquefy gas for export by tankers.  Today’s decision expands on a September 2010 ruling that
permitted Cheniere to ship gas to 15 countries with Free Trade
Agreements, according to a statement from the Energy Department
in  Washington . The company, which lost money for 13 consecutive
years and earlier this month warned it may have to sell assets
and restructure debt to avoid running out of cash, has yet to
say how it intends to finance the project.  ‘Breakthrough’ Plan  “Cheniere Energy’s plan to transform its existing terminal
into a facility that can both import and export liquefied
natural gas is a precedent-setting breakthrough that will bring
substantial economic benefits to southwest Louisiana,” Senator
Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, said in a statement
distributed by the Energy Department.  A North American gas glut fed by new wells in previously
impenetrable geologic formations has slashed prices for U.S.
supplies to less than one-third the prices paid by utilities and
chemical makers in nations such as  Japan , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cheniere and other U.S. companies such as
 Apache Corp. (APA)  see an opportunity to profit from that arbitrage.  Gas can be super-cooled to liquid form so it can be
transported on tankers for distribution to markets too distant
to be connected to gas fields via pipelines.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and other international
energy companies are spending tens of billions of dollars on
liquefaction plants to ship gas from Australia,  Papua New Guinea 
and other sources to markets in  Asia  and  Europe .  Japanese Premium  Japanese power companies and chemical producers were paying
$14.15 per million British thermal units for Qatari LNG in
March, the last month for which figures were available from
Japan’s Customs Bureau. Prices at the U.S. benchmark hub in
Erath,  Louisiana , averaged $4.51 that same month.  Gas liquefied and exported from the Sabine Pass facility
probably will originate in onshore formations in Texas,
Louisiana, Oklahoma and Arkansas, Cheniere said in its
application with the Energy Department.  Cheniere, whose stock traded above $44 in 2006, is among
companies that built U.S. gas-import terminals during the past
decade that then languished as new drilling techniques unlocked
domestic supplies, pushing gas prices too low to justify
costlier imports.  Cheniere’s cash and near-cash equivalents fell by $50
million during the first three months of this year, ending the
quarter at $24.5 million, the Houston-based company said on May
6. Cheniere has a $298 million loan payment due in May 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cheniere owns the Sabine Pass terminal through its 91
percent stake in  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP) , according to a May
6 filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  