-- 
Chilean Central Bank’s De Gregorio Says It May Slow, Pause Rate Increases

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-20T14:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/chilean-central-bank-s-de-gregorio-says-it-may-slow-pause-rate-increases.html
Chile  probably will slow the pace of
interest-rate increases and may keep borrowing costs on hold in
future meetings, said central bank President Jose De Gregorio.  While the bank must continue tightening monetary policy to
keep inflation in check, core price data cast doubts on the
theory that the economy is overheating, De Gregorio said in a
speech delivered today in Santiago.  The central bank has lifted rates in 11 of its past 12
monthly meetings from a record-low 0.5 percent to 5 percent,
including a surprise half-point increase at its last meeting.
The economy expanded 9.8 percent in the first quarter, the most
in 15 years, as  consumer spending  surged and manufacturing
recovered from the biggest earthquake in half a century. There’s
market consensus on a rate-increase slowdown,  De Gregorio  said.  “No scenario can be ruled out,” he said about central
bank monetary policy. “It’s probable that in future meetings
the magnitude will be lower, and there even could be pauses. At
the same time, although the probability today is quite lower,
the pace could be maintained if risks grow.”  The timing and size of future increases will depend on
domestic and external macroeconomic conditions, he said, adding
that global oil and food prices remain an inflationary risk and
output gaps in Chile have closed.  Core prices, which exclude fuel and produce, rose 0.3
percent in April from the previous month while annual inflation
reached 3.2 percent, down from 3.4 percent a month earlier.  The central bank, which targets annual inflation of 3
percent plus or minus 1 percentage point, estimates consumer
prices will grow 4.3 percent in December from last year.  Chile isn’t experiencing unusual capital inflows from a
historic perspective, De Gregorio said today. Raising  reserve
requirements  for banks could be a topic for discussion if
inflows became a problem, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  