-- 
China Unicom Says Audit Found Improper Procedures by Group

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-20T03:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/china-unicom-says-national-audit-uncovered-improper-procedures-by-group.html
China  Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the
country’s second-largest mobile-phone operator, said a national
audit of the company and its parent found “improper measures
and practices” that have now been rectified.  The check last year by the National Audit Office of the
People’s Republic of China found issues with related-party
transactions between the listed company and the parent,
procurement procedures, operational management and accounting
procedures, the company said in a regulatory filing with the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. The issues won’t affect past
operating results, the statement said.  China United Network Communications Group underestimated
depreciation charges, prematurely booked some income and
overstated costs of commissions paid to sales agents among other
issues in 2009, the audit office said today. Cumulatively, the
parent company overstated its assets by 38 million yuan ($5.9
million), and underestimated liabilities by 20 million yuan,
according to the agency.  The phone company, with total assets of 512.7 billion yuan
at the end of 2009, has taken steps to address the issues raised
by the audit office, the agency said in a report on its website
today. The audit office today also published reports on other
Chinese state-owned companies including China National Offshore
Oil Corp. and China Datang Corp.  Shares Rise  China Unicom shares rose 1.9 percent to HK$16.18 in  Hong
Kong  trading as of 11:41 a.m. The stock has gained 46 percent
this year, outperforming other Chinese phone carriers including
China Mobile Ltd. and China Telecom Corp.  The audit of China United’s 2009 accounts covered the first
year of operations after the merger of the company and China
Network Communications Group Corp. in 2008 and “serves as an
important guidance in respect of the Unicom Group’s internal
controls and risk management,” China Unicom said today in its
statement.  Unicom said it has taken steps including strengthening
management of invoices, updating arrangements for related-party
transactions and refining its measures for bidding of
construction contracts. The company said it has also improved
the management of complimentary promotional gifts, trial telecom
cards, expired telecom cards and qualification of distributors.  --Edmond Lococo,  Mark Lee . Editors: Young-Sam Cho, Anand
Krishnamoorthy  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net 
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6909 or
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  