-- 
China Auditor Finds State-Owned Companies Misreport Earnings

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-20T06:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/china-auditor-finds-state-owned-companies-misreport-earnings-1-.html
China’s National Audit Office found
17 state-owned companies misreported financial measures
including profit, according to its website today.  China National Nuclear Corp., the nation’s biggest atomic
plant operator, overstated earnings by 1.107 billion yuan ($170
million), or 19 percent, in 2009, the auditor said. China
Southern Power Grid Co. overstated income by 910 million yuan,
or 26 percent, that year.  The inspections highlight China’s efforts to increase
transparency in public spending. Premier  Wen Jiabao  hosted a
meeting this month on disclosing more information about the
budgets of government agencies after President  Hu Jintao  in
January vowed a more forceful effort against corruption.  China Datang Corp., the country’s second-biggest power
company, overstated net income by 114 million yuan, or about 5
percent, in its 2009 accounts, the auditor said. China National
Offshore Oil Corp. overstated earnings by 336 million yuan, or
0.6 percent, that year.  Aluminum Corp. of China overstated profit by 47.9 million
yuan, or 0.7 percent, in its 2008 accounts, the audit office
said. Aluminum Corp. spokeswoman Liu Qiang wasn’t immediately
available to comment. Liu Xiaobiao, a press official at China
National Offshore, the parent of Hong Kong-listed  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
didn’t answer three phone calls seeking a response.  China Unicom  China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., China’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, said a national audit of the company and
its parent, China United Network Communications Group, found
“improper measures and practices” that have now been
rectified, according to a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today. The issues don’t affect past operating results, it said.  China United Network underestimated depreciation charges,
prematurely booked some income and overstated commissions paid
to sales agents, among other issues in 2009, the audit office
said today. The parent overstated its assets by 38 million yuan
and underestimated liabilities by 20 million yuan, according to
the agency.  Unicom said it has taken steps including strengthening
invoice management, procedures for related-party transactions
and rules on bidding for construction contracts. The company
said it has also improved the management of complimentary
promotional gifts, trial and expired telecom cards and
distributor qualification.  Other companies cited by the auditor for errors included
 China  Three Gorges Corp., Sinochem Group, China Ocean Shipping
(Group) Co. and Cofco Corp.  State-owned companies contributed more than one-sixth of
the government’s tax revenue last year, according to the State-
owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission. Total
profit rose 24 percent in the first four months to 712.6 billion
yuan, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday.  -Wang Ying in Beijing. Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net . 