-- 
Codexis Becomes Target For Suitors Seeking Enzymes, Chief Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-20T12:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/codexis-becomes-target-for-suitors-seeking-enzymes-chief-says.html
Codexis Inc. (CDXS) , the U.S. enzyme maker
that has worked with Royal DSM NV and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
said it is a potential takeover target as chemical companies
expand in higher-margin markets such as biofuels from plants.  DuPont Co.’s $6.4 billion acquisition of Danish food-enzyme
maker Danisco A/S this month makes Codexis more valuable because
it has reduced the number of independent enzyme makers
available, Codexis Chief Executive Officer Alan Shaw said from
the headquarters in  Redwood City ,  California .  “Ultimately someone will run a slide rule over the numbers
and say it might make sense,” Shaw said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They’ll have the resources to leverage it.”  The Danisco deal heightened interest in biotechnology and
its uses in the $3 trillion  chemical industry  as Middle Eastern
and Asian petrochemical suppliers seek to expand toward end
consumers, descending on markets that were traditionally the
domain of western rivals.  Codexis, which is unprofitable and 16.5 percent owned by
Shell, is developing enzymes that accelerate the production of
biofuel made from wheat straw and bagasse, the residue from
sugar cane. Remaining an independent company in the long term is
not viable, Shaw said. The cost of building a 100 million-gallon
cellulosic facility would extend to hundreds of millions of
dollars, he estimates.  ‘Undervalued’  The shares have dropped 31 percent since its listing last
year that valued the company at about $440 million. The business
is worth $1 billion, and investors are failing to pick up on its
potential, said Shaw, who has bought 100,000 shares in the past
two weeks because they are “incredibly undervalued.”  Governments in  Europe  and the Americas are encouraging
development of so-called second generation biofuels which don’t
compete with food crops, because they use plant waste and
grasses. Shaw said Codexis later this year will scale up its
cellulose technology for use at a test facility in Ottawa owned
by Iogen Corp. and Shell that’s capable of producing a million
gallons of ethanol per year.  A “world-scale” facility capable of producing 100 million
gallons won’t be ready until at least 2015, he said. While
currently contributing nothing to earnings beyond research
funding, biofuels are poised to transform the company’s fortunes
in the future, he said.  Ethanol Production  Brazil  has the potential to double ethanol produced from
sugar cane if it would also use bagasse and leaves as feedstock,
according to Shaw.  “In 2020, this will be a significant piece of our
business. The revenue potential of the products and projects we
have in hand today exceed a billion dollars,” Shaw said. “By
2020, the revenue of this company will be billions of dollars,
and this fuel thing will be at least 50 percent of that.”  Last year’s IPO bolstered the balance sheet and reassured
pharmaceutical clients including Pfizer Inc. of the long-term
viability of Codexis. Shell is set to transfer its 16.5 percent
stake in Codexis to Raizen SA, a joint venture with Cosan
Industria & Comercio, the world’s largest sugar-cane processor.  In October, Codexis purchased the intellectual property
rights from its former parent company for $20 million, allowing
its enzymes to be applied to the production of chemicals.  DSM Alliance  Codexis is now in the process of securing a partner for
this field, referred to as white biotechnology, as variants of
the same molecules used in biodiesel and drugs can be applied to
 consumer goods  like shampoo, replacing traditional chemicals,
Shaw said. The transaction makes Codexis a good fit with DSM,
among others, said the executive.  Codexis on Jan. 12 signed an agreement to supply DSM with
enzymes that accelerate the manufacture of ingredients used in
pharmaceuticals. Heerlen, Netherlands-based DSM has emerged from
a decade-long transition from cyclical chemicals to additives
derived more from enzymes other than oil. Like Codexis, it
develops biofuels.  The Dutch company is “actively” seeking acquisitions with
more than 2.5 billion euros ($3.6 billion) to spend, and is at
various stages of assessing targets, Chief Financial Officer
Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said in an interview this month. He didn’t
name targets. Spokesman Herman Betten declined to comment when
contacted by telephone today.  “I see DSM as a strong player in the space and I see
synergies between our companies and I could see areas of mutual
cooperation,” Shaw said.  Codexis is close to forming an alliance, said Shaw, who
declined to identify potential partners. The company is looking
to announce a comprehensive partnership this year, rather than a
non-binding memorandum of understanding, he said.  “To do a deal well, it actually takes longer than you
think,” said Shaw. “We’ll do the right deal and it’ll be a
deal that’s good for both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 