-- 
Constar Wins Approval of Second Recovery Plan in Two Years

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-20T20:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/constar-wins-approval-of-debt-for-equity-swap-turnaround-plan.html
Constar International Inc. (CNST) , the
Philadelphia-based plastic-bottle manufacturer, won court
approval of its pre-arranged restructuring plan, the second such
plan approved in about two years.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher S. Sontchi gave the
company approval of its reorganization plan, which swaps
noteholders’ debt for equity and new notes, at a hearing today
in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The restructuring allows Constar to be “a better and
stronger competitor in the marketplace,” Andrew N. Goldman, a
lawyer representing the company, told Sontchi. “We intend to
emerge on May 31 as private company,” he added.  The company listed $418 million in assets and $414 million
in debt as of Sept. 30 in Chapter 11 documents filed Jan. 11.  Constar and holders of more than 75 percent of its senior
secured floating-rate notes agreed on terms of a restructuring
plan prior to the bankruptcy that would reduce debt by as much
as $150 million, according to a statement.  Under the reorganization proposal, noteholders will convert
about $221 million in debt into most of Constar’s new common
stock, $70 million in new notes and $30 million in preferred
stock. Unsecured creditors’ debt also will be converted to
equity. Current shares will be wiped out.  The company has obtained a $60 million secured asset-based
loan from Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC to help fund its
business upon exiting from bankruptcy, according to court
documents.  Second Bankruptcy  Constar was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection  for a
second time in about two years when its biggest customer,
PepsiCo Inc.’s Pepsi-Cola Advertising & Marketing Inc., shifted
toward manufacturing more of its containers in-house during the
past 18 months.  As a result, “demand for Constar’s conventional PET
products has decreased significantly,” Chief Financial Officer
Mark Borseth said in court papers.  Constar filed its previous pre-arranged bankruptcy on Dec.
30, 2008, listing debt of $538 million and assets of $420
million. Before that filing, Constar worked out a plan with
subordinated noteholders to exchange debt for equity, allowing
Constar to eliminate $175 million in debt and reduce annual
interest payments by $19.3 million.  The company won court approval of that reorganization plan
in May 2009.  The case is In re Constar International Inc., 11-10109,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  