-- 
Corn, Soybeans Rise as Midwest Rain Extends Planting Delays; Wheat Drops

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-20T20:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/corn-soy-rise-as-midwest-rain-seen-extending-planting-delays-wheat-drops.html
Corn futures rose, capping the
biggest weekly gain since October, on bets that U.S. planting
delays will persist because of more rain next week in the
Midwest. Soybeans climbed, and wheat dropped.  Storms may bring 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain to
 Ohio  by May 24, said David Streit, a senior meteorologist at
Commodity Weather Group. The pace of Ohio corn  planting  trails
all states. About 63 percent of the nation’s crop is sown,
behind the five-year average of 75 percent, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show. The next USDA forecast is on May 23.  “Some forecasts have rain in the next seven days for some
of the areas that have been getting hit the hardest,” said
 Jason Britt , the president of brokerage Central States
Commodities Inc. in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . Traders “will
definitely be looking at Monday’s report to see how things are
progressing,” he said.  Corn futures for July delivery rose 11.25 cents, or 1.5
percent, to settle at $7.595 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, after touching $7.65, the highest for a
most-active contract since April 28. Prices climbed 11 percent
this week, the biggest gain since the week ended Oct. 8.  The commodity has more than doubled in the past year on
tightening global supplies and increasing demand from producers
of grain-based fuel and livestock farmers. The U.S. is the
world’s biggest producer and exporter.  Soybean futures for July delivery rose 0.75 cent to settle
at $13.8025 a bushel on the CBOT. Prices were up 3.8 percent
this week, the biggest gain since January. The oilseed has
climbed 46 percent in the past year on record Chinese purchases.  Wheat Declines  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 5.5 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $8.065 a bushel in Chicago. The price is up 72
percent in the past year, as drought cut output in  Russia  and
eroded crops in the U.S. Great Plains. This week, prices were up
11 percent, the biggest gain since December.  “Wheat has had a heck of a run to the upside, so we’re
seeing a little bit of profit taking possibly coming into this
thing,” Britt said. Speculation that rain will fall in  Europe ,
where crops are suffering from drought, also may have pushed
prices lower, he said.  Parts of  Germany  may receive up to an inch of rain in the
next week, while growing areas in  France  and the U.K. will
remain dry, Commodity Weather Group’s Streit said by telephone
from Bethesda,  Maryland . The rain won’t be enough “to change
the situation over there,” he said. “They’re still going to
maintain an overall dry pattern.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  