-- 
Covered Bonds’ Growing Global Reach Spurs Call for Quality Assurance Label

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-05-20T10:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/covered-bonds-growing-global-reach-spurs-call-for-quality-assurance-label.html
The  European Covered Bond Council 
plans to introduce a quality-assured brand to differentiate its
200 year-old product from increasing competition from issuers
elsewhere including the U.S.  The ECBC, which represents 95 percent of covered bond
issuers, is seeking minimum standards on the collateral backing
the $3.3 trillion market, according to Brussels-based group head
Luca Bertalot. The bonds, pioneered in 18th century Prussia, are
secured on mortgages or public-sector loans and guaranteed by
the issuer.  “If a wine producer starts using lower-quality fruit or
adding sugar, other producers should have the right to protect
themselves with some quality standards,” said Claus Tofte Nielsen, a  money manager  at Norges Bank Investment Management in
Oslo and chairman of the Covered Bond Investor Council, a
separate industry group. “Everyone can still issue whatever
they like under the name of covered bonds, but the European
label should be the guarantee of a minimum degree of quality.”  While European covered bonds attract top credit ratings
because of the assets backing the debt, the U.S. is considering
laws that would allow  car loans  and credit card payments to be
used. Sales of the debt surged 41 percent to a record in the
first quarter as buyers sought relatively safe investments amid
economic and political turmoil, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Preserving Prestige  Banks mainly from  Europe  and Canada led a record 186
billion euros ($266 billion) of covered bond sales worldwide
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investor
demand for the secured notes helped drive relative yields down
to 115 basis points over the benchmark swap rate from 132 at the
start of the year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Covered
Bonds index shows. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  In the U.S., Congress is considering a bill allowing banks
to use assets including car loans,  student loans  and credit-card
receivables as collateral for covered bonds, on top of mortgages
and public-sector loans.  “The issuance potential of the U.S. is huge, so the
concern is that a relaxing of the standards will badly affect
pricing and the efforts needed to sell covered bonds
worldwide,” Jens Tolckmitt, head of the Association of German
Pfandbrief Banks, said in March. “The success and prestige of
the covered bonds rely on very strict issuance criteria.”  Australia , U.K.  In Australia, lawmakers are mulling legislation that would
limit covered bond issuance to 8 percent of a bank’s assets. The
rules on underlying collateral will stick to the European model
of mortgage and state-sector loans, according to the  draft  being
considered.  The U.K.’s Treasury and Financial Services Authority are
proposing a review of covered bond regulation, including common
reporting standards on the underlying collateral, the FSA said
in April.  Royal Bank of  Canada  and Caisse Centrale Desjardins du
 Quebec  led $8.6 billion of covered bond sales from countries
outside Europe this year, double the amount a year ago,
Bloomberg data show. Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney planned a
covered bond sale through its New Zealand unit, which it
postponed in February due to unfavorable market conditions.  A covered bond quality certificate may help European banks
get better borrowing terms when the securities are used as
collateral for central bank loans, said ECBC’s Bertalot. The
bonds made up 13 percent of the total 2 trillion euros ($2.9
trillion) of fixed-income securities banks deposited last year
to back up loans from the  European Central Bank , according to
its  annual report .  “One of the main purposes of the labeling exercise is to
get better recognition from regulators and authorities of the
value of the covered bonds,” Bertalot said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  