-- 
Crude Oil Little Changed After Volatile Week: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-05-20T21:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/crude-oil-little-changed-after-volatile-week-oil-products.html
Crude oil  rose, ending the week
little changed after the American Petroleum Institute reported
that fuel consumption increased in April as economic growth
bolstered demand for diesel by truckers. Gasoline, heating oil
and ethanol also gained.  “You’re going to have to see some strength in the crude
market because you’re starting to see more refineries come back
online,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York. “Demand will
probably be a little stronger than we expect.”  Crude Oil  Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.05, or 1.1 percent, to
expire at $99.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The contract closed the week down 16 cents after moving more
than 1 percent four days this week. Over the past year, crude
has moved more than 1 percent in 53 percent of the sessions.  Futures have fallen 13 percent in May and risen 46 percent
in the past year.  Gasoline  Gasoline for June delivery increased 0.98 cent, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $2.9358 a gallon on the Nymex, paring the
weekly decline to 4.5 percent.  Regular retail gasoline dropped 1.9 cents to $3.886 a
gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for June delivery advanced 2.36 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $2.9183 a gallon on the exchange, ending the week
with a loss of 0.8 percent. Heating oil has fallen 10 percent in
May and gained 53 percent in the past year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for June delivery gained for the seventh
day in a row, rising 1.9 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $2.669 a
gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade, ending the week up 6.6
percent. Ethanol has increased 69 percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  said it will shut its refinery near
Krotz Springs, Louisiana, until June because of supply
disruptions caused by high water levels. Krotz Springs is on the
Atchafalaya River, to which water from the Mississippi was
diverted to prevent flooding in  Baton Rouge  and  New Orleans .  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA)  expects to return to the
site of a rupture on its Rainbow crude-oil pipeline in Alberta
May 24 if the threat of wildfires has diminished.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  has started a fluid catalytic cracker
at its St. Charles refinery in Norco, Louisiana, after planned
work, Bill Day, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in  New York  at   dstets@bloomberg.net  