-- 
Cyclist Tyler Hamilton Hands in 2004 Olympic Gold Medal to Doping Agency

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-20T17:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/cyclist-tyler-hamilton-hands-in-2004-olympic-gold-medal-to-doping-agency.html
Tyler Hamilton, an American cyclist
who accused former teammate  Lance Armstrong  of taking
performance-enhancing drugs, turned in his 2004 Olympics gold
medal to the  United States Anti-Doping Agency .  Hamilton, 40, tested positive for blood doping at the 2004
games in  Athens  and was allowed to keep the medal in the
individual time-trial event because no back-up test could be
done. He returned the medal to the USADA, the  Colorado Springs ,
Colorado-based agency said today in an e-mailed statement.  “USADA continues its ongoing investigation into the sport
of cycling,” the agency said in the release. “Where there is
credible evidence of doping, a fair and thorough process exists
for resolving such violations.”  Chris Manderson, Hamilton’s lawyer, said in a telephone
interview that the cyclist voluntarily delivered the medal to
USADA last week because he did not want it to be a distraction
from his recent admission to doping or his comments about
Armstrong in a “60 Minutes” television interview.  “Tyler didn’t want to hand it in for any reason other than
he knew people were going to make a stink about it,” Manderson
said.  Hamilton and Armstrong were teammates on the U.S. Postal
Service team in 1999, 2000 and 2001. In an interview with “60
Minutes” correspondent Scott Pelley, airing on CBS on May 22,
Hamilton said Armstrong used erythropoietin, or EPO, during the
first of his seven Tour de France victories in 1999, and again
to prepare for the race in 2000 and 2001.  Hamilton, who was suspended in 2005 and 2009 for doping,
said he saw EPO in Armstrong’s refrigerator, and witnessed
Armstrong inject himself with the drug multiple times. EPO
boosts the number of oxygen-carrying red blood cells and
improves stamina.  Armstrong denied the accusation through his spokesman, Mark
Fabiani.  “Hamilton is actively seeking to make money by writing a
book, and now he has completely changed the story he has always
told before so that he could get himself on ‘60 Minutes’ and
increase his chances with publishers,” Fabiani said in an e-
mailed statement. The spokesman noted that Armstrong  has taken
and passed more than 500 doping tests over 20 years of
competitions.  USADA, which said it does not comment on the details of
active investigations, said it is working with the  International
Olympic Committee  and the  United States Olympic Committee  as
appropriate “concerning the final implications of our overall
investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  