-- 
Democratic N.J. Senator Expects Christie to Veto Health Bill

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-05-20T18:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/democratic-n-j-senator-expects-christie-to-veto-health-bill.html
A Democratic New Jersey lawmaker
trying to restore $7.5 million in funding for family-planning
centers said she expects Republican Governor  Chris Christie  to
veto the bill.  Senator  Loretta Weinberg , of Teaneck, introduced the
measure this week after Christie’s treasurer said revenue
through June 2012 would be $511 million more than he projected
in February. The Senate is scheduled to vote May 23 on the
women’s health measure, and Christie has vetoed similar
legislation twice since taking office in January 2010.  “We don’t expect him to sign,” Weinberg said in a
telephone interview today. “A guy who spoke to a Right to Life
rally? Come on.”  Christie eliminated the family-planning centers’ allocation
in last year’s budget, saying the state couldn’t afford it. The
money wasn’t included in his proposed $29.4 billion spending
plan for the fiscal year that begins July 1.  Weinberg said the exclusion reflects Christie’s opposition
to abortion, even though state and federal law precludes the
centers from using that funding to perform such procedures. The
governor addressed Right to Life demonstrators from the
Statehouse steps Jan. 24 to mark the 38th anniversary of the
U.S. Supreme Court decision in Roe vs. Wade, which legalized
abortion. He told the crowd that “every life is precious.”  ‘Purely Fiscal’  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for the governor, declined to
comment beyond the remarks Christie made last night during his
monthly radio  call-in  show on WKXW-FM in Ewing, when he said the
elimination of the funding was “purely fiscal.” Weinberg then
phoned into the show to ask Christie to support restoring it.
Christie said he would consider the measure if it reaches his
desk.  Weinberg was running mate to former Governor  Jon Corzine , a
one-term Democrat who was ousted by Christie in the November
2009 election.  Christie on April 13 urged reporters to “take the bat” to
Weinberg, a 76-year-old widow, for collecting both a public
pension and a $49,000-a-year paycheck as a legislator.  Democrats, who control both chambers of the Legislature,
have demanded Christie apologize to Weinberg. He has refused,
saying his comments were directed at the media, not the senator.  The $7.5 million of funding went to 58 clinics that served
about 40,000 women in need of  birth control , disease screening
and other services, according to Senate Democrats. Abortions
were available at some of the locations, and six centers have
closed since Christie cut their budgets, Weinberg said.  “This is ideological,” Weinberg said in the interview.
“He is continuing to play to the national right wing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in the New Jersey Statehouse at 
 Eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  