-- 
Depp’s Pirate Faces Killer Mermaids; Woody Loves Paris: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/depp-s-pirate-faces-killer-mermaids-woody-loves-paris-movies.html
Johnny Depp ’s bandana-wearing, gold-
toothed Captain Jack Sparrow searches for the Fountain of Youth
in “ Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides ,” the fourth
film in the blockbuster series.  The 3-D adventure gives the franchise its own youthful
boost, one sorely need after the last entry, “At World’s End,”
proved to be as gloomy as its title.  “On Stranger Tides” is strengthened by the addition of
Ian McShane as the dastardly Blackbeard and Penelope Cruz as his
voluptuous daughter Angelica, a manipulative former lover of the
wisecracking Sparrow. Other newcomers include Sam Claflin as the
strapping missionary Philip and Astrid Berges-Frisbey as the
gorgeous mermaid Syrena.  Rob Marshall (“Chicago”) takes over the directing reins
from  Gore Verbinski , who piloted the first three “Pirates”
movies, and re-energizes Depp,  Geoffrey Rush  and other series
veterans who looked stale in “At World’s End.”  Seeing it in 3-D (not available at all theaters) makes the
action scenes even more vivid, though I think they’ve just about
run out of new ways of staging swordfights.  The fourth “Pirates” story by Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio follows Sparrow’s perilous journey to the mythical spring
that’s supposed to restore youth to anyone who drinks from it.
Along the way, he faces killer mermaids, grisly zombies and
Blackbeard, envisioned here as a ruthless black leather-clad
biker who orders his own daughter to play the potential victim
in a game of Russian roulette.  Another deadly segment involves mermaids who drag sailors
underwater and drown them. The combination of live action (using
synchronized swimmers) and computer-generated images produce
scary creatures that are a far cry from Disney’s cute princess
version.  “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” from  Walt
Disney Pictures , is playing across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Midnight in Paris’  “Midnight in Paris,” Woody Allen’s sumptuous love letter
to the City of Lights, is a nostalgic movie with an anti-
nostalgia message.  The briskly paced romantic comedy is a clever story with
lush cinematography and an international cast that includes  Owen Wilson  (U.S.), Rachel McAdams ( Canada ),  Michael Sheen  (U.K.) and
Marion Cotillard ( France ).  Wilson plays Gil, a successful Hollywood screenwriter
struggling to complete his first novel. During a visit to Paris
with his henpecking fiancee Inez (McAdams) and her parents, Gil
enters a time warp that takes him back to 1920s Paris, where he
meets  Ernest Hemingway , F. Scott Fitzgerald,  Pablo Picasso  and
other artistic giants of that Golden Age.  Dali, Stein  Gil idolizes his new friends and the time and place they
live in. They are more circumspect, pointing out the temptation
to romanticize the past. The portrayals of these legendary
figures are sharp and funny, especially Corey Stoll’s haughty
Hemingway, Kathy Bates’s no-nonsense Gertrude Stein and Adrien Brody’s foppish Salvador Dali.  France’s first lady, Carla Bruni, has a minor role as a
tour guide at the Rodin Museum who puts Sheen’s boorish egghead
in his place. She’s probably had lots of practice with those
types in her current job.  “Midnight in Paris,”  from  Sony Pictures Classics , is
playing in  New York  and Los Angeles: Rating: ***1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 