-- 
Antlers, Meatpacking Party, Maifest, LEGO Lions: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/the-antlers-meatpacking-fete-high-tech-bellini-lego-lions-n-y-weekend.html
Melancholic and grand, Brooklyn-based
band the Antlers play the  Bowery Ballroom  Friday night in
support of their second album, “Burst Apart.”  After heavily touring their celebrated “Hospice,” the
trio came back to roost and produced a record where all of a
sudden a libido is ticking instead of an aching heart.  Live, they cook up an expansive brew of melodic cacophony
held just in check by lead man Peter Silberman’s glorious
falsetto. The Antlers really are a thing apart.  6 Delancey St. Information: +1-212-533-2111;
 http://www.boweryballroom.com .  Saturday  The Whitney is throwing a community day celebration as it
breaks ground for the new Renzo Piano-designed Meatpacking
District museum.  Explore the overlapping ecosystems of the area with Lize
Mogel in a walking tour: “From Mollusks to Meat Hooks to
Moschino.” Watch Kate Gilmore videos running on a column of the
Standard Hotel. Attend the “Dance Party of the Future” with
video collective CHERYL.  Check the info tent at Washington and Gansevoort streets
for all the events, which run from 9:30 through midnight.  Information: +1-212-570-3600;  http://whitney.org/Visit   Saturday Morning  You can see  Thomas Jefferson ’s handwritten manuscript of
“The Declaration of Independence,” the corrections Ezra Pound
made to T.S. Eliot’s typescript of “The Waste Land,” and
Beethoven’s sketches for the “Archduke Trio.”  They’re on show, along with a lot of other great stuff, at
the  New York Public Library  as part of its centennial
celebration.  During the Weekend Festival, you can take a tour, visit the
stacks, usually closed to the public, see a performance, hear
some music or a story, and see LEGO models of library lions
Patience and Fortitude.  “Celebrating 100 Years” runs through Dec. 31 at the
Stephen A. Schwarzman Building, Fifth Ave. at 42nd St.
Information: 917-275-6975;  http://www.nypl.org .  Saturday Afternoon  How about a little Oktoberfest in May? Pier 81 morphs into
an authentic waterfront biergarten, with Paulaner brew, Bavarian
pretzels and bratwurst.  Oom-pah-pahs are provided by festival band Alpine Squeeze,
Schlierachtler Stamm dancers kick up their heels around a
Maipole, and you get to pick Miss German America.  As part of the first Maifest, there’s even a cruise on the
Hudson.  At Pier 81 from noon to 4:30. Information:
 http://maifest.eventbrite.com .  Saturday Night  Dance fans are in clover, now that ballet is taking over
 Lincoln Center .  The  New York City Ballet  has a program devoted to Jerome Robbins, including the amusing “Concert” and “Afternoon of a
Faun,” riffing on the sexiness of the practice studio.  The American Ballet Theatre creates thrills and chills with
“Don Quixote,” first brought from  Russia  to the west by Anna
Pavlova in 1924.  Gillian Murphy is the sassy maiden Kitri, while Cory
Stearns appears as the handsome barber Basilio.  NYCB is at the David H. Koch Theater. Information: +1-212-
870-5570;  http://www.nycballet.com .  ABT is at the Metropolitan Opera House. Information: +1-
212-362-6000;  http://www.abt.org .  Sunday  Take in the needle artistry at the American Folk Art Museum
where 35 singular quilts are on display.  There are works of intricate geometry, such as the 1950-
1960 “Log Cabin Quilt, Barn Raising Variation,” by a Mennonite
artist from  Ohio , where your eyes are dazzled by the pattern of
bright and dark colors.  And there are those that meditate on the natural world,
like the 1930-1935 “English Flower Garden Quilt” by Kansan
Jennie Pingrey Stotts. All are amazing.  The museum has been forced to sell this weirdly gloomy
building, so that is another good reason to go now.  “Quilts: Masterworks from the American Folk Art Museum”
runs through Oct. 16. 45 West 53rd St. Information: +1-212-265-
1040;  http://www.folkartmuseum.org .  Sunday Brunch  Stroll up Fifth Ave. to Central Park for a leisurely
lakeside brunch at the Loeb Boathouse, where a swan may swim by
hoping for a piece of your toasted bagel.  Try chicken-and-apple sausage with fried eggs or the maple
waffles with warm berry compote.  East 72nd St. and Park Drive North. Information: +1-212-
517-2233.  Sunday Afternoon  Spend some time contemplating Bellini’s “St. Francis in
the Desert” at the Frick Collection. Mouth open, eyes looking
skyward, the medieval saint stands on luminous rocks, with
stigmata appearing on his outstretched hands and bare feet.
There are beautifully precise vines, flowers, animals and a
distant city.  Recently, the Frick sent the work to the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art for a high-tech exam. The museum has installed a
multimedia room with computer kiosks, which will let visitors
see what lies beneath the masterpiece via infrared
reflectography and videos.  Stay to hear Austrian violinist Thomas Zehetmair play
sonatas by Bach and K.A. Hartmann.  1 East 70th St. Information: +1-212-288-0700;
 http://www.frick.org .  (With assistance from  Catherine Smith  and A.M. Erika. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 