-- 
East Europe Faces Risks From Euro Crisis, Inflation, EBRD Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-20T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/east-europe-faces-risks-from-euro-crisis-inflation-ebrd-says.html
Eastern  Europe  and central  Asia  are
at risk from a deepening debt crisis in the euro area and a
pickup in inflation stoked by a recovery in consumer demand, the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said.  The EBRD raised its 2011 economic growth forecast for the
29 countries in which it invests to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent
predicted in January, the London-based bank said today in a
report distributed at its annual meeting in Astana,  Kazakhstan .
It expects growth to slow to 4.4 percent next year.  As the recovery from the region’s worst recession in two
decades takes a broader hold,  consumer spending  is beginning to
spur growth in most east European nations, adding to inflation
pressures caused by rising energy costs, the EBRD said. The euro
area remains marred by a debt crisis, which may stall regional
growth and pose a threat to local banks.  “Better growth prospects are associated with stronger
inflationary pressures as high global commodity prices combine
with a recovery in domestic demand,” the bank said in the
report. “Concerns are growing about the possible fallout from
sovereign debt problems in some euro zone countries.”  Contagion risks from the euro region have increased after
 Portugal  earlier this year joined  Greece  and Ireland in
obtaining a bailout, and Europe’s leaders are working on a new
plan to ease Greece’s fiscal troubles that may include extending
bond payments.  If the euro crisis remains unresolved, it may halt
investment and capital inflows to eastern Europe, prompting
western banks, owners of more than 70 percent of regional
lenders, to scale back loans, according to the EBRD.  ‘Contagion Risk’  “Financial turmoil presents a significant contagion risk
to countries with financial systems that are integrated into
global financial markets,” the report said. “If turmoil in
sovereign debt markets, and closely linked financial
institutions, disrupts financial markets more broadly the
recovery in central and south-eastern Europe would stall.”  As global rate setters are growing more concerned about
inflation threats, the region remains vulnerable to a slowdown
in the world economy that might follow monetary policy
tightening by the  European Central Bank , which began raising
rates in April, and as the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares to roll
back its asset purchases, the bank said.  Inflation remains the biggest challenge for policy makers
in  Russia  and some of its neighbors where wages are growing at a
double-digit pace, which may limit competitiveness and growth,
according to the EBRD.  The EBRD, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries to help them transform their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in Astana at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  