-- 
East Will See Fewer Benefits From Fast Euro Adoption, Belka Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-20T08:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/east-will-see-fewer-benefits-from-fast-euro-adoption-belka-says.html
Poland  and the rest of eastern  Europe 
will get fewer benefits from quick adoption of the euro after
the currency union’s sovereign debt crisis, Polish central bank
Governor Marek Belka said.  “The immediate benefits of euro adoption seem to be
less,” he said today at the annual meeting of the  European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development  in Astana,  Kazakhstan , adding
that switching remains Poland’s strategic goal. “The crisis has
changed the balance of costs and benefits of euro adoption.”  Belka, the 59-year-old former prime minister and director
of the International Monetary Fund’s European Department,
declined to speculate on a possible date for Poland to adopt the
euro. The government two years ago set a goal of making the
change in 2012, a target it abandoned as its  budget deficit 
swelled during the global financial crisis.  The European Union’s largest eastern members are slowing
euro preparations as western governments struggle to contain a
debt crisis that almost ripped the currency apart. Policy makers
are reluctant to adopt the fiscal rules required to join the
euro and keen to retain control over monetary policy to support
economic recovery. Seven of the 10 former communist countries
that joined the EU since 2004 have yet to make the switch.  The assumptions that initially made rapid euro adoption a
goal for most eastern nations were proven wrong as the currency
bloc’s finances deteriorated, Belka said.  Unsustainable Spending  One of those presumed benefits was that joining the euro
would give the countries access “to abundant and inexpensive
capital,” Belka said. Policy makers no longer believe that
domestic borrowing costs will fall to levels near German bund
yields, as had been commonly assumed before the crisis, he said.  Also, funds flowing into the region in the past decade
failed to stimulate competitiveness and support modernization,
he said. Instead, capital went to the so-called “non-tradable”
industries, such as real estate and services, fueling  consumer
spending  that proved unsustainable, Belka said.  The belief that countries with sound fiscal discipline
would be able to escape the possible harmful effects of
excessive capital inflows also turned out to be “an illusion,”
Belka said, referring to Bulgaria and  Estonia , which suffered as
much as peer countries with laxer fiscal policy.  Still, the ultimate benefits of the single currency, such
as reduced currency volatility, lower conversion and hedging
costs and cheaper borrowing for government and business, make it
a desirable goal, Belka said.  “It’s a non-option for a country like Poland to stay
outside the  euro zone  forever,” Belka said. Retaining a
separate currency “creates a potential for tensions” with the
bloc’s integrated financial and labor markets, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Agnes Lovasz in London
at   alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Balazs Penz at
   bpenz@bloomberg.net  