-- 
Electrawinds Buys 50% of Eneco Offshore Wind Farm in Belgium

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-05-20T15:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/electrawinds-buys-50-of-eneco-offshore-wind-farm-in-belgium.html
Electrawinds NV , a Belgian renewable
energy company, bought a 50 percent stake in a North Sea wind
farm that will cost 1.2 billion euros ($1.7 billion) to build
from Eneco Holding NV, a Dutch electric utility.  The Norther wind project will have capacity of as much as
450 megawatts and generate enough power for 330,000 families,
Ostend-based Electrawinds said today in an e-mailed statement.  Electrawinds bought the stake in the wind farm’s project
company Norther NV. Terms were not disclosed. Air Energy, a
Belgian wind company that Eneco took control of in February,
acquired the rights to the project’s site off the Belgian coast
in 2009, according to the statement.  The facility should be built by the end of 2015, Miguel de
Schaetzen, chief executive officer of Air Energy, said today by
telephone. The company expects to receive the final
environmental permit for the park next year and is aiming to
reach financial close late in 2013, he said.  Belgium , which has a caretaker government in place, aims to
derive 13 percent of its final energy consumption from clean
sources by 2020, according to the  national renewable energy
action plan  submitted to the European Union last year. The 27-
nation bloc is seeking to boost clean power curb emissions
linked to  climate change .  Belgium has a “green certificate” market where producers
of renewable power receive tradable certificates that
electricity suppliers are required to buy. There are three other
offshore wind projects producing power or under development off
its coast, according to Electrawinds.  The changing stock ownership of Norther is still subject to
the consent of authorities, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  