-- 
Emerging Equity Funds Post First Outflows in Eight Weeks, Citigroup Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-20T01:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/emerging-equity-funds-post-first-outflows-in-eight-weeks-as-appetite-ebbs.html
Emerging-market equity funds reported
the first net withdrawals in eight weeks as the strengthening
dollar and weakening commodity prices sapped demand for riskier
assets, Citigroup Inc. said.  Funds investing in developing nations reported outflows of
$1.6 billion for the week ended May 18, Citigroup analysts led
by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing data compiled
by EPFR Global. That compares with net inflows of $265 million
in the previous week.  “U.S. dollar strength and commodity weakness amidst
concerns with Greek debt restructuring has probably led to
investor risk aversion and thus selling in emerging-market
equities as a risk asset,” the analysts wrote.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 3.17, or 0.3 percent,
at 1,143.59 as of 9:32 a.m. in Singapore. The gauge has lost 5.1
percent this month, more than the 2.9 percent retreat in the
MSCI World Index of developed nations.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major U.S. trading partners, has climbed 3 percent
since April 29, when the gauge fell to its lowest level since
2008. Still, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the U.S. bank that lost
money from trading on only one day in the first quarter, cut its
dollar forecasts this week, saying growth in the world’s largest
economy is lagging behind other nations.  ‘Hard Landing’ Risk  Economic data from  China , the largest copper consumer,
suggest that the risk of a “hard landing” is rising, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  Adrian Mowat  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on May 17. Global markets, including commodities, will
continue to be “correcting,” Mowat said.  Copper for three-month delivery has dropped 6.6 percent
this year on the London Metal Exchange. Crude oil traded at
$98.89 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today, down
from this year’s high of $114.83 a barrel.  Greece Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is finalizing the
fifth round of deficit cuts to comply with an international
bailout. A package of spending reductions totaling about 6
billion euros ($8.6 billion) may be presented next week after
officials from  Europe  and the  International Monetary Fund 
complete their quarterly review.  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  