-- 
Tepco Credit-Default Swaps Surge Above Levels BP Hit After Gulf Oil Spill

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-05-20T05:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/tepco-may-report-japan-s-largest-corporate-loss-after-fukushima-disaster.html
The cost of protecting  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co.’s debt from default surged to a record amid reports
the utility will post Japan’s largest corporate loss when it
announces earnings today following the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  Credit-default swaps on Tokyo Electric’s debt jumped 221
basis points to 726, topping BP Plc’s record set last year amid
the oil spill disaster in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The company, known as Tepco, may report a loss of 1.5
trillion yen ($18 billion) and replace President Masataka Shimizu, the Yomiuri newspaper reported. That would exceed the
current largest corporate loss of 812 billion yen reported by
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in the year ended March 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411) ’s 2.38 trillion yen loss the following year is the largest
in Japan.  “Without state support, it will be difficult for Tepco to
remain as a publicly-traded company,” said  Junichi Misawa , head
of equity investment at Tokyo-based STB Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $17 billion. “This loss can’t be a one-off
event for this year as it will have to continue paying
compensation.”  For the year ended March 31, 2010, Tepco had total capital
of 2.5 trillion yen, indicating a loss of more than 1 trillion
yen in today’s earnings report would wipe out almost half of its
capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of  Tokyo  has
been spewing radiation since the March 11 quake and tsunami
damaged power and cooling systems, causing at least one of six
reactors to melt down. Management of Tepco, as the company’s
known, has been criticized by the government and academics for
its handling of the crisis and the claims against the company
may be as high as 11 trillion yen.  Shares Fall  Shares in the company fell as much as 8.9 percent today in
Tokyo to 326 yen and were at 357 yen as of 2:15 p.m. The stock
has fallen almost 84 percent since the day before the quake,
wiping 2.9 trillion yen off the company’s market value.  Credit-default swaps on Tepco bonds rose to 726 basis
points, topping BP’s record 577.5 basis points set on June 29,
according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Katsutoshi Chikudate, 69, will become Tokyo Electric’s new
president, replacing Shimizu, 66, who will resign to take
responsibility for the world’s worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl in 1986, the Yomiuri reported. Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , 71, will remain, the paper said.  Resisting Calls  Tepco reported a 133.8 billion yen profit in the previous
year ended March 31, 2010.  Japanese banks are resisting government calls for lenders
to support Tokyo Electric by forgiving loans or easing interest
charges. Masayuki Oku, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said on May 19 that banks aren’t considering
writing off or cutting interest payments on existing loans.  “The government and Tepco should solve the issue by
sharing the burden,” Oku told reporters in Tokyo. Atsushi Saito, head of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, said May 17 that
Edano’s remarks “invite worldwide confusion” as Tepco “is a
publicly traded company, not a government one.”  Remarks Clarified  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano today clarified remarks
he made last week suggesting lenders may need to waive loans
made to Tepco before the quake, comments that caused bank stocks
to fall.  “I was pointing to the need to gain public understanding
for the plan rather than focusing on the responsibility of
lenders,” he said, referring to the utility’s arrangements for
compensating those affected by the nuclear accident.  On May 15, more than two months after the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Tepco said conditions were worse than
believed in reactor No. 1 after it found all uranium fuel rods
had melted.  Beside radiation leaks into the atmosphere forcing about
50,000 families near the plant to evacuate, more than 10 million
liters (2.6 million gallons) of radiation-contaminated water
have leaked or been released into the sea.  Millions of liters of radiated water have also filled
basements and trenches at the station from leaking reactor
vessels and piping.  Japan ’s government in April raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster. The station, which has
experienced hundreds of aftershocks since March 11, may release
more radiation than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained,
Tepco officials have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  