-- 
Tepco President Resigns After Record $15 Billion Loss From Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-05-20T08:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/tepco-president-resigns-after-utility-reports-record-15-billion-loss.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s president
was forced to resign as the Fukushima nuclear crisis triggered a
loss of 1.25 trillion yen ($15 billion), the biggest for a non-
financial Japanese company.  The utility known as Tepco said Managing Director Toshio Nishizawa, 60, who has been with the company 36 years, will
replace Masataka Shimizu, 66, as president. He’ll lead a drive
to raise 600 billion yen from selling assets and complete a
restructuring plan by the end of the year. The utility booked a
1.1 trillion yen charge related to costs for the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl in 1986.  Tepco has lost 2.9 trillion yen of its market value since
the March 11 quake and tsunami crippled its Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant north of Tokyo. Costs for the disaster may reach as much
as 11 trillion yen, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The government may need to take control, said an asset manager.  “Without state support, it will be difficult for Tepco to
remain as a publicly-traded company,” said  Junichi Misawa , head
of equity investment at Tokyo-based STB Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $17 billion. “This loss can’t be a one-off
event for this year as it will have to continue paying
compensation.”  Shares in the company, which reported a 133.8 billion yen
profit in the year ended March 31, 2010, rose 2.5 percent to 367
yen today. The stock is down 83 percent since the day before the
quake and tsunami.  Booking Charges  Tepco’s loss eclipsed the 812 billion yen deficit reported
by Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in the year ended March
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411) ’s 2.38 trillion yen loss the following year is the
largest in Japan.  For the year ended March 31, 2010, Tepco had total capital
of 2.5 trillion yen, indicating today’s loss will wipe out half
of its capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the government has said it wants the company to
stay listed, Tepco will probably beef up its equity capital,”
said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Common practice would be for the
company to issue preferred shares to the government.”  Tepco booked a charge of 458 billion yen to decommission
four reactors at the station, maintain the shutdown at the
remaining two and for scrapping plans to build more units.  Banks Annoyed  Japanese banks are resisting government calls for lenders
to support Tokyo Electric by forgiving loans or easing interest
charges. Masayuki Oku, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said yesterday that banks aren’t considering
writing off or cutting interest payments on existing loans.  “The government and Tepco should solve the issue by
sharing the burden,” Oku told reporters in Tokyo. Atsushi Saito, head of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, said May 17 that
Edano’s remarks “invite worldwide confusion” as Tepco “is a
publicly traded company, not a government one.”  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano today clarified remarks
he made last week suggesting lenders may need to waive loans
made to Tepco before the quake, comments that caused bank stocks
to fall.  “I was pointing to the need to gain public understanding
for the plan rather than focusing on the responsibility of
lenders,” he said, referring to the utility’s arrangements for
compensating those affected by the nuclear accident.  Radiation Leaks  On May 15, more than two months after the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Tepco said conditions were worse than
believed in reactor No. 1 where all the uranium fuel rods had
melted.  Radiation leaks forcing about 50,000 families near the
plant to evacuate and more than 10 million liters (2.6 million
gallons) of radiation-contaminated water have leaked or been
released into the sea.  Millions of liters of radiated water is sloshing around
basements and trenches at the station from leaking reactor
vessels and piping.  Japan ’s government in April raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster.  The station, which has experienced hundreds of aftershocks
since the main quake, may release more radiation than Chernobyl
before the crisis is contained, Tepco officials have said.  “You can’t touch Tokyo Electric stock right now. It is
simply too difficult to assess the company until we know details
of the turnaround plan, including compensation,”
said Naoki Fujiwara, who helps oversee $6 billion in Tokyo at
Shinkin Asset Management Co.  “The nuclear plant situation is far from being resolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  