-- 
Ethiopian Cement Plants to Double Capacity Amid Construction-Industry Boom

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T12:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/ethiopian-cement-plants-to-double-capacity-amid-construction-industry-boom.html
Ethiopia  will more than double its
cement-output capacity after a new factory and two enlarged
plants begin production later this year amid a building boom in
the Horn of Africa country, a government official said.  The increase is expected to help end the need for imports
by as early as next year, according to Shimeles Wolde, head of
the Chemical and Allied Industries Directorate in the Industry
Ministry. In recent years, Ethiopia imported about 1 million
metric tons of cement annually to meet demand of about 8 million
tons, Shimeles said in an interview.  “In 2012, there should not be that much need for importing
cement,” Shimeles said today in  Addis Ababa , the capital. “In
2012 or early 2013, supply and demand should be balanced.”  Ethiopia licensed 36 companies including  Lafarge SA (LG) , the
world’s biggest cement maker, and  Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) ,  Nigeria ’s
largest company by market value, to help it meet a target of
producing as much as 27 million tons of cement annually by 2015,
Shimeles said. Demand for cement may be met by the end of next
year, when the completion of 22 projects takes annual production
to 13.5 million tons from 2.7 million tons now, he said.  Ethiopia’s economy expanded an average of 11 percent over
the past seven years, International Monetary Fund data shows.
The government is targeting growth of as much as 14.9 percent
over the next five years. A construction boom in  Africa ’s
second-most populous nation, led by state investment in low-cost
housing, roads, dams and universities, has left domestic supply
short of demand, which is increasing at as much as 25 percent
every year, Shimeles said.  ‘Encourage Private Sector’  “We plan to encourage the private sector,” he said. “If
there is a gap and the new investor does not come, we will
invest. Otherwise it’s open to the private sector.”  Derba Midroc Cement, owned by Ethiopian-born Saudi
billionaire Sheikh Mohammed al-Amoudi, plans to start operations
at its new 2.5-million ton plant in September, said Chief
Executive Officer Haile Assegide.  The expected completion in the next two months of
expansions to state-owned Mugher Cement Enterprise and the
ruling Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front’s
Messebo Building Materials Production Plc will add another 1
million tons, according to Shimeles.  Plant Cost  Al-Amoudi’s plant near Chancho, 70 kilometers (44 miles)
northwest of Addis Ababa, cost $351 million and is expected to
reach full production capacity in the first quarter of 2012,
Haile said in an interview on May 13. The International Finance
Corp., the  World Bank ’s private lending arm, provided $45
million for the project, according to the company’s website.  “We are very confident, unless we have some disaster,”
Haile said.  Derba Transport, an affiliate of Derba Midroc, has ordered
1,000  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  trucks for $141 million that can each deliver 40
tons of cement to buyers from the factory, according to Haile.  Although it has large, “high-quality” limestone deposits
and plentiful water supplies, Ethiopia’s per capita cement
consumption of 35 kilograms (66 pounds) per year is very low by
international standards, Shimeles said.  “For developing countries cement consumption is an
indicator of development,” he said.  Even if the 2015 target is met, the 300 kilograms per
capita consumption achieved will still be less than the global
average of 390 kilograms, Shimeles said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  