-- 
EU May Hinder Tougher Capital Rules, Osborne, Salgado Say

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-20T15:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/eu-may-hinder-tougher-bank-capital-rules-osborne-salgado-warn.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ,  Spain ’s Elena Salgado and five other finance
ministers asked the European Union to scrap plans to prevent
national regulators from setting tougher bank capital rules.  The European Commission is seeking to impinge on their
right to force lenders to hold reserves above minimum levels set
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the ministers
said in a May 19 letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “It is not acceptable to have a regulation that prohibits
member states from requiring their banks to hold more capital,”
the ministers said, in response to commission proposals for
applying the Basel measures in the 27-nation EU. It is
“imperative” that nations can decide on whether to toughen
such rules for lenders, as it is their national budgets “that
might bear the considerable costs of instability,” they wrote.  The Group of 20 nations decided to bolster banks’
liquidity and capital to prevent a repeat of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. EU nations had clashed over
the level of severity of the so-called Basel III measures, which
will apply to all internationally active banks and more than
double the highest-quality reserves that lenders must hold.  France and  Germany  led the push for softening the Basel
rules, arguing they may hurt economic recovery. The U.K. opposed
changes or delays.  ‘Maximum Levels’  The commission’s proposals would turn minimum requirements
set by the Basel committee into “maximum levels,” the
ministers told  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, and Olli Rehn, the EU’s economic and monetary
affairs commissioner. “This is clearly not the intention of the
Basel III agreement, nor is it acceptable from our point of
view.”  The proposals aren’t intended to tie the hands of national
regulators who see a need to go beyond the minimum levels, said
 Chantal Hughes , Barnier’s spokeswoman.  The legislation would contain clauses allowing them to act
on a case-by-case basis to increase “ capital requirements  for a
particular bank or a range of banks if its risk profile would
require that,” she said.  Still, “maximum harmonization” of the basic requirements
“is essential to maintain a level playing field in the EU’s
single market,” Hughes said.  ‘Level-Playing Field’  The French government is “very much in favor” of a
maximum harmonization of bank-capital rules, Gael Veyssiere,
spokesman for the French government’s EU office in Brussels,
said in a telephone interview. Such a measure would help promote
a “level-playing field” in the EU, he said.  “Basel always issues minimum rules,” Lars Frisell, chief
economist of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and a
member of the Basel committee, said in an e-mail. “The Basel
committee would never prevent a country from going further to
protect its consumers or its financial stability,” he said.  The letter was also signed by Swedish Finance Minister
Anders Borg, Lithuanian Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte ,
Slovak Finance Minister Ivan Miklos,  Bulgaria ’s Deputy Prime
Minister  Simeon Djankov , who oversees finance and economy, and
Estonian Finance Minister  Jurgen Ligi .  Governments and lawmakers at the European Parliament must
agree on the final version of draft EU laws before they can take
effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 