-- 
European Stocks Drop as Greece Debt Concern Mounts; Banks Fall

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-05-20T16:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/european-stocks-decline-banks-retreat-as-fitch-lowers-greece-debt-rating.html
European stocks declined, led by
banks, after Fitch Ratings cut Greece’s credit rating and warned
that even a voluntary restructuring of the country’s debt
amounts to a default.  Spanish lenders  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  fell before elections in the country this weekend.
Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  also paced losses
among banks.  The Stoxx 600 decreased 0.1 percent to 279.65 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, erasing earlier gains of as much as 0.7
percent. The gauge has lost 0.3 percent this week, its third
consecutive weekly decline.  The index has fallen 4 percent since its highest point this
year in February amid concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in
Europe has yet to end and will hurt the economic recovery. Fitch
cut Greece’s credit rating by three notches and the German
Bundesbank said Europe’s largest economy will probably lose some
growth momentum after an “explosive” start to the year.  “One thing is clear there: we have not yet reached the end
of this matter,” said William De Vijlder, the Brussels-based
chief investment officer at BNP Paribas Investment Partners,
which oversees $780 billion. “Let us hope that the solution
that is being hammered out for  Greece  is sufficient to ward off
another wave of contagion. Equity investors have plenty more
reasons to follow the markets with heightened suspicion in the
coming weeks.”  Greece Rating Cut  Fitch cut its rating on Greece to B+, four levels below
investment grade, from BB+ and said that the country could face
a further reduction in its creditworthiness. The agency said
that the voluntary restructuring of the country’s debt being
studied by European Union policy makers counts as a default.  Yields on 10-year Greek debt surged 59 basis points to a
record 16.59 percent as investors speculated that the
Mediterranean nation will reorganize its debt obligations as it
struggles to reduce its fiscal deficit this year.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s largest lender,
fell 2.3 percent to 4.67 euros.  Alpha Bank AE (ALPHA)  declined 1.7
percent to 3.38 euros.  National benchmark indexes retreated in every western
European market except Sweden, Iceland and Belgium. The U.K.’s
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 0.1 percent and France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC) 
dropped 0.9 percent. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 1.2 percent.
Copenhagen’s stock market was closed for a public holiday.  Spanish Banks Slide  Santander, Spain’s largest bank, dropped 1.9 percent to
7.91 euros. BBVA, the second biggest, slid 1.9 percent to 7.94
euros.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
Socialists are headed for defeat in local and regional elections
after a week of street protests and sits-in against his
policies, polls showed.  “A defeat at Sunday’s local elections by the governing
Socialist Party may significantly increase political uncertainty
in Spain over the next few months,” wrote a team of Citigroup
Inc. economists in London, including  Michael Saunders , in a
report today. “Fiscal risks would rise at the same time, as
consolidation plans will at some point have to start involving
also the regions and not just the central government as has been
the case so far.”  Intesa,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank, plunged 3.6 percent to
1.94 euros. The lender said it will sell new shares at about
one-fourth less than yesterday’s closing price in a 5 billion-
euro ($7.1 billion) offer, as the bank strengthens its finances
before stricter capital rules are approved. Rival UniCredit lost
3.8 percent to 1.57 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  