-- 
Euro Tumbles as Policy Maker Says ECB May Not Be Able to Accept Greek Debt

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-20T21:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/euro-declines-versus-dollar-as-bundesbank-says-german-economy-may-weaken.html
The euro fell versus the dollar for
the first time in five days as a policy maker for the  European
Central Bank  said it may not be able to accept Greek sovereign
debt as collateral if the bond maturities are extended.  The shared currency dropped versus all of its most-traded
counterparts except the Danish krone before elections in Spain
on May 22 that may defeat Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist party, which has cut wages and spending to
fight the sovereign-debt crisis. Fitch lowered Greece’s debt
rating. The Bundesbank said  Germany ’s economy is losing
momentum, damping speculation the central bank will raise
 interest rates .  “It’s Greece, it’s the Spanish elections,” said  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in New
York. “The notion that banks wouldn’t be able to use Greek
paper as collateral should there be an extension of the terms of
sovereign debt is another example of ECB reticence to allow
 Greece , the rest of  Europe , or market participants to think
there will be some type of restructuring.”  The European currency weakened 1.1 percent to $1.4161 at 5
p.m. in New York, cutting a weekly gain to 0.3 percent, after
earlier advancing to $1.4346, the strongest level since May 11.
The euro sank 0.9 percent to 115.69 yen, after gaining to as
much as 117.17. The Japanese currency slipped 0.1 percent to
81.70 per dollar.  The Swiss franc touched the strongest level this year
against the euro as investors sought safety.  ‘Cut Off’  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a member of the ECB
Governing Council, said it would be “impossible” for the
central bank to take extended-maturity Greek bonds in its
refinancing operations. The remarks added to signs of a division
between monetary officials and politicians.  “A prolongation of Greek  government bonds  in an
environment of prevailing strong doubts about the sustainability
of public finances would make it impossible to accept them as
collateral for refinancing operations under the existing
rules,” Weidmann said at a conference in Hamburg today.
“Consequently large parts of the Greek financial sector would
be cut off from funding.”  European political leaders this week floated the idea of
extending the Mediterranean nation’s debt repayment schedule as
it struggles to meet the terms of last year’s 110 billion euro
($157 billion) bailout package.  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s long-term debt rating to B+,
four notches below investment grade, and placed it on rating
watch negative. Even a voluntary extension of the country’s bond
maturities would be considered “a default event,” the rating
company said in a statement. Greek 10-year bond yields surged to
a record 16.6 percent.  Elections in  Spain   In Spain, elections will be held May 22 by 13 regions
accounting for 60 percent of the economy and more than 8,000
municipalities. Polls show Zapatero’s Socialists will be
defeated in most regions.  Investors have speculated Spain might follow Portugal,
Ireland and Greece in needing a financial rescue. Demonstrations
against budget cuts and bank bailouts have marked the run-up to
the vote, which takes place a year before polls to choose
Zapatero’s successor.  Switzerland ’s currency climbed 1.4 percent to 1.2425 francs
per euro and touched 1.2403, the strongest level since Dec. 30.
The franc appreciated 0.4 percent to 87.74 centimes per dollar.  Germany’s 1.5 percent growth rate in the first quarter
“considerably overstates the underlying economic momentum,”
the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in its monthly bulletin
published today. Europe’s common currency has climbed 6.2
percent against the dollar and 6.9 percent against the yen this
year as the ECB raised its key rate and the  Federal Reserve  and
 Bank of Japan  left their benchmarks at almost zero.  Rate Bets Cut  Euribor futures rose, with the implied yield on the
December contract sliding five basis points to 2 percent, as
investors reduced bets on higher borrowing costs from the
Frankfurt-based ECB. It increased the refinancing rate to 1.25
percent in April, the first increase since 2008.  Norway ’s krone gained versus the euro as Norges Bank
Governor Oeystein Olsen said Norway’s currency may rise more as
growth quickens. The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 7.8558
per euro.  “With high growth in demand for goods and services and
rising price and cost inflation, there is also a risk of a
further appreciation of the krone,” Olsen said in a speech
posted on the Oslo-based central bank’s  website  today. “A
strong krone damps inflation through a subdued rise in prices
for imported goods and services. Persistent low inflation could
curb the rise in the key policy rate.”  New Zealand  Dollar  New Zealand’s dollar was the top performer among major
currencies, climbing 0.6 percent to 79.60 U.S. cents.  The government yesterday projected an operating surplus of
NZ$1.3 billion ($1.03 billion) in the year ending June 2015.
Finance Minister Bill English said the government would save
NZ$5.2 billion over four years to spend on health, education and
rebuilding from two earthquakes in Christchurch.  Canada ’s dollar fell for the first time in four days,
dropping 0.7 percent to 97.42 cents per greenback. Government
data showed inflation slowed in April more than forecast and
retail sales unexpectedly stalled in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  