-- 
European Stocks Are Little Changed; M&B Slides, BP Shares Rally

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-05-20T14:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/european-futures-rise-scottish-southern-mitchells-butlers-may-move.html
European stocks were little changed
as Greek 10-year bond yields rose to a record high, offsetting
speculation that the Federal Reserve will maintain its stimulus.  BP Plc (BP/)  advanced after the  oil company  reached a settlement
with a unit of Mitsui & Co., one of its partners on the Macondo
well.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  rallied 6.8 percent after
saying that Advent International Corp. has made an approach for
the U.K. software producer.  Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB) , the owner
of Harvester and Toby Carvery pubs and restaurants, sank 5
percent after posting reduced fiscal first-half profit.  The Stoxx 600 increased less than 0.1 percent to 280.05 at
3:07 p.m. in  London , heading for a weekly decline of 0.2
percent. The gauge advanced 0.7 percent yesterday as companies
from Glencore International Plc to LinkedIn Corp. held initial
public offerings. Even so, the measure has fallen 3.8 percent
since this year’s high on Feb. 17.  “Valuations are cheap and extremely attractive compared
with government or corporate bonds,” said  Ian Richards , an
equity strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London. “The
economic growth outlook is still okay and the U.S. and European
countries are progressively addressing the structural debt
problems.”  Federal Reserve  Stimulus  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said
improvements in the economy, labor market and the outlook for
inflation aren’t sufficient for the Fed to begin withdrawing its
record monetary stimulus.  “Slow progress in closing resource gaps and a medium-term
outlook for inflation that is too low lead me to conclude that
substantial policy accommodation continues to be appropriate,”
Evans said yesterday.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said it’s
important for the central bank not to “overreact” to the
recent pickup in inflation by tightening monetary policy.  The Bank of  Japan  kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged near zero and refrained from increasing its credit
programs at the end of a two-day meeting today, as predicted by
all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  European shares pared their earlier advance as  Germany ’s
Bundesbank said that the continent’s largest economy will
probably lose some momentum. The economy’s 1.5 percent growth
rate in the first quarter from the previous three months
“considerably overstates the underlying economic momentum.
Output growth was clearly lifted during the reporting period by
backloading and catching-up effects,” the Frankfurt-based bank
said in its monthly bulletin published today.  Greek Debt  Greek bonds slid on speculation that the Mediterranean
nation will have to reorganize its debt obligations as it
struggles to reduce its fiscal deficit this year.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 14 of the 18
western European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 0.1
percent and France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  dropped 0.4 percent. Germany’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 1.1 percent. Copenhagen’s stock market was
closed for a public holiday.  BP surged 2.2 percent to 457.7 pence after saying a unit of
Mitsui will pay  Europe ’s second-largest oil company by sales
$1.1 billion after reaching a settlement over last year’s Gulf
of Mexico spill. The stock has fallen 30 percent since the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded last year, while the MSCI
World/Energy Index has risen 13 percent.  Separately, Investec Plc upgraded the shares to “buy”
from “hold” today. “We believe CEO Bob Dudley can regain BP’s
once fundamentally unique reputation as the industry ‘thought
leader,’” Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec in London,
wrote in a note to clients today.  CGGVeritas, the world’s largest seismic surveyor of
oilfields, climbed 3.4 percent to 25.02 euros after announcing
it will create a marine joint venture with Elnusa Tbk PT.  Micro Focus  Advances  Micro Focus soared 6.8 percent to 395 pence for the largest
gain in the Stoxx 600. Advent International has approached the
company about a potential takeover, Micro Focus said in a
statement.  “At this stage, there can be no certainty that any offer
for the company will be forthcoming nor as to the price at which
any offer might be made,” the statement said.  Prudential Plc (PRU)  advanced 1 percent to 747 pence after UBS AG
said that the “underperformance” by the U.K.’s largest insurer
by market value produced “an attractive buying opportunity” in
a note to clients today.  Credit Suisse Rises  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed 1 percent to 36.75 Swiss
francs after Deutsche Bank AG upgraded the shares to “buy”
from “hold.” Switzerland’s second-biggest bank is “not
exposed to peripheral Europe” and “is strengthening its
capital base,” Matt Spink and Alexander Hendricks, both
research analysts at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE)  rose 1.9 percent to 1,352
pence, bringing the stock’s gain this year to 10 percent. The
U.K. power producer posted full-year adjusted profit after taxes
that increased 2.5 percent to 1.04 billion pounds ($1.7
billion).  BioMerieux (BIM) , the maker of HIV and hepatitis tests, soared
3.9 percent to 78.57 euros after agreeing to buy AES Laboratoire
Groupe for 183 million euros ($259 million).  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) , the German operator of medical clinics,
increased 4 percent to 17.29 euros.  “Privatization activity is picking up and Rhoen has enough
firepower to participate successfully,” Holger Blum and Gunnar Romer, analysts at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note to clients
today. The bank upgraded the company to “buy” from “hold.”  Mitchells & Butlers Slips  Mitchells & Butlers slumped 5 percent to 319.7 pence, its
biggest drop in almost six months. The company reported that net
income fell 29 percent in the 28 weeks ended April 9 as revenue
declined and the company incurred one-off costs. Profit dropped
to 37 million pounds from 52 million pounds a year earlier, the
Birmingham, England-based company said today.  Shares in Inditex, the world’s largest clothing retailer,
slid 2.2 percent to 61.24 euros. Gap Inc., the largest U.S.
apparel chain, yesterday cut its profit forecast 22 percent as
the cost of making clothes rose more than it had predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  