-- 
European Coal Rises; May Have Highest Close in More Than a Week

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-20T12:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/european-coal-rises-may-have-highest-close-in-more-than-a-week.html
European coal derivatives advanced
and headed for the highest close in more than a week on
speculation low levels at hydro reservoirs may boost demand for
coal-generated power.  “The reduction in spring precipitation over much of
northern Europe has left hydro reservoirs low and has raised
issues about sufficient levels of cooling water for nuclear
generation,”  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst with  Barclays
Capital  in  London , wrote in a report today. “If the risks
materialise and nuclear power is disrupted, further upside for
coal will be seen.”  Coal for delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with
settlement next year gained 55 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $128.80
a metric ton by 1:13 p.m. in London. A close at that price would
be the highest close since May 10 and a 1.9 percent weekly
increase.  Profit from running coal-fired  power plants  for next month,
the so-called clean-dark spread, is about 7.73 euros ($11.01) a
megawatt-hour, compared with 2.62 euros from burning natural
gas, Bloomberg data showed. The calculation uses electricity
prices in Germany and takes emission costs into account.  December carbon-dioxide permits under the European Union
cap-and-trade system fell 1 percent to 16.33 euros. Gas for
delivery in the six months through September 2012 to the U.K.,
 Europe ’s biggest consumer of the fuel, was little changed at
63.50 pence ($1.03) a therm in London.  Electricity Shortfall  China, the world’s biggest coal user, may face an
electricity shortfall of 30 million kilowatts during the summer
peak this year, analysts including Lu Yanjin at Industrial
Securities wrote in a report today. That may not necessarily
result in higher coal demand and imports by the country,
Barclays Capital said.  “While domestic coal prices have reportedly increased
nearly 20 percent since last year, government-controlled power
prices have been allowed to rise by just 2 percent, squeezing
generation margins,” Costanza Jacazio, a Barclays analyst in
 New York , wrote in a report today. If power prices are not
adjusted adequately it may lead to “greater power rationing
rather than higher imports of coal,” she said.  The coal-derivative data are drawn from information
supplied by ICAP Plc,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS McCloskey, Bloomberg, Tradition
Financial Services and Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  