-- 
European Stocks Retreat for Third Week on Economy, Greek Credit Downgrade

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-20T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/european-stocks-retreat-for-third-week-on-economy-greek-credit-downgrade.html
European stocks fell for a third
straight week after Fitch Ratings’ downgrade of Greek debt and
disappointing economic reports in the U.S. heightened concern
that the global recovery is faltering.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led financial shares lower,
sliding to an eight-year low. Pandora A/S tumbled 23 percent as
the Danish maker of charm bracelets reported sales that missed
most estimates.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  sank 7.4 percent amid concern that
its shares will be removed from the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  after
Glencore International Plc’s initial public offering.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.3 percent to 279.65
this past week.  Greece ’s ASE Index dropped 4.3 percent to a 14-
year low, the largest fall among 18 western European benchmarks,
as the nation’s 10-year bond yields soared to a record.  “The European sovereign debt crisis is still unresolved,”
Claudia Panseri, the Paris-based head of equity strategy at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in a report yesterday. Current
valuations of European stocks “only partially reflect the risks
underlying the  euro zone .”  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 11.2 times the estimated
earnings of its companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with this year’s low of 10.8. The gauge has
fallen 1.5 percent this month as commodity producers tumbled
with metal and oil prices.  Greek Credit Rating  Greece’s credit rating was cut three levels by Fitch, which
said that even a voluntary restructuring of the country’s debt
being considered by European Union policy makers would be ruled
a default.  In  Germany , the Bundesbank said Europe’s largest economy
will probably lose some growth momentum over the coming months
after an “explosive” start to the year. Germany’s economy is
powering the euro region after expanding a record 3.6 percent in
2010. Companies are stepping up spending and hiring to meet
booming export orders, while unemployment at a 19-year-low is
encouraging  consumer spending .  European indexes declined as a report showed U.S. housing
starts unexpectedly fell in April as home builders in the
world’s largest economy continued to struggle almost two years
into the recovery. Separate figures showed sales of existing
homes dropped and industrial production stalled.  In Europe, U.K. data showed inflation accelerated in April
more than economists had forecast to the fastest pace since
2008. German investor confidence declined for a third month in
May as rising prices threatened to curb consumer spending.  German, French Stocks  National benchmark indexes retreated in 13 of the 18
western European markets this week. Germany’s DAX sank 1.8
percent, the most in two months, and  France ’s CAC 40 declined
0.7 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.4 percent as Dixons
Retail Plc rallied.  Still, equities remained the asset class of choice for
investors this month as  hedge funds  raised the level of borrowed
money invested in stocks to a 3 1/2-year high, a BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research survey showed.  National Bank of Greece, the nation’s biggest lender, lost
2.9 percent to the lowest since April 2003. Alpha Bank SA
declined 4.5 percent.  Pandora tumbled 23 percent for the biggest drop since its
IPO in October and the worst performance in the Stoxx 600 this
week. The company reported sales of 1.75 billion kroner ($333
million), less than the 1.79 billion-kroner average estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts.  Invensys Falls  Invensys sank 7.4 percent, the most since October. The U.K.
maker of controls that help run Whirlpool Corp. washing machines
may be removed from the FTSE 100 following this week’s IPO of
Glencore, the world’s largest commodities trader.  Invensys may leave the gauge when Glencore is added on May
25 as the London-based company is one of the smallest in the
benchmark, analysts from Societe Generale SA wrote. The move may
prompt index trackers to sell Invensys shares.  Dufry Group (DUFN)  surged 13 percent after the Swiss operator of
duty-free shops reported first-quarter earnings.  Dixons, Europe’s largest electronics retailer, surged 23
percent, amid speculation rival Kesa Electricals Plc may sell
its U.K. Comet chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  