-- 
Hewlett-Packard’s Haas, Iannotti Depart Amid Management Shuffle

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-05-20T21:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/hewlett-packard-senior-executive-haas-is-said-to-depart-for-kkr.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  senior vice
presidents Marius Haas, Tom Iannotti and Gary Budzinski are
departing, people familiar with the matter said, adding to an
exodus of managers from the computer maker.  Haas, who led Hewlett-Packard’s computer networking
business, is departing for private-equity firm KKR & Co., said
two people, who asked not to be identified because the job
change is confidential. Iannotti, who was in charge of
enterprise services, is retiring, while Budzinski, who headed
computer maintenance services, is leaving, two people said.  The executives follow Tom Hogan, the former head of
business-computing sales, in leaving as Hewlett-Packard faces a
drop in demand for personal computers and narrowing margins in
services. Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , who took the
helm Nov. 1, aims to revive growth and slice costs after cutting
$1 billion from his annual sales projection this week and
issuing current-quarter forecasts that missed estimates.  As  head  of networking, Haas managed Hewlett-Packard’s foray
into the communications-equipment market led by  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  He previously worked as senior vice president of strategy
and corporate development, responsible for such tasks as
integrating acquisitions.  Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, dind’t immediately respond to
a request for comment.  Hewlett-Packard has lost 14 percent since the day before
Apotheker became CEO. It slid 15 cents to $35.98 as of 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Iannotti, Budzinski  Iannotti managed Hewlett-Packard’s technology outsourcing
and consulting services. He will stay until Hewlett-Packard
hires a new executive to lead its services business, one of the
people said. Budzinski’s departure was announced in a memo to
Hewlett-Packard employees this week.  Executive Vice President  Ann Livermore  is managing the
services business on an interim basis while the company searches
for a new executive to lead the division, Apotheker told
analysts on a conference call this week.  Executive Vice President David Donatelli, who runs the
company’s data-center hardware unit, now heads the technology
services business that was managed by Budzinski.  Hewlett-Packard’s disappointing forecasts reflect rivalry
from tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and lower margins in the
computer-services division. Apotheker sent a memo earlier this
month warning of “another tough quarter” in the July period.  Apotheker hired Martin Homlish as chief marketing officer,
Hewlett-Packard said last month, as part of his turnaround
effort. The move followed the exit in January of former
marketing head Michael Mendenhall and came a day after Hewlett-
Packard said Jan Zadak will run business-computing sales,
replacing the departing Hogan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  