-- 
Ex-Obama Ambassador Huntsman Starts Bid to Sell Self to Republican Voters

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-20T22:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/ex-obama-ambassador-huntsman-starts-bid-to-sell-self-to-republican-voters.html
He’s been called Ambassador, Governor
and CEO. In  New Hampshire , though, a common greeting for
Republican Jon Huntsman Jr. is “Who?”  As he moves toward a possible run for the Republican
presidential nomination, the former  Utah  governor who served as
President Barack Obama’s envoy to China has some introducing --
and explaining -- to do.  “Labels and tags are going to be thrown around,” he told
two dozen voters gathered at a wood-paneled steakhouse in
Hanover, New Hampshire, last night. “In some cases you have to
look beneath the veneer.”  A White House bid by Huntsman, 51, will test whether a
Republican with a record of bucking party orthodoxy can thrive
at a time when his party draws much of its energy from Tea Party
supporters who want to roll back virtually every aspect of
Obama’s agenda.  Huntsman’s maiden political foray into New Hampshire -- a
five-day swing that started yesterday and is packed with
meetings with Republican activists, gun-store photo
opportunities and a commencement address at Southern New
Hampshire University -- offers him his first chance to shape how
voters view his record.  Recent polling  of Republican-leaning New
Hampshire voters shows that more than 70 percent couldn’t
identify him in the state that conducts the nation’s first
presidential primary.  ‘Largely Unknown’  “Nobody knows who he is,” said  Andrew Smith , director of
the University of New Hampshire Survey Center. “He’s largely
unknown outside of Utah.”  As he met with several dozen voters gathered in the banquet
room of the restaurant in Hanover, Huntsman described himself as
being, at this point in the campaign, the “quintessential
margin-of-error potential candidate.”  Discussing issues, he said the country is at a serious
“inflection point” in grappling with the federal debt that
will determine the future of America’s economy, currency and
competitiveness.  “We either choose to have a lost decade,” he said, “or
we can simply get our act together and launch an industrial
revolution in this country.”  Fergus Cullen, former chairman of the New Hampshire
 Republican Party , said Huntsman has potential appeal to more
moderate voters, since many of the more prominent Republican
presidential prospects are focusing on the party’s fiscally and
socially conservative wings.  ‘Receptive Audience’  “Almost every candidate is spending all of their time
campaigning to the same Tea Party activists,” Cullen said in an
interview. “I think Governor Huntsman will find a receptive
audience among the other 80 percent that none of the candidates
have been talking to yet.”  As governor, Huntsman angered some Republican activists by
expressing support for civil unions for same-sex couples,
comprehensive immigration legislation, and a cap-and-trade
system to combat  carbon emissions , a position he has since
backed away from. In 2009, he suggested that the economic
stimulus package Democrats enacted was too small, an argument
also made by fiscally liberal economists including  Paul Krugman .
And he gave up the governorship less than a year into his second
term to be dispatched to Beijing by Obama.  Huntsman described himself as a “pragmatic problem-
solver,” as he continued his New Hampshire visit today.  Obstacles  His record and resume present obstacles for him, rather
than opportunities, say some Republicans.  Ovide Lamontagne, a New Hampshire Republican activist who
is scheduled to meet Huntsman May 22, said he knows little of
him. What he has heard, though, gives him pause.  “We’re going to need a nominee who’s willing to take it to
the president on all issues,” Lamontagne said. “If Huntsman
feels like he can’t really challenge him on  China  policy, then
that takes an argument away from him that other candidates would
have.”  Huntsman was quick to explain his decision to take the
ambassador’s job last night.  “At a time of war, at a time of economic difficulties, I’m
the kind of person when asked by my president to stand up and
serve my country, I do it,” he said.  Huntsman today questioned Obama’s decision to intervene in
 Libya , saying future conflicts should be weighed based on their
financial cost to the country.  Affordability Issue  “With all of our deployments and all of our engagements
abroad, we need to ask a fundamental question: Can we afford to
do this?” Huntsman told reporters in the living room of a
supporter in Hancock, New Hampshire.  Concern about Huntsman’s service in the Obama
administration lingered for some voters. “He has to explain it
better,” Jim Musarra, an investment manager in Hancock, said
after hearting Huntsman speak.  Supporters stress Huntsman’s record of fiscal management in
Utah, where he was first elected governor in 2004. They also
point to his work as a top executive for his family’s global
plastics and chemical company, Salt Lake City-based  Huntsman
Corp. (HUN)  and chief executive officer of Huntsman Family Holdings
Company. Huntsman Corp. had 2010 revenues of nearly $9.3
billion, according to company filings, and 12,000 employees,
according to the  company’s website .  His backers also highlight the personal appeal of a
motorcycling, Mandarin-speaking father of seven who once played
keyboard in a rock band.  Untypical Path  Still, noted Fred Davis, a Los-Angeles-based Republican
advertising strategist who has been meeting with prospective
Huntsman donors, “the path to victory” for a Huntsman campaign
“is not a typical one.”  Huntsman is likely to focus his efforts on New Hampshire, a
state where independents can vote in the primary, and leave the
Iowa caucus fight to candidates who would appeal more to that
state’s large base of evangelical voters. Such potential
contenders include U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota  and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania .  He would base his campaign in  Orlando ,  Florida , according
to aides. That is the hometown of his wife, Mary Kaye, and
Florida is an early primary state with a more diverse base of
Republican voters.  Groundwork  Aides started quietly working on a potential Huntsman
presidential run out of a Washington hotel months before his
resignation as ambassador took effect April 30. Since his return
to the U.S., he has been wooing possible donors, supporters and
aides across the country.  Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican who met with
Huntsman on May 17, called him one of the party’s half-dozen
prospective candidates who “have a shot” at the nomination.  His biggest challenge in the emerging Republican race is
likely to come from  Mitt Romney , 64. Like Huntsman, Romney is a
former governor, a former CEO and the son of a prominent Mormon
family. And, like Huntsman, one of his political priorities is
to disassociate himself from Obama -- in Romney’s case a health-
care measure he signed into law as  Massachusetts ’ governor that
is similar to the nationwide measure the president pushed
through Congress last year.  Huntsman is “a tall, handsome Mormon businessman with an
Obama problem,” said Smith, the New Hampshire pollster. “He’s
going to have a difficult time taking votes from Romney who
already is well-known, well-liked and is filling that space
right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Lebanon, New Hampshire, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  