-- 
Expanded Drought Threatens Kansas Wheat Crop, Climatologist Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-20T19:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/expanded-drought-threatens-kansas-wheat-crop-climatologist-says.html
Drought conditions have expanded
across  Kansas  and are threatening the state’s winter-wheat crop,
the largest in the U.S., according to the National Drought
Mitigation Center.  About 50 percent of Kansas faced  “severe”  drought as of
May 17, the Lincoln, Nebraska-based center said in its U.S.
Drought Monitor report. That’s up from 18 percent two weeks
earlier. About 12 percent of the state rated “extreme”
drought, the data showed.  “Some of the wheat areas, especially in south-central and
southwest Kansas, are seeing the same type of problems that
 Oklahoma  and  Texas  are, as far as damage to the winter-wheat
crop,” Brian Fuchs, a climatologist at the center, said today
in a telephone interview. “There’s been quite a bit of acres
that are being abandoned, meaning they are not going to even try
and harvest because of the lack of a viable crop.”  As of May 15, 55 percent of winter wheat in Kansas was
rated  poor  or very poor by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
That compares with 75 percent in Texas and 80 percent in
Oklahoma. The National Weather Service estimates rainfall in the
past 30 days was less than half of normal in much of those three
states.  Kansas, Texas and Oklahoma produced 608.4 million bushels
of wheat last year, or 28 percent of the total U.S. supply,
according to the USDA. Those states are the biggest growers of
the hard, red winter variety. This year, the USDA  expects 
production to drop 63 percent in Texas, 38 percent in Oklahoma
and 27 percent in Kansas, compared with 2010.  Rain Forecast  Conditions may start to improve, Fuchs said. One to 3
inches of rain (2.5 centimeters to 7.6 centimeters) are forecast
by May 23 from eastern and northern Kansas southward through
parts of northeastern Texas, the  National Weather Service  said
in a report yesterday.  “The conditions are at least going to ease a little bit or
maybe improve over the next couple weeks,” Fuchs said. “It’s
typically a wetter time of year in May and June in Kansas, so
the opportunity for precipitation is going to help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 