-- 
Farmers Planting More Corn in China on Increasing Prices May Limit Imports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-20T04:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/farmers-planting-more-corn-in-china-on-increasing-prices-may-limit-imports.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
consumer of corn after the U.S., will likely expand planting
this year as farmers seek to profit from strengthening prices,
according to industry and government researchers.  Planted area in the northeast grain belt may have expanded
by as much as 10 percent, said  Zhang Qi , analyst at Yigu
Information Consulting Ltd., the biggest corn-information
 website  by readership. Acreage will likely grow by 2.1 percent
from last year, state-backed Grain.gov.cn said yesterday.  China’s demand for corn will grow faster than supply over
the next 10 years, Grain News reported last month, citing Shang
Qiangmin, director of the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center. Corn in Chicago more than doubled in the
past year, climbing to the highest since 2008 as global supplies
failed to keep pace with demand, driving up world food costs.
Sales of corn and feed wheat from state stockpiles in China
limited domestic price gains to 5 percent this year.  “The weather has been pretty good overall for the planting
season,” Zhang said by phone from Dalian yesterday, after
completing field surveys in the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and
Heilongjiang.  July-delivery corn on the  Chicago  Board of Trade gained 0.5
percent to $7.525 a bushel at 12:24 p.m. in  Singapore . The most-
active contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange rose 0.5 percent
to 2,388 yuan ($367) a metric ton. Cash prices surged 14 percent
in the past year, reaching a record 2,250 yuan a ton last week.  Switching Crops  Three northeastern provinces known collectively as Dongbei
accounted for 29 percent of China’s corn output of 164 million
tons in 2009, according to official statistics. The country’s
output last year was 177 million tons, preliminary government
data show, without giving a regional breakdown.  Corn areas in Liaoning, the southernmost province in
Dongbei, expanded by about 2 percent, Zhang said, citing
preliminary estimates. In Jilin, China’s third-biggest grower,
corn areas grew 5 percent as farmers switched from coarse grains
such as lentils and sunflower seeds, Zhao said. Farmers in
Heilongjiang, the biggest producer, increased planting by more
than 10 percent, he said.  “The warming climate is pushing back early frost and the
use of new seeds is helping expand corn regions further north,”
Zhang said. Farmers in the three provinces have sold most of 
last year’s crop, a month earlier than in previous years, as 
state reserves bought about 8 million tons and demand from 
traders and biochemical producers surged, Zhang said.  Limiting Use  China is limiting corn use by the biochemical and sweetener
industry to ensure sufficient supplies for livestock feed, three
people who received a government document on the matter said
last month. Processors are barred from buying more corn than
they consumed in 2009, they said.  Industrial use may not drop significantly because large
processors anticipated government policies and bought supplies
early, Ge Huanna, analyst at Wanda Futures Co., said by phone
from Jilin on May 16.  China last year imported 1.6 million tons, according to
customs data, the most in nearly 14 years, to cover an expected
shortfall. In March, China Grain Reserves Corp. ordered about 1
million tons of U.S. corn, spokesman Cheng Bingzhou said by
phone last week.  Imports may total 2 million tons in the year to June 30,
the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization said last
week. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  this month estimated
purchases of 1.5 million tons for the marketing year through
Sept. 30, while Aisling Analytics Pte on May 12 forecast 10
million tons for the current calendar year.  The growth of industrial corn demand in the past few years
has “exceeded imagination,” Shang told a conference, according
to the newspaper.  --William Bi. Editors:  Matthew Oakley , Jarrett Banks  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  