-- 
Food Inflation in India Seen Acclerating as Farmers’ Costs, Oil Increase

-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-05-20T05:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/food-inflation-in-india-to-climb-on-labor-energy-costs-commission-says.html
Food-price inflation in India,  Asia ’s
third-largest economy, may accelerate in the second half as
farmers are paying 20 percent more to grow crops, according to
the commission that helps set minimum farm-product prices.  “The cost of production is going up very fast,” Ashok Gulati, chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and
Prices, said in a telephone interview from New Delhi yesterday.
“The labor cost has gone up dramatically in the past one year
and energy costs are also going up.”  A pickup in food prices would add to inflationary pressures
in India, where the central bank has raised  interest rates  nine
times since mid-March 2010. The commission, which recommends the
rates at which the government buys crops from farmers to prevent
distress sales in the open market, will include an average 20
percent gain in production costs this year, Gulati said.  “If the government announces higher minimum-support prices
of crops, they put upward pressure on prices,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Mumbai-based CARE Ratings, which
grades the creditworthiness of Indian companies. “The benchmark
prices in the market go up.”  Inflation in  India  has been above 8 percent for 16 months,
with the wholesale-price index increasing 8.66 percent in April.
Farm-product wholesale prices rose 7.47 percent in the week to
May 7 from a year earlier, the trade ministry said yesterday.
Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on May 18
that inflation needs to be curbed to boost economic growth.  Oil’s Rally  Global food costs gained to a record in February after
grains, meat and cooking oils surged, according to a  United
Nations ’ gauge. Crude oil in  New York  has rallied 46 percent
over the past 12 months, trading today at $98.98 per barrel.  To protect the poorest, India’s central government sets
minimum prices of crops to assure farmers’ incomes, and sells
subsidized grains and oils. The government may announce this
year’s minimum prices of monsoon-sown crops -- which include
rice, lentils and corn -- in the next 10 days, Gulati said.  “When prices of input costs rise, farmers need to be
compensated adequately,” said Krishan Bir Chaudhary, president
of the Society of Indian Farmers. “Once you remove the policy
of fixing the minimum price, the market rates of grains will
immediately come down as farmers will be exploited.”  Food-price inflation at present is being driven by costlier
fruits, vegetables, milk, animal products and eggs, Gulati said.
The cost of farm products can be lowered by increasing farmers’
productivity with good-quality seeds and irrigation, he said.  ‘Bring It Down’  “Inflation is high and we need to bring it down,”
 Reserve Bank  Governor Subbarao told reporters on May 18.
Inflation will stay at an “elevated level” until September,
the central bank said on May 3, noting “persistently high food
prices are likely to exert sustained upward pressure on wages.”  India’s economy  may grow 8.2 percent in 2011 from 10.4
percent last year, the  International Monetary Fund  said on April
28. The economy may grow as much as 9.25 percent, the  finance
ministry  said in February.  Monsoon-sown crops are planted from next month, with
harvesting starting in October. The annual weather pattern,
which accounts for more than 70 percent on India’s rainfall, may
reach Kerala on May 31, the weather bureau said on May 13.  “We are not out of the woods as yet as far as food
inflation is concerned,” the commission’s Gulati said. “We try
to assure farmers a 20 to 30 percent increase over the cost of
production,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  