-- 
Forestry Key to Africa’s Carbon Permit Market, Envirotrade Says

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-05-20T13:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/forestry-key-to-africa-s-carbon-permit-market-envirotrade-says.html
Conserving forests as a means for
countries to meet  climate change  targets is crucial to  Africa ’s
participation in the world’s carbon markets, said  Envirotrade
Carbon Ltd.   The London-based company is investing about $2.8 million to
develop a project in Mozambique’s Quirimbas National Park that
will protect 125,000 hectares (480 square miles) of coastal
forest and mangroves from deforestation.  By doing so, Envirotrade will sequester up to 10 million
metric tons of CO2 over 20 years, said Chief Executive Charles
Hall in a May 17 interview. Trees absorb carbon dioxide for
growth and release it when they rot or burn.  Carbon credits linked to deforestation, rather than tree
planting, were excluded from the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  and aren’t
covered in  Europe ’s emissions trading program.  About 200 nations will meet in  Durban ,  South Africa , in
December for the United Nation’s climate talks to look at ways
of creating carbon forestry credits, which may be part of a new
treaty.  “The inclusion of forestry and land-use activities in the
compliance regime post-Kyoto is crucial to Africa,” said Hall
on the phone from  London . “So far, African participation in the
Clean Development Mechanism has been tiny, less than 2
percent.”  CDM Projects  Currently only 25 CDM projects are registered in Africa,
two-thirds of them in South Africa, the United Nations
Development Program said.  “Unless and until the UN compliance carbon framework
allows forestry and land-use to participate, Africa will never
participate in those schemes anywhere near to the extent that it
should,” Hall said.  Instead, the company will be restricted to selling its
forestry credits on the global $186 million voluntary carbon
market, which relies on purchases from companies and individuals
for purposes other than meeting Kyoto or European Union
regulatory targets.  Envirotrade plans to register the Quirimbas project with
the Washington-based  Verified Carbon Standard  program, or VCS,
toward the end of the year, Hall said.  “We’ve now got a method to produce REDD credits from
VCS,” said Hall. Reducing emissions from deforestation and
degradation, known as REDD, was only recognized by the voluntary
market as a means of offsetting emissions in November, he said.
Until then the only forestry credits one could generate were
through reforestation projects.  Nature Reserve  The Quirimbas project is an expansion of a 10,000 hectare
pilot initiative started in 2002 in  Mozambique ’s  Gorongosa
nature reserve . The Sofala Community Carbon Project, as it is
known, received a 2 million euro grant from the EU and has
generated 1.2 million tons of carbon credits, of which one fifth
have been sold, Hall said.  The offsets have been bought by companies such as Max
Hamburgerrestauranger AB,  Sweden ’s oldest hamburger chain, Arla
Foods AB, the Danish food manufacturing company, and the
Creative Artists Foundation, one of Hollywood’s top talent
agencies.  Envirotrade signed contracts with about 3,000 farmers to
change the way they used their land, paying them money from the
sale of the carbon credits to get them to plant trees, including
cashew and mango, alongside their fields to boost their crop
yield.  ‘Slash and Burn’  “In those kinds of environments you cannot succeed in
protecting forests without engaging with the local communities
to wean them away from slash and burn techniques that they’ve
used for centuries,” said Hall.  By improving  food security  and introducing potential cash
crops to the area, the project addresses a key driver of
deforestation and reduces pressure on the forests, the company
said in a statement.  Deforestation represents a major challenge to resolving
climate change, contributing more to  carbon emissions  than
fossil fuel consumption does, said Mark Heaton, Envirotrade’s
country manager for South Africa. “It’s a significant
motivating factor to get forestry included” in the EU carbon
trading scheme, he said.  Global forests contain an estimated 638 gigatons of carbon,
more than all the carbon in the earth’s atmosphere, the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change, said on its website. One
gigaton is a billion tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town Nef at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  