-- 
Fortune Brands to Sell Titleist Golf Unit to Fila Korea for $1.23 Billion

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-05-20T20:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/fortune-brands-to-sell-acushnet-to-fila-for-1-23b.html
Fortune Brands Inc. (FO)  agreed to sell
its Titleist golf unit to a group led by the owner of the Fila
sport apparel brand for $1.23 billion in cash, as part of its
strategy to focus on liquor.  Fortune Brands will realize proceeds of about $1.1 billion
after taxes and expenses from the sale of the Acushnet business,
which makes Titleist balls, according to a statement from the
Deerfield, Illinois-based company. The deal is expected to close
this year, it said.  The sale is part of Fortune Brands Chief Executive Officer
Bruce Carbonari’s plan to dispose of the company’s golf and home
and security businesses by the fourth quarter. Fortune, the
maker of Jim Beam and Maker’s Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila and
Courvoisier cognac, said it plans to rename itself Beam.  “This is obviously an important first step for Fortune,”
said Jonathan Rouner, head of mergers and acquisitions for the
Americas at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , which advised Fila.  Fortune has announced it will divest the home and security
business. “A spinoff would allow shareholders to share in the
upside of the business, which is tied to the housing market, as
the economy recovers,” Rouner said today in a telephone
interview.  In addition to Titleist golf balls, Acushnet makes high-
performance golf clubs and owns the FootJoy golf shoe and glove
brand. Its sales exceeded $1.2 billion in 2010, with almost half
of its revenue generated in markets outside the U.S.  Fortune Brands fell $1.01, or 1.6 percent, to $63.88 at
4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have climbed 6 percent this year.  Leisure Footwear  Established in  Italy  in 1911, Fila is a leading sport and
leisure footwear and apparel brand that’s distributed worldwide.
The group purchasing Acushnet, which is led by  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660) 
and Mirae Asset Private Equity, also includes the National
Pension Service of  Korea , the fourth-largest pension fund in the
world, and  Korea Development Bank , Korea’s largest government-
owned bank.  “Fila and Mirae emphasized growth in  Asia  to deliver a
winning bid,” said Gregg Fatzinger, who heads Nomura’s consumer
and retail investment banking practice.  Golf has “been growing at double digits even during the
recession,” he said.  Fortune announced Dec. 8 that it would split into three
separate businesses and focus on distilled spirits after
activist investor  William Ackman  acquired a stake.  Its home unit, whose products include Moen faucets and
Master Lock padlocks, accounted for $3.23 billion in sales in
2010, compared with $2.67 billion for spirits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  