-- 
Foxconn Chengdu Plant Has Explosion and Fire, Killing Two

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-05-20T21:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/foxconn-says-chengdu-plant-has-explosion-fire-this-evening.html
Foxconn Technology Group, maker of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  computers, had an explosion
and fire at a plant in southwest China’s Sichuan province
yesterday that killed two people and injured 16.  The blast on Foxconn’s Chengdu campus occurred at about 7
p.m. local time,  Edmund Ding , a company spokesman, wrote in an
e-mail today. The fire department has the incident under
control, and the company is cooperating with an investigation
and contacting the families of affected workers, he said.  “The company has halted production at the site of the
explosion until the investigation is complete,” Ding wrote.
Ding said in phone interviews earlier that he couldn’t comment
on what products are produced at the plant and that the the
company is still assessing the effect on production.  Terry Gou, chairman of Taiwan-based Foxconn, has been
shifting production to Chengdu and other interior cities in
 China  such as Wuhan and Chongqing, where labor is about one-
third cheaper than in the country’s south. The $2 billion laptop
plant where the explosion took place opened in October, Xinhua
reported yesterday.  The affected plant makes Apple’s iPad2 tablet computers,
the Economic Observer said on its website yesterday, citing
unidentified company workers. Gou couldn’t confirm this in a
telephone interview today. Gou is flying to Chengdu, the paper
said, citing unidentified company employees.  “We are working closely with Foxconn at this point to
understand what caused this terrible event,” Steve Dowling, a
spokesman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said in a phone
interview today. “We are deeply saddened by the tragedy.”  Dowling declined to comment on any possible supply
disruptions, referring questions to Foxconn.  Police in Chengdu said they concluded preliminarily that
the explosion, in a polishing workshop, wasn’t intentionally
caused, China News Service said. The fire has been extinguished,
 China Central Television  reported after 11 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 