-- 
FSA Says It Contacted RBS in Relation to Goodwin Allegations

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-20T17:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/fsa-says-it-contacted-rbs-in-relation-to-goodwin-allegations.html
The Financial Services Authority said
it contacted  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  regarding
allegations that former Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  had
an affair with a senior colleague.  “We can confirm we contacted RBS in relation to this
matter,”  Joseph Eyre  said in a phone interview today.  Goodwin yesterday withdrew part of an injunction barring
newspapers from writing about a “sexual relationship,” hours
after a lawmaker discussed details of the court order in
Parliament.  “Every tax payer has a direct public interest in the
events leading up to the collapse of the Royal Bank of  Scotland ,
so how can it be right for a super-injunction to hide the
alleged relationship between Sir Fred Goodwin and a senior
colleague?” Ben Stoneham, a Liberal Democrat member of the House
of Lords asked. “If true, it would be a serious breach of
corporate governance and not even the Financial Services
Authority would be allowed to know about it.”  The injunction was to prevent the publication of
information about a sexual relationship that Mr. Goodwin had,
Justice Michael Tugendhat said. Tugendhat said the media is
still banned from naming the woman involved or giving any
details about the affair.  “We are cooperating fully with the FSA,” RBS spokesman
Michael Strachan said in an e-mail. “It would be inappropriate
to comment further at this stage.”  RBS posted the biggest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a bailout following the bank’s 73.3 billion-
euro ($104 billion) acquisition of  ABN Amro . Goodwin was cleared
of responsibility in December in a report by the FSA on RBS’s
45.5 billion-pound ($74 billion) rescue.  Geraldine Proudler, a lawyer acting for Goodwin, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  