-- 
Gamesa Opens $72 Million Venture Fund for Clean-Power Technology

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-20T10:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/gamesa-opens-72-million-venture-fund-for-clean-power-technology.html
Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA
started a 50 million-euro ($72 million) fund to invest in
renewable power and energy efficiency technologies, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jorge Calvet said.  The fund will take minority stakes in companies with the
potential to become new Gamesa business units in the medium
term, he said. The fund already invested $5 million in two firms
that make small-scale generators for remote areas.  “We need to think about what the new renewable
technologies will be,” Calvet said. “We can’t afford to be
left behind.”  Gamesa is seeding new business lines to mitigate the risk
to its main operations building  wind turbines  and developing
wind farms. The company boosted net income 63 percent to 13
million euros in the first quarter on international sales.  Calvet is boosting revenue in  Brazil ,  India  and  China  after
regulatory uncertainty shut down most development of wind parks
in  Spain . Gamesa may this year make no sales in its home market
of Spain, which accounted for a third of revenue in 2009, he
said.  The fund aims to invest about 10 million euros a year in
companies that can benefit from Gamesa’s expertise and add value
to its wind turbine business. The company may also offer help
with sales and marketing, sourcing suppliers and manufacturing.  SkyBuilt Power Inc.,  an Arlington, Virginia-based producer
of mobile renewable generators, and  WorldWater&Solar
Technologies  Inc., which makes solar-power water purifiers, were
the fund’s first two investments. Gamesa paid $3 million for a
29 percent stake in SkyBuilt and $2 million for 25 percent of
WorldWater&Solar.  Calvet said Gamesa’s turbine sales may be boosted by
increasing demand next year from the U.S., the world’s second-
biggest market, which slumped last year. U.S. developers may
install 7 gigawatts of new generators in 2012 compared with 5
gigawatts at most this year. The U.S. accounted for 8 percent of
Gamesa’s sales in the first quarter.  “I see some light at the end of the tunnel” for the U.S.
market, he said. “There is a change of trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  