-- 
Gap Sinks Most Since 2002 After Cutting Profit Outlook 22% on Higher Costs

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-20T20:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/gap-sinks-most-since-2002-after-cutting-profit-outlook-22-on-higher-costs.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel
chain, dropped the most in almost 10 years after cutting its
full-year profit forecast by 22 percent as costs to make clothes
rose faster than expected.  Fiscal 2011 profit will be as much as $1.50 a share, the
San Francisco-based company said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement after U.S. markets closed. Gap had previously forecast
a maximum of $1.93 a share.  Expenses per unit will rise 20 percent in the second half,
outweighing price increases, Gap said. The apparel industry is
facing cost inflation for the first time in two decades because
of surging cotton prices and increased pay for workers who make
clothes in China and other parts of  Asia . Retailers have said
they plan to raise prices to counter the higher costs.  “While we acknowledge that costing pressure is impacting
our business, we’re working hard to navigate this short-term
macro challenge to our profitability in the current fiscal
year,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Murphy said
in the statement.  Gap fell $4.07, or 17 percent, to $19.22 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Aeropostale Drops  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , the New York-based teen retailer, also
plummeted after forecasting second-quarter profit of as much as
16 cents a share. Analysts projected 27 cents, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares dropped $3.04 to
$18.30.  The teen chain also declined to reiterate its full-year
profit guidance made in March because of uncertainty surrounding
the second half of the year.  Gap’s first-quarter net income fell 23 percent to $233
million, or 40 cents a share, in the period ended April 30, from
$302 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected 39
cents, the average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Total
sales declined 1 percent to $3.3 billion while online revenue
gained 18 percent to $348 million.  Murphy has boosted profits by closing underperforming
stores and shrinking other locations in a U.S. market the
company describes as mature. The retailer is now looking
overseas for sales growth by expanding into new regions in the
past year, including  China  and  Italy .  Murphy has also shaken up the Gap North America brand,
which has posted sales declines at stores open at least 52 weeks
for six straight years, by replacing its president and head
designer. So-called same-store sales fell 3 percent in the first
quarter at the chain’s namesake brand.  “We are disappointed in our quarterly performance, however
remain invigorated by the opportunities ahead,” Murphy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  