-- 
Greek Government Bonds Fall on Reprofiling Concern; German Bunds Advance

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-20T16:09:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/german-bunds-open-little-changed-as-data-shows-producer-prices-quickened.html
Greek bonds led declines among
peripheral euro-area nations, sending 10-year yields to a
record, on concern a restructuring of its debt would reignite
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The spread, or yield difference, between benchmark Greek
debt and German bunds widened to the most on record.  Fitch
Ratings  said it downgraded Greece’s credit ratings by three
levels to B+ from BB+, four notches below investment grade.
German bonds rallied as European Central Bank Council member
Jens Weidmann said the bank may no longer be able to accept
Greek bonds as collateral if maturities are extended, stoking
demand for the relative safety of Europe’s benchmark debt.  “I see the downgrade as a response to the continued
deterioration of Greece’s fiscals and the need for further
significant austerity measures,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London . “The
decision is not a great shock, although I’m sure the timing is
unhelpful for many as the market has already slid quite strongly
today.”  Yields on 10-year Greek debt surged 59 basis points to a
record 16.59 percent, and was at 16.57 percent as of 4:45 p.m.
in London. The 6.25 percent security due in June 2020 dropped
1.705, or 17.05 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 53.17. Two-
year note yields jumped 36 basis points to 25.22 percent.  ‘Default Event’  Fitch said it would consider an extension of the maturities
of existing Greek government bonds being considered by European
Union policymakers to be a “default event” and that the B+
rating reflects Fitch’s view that Greek sovereign bonds will not
be subject to a “soft restructuring.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  this week
proposed “reprofiling” Greek debt maturities as a way of
limiting the losses of private bondholders. European Central
Bank officials opposed the idea, with Executive Board member
 Juergen Stark  saying any form of restructuring would be a
catastrophe for the banking system. Fellow board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said a solution for reducing debt “but not paying
for it will not work.”  “The big headline of Greek debt reprofiling is really what
defines the whole story,” said  Ioannis Sokos , an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “It’s not a matter of
if there’s a reprofiling. It’s a matter of when and how
significant it is.”  Greek Deficit  Greece ’s budget deficit is forecast to exceed the 7.5
percent target under the EU-led bailout, reaching 9.5 percent of
GDP this year, the European Commission said on May 13. The
nation’s debt, already the euro area’s biggest relative to
economic output, may reach 158 percent of GDP this year and peak
at 166 percent next year.  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund today reiterated plans to
reduce the fund’s holdings of European assets as it seeks to
benefit from stronger growth elsewhere.  The ECB should also continue to withdraw unconventional
measures, such as unlimited loans, designed to bolster bank
lending as financial markets recover from the 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the subsequent seizure of
financial markets, Executive Board member Gertrude Tumpel- Gugerell said at a conference in  Frankfurt  yesterday.  “We need to be part of the growth in the global economy,”
 Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Norges Bank
Investment Management, which manages the fund, said in a
statement on the central bank’s website. “Today’s regional
weights, with Europe given a particularly high weight, should
therefore be reassessed to determine whether they are
appropriate.”  Spanish Election  Spain  sold 3.2 billion euros of 10-year and 30-year bonds
yesterday, still below the 4 billion-euro upper limit indicated
before the auction. Thirteen Spanish regions accounting for 60
percent of the economy and more than 8,000 municipalities are
preparing to hold elections on May 22. Polls show Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialists are headed for defeat
following a week of street protests against his policies.  “We have some weekend risk to blame -- Spanish regional
elections plus yesterday’s Spanish supply is now weighing,”
said Chatwell.  Spanish 10-year yields increased nine basis points to 5.48
percent, while two-year yields climbed 15 basis points to 3.66
percent. Portuguese 10-year yields were 28 basis points higher
at 9.39 percent.  Bunds Gain  German bunds gained, pushing the 10-year yield down five
basis points to 3.06 percent, after reaching 3.05 percent, the
lowest since Jan. 18. Two-year note yields sank six basis points
to 1.77 percent.  German producer inflation quickened to 6.4 percent in April
from a year earlier, compared with 6.2 percent the previous
month, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
The reading was above the 6 percent median estimate of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.25 percent on May 5
and signaled it may wait until after June before raising
borrowing costs to curb inflation. The central bank lifted the
key rate from a record low of 1 percent in April, the first
increase in almost three years.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 0.8
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while
Treasuries have returned 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  