-- 
Germans Complain About Latvian Investment Climate, Premier Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-05-20T13:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/germans-complain-about-latvian-investment-climate-premier-says.html
The German embassy in  Latvia 
complained about the country’s investment climate as Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis sought financing for projects.  The diplomats raised their concern after Dombrovskis
submitted a list of such projects to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  during her visit in September, the weekly magazine Ir
 reported  yesterday. The German embassy answered with a letter
listing complaints from German companies about the Latvian court
system, public procurement and tax administration, Ir said. The
Austrian embassy sent a similar letter to Dombrovskis, the Riga-
based magazine reported.  Foreign investors, who have poured in funds since Latvia
joined the European Union in 2004, are complaining about
competition from other firms that avoid paying taxes, tax
administration, judicial and legal issues. The country’s grey
economy was estimated at around 38 percent last year, about
twice as high as in neighboring Lithuania and  Estonia ,
economists Talis Putnins and Arnis Sauka from the Stockholm
School of Economics in Riga said in a report.  “I have received the letter and we plan to look at it in
the next large investment monitoring and coordination project
council meeting,” Dombrovskis said at a news conference in Riga
today. “Undoubtedly there are further ways to improve,” he
said, citing the corporate bankruptcy process and court system.  Investments from  Germany , the fifth-largest source of funds
for Latvia, fell by about 20 percent last year, the magazine
said, without saying where it got the information.  Similarly, Estonian entrepreneurs wrote a letter to Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  earlier this month, complaining about
Latvian business environment and the grey economy, Aeripaeev
business newspaper reported on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  