-- 
Pakistan and China to Strengthen Military Ties

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-20T05:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/gilani-to-meet-hu-as-pakistan-china-strengthen-military-ties.html
Pakistan  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  is to meet Chinese President Hu Jintao today in Beijing
amid signs the countries are boosting already close military
ties in the wake of the U.S. raid that killed Osama bin Laden.  Pakistani Defense Minister Ahmad Mukhtar said in a May 18
interview in Beijing that his country was in talks to buy FC-20
jets from China and that teams led by Gilani and Chinese Premier
Wen Jiabao had discussed boosting production of the jointly
produced JF-17 fighter aircraft. The New York Times  said China
will provide 50 JF-17 fighters immediately for free, citing
Pakistan officials it didn’t name.  Gilani’s visit to  China  comes as Pakistan’s relations with
the U.S. have come under strain following the raid on the
garrison town of Abbottabad earlier this month that killed al-
Qaeda chief bin Laden. Abbottabad is 48 kilometers (30 miles)
from Pakistan’s capital, Islamabad. Chinese officials have said
anti-terrorist operations should respect national sovereignty.  Pakistan’s delegation told Wen “that our sovereignty had
to be accepted by everybody,” Mukhtar said at Beijing’s Great
Hall of the People. “We will not let anybody come into our
territory without announcing who they are.”  Wen told Gilani that “no matter what changes might take
place in the international landscape, China and Pakistan will
remain forever good neighbors, good friends, good partners and
good brothers.”  U.S. Aid  President  Barack Obama  has proposed $1.2 billion in aid to
Pakistan next year for programs that include counterinsurgency
training for its military forces. Five Democratic U.S. senators,
including  California ’s  Dianne Feinstein , wrote a May 17 letter
to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  questioning the need for such assistance, saying
they were "gravely concerned about the commitment of Pakistan’s
security establishment to fighting terrorism."  Almost half of  Chinese arms exports  between 2001 and 2010,
totaling $3.13 billion, went to Pakistan, according to the
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.  China has had diplomatic ties with Pakistan for six
decades, helping the country build power stations, roads and a
deepwater port. Ahead of the visit, Gilani told the official
Xinhua News Agency that China was Pakistan’s “time-tested and
all-weather friend.” Gilani told Xinhua that China was the
first country to show support for Pakistan following the raid
against bin Laden.  The FC-20 fighter, known as the J-10 in China, is roughly
equivalent to the U.S. F-16C fighter, according to the Asian
Defence  blog , which tracks Asian military developments.  --Michael Forsythe, Daniel Ten Kate. Editors: Ben Richardson,
John Brinsley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe at   mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  