-- 
Glencore Stock Debut Gives One-Day Boost in Commissions to London Brokers

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-05-20T06:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/glencore-stock-debut-gives-one-day-boost-in-commissions-to-london-brokers.html
Glencore International Plc’s initial
public offering, the world’s biggest this year, generated
trading commissions worth as much to London brokers as 70
percent of all trades in the FTSE 100 Index’s stocks.  Some 3 billion pounds of Glencore shares changed hands on
the commodities trader’s debut yesterday, generating commissions
of as much as 4.5 million pounds ($7.3 million), data compiled
by Bloomberg and Tabb Group LLC show. That compares with a
turnover of 4.1 billion pounds for all 102 companies in the
benchmark gauge and was 11 times more than Rio Tinto Group, the
second-most-traded stock by value.  The $10 billion IPO was a one-day boon for brokers facing
declining volume. Trading in FTSE 100 companies has averaged 826
million shares a day so far in 2011, compared with 1.08 billion
over the previous two years, according to Bloomberg data.  “Everyone was really excited about the stock and it had
huge volumes,” said Lex van Dam, a London-based  fund manager  at
Hampstead Capital LP, which oversees $500 million. “There had
been a lot of people trying to get involved. That said, I hadn’t
actually heard anyone say the stock is really cheap.”  About 555 million Glencore shares were traded yesterday,
Bloomberg data show. Transaction costs in  Europe  average about
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, when investors use
broker services, and less than 4 basis points for a direct-
market access platform, according to Tabb Group.  World’s Largest  Shares of Glencore, the world’s largest commodities trader,
yesterday closed at its issue price of 530 pence after rallying
as much 3.8 percent to 550 pence earlier in the day.  The IPO came on the same day that LinkedIn Corp. first sold
shares to the public. The largest professional-networking
website more than doubled to $94.25 on the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday.  Glencore’s share sale involved about 20 banks in total.
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley
managed the deal as global coordinators, along with Bank of
America Corp. and BNP Paribas as joint bookrunners. Barclays
Plc, Societe Generale SA and UBS AG were co-bookrunners.  The sale attracted 12 cornerstone investors including
BlackRock Inc. and  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign wealth fund who are
locked into their holdings for six months, according to the
prospectus.  Demand for the stock will likely be bolstered by index-
tracking funds in the days leading up to Glencore’s admission to
the FTSE 100 on May 25. The funds may buy about 13 percent of
the shares on offer in the IPO,  Paul Galloway , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a May 6 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  