-- 
Goldman Sachs Names Sorrell, Gutman as Co-Heads of U.K. Investment Banking

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-05-20T16:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/goldman-sachs-names-sorrell-gutman-as-co-heads-of-u-k-investment-banking.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  promoted
Mark Sorrell and Anthony Gutman to become co-heads of its U.K.
investment banking unit, succeeding Julian Metherell.  Sorrell, 37, and Gutman, 36, were formerly co-chief
operating officers of U.K. investment banking, Richard Gnodde,
co-chief executive officer of the firm’s European unit, said in
an internal memo to employees. The contents were confirmed by a
spokeswoman in London today.  They will replace Metherell, who left Goldman Sachs this
month to join former BP Plc CEO  Tony Hayward ’s planned 1
billion-pound ($1.6 billion) energy-investment fund. Sorrell,
the son of WPP Group Plc CEO  Martin Sorrell , joined Goldman
Sachs in 1994 and was a former head of the European natural
resources group. Gutman joined from Citigroup Inc. in 2007 as a
managing director advising companies in the retail industry.  Goldman Sachs is revamping the leadership of its  investment
banking  unit after the firm lagged behind JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley in advisory revenue during the first quarter.
The firm this week named Gnodde, 51, co-head of its investment
banking division, which includes mergers and acquisitions as
well as stock and bond underwriting, alongside David M. Solomon
and John S. Weinberg. The unit generated $1.27 billion in first-
quarter revenue, less than 11 percent of the firm’s total.  The firm is the top-ranked adviser on mergers and
acquisitions this year both globally and in the U.K., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-based bank helped to advise Anglo American Plc
on combining its U.K. building material operations with those of
Lafarge SA in February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The firm also advised money manager Gartmore Group Ltd. on its
acquisition by Henderson Group Plc for about 335.3 million
pounds in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch at   gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  