-- 
Gold May Gain as Speculation on Pace of Fed’s Tightening Increases Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-20T12:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/gold-advances-as-europe-financial-turmoil-dollar-weakness-spur-purchases.html
Gold may gain in New York as
speculation the  Federal Reserve  won’t start tightening monetary
policy soon spurs demand for the metal.  Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans yesterday said
improvements in the economy, labor market and the outlook for
inflation aren’t sufficient for the central bank to begin
reducing its record monetary stimulus. Gold pared some of its
gains after the dollar climbed against six major currencies.
Gold typically moves counter to the greenback, which earlier
today fell to a one-week low.  Recent economic data may allow “policy makers some time
before turning hawkish and admitting future liquidity curbs,”
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said
today in a report. “This means limited downside in gold.”  Gold for June delivery rose $2.70, or 0.2 percent, to
$1,495.10 an ounce by 7:59 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices
earlier gained as much as 0.8 percent and are little changed
this week. Immediate-delivery gold was 0.2 percent higher at
$1,495.60 in London.  Twelve of 19 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 63 percent, said bullion will rise next week.
Three predicted lower prices and four were neutral.  Concern about faster inflation, Europe’s debt crisis, a
weakening dollar and fighting in Libya boosted gold to a record
$1,577.40 on May 2. Prices are up 5.2 percent in 2011 after
climbing the past 10 years, the longest run of gains in at least
nine decades in London.  Gold Prices  This week, gold prices “held in U.S. dollar terms; it has
held in euro, yen and sterling terms and we are impressed by
that holding,” said  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor
of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter. He said he’s
adding to his gold positions.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is finalizing the fifth
round of deficit cuts to comply with an international bailout as
economists, including  Nouriel Roubini , say he’ll fail to prevent
Greece from becoming the first country to restructure its debt
in the euro region.  “U.S. dollar weakness and uncertainty surrounding Greece’s
debt situation were supports,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research with ANZ Banking Group Ltd., wrote in a note today.  Silver for July delivery fell 0.1 percent to $34.885 an
ounce in New York. Palladium for June delivery was up 0.1
percent at $729 an ounce. Platinum for July delivery was little
changed at $1,769.60 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  