-- 
Google, J&J Lead U.S. Company Bond Sales to Busiest Week Ever

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-05-20T19:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/google-j-j-lead-company-bond-sales-to-second-busiest-week-ever.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest
Internet-search company, and AAA rated  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  sold
corporate bonds as issuance soared to at least $53.7 billion in
the busiest week on record.  Google issued $3 billion of debt in a three-part offering,
its first ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. J&J’s
$3.75 billion offering included two-year notes paying the lowest
interest rate for bonds of that maturity in records extending to
1999, Bloomberg data show. Sales accelerated 46 percent from a
week earlier, when $36.9 billion was issued.  Companies from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) 
also issued bonds as yields on the debt plunged to the lowest in
more than six months.  Mountain View , California-based Google
borrowed at  interest rates  comparable to J&J and Microsoft
Corp., two of the four U.S. nonfinancial companies with the top
debt ratings, as investors embraced bonds from the most
creditworthy issuers amid signs the economy is slowing.  “It’s a seller’s market,” said  Mark Bamford , head of
global fixed-income syndicate at  Barclays Capital , the
investment banking unit of Barclays Plc, in an interview with
Betty Liu and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.” “Issuers like Google, who can get 1 percent, 2 percent
and 3 percent coupons, they can really dictate terms to the
marketplace.”  Google sold $1 billion each of 1.25 percent three-year
notes, 2.125 percent five-year notes and 3.625 percent, 10-year
debt on May 16, Bloomberg data show. That compares with  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s $900 million of 2.15 percent
debt due May 2016 issued this week and Microsoft’s $750 million
of 2.5 percent, five-year notes sold on Feb. 3.  Yields Decline  Absolute yields on investment-grade corporate bonds
declined this week to as low as 3.75 percent on May 17, the
least since Nov. 11, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Junk bond yields touched 7.2 percent yesterday, matching
the record low, the index data show.  Sales this week surpassed the previous record set during
the period ended March 25, when companies issued $52.5 billion
of debt, Bloomberg data show. The average this year is $29
billion.  “This is a great time to be a corporate debt issuer, when
everyone wants to be your lender and you don’t have a pressing
need to borrow,” wrote Bank of America Corp. credit strategists
led by Oleg Melentyev in a May 18 note to clients.  Economic Data  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities was unchanged
last month after a 0.7 percent gain in March, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed May 17. Work began on 523,000 new houses
at an annual pace, down 10.6 percent, as tornadoes and floods in
the South shut down construction sites.  The Fed is falling short of its goals as a “moderate”
economic recovery leave the central bank with a “considerable
way to go” to meet its mandate of full employment and price
stability, said New York Fed President  William Dudley  said
yesterday in a speech in New Paltz, New York.  J&J sold $3.75 billion of bonds in a six-part offering on
May 17 that included its first notes with a maturity of less
than five years in a decade, Bloomberg data show. It later added
$150 million to a $600 million portion of three-year floating-
rate securities and issued the two-year notes with a record-low
0.7 percent coupon, the data show.  Automatic Data Processing Inc., ExxonMobil Corp., J&J and
Microsoft are the four U.S. nonfinancial companies with the same
debt grades as the U.S. government from Moody’s and S&P.  BlackRock, Texas Instruments  BlackRock sold $1.5 billion of notes in its first offering
in more than 17 months, while Texas Instruments issued $3.5
billion of debt to help pay for its acquisition of National
Semiconductor Corp.  Chrysler Group LLC sold $3.2 billion of eight- and 10-year
notes and EchoStar Corp. issued $2 billion of debt as junk-rated
offerings climbed to $12.2 billion, the most since the period
ended March 4, when companies raised $12.7 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield bonds
instead of Treasuries was little changed at 480 basis points
this week, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Spreads on investment-grade debt climbed 1 basis point to
150 basis points, the data show.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are ranked below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Investors favoring new issues over existing bonds are
helping to keep junk-bond spreads from contracting, said  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners. They’re also concerned that is economic growth may be
slumping, he said in a telephone interview.  “It’s been a comparatively lackluster rebound from the
recession,” Fridson said. “Spreads are in line with the
economic statistics, but those statistics aren’t as robust as
you might expect at this point in the expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 