-- 
Fitch Cuts Greece to B+, Says Voluntary Maturity Extension Is Default

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-05-20T16:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/greece-s-extension-of-bond-maturities-would-amount-to-default-fitch-says.html
Greece’s credit rating was cut three
levels by  Fitch Ratings , which said that even a voluntary
extension of its bond maturities being studied by European Union
policy makers would be considered a default.  Fitch cut its rating to B+, four levels below investment
grade, from BB+ and said that the country could face a further
reduction in its creditworthiness. The yield on Greek 10-year
bonds rose 57 basis points to 16.6 percent, more than twice the
level of a year ago when Greece accepted an EU-led bailout.  “The rating downgrade reflects the scale of the challenge
facing Greece in implementing a radical fiscal and structural
reform program necessary to secure solvency of the state and the
foundations for sustained economic recovery, Fitch said in an e-
mailed statement.  More than a year after Greece received a 110 billion-euro
($156 billion) aid package that aimed to stem the spread of the
region’s sovereign crisis, the nation’s debt is rising,
borrowing costs are near records and European policy makers are
considering additional aid. Ireland and  Portugal  followed Greece
in seeking bailouts as investors shunned the debt of the
region’s other high-deficit nations.  Greece’s two-year bonds yield more than 25 percent,
indicating investors are betting Greece won’t be able to return
to markets as planned under the bailout next year, when it’s due
to sell about 27 billion euros of bonds.  Default Risk  “Greece risks a sovereign default and finance ministers
have expressed strong doubts about the sluggish progress,” in
controlling its public finances, French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  said in an interview published today in
Austrian newspaper  Der Standard .  The cost of insuring Greece debt against default rose 13
basis points to 1,335, down from a record 1,375 on May 9.  “The B+ rating incorporates Fitch’s expectation that
substantial new money will be provided to Greece by the EU and
IMF and that Greek sovereign bonds will not be subject to a
‘soft restructuring’ or ‘re-profiling’ that would trigger a
’ credit event ’ and default rating,” Fitch said.  Maturity Extensions  European finance ministers on May 17 for the first time
floated the idea of talks with bondholders over extending
Greece’s debt-repayment schedule, saying that last year’s rescue
failed to restore the country to financial health. After a year
of austerity that included cuts to wages and pensions and higher
taxes, Greece’s debt is still forecast to reach almost 158
percent of gross domestic product, more than twice the EU limit
and the biggest in the euro’s history.  “An extension of the maturity of existing bonds would be
considered by Fitch to be a default event and Greece and its
obligations would be rated accordingly,” Fitch said.  Even if Fitch or other rating companies determined that
extending maturities constituted a default, the ruling wouldn’t
necessarily trigger credit swaps insuring Greek debt. That
decision may be made by the determinations committee of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Greece’s  Finance Ministry  said the Fitch decision ignored
renewed commitments from the government for deficit cuts and a
stepped-up state asset sales program to meet 2011 targets.
Greece this week pledged to give details on an additional 6
billion euros of spending cuts and revenue measures and to
accelerate a program of 50 billion euros of asset sales to meet
the 2011 deficit target of 7.4 percent of GDP.  The country missed its target for last year, reporting a
shortfall of 10.5 percent of gross domestic product, versus a
goal of 9.4 percent.  Fitch’s move follows a two-grade cut to B, five levels
below investment grade, by  Standard & Poor’s  on May 9, which
said further reductions are possible as the risk of default
rises. The same day, Moody’s Investors Service placed  Greece ’s
B1 ratings on review for a possible downgrade, citing a bigger-
than-forecast 2010 budget shortfall, debt sustainability
concerns and a deepening recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  