-- 
Greece Must Speed Up Asset Sales, Win Investment, Minister Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-20T12:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/greece-must-speed-up-asset-sales-win-investment-minister-says.html
Greece  must speed up its 50 billion-
euro ($71 billion) plan to sell state assets and develop real
estate and attract investments to get its economy back on the
right track, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said.  “To be able to start up the Greek economy’s big engine so
it produces what we all want -- jobs, investment and wealth for
Greeks -- we must proceed faster and more decisively,”
Papaconstantinou told lawmakers in  Athens  today in comments
broadcast live on state-run  Vouli TV . “The state property and
real-estate development and state-asset sales plans move in this
direction.”  Greece is aiming to raise the 50 billion euros by 2015 to
help reduce its debt, which is expected to peak at 166 percent
of gross domestic product next year, according to  European
Commission  estimates released on May 13.  “The time has come to speed up more,” Papaconstantinou
said. The sale of stakes in listed companies must be the
priority, followed by the formation of management bodies for a
“faster income inflow from real-estate holdings.”  The government announced this week it hired banks to advise
on the plans. It said on April 15 it will sell a stake in
 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , reduce its holding
in Public Power Corp. SA to 34 percent from 51 percent and sell
its stake in  Opap SA (OPAP) ,  Europe ’s biggest listed gambling company.  EU Warning  European Union finance ministers told Papaconstantinou at a
meeting in Brussels this week that Greece must reinforce its
plans and sell assets faster to regain control of the national
debt. Papaconstantinou said today that the debt is sustainable
with the right management.  Papaconstantinou said fiscal adjustment is not enough to
revive economic growth. The economy shrank 4.5 percent last year
and is forecast to contract 3.5 percent this year, according to
the commission.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has implemented austerity
measures including wage and pension cuts and higher sales taxes
in exchange for a 110 billion-euro bailout from the EU and
International Monetary Fund that was agreed on last May.  “The  Greek economy  needs private capital, it needs
investments. We must attract foreign investment, big foreign
companies to invest in Greece, big and small Greek companies. We
need to open up the country’s economy to create wealth,”
Papaconstantinou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  