-- 
Green Frog Made Prospector Rich, Began Gold Rush: Lewis Lapham

-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/green-frog-started-gold-rush-guided-prospector-to-klondike-lewis-lapham.html
Gold prospector George Washington
Carmack went native: In  Canada , he befriended two Indians,
Skookum Jim and Charley, and was initiated by a shaman into the
Tagish tribe.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  During a vision quest, Carmack was disappointed when his
animal spirit guide turned out to be a bright-green frog. But
this was Wealth Woman, and she spoke to him.  So far, Carmack had found no gold, but then he started
having visionary dreams: he saw two salmon with shiny metallic
scales and $20 coins for eyes. Following his instincts, he wound
up in the Klondike.  On Aug. 16, 1896, scrambling down the bank of a creek,
Carmack spotted a nugget as big as his thumb. The three men
quickly staked their claims, ultimately becoming millionaires.
As news spread, 338 additional rich claims were made in the
area.  With gold as the only currency, the small Yukon town of
Dawson, sporting tattered tents, a reeking saloon and tiny
trading post, was suddenly the richest community in the world,
more expensive than Paris,  London  or  New York . A keg of nails
cost $800, a small herd of cattle went for $200,000, and poker
was routinely played for a king’s ransom.  I spoke with Howard Blum, author of “The Floor of
Heaven,” on the following topics:  1. End of the West  2. Rush for Gold  3. Bonanza Creek  4. Riches Beyond Imagining  5. Reinvention  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 