-- 
‘Ground Zero Mosque’ Developer Calls Controversy a ‘Blessing’

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-20T21:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/ground-zero-mosque-developer-calls-controversy-a-fund-raising-blessing-.html
The developer of an Islamic center in
lower  Manhattan  said that controversy over its proximity to the
World Trade Center was an “incredible blessing,” giving him
access to capital from around the world.  “The greatest advantage that I have is overnight I have
turned into a public figure,” Sharif El-Gamal, chairman and
chief executive officer of New York-based Soho Properties, said
at a conference sponsored by brokerage Massey Knakal Realty
Services. “I literally have a whole P.R. team that fields my
interview requests.”  Soho Properties  invests in real estate in  New York City .
El-Gamal’s plans for an Islamic cultural center two blocks north
of  Ground Zero  ignited a political controversy last year.
Protesters said its placement near the site of deadliest
terrorist attacks in U.S. history would be an insult to those
who were killed there. New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said
denying Muslims the right to build the center would undermine
America’s values and damage its image.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  El-Gamal’s newfound fame helped open doors to “different
pockets of money” from investment groups around the world, he
said, including sovereign wealth funds.  “That is an incredible advantage, to be able to bring in
sovereign wealth money, and talk to the final decision-maker to
deploy that capital,” he said.  The developer described himself as “extremely bullish on
Manhattan” and said his company is continuing to pursue deals.
Its most recent acquisition was an office building in the
Chelsea/Flatiron district.  “Our bellies are not full,” El-Gamal said. “We’re really
pounding and looking for something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  