-- 
IBM to Invest $100 Million to Further Watson-Like Technology

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-20T16:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/ibm-to-invest-100-million-to-further-watson-like-technology.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, plans to
invest $100 million exploring how companies can mine data like
its game show-winning machine Watson does.  The company will use the money for research in the next two
to three years, studying how to find trends among words or
sentences scattered around the Web. The company will sift
through user information on sites like Facebook and Twitter,
said  Rod Smith , vice president of emerging Internet technologies
at IBM.  “I need to harvest parts of that information to improve my
products if I’m a business,” Smith said in an interview. “The
problem is, finding your product is like finding a needle in a
haystack, and that’s where analytics comes in.”  By 2015, IBM projects $16 billion in revenue from business
analytics and optimization, one of Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano ’s focus areas for sales growth. The amount of data in
enterprises is estimated to increase by more than 650 percent in
the next five years, and 80 percent of it will be unstructured,
or information in the form of words, sentences and video
streams, according to research firm Gartner Inc.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, used the same technology in
Watson, its computer that bested humans to win the game show
 Jeopardy!  The machine understands words and sentences rather
than the formatted data computers normally process, according to
IBM.  Insight From Data  The process can be used elsewhere, for example, to sift
through user complaints about software malfunctions and to
discover problematic trends, said Steven Sams, a vice president
in IBM’s global technology services. It could also tell a
business which of its applications are easiest to move to the
"cloud," or delivered over the Internet, versus those that might
not be worth it, he said.  The company is beefing up some of its products with data
capabilities and has added the technology to 20 services that
help executives utilize their firms’ information. In a 2011 IBM
study, 83 percent of 3,000 chief information officers surveyed
said applying analytics to IT operations was the “most
important element of their strategic growth plans over the next
three to five years,” according to IBM.  “Businesses have been frustrated,” Sams said. “They’ve
got hundreds and thousands of pieces of data, and they’re trying
to get some insight out of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  