-- 
Republican Graham Says Hamas Recognition of Israel a Prerequisite to Peace

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-21T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/mideast-peace-impossible-until-palestinians-recognize-israel-graham-says.html
No peace agreement in the Middle East
can be achieved -- and no further U.S. aid to Palestinians
should be provided -- as long as Hamas fails to recognize  Israel 
as a legitimate Jewish state, Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham 
said.  “How do you have a peace agreement where part of the
coalition government on the Palestinian side has in their
charter the destruction of Israel?” Graham, of  South Carolina ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  this month
signed a reconciliation accord with Hamas, which doesn’t
recognize Israel as a state and has been classified by the U.S.
and Israel as a terrorist group.  “As long as that exists, you’ll never have a peace
agreement,” Graham said. “And why should we give money to
people who have as their goal to destroy our best partner in the
Mideast?”  He spoke shortly after President  Barack Obama  met at the
White House with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who
rejected the president’s call in a May 19 speech to use Israel’s
1967 borders as a starting point for negotiations with the
Palestinians. Netanyahu called the lines “indefensible,” and
Graham said invoking them only makes it “harder to get an
agreement.”  Domestic Spending  On domestic matters, Graham, 55, said spending cuts to
entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare are a
political imperative for Republicans in any debt-reduction deal
with Obama.  “I don’t think any Republican can go home and survive,
quite frankly” without tackling entitlements that are driving
the $14 trillion-plus debt, Graham said. Pressed about his
position on raising revenue through tax increases, Graham said
it “would make some sense” to eliminate deductions and tax
breaks while lowering rates, though he said that wouldn’t have
to be part of the debt-cutting compromise.  “The mandate of 2010 was about  Washington  spending,”
Graham said, referring to the midterm congressional elections in
which a Tea Party-fueled Republican wave based on reining in
spending cost Democrats control of the House and seats in the
Senate.  Biden Talks  Obama has tapped Vice President  Joe Biden  to lead talks
with Republicans and Democrats on a deficit-cutting deal that
lawmakers in both parties say will be necessary to gain support
for a vote of Congress in the coming months to raise the debt
limit.  Efforts by a separate group of six senators from both
parties to reach a more sweeping deal on spending cuts,
budgetary revisions and cuts to entitlement programs and tax
increases collapsed this week when Republican Senator  Tom Coburn 
of  Oklahoma  abandoned the negotiations, saying they were at an
impasse.  Graham called on Obama to join Republicans in a politically
perilous push to limit Medicare and Social Security benefits for
wealthier people and raise the age at which they become
available.  “If you’re listening out there,” Graham said of the
president, “there are a group of Republicans who would gladly
walk the plank with you and hold hands when it comes to means
testing and age adjustment.”  Afghanistan Security  A second-term senator who sits on the Armed Services
Committee, Graham also called for conditioning aid to
Afghanistan on the progress of their security forces and
restricting assistance in  Pakistan  to those who reject terrorist
organizations.  Graham said Obama’s strategy of beginning to withdraw U.S.
troops from  Afghanistan  in July is “a good plan,” adding that
the president should lay the groundwork now for keeping some
units there in a support role past 2014, when Obama has said
U.S. troops will transition out of Afghanistan.  Graham, a close ally of the Arizona Senator  John McCain ,
the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, said he’s remains
neutral as the party’s 2012 race gears up. Asked whether he
wanted Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels to get in the race, Graham
said he would be “an incredibly good candidate.”  As for former Alaska governor Sarah Palin, McCain’s 2008
running mate, Graham said, “Sure,” he would like to see her
run, adding: “When I go to Best Buy, I want 15 TVs to shop
from. The more choices for the consumers, the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  