-- 
Tiger Air Seeks More Tie-Ups to Expand Asia Budget Network

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-20T10:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/tiger-air-seeks-more-tie-ups-to-expand-asia-network-after-indonesia-deal.html
Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) , the
Singapore-based budget carrier, said it may seek more overseas
partnerships after agreeing to take stakes in airlines in
 Indonesia ,  Thailand  and the Philippines.  “We think our franchise is well established” in Singapore,
Chief Executive Officer Tony Davis said in a Bloomberg TV
interview in the city-state today. “Our objective now is to
take that franchise around  Asia .”  The carrier, part-owned by Singapore Airlines Ltd.,
yesterday announced plans to buy a 33 percent stake in
Indonesia-based PT Mandala Airlines as it competes with AirAsia
Bhd for budget travelers across  Southeast Asia . It also reported
a 94 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit after its Australian
unit suffered from tax charges and a slowdown in demand.  “Tiger’s expansion into developing economies may further
lower its cost base as operating expenses are lower in these
countries,” Rigan Wong, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a
note today. “Tiger  Australia  may continue to be impacted by
uncertain demand recovery and rising competition.” Wong has a
“buy” rating on Tiger.  The airline fell 1.3 percent to S$1.53 at the close of
trading in Singapore. Its fallen 18 percent this year, while the
benchmark Straits Times Index is little changed.  Tiger Australia  Tiger will keep its capacity in Australia unchanged this
year, while boosting operations in Singapore 40 percent, it said
yesterday. The Australia unit has faced increasing competition
from  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s budget unit Jetstar and from Virgin
Australia.  Davis also said that Tiger is confident partner South East
Asian Airlines Inc. will win approval for plans to operate
flights in the  Philippines  using Tiger aircraft. The
Philippines’ Civil Aeronautics Board yesterday issued a
provisional order barring SEAir from implementing the accord on
concerns it breached cross-border flight rules.  “As we adopt practices that are fairly commonplace in
other parts of the world, inevitably it will take some time for
people to get comfortable with that and understand how that
works and assure themselves it complies with rules,” Davis said.
“We’re sure it does, SEAir is sure it does -- we need to
convince the regulator.”  Philippine Deal  Tiger has agreed to buy a stake in SEAir, which will also
fly international services from the Philippines. These overseas
flights haven’t been affected by the regulator’s order. Tiger is
also forming a low-cost venture in Bangkok with Thai Airways
International Pcl.  Tiger’s net income dropped to S$1.3 million ($1 million) in
the three months ended March 31 from S$22.3 million a year
earlier. Operating profit dropped to S$10.2 million from S$11.8
million on higher fuel costs. Sales increased 16 percent to
S$163.2 million.  Mandala Airlines, which is undergoing a financial
restructuring, will be 51 percent owned by Sandiaga Uno’s
Saratoga Group, Tiger said yesterday. Mandala’s previous
shareholders and creditors will have a 16 percent. The deal is
pending due diligence, Tiger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  