-- 
IMF Says Ireland’s Ability to Sell Bonds Remains ‘Elusive’

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-20T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/imf-says-ireland-s-ability-to-sell-bonds-remains-elusive-as-markets-worsen.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
Ireland’s ability to sell sovereign bonds remains “elusive”
and its situation may worsen unless the European Union develops
a more comprehensive plan to deal with the region’s debt crisis.  Ireland’s plan to stabilize its banks and reduce its
deficit is “off to a strong start,” the Washington-based fund
said in a review today of its aid agreement with Ireland. “This
decisive approach to program implementation, which should be
supported by a more comprehensive European plan, offers the best
prospect to overcome market doubts.”  Ireland received an 85 billion-euro ($121 billon) bailout
in November, led by the European Union and IMF, as bank-rescue
costs related to a real-estate collapse led to a mounting fiscal
deficit. It was the second euro-region nation to get aid after
 Greece  in May 2010, and bond yields have jumped since  Portugal 
sought aid last month.  “Notwithstanding the strong policy implementation, risks
to the program have risen in some respect,” said Ajai Chopra,
deputy director of the IMF’s European department. “Financial-
market conditions are more adverse, with spreads at
unsustainable levels. This is due to external developments.”  He said there is a need for an “upgrade” to the European
Financial Stability Facility to deal more comprehensively with
problems, and that fixing Ireland’s banks would be assisted by a
medium-term European Central Bank funding plan.  “We hope that such financing will be available” as
Ireland sticks to bank-deleveraging targets, he said.  Bond Yields  Irish bond yields have jumped in the past month. The spread
between Irish 10-year yields and German bunds,  Europe ’s
benchmark was at 741 basis points as of 2:13 p.m. in  London .
That compares with 594 basis points on April 6, the day Portugal
said it would seek aid. The Greek premium was at 1,344 points.  “Deepening financial stress for other euro-area periphery
countries presents a critical yet largely exogenous risk that
needs to be addressed through a more comprehensive European
plan,” the IMF said.  The fund also said Ireland’s 2011 growth outlook is
“moderately weaker” than when the aid package was agreed.
Exports will be the main driver of growth as domestic demand
“will continue to face headwinds,” it said.  “A continued inability to regain  market access  for the
sovereign, and hence for the banks, would impede growth,” the
IMF said. If prolonged, this would “result in a rising share of
official financing in total public debt that could itself lead
to wider spreads.”  Contingency  Ireland’s central bank said March 31 that the country’s
debt-laden lenders would need to draw upon as much as 24 billion
euros of the bailout. That’s less than the 35 billion euros
earmarked for the banks in the rescue program, which also
included 50 billion euros to cover day-to-day state spending.  IMF official Craig Beaumont said today that surplus funds
that had been allocated for banks means there is a “somewhat
larger contingency” for the sovereign “if there is some delay
in regaining market finance.”  The central bank outlined plans in March for the country’s
four so-called viable banks to sell or run down over 70 billion
euros of loans by end-2013. The IMF said today that two other
lenders,  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society, are expected to reduce their assets by 17 billion euros
and loans by 7 billion euros in the same period. They are set to
be wound down over 10 years.  Capital Needs  Irish authorities do not expect Anglo Irish and Irish
Nationwide to need “significant additional” capital when
stress tests on the two lenders are completed, the IMF said.  Initial findings on Anglo Irish’s assessment haven’t shown
further capital shortfalls at the lender, two people with
knowledge of the matter said May 12. Irish Nationwide’s Chief
Financial Officer John McGloughlin said yesterday he’s “very
confident” that the company won’t need more state money.  The IMF said Ireland’s debt-to-GDP is expected to peak at
120 percent in 2013, about 5 percentage points below originally
estimated, as a result of lower-than-expected bank rescue costs.
Still the debt outlook “remains fragile.”  Accelerating budget cuts “would not mitigate” risks to
the country’s debt ratio from “downside shocks,” the IMF said.
“It would further retard growth in an already weak economic
environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  