-- 
IMF Adopts New Code of Conduct for Relationships After Strauss-Kahn Affair

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-20T01:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/imf-adopts-new-code-of-conduct-for-relationships-after-strauss-kahn-affair.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
announced a new code of conduct governing personal relationships
between managers and staff three years after a probe into a
relationship involving former Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  The guidelines were approved on May 6, William Murray, a
spokesman for the Washington-based IMF, said in a statement.
That was eight days before the arrest of Strauss-Kahn, 62, who
is awaiting trial on charges that he sexually assaulted and
attempted to rape a hotel housekeeper in  New York  this month.  “A close personal relationship between a supervisor and
subordinate presents a potential conflict of interest and must
be reported and resolved, usually by reassignment of one of the
individuals to a different work unit,” Murray said in the
statement.  Strauss-Kahn faced allegations of misconduct in 2008 over a
relationship with a female economist at the fund. The employee,
Piroska Nagy, quit in August 2008, and an investigation by the
IMF board released in October that year concluded that while
Strauss-Kahn had made a “serious error of judgment,” he
shouldn’t be fired.  Murray said in the statement that “IMF policies on
personal relationships are strong and consistent with best
practice, including in the  United States .”  He said “failure to report and then resolve the potential
conflict of interest constitutes misconduct and is grounds for
disciplinary action. Under some circumstances, such a
relationship may also constitute harassment and would be
investigated. If found to exist, harassment is grounds for
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.”  Strauss-Kahn resigned yesterday, saying in a statement he
wanted to devote his efforts to “proving my innocence” in the
New York case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  