-- 
Indonesia May Use Japan’s Floating Dock to Unlock Coal Mines

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-05-20T03:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/indonesia-may-use-giant-floating-dock-from-japan-to-boost-coal-shipments.html
Indonesia , the world’s second-largest
coal exporter, may build a floating dock worth as much as 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion) with  Japan  to enable speedier
transfer of the fuel from barges to bigger ships.  Construction of the so-called  mega-float , to be moored off
the coast of East Kalimantan, is likely to start in 2014, said
Hidenobu Teramura, a director at Japan’s  trade ministry . The
dock, longer than eight Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos, will be
designed to cut the time taken to load a Panamax ship to one day
from seven, Japan’s transport ministry said.  The project to build what would be the world’s biggest
floating coal terminal is part of Japan’s goal to export
infrastructure technology and revive a stagnating domestic
economy, worsened by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
Indonesia is looking to spur mining in Kalimantan, among its
most resource-rich areas, where inadequate infrastructure is
impeding development.  “That’s definitely one way to address Kalimantan’s
infrastructure problems that have become a major concern for
foreign and local investors,” Supriatna Suhala, executive
director at the Indonesian Coal Mining Association, said in a
telephone interview.  Coal will provide the bulk of the fuel for power generation
in  Southeast Asia , where demand for electricity may triple 2030,
Wood Mackenzie Research Consultancy said May 12. Companies plan
to build 35 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity in Indonesia,
 Malaysia ,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and  Singapore , it said.  Bali Meeting  Indonesia and Japan will discuss the float project in Bali
on May 30, Suhala said. President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  vowed
to double Indonesia’s infrastructure spending to $140 billion
during his second five-year term to 2014 to achieve  average
growth of 6.6 percent.  Shallow waters around Kalimantan, the Indonesian side of
Borneo Island, limit access to the largest coal carriers that
are able to pass through the Panama Canal. The floating harbor
will be placed in waters deep enough for the panamax ships to
berth on one side and the barges to unload on the other.  The float, 600 meters (1,968 feet) long and 150 meters wide,
will be able to accommodate two Panamax ships and stockpile
600,000 tons of coal, according to Japan’s transport ministry.
There will be space to blend coal to customer specifications,
potentially raising prices, Teramura said.  Coal Prices  Coal may average $124 a ton this quarter and $127 in the
third, Raymond Chan, an analyst with  Standard Chartered  in
Singapore, forecast in a report on May 10. The Indonesian coal
reference price was traded at $117.61 a metric ton in May, down
from $122.02 a ton in April, according to data from the energy
ministry. That’s in line with the $117.15 a ton spot price at
 Australia ’s Newcastle port, a benchmark for  Asia .  Indonesia produced 325 million tons of coal in 2010,
including supply from PT Bumi Resources’ PT Kaltim Prima Coal
and PT Adaro Energy’s Tutupan, among largest coal mines in
Kalimantan. The region produces more than half the nation’s coal
output.  Japan is seeking to attract overseas customers as an aging
population, deflation and increased debt dimmed the outlook for
the economy even before the earthquake and tsunami.  The timing coincides with a plan by  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.
to use a mega-float at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant to store radioactive water. The float, which served as a
fishing park in Shizuoka, will be delivered to  Tokyo  Electric
this month, the utility said on May 15.  Mega Float  “ Mega-float  technology, which has been developed by Japan
Inc., is very important and expected to be a classic example of
Japan’s infrastructure exports,” Teramura said.  Japan Coal Energy Center , known as J-Coal, is scheduled to
complete the Indonesian mega-float study in the second half of
the year, Teramura said. Japan may offer yen-loans to Indonesia
for the project and the terms would stipulate that at least 30
percent of the materials used in the float would be made in
Japan, giving Japanese companies such as  IHI Corp. (7013) ,  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  an opportunity to
win contracts.  IHI, Mitsubishi Heavy and some rival shipbuilders had
jointly developed the mega-float technology in the 1990s, aiming
to create a floating airport in Japan as a cheaper alternative
to a landfill project. In 1999, the group built a prototype
runway off Yokosuka, near Tokyo, and ran trials until 2000
before bidding for a 2,500-meter fourth runway at Tokyo’s Haneda
airport, the single biggest public works contract in Japan.  The companies had to withdraw from the bidding after
failing to meet a government condition of having building
companies in the group. A group of construction companies, led
by  Kajima Corp. (1812) , won the order.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  