-- 
Mini-Size Trend’s Tiny Treats Bulk Up Dairy Queen’s Bottom Line

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/mini-size-trend-s-tiny-treats-bulk-up-dairy-queen-s-bottom-line.html
Mini-size me. American restaurants
infamous for dishing out a day’s worth of calories in a single
meal are selling cheaper, trimmed-down portions to snag calorie-
conscious customers.  “The small is always just a little bit too much,” said
Jill Glascott, 40, polishing off a Snickers candy-bar mini
Blizzard at a  Dairy Queen  in Chicago last week with her two
children. With the 7-ounce mini, “you don’t feel as guilty,”
she said.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Dairy Queen promoted the baby
Blizzards last month, giving diners about half the calories of
the small 12-ounce size. In March,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  unveiled the
“petite” line of mini cupcakes, whoopie pies and lemon squares
for $1.50 each; the junior lemon square has 120 calories,
compared with 490 for Starbucks’s lemon pound cake.  Downsized desserts make diners feel better about tacking a
treat onto a full meal, and restaurants can make more money off
them by charging higher prices, said Michael Keller, chief brand
officer at Minneapolis-based Dairy Queen.  “Consumers are willing to pay a little bit of a premium
for the mini Blizzard,” Keller said. “That has helped our
operators protect their margins.”  Surging ingredient costs are putting restaurant margins
under increasing pressure. World food prices rose to almost a
record in April as grain costs advanced, leading to price hikes
for basics like eggs, meat and sugar. Dairy Queen, which also
debuted a smaller milkshake this month, expects its ice cream
costs to jump more than 10 percent this year.  Shrinking the snacks lets restaurateurs sell for less
without sacrificing profitability, said  Diane Swonk , chief
economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in Chicago.  Pass It On?  “At the end of the day, they’re unable to pass on the
increases to consumers as higher prices, so they’re downsizing
meals,” she said.  Restaurants are following the lead of foodmakers, who
debuted the concept about seven years ago at supermarkets,
selling 100-calorie snack packs of Oreos and Chips Ahoy cookies,
says Todd Hooper, a restaurant strategist at Kurt Salmon in  New
York . A few years later, PepsiCo Inc. copied with 100-calorie
Cheetos and Doritos.  Snacks of that size may help put fat-wary customers at ease
as they scan menus for an afternoon bite, especially now that
more chains are revealing calorie counts on display cases in an
effort to be more transparent. Many restaurants serve entrees
that clock in at 2,000 calories -- or about an entire day’s
recommended intake -- so mini-foods can help balance out the
bill of fare, said Dennis Lombardi, executive vice president at
restaurant consultant WD Partners in Dublin,  Ohio .  McDonald’s Plans  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , which hawks several 700-calorie  burgers ,
is also experimenting with how to scale back. The world’s
biggest restaurant chain is testing $1.99 chicken bites at some
sites in  Detroit  and has promoted Angus snack wraps, about half
the size of the deluxe burger of the same name, to lure diners
during mid-afternoon downtimes.  Serving less-hearty helpings may turn off customers who
still want big meals. More than 70 million Americans weigh in as
obese, according to  data  from the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  “Especially in the U.S., unlike other countries, consumers
have gotten used to super-size me,” Mesirow’s Swonk says.
There’s also the risk snack-sated diners will spend less as they
trade down to cheaper mini-sizes.  Still, some restaurants may sell it as a chance to sample
new menu items, says strategist Hooper, which may generate sales
gains and repeat visits.  “If you can get a mini, it’s not just the financial risk
is down, but the risk of the meal being dissatisfied is
reduced,” he said. “It allows you to get out of your rut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  