-- 
Iron Ore May Fall on Chinese Power Shortages, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-20T08:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/iron-ore-may-fall-on-chinese-power-shortages-deutsche-bank-says.html
Iron ore  may fall next week on
speculation power shortages in China, the world’s biggest
importer of the steelmaking raw material, will force  steel mills 
to cut output, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “Continued softening” lies ahead, though prices “could
find a point of stabilization,” Thomas Baldwin, an iron-ore,
freight and steel trader at Deutsche Bank in  London , said in a
note e-mailed yesterday.  China may face an electricity shortfall of 30 million
kilowatts during the summer peak this year that might reduce
industrial output by 3.6 percentage points, analysts including
Lu Yanjin at Industrial Securities wrote in a report today. That
prospect may discourage steel mills from building stockpiles of
iron ore.  “With potential power shortages, the uncertainty is
meaning the mills are operating on a hand-to-mouth basis,”
Baldwin said.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin last gained on May 4 and has since
dropped 4.4 percent to $175.30 a metric ton, Steel Business
Briefing Commodities Research data show.  Iron-ore prices have risen to “bubble” levels that will
burst as new mines create an oversupply, according to Baosteel
Group Corp.,  China ’s second-biggest steel producer.  “There is a bubble in this market, many are gambling,”
making acquisitions and investment expensive, Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said in an interview in  Shanghai , without saying when
prices would drop. “Everyone who has money is rushing in to
invest in iron ore.”  Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
three biggest suppliers, plan to spend $45 billion on mines.
Global exports of iron ore may gain 28 percent to 1.4 billion
tons by 2016, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences has forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  