-- 
Issa Asks FCC to Explain Baker’s Departure for Comcast After Deal Cleared

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-05-20T21:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/issa-asks-fcc-to-explain-baker-s-departure-for-comcast-after-deal-cleared.html
Representative  Darrell Issa  asked the
Federal Communications Commission to explain Commissioner
Meredith Attwell Baker’s departure for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , four
months after she voted to let the company buy NBC Universal.  Issa, a California Republican and chairman of the U.S.
 House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform , in a May 18
letter released today by his office asked what actions Baker
took to ensure compliance with rules governing employees’
departures.  Baker said May 11 she would resign to work for Comcast, the
largest U.S. cable company. She voted in January to approve
Comcast’s purchase of NBC Universal, which includes the NBC
television network, broadcast stations, and cable channels such
as MSNBC and USA Network.  In a statement posted May 13 on the FCC’s website, Baker
said Comcast contacted her in mid-April about a position, and
she recused herself on April 18th from matters involving the
company.  Baker, 42, plans to leave the agency June 3 after serving
on the FCC since 2009. She is to become head of government
relations for  NBC Universal  in  Washington .  “It does not appear she violated any of her legal or
ethical obligations in accepting a position with Comcast,” Issa
said in his letter to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski .
“Nevertheless, because only a short time has passed since the
Comcast-NBC Universal merger, it is imperative that the public
can trust the integrity of the process.”  Issa asked what rules apply to Baker’s departure, when she
notified FCC lawyers she was in contact with Comcast over a job
offer, and when she recused herself from agency proceedings.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  