-- 
Italy Outlook Revised to Negative by S&P, Prompting Vow of Faster Reforms

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-21T12:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/italy-outlook-revised-to-negative-by-s-p-ratings-affirmed-1-.html
Italy’s Treasury said it will
“intensify” structural changes in the economy and push ahead
with measures to balance the budget by 2014 after  Standard &
Poor’s  said its debt rating is at risk of a downgrade.  “With regard to the economy, the government has initiated
and will intensify its reforms; in regard to the budget, a phase
of measures are in advanced preparation in order to balance the
budget by 2014,” the Treasury said today in an e-mailed
statement from  Rome . It also said the measures will be submitted
to the Parliament for approval by July.  Italy had its credit-rating outlook lowered to negative
from stable by Standard & Poor’s, which cited the nation’s
slowing economic growth and “diminished” prospects for a
reduction of government debt, according to an S&P statement sent
late yesterday. S&P affirmed  Italy ’s A+ long-term rating, the
fifth-highest, and its top-ranked A-1+ short-term rating.  “What S&P is saying is that Italy’s economy is not growing
because it has not undertaken structural reforms, and this lack
of growth could make it difficult for the country to meet its
commitments in the medium to long-term,” said Nicola Borri, who
teaches economics at Rome’s  Luiss University . “They’re not
saying we’re like Greece and  Portugal  now, we’re OK for now, but
we need to reform or there will be trouble down the line.”  ‘Weak’ Growth Prospects  Italy’s “current growth prospects are weak, and the
political commitment for productivity-enhancing reforms appears
to be faltering,” S&P said. “Potential political gridlock
could contribute to fiscal slippage. As a result, we believe
Italy’s prospects for reducing its general government debt have
diminished.”  The Italian Treasury ruled out “absolutely” the risk of
political gridlock highlighted by S&P and said Italy will keep
all its economic commitments. It also pointed out that S&P’s
views are very different from those expressed by the
 International Monetary Fund , Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the European Commission.  The Italian economy expanded 0.1 percent in the first
quarter, less than economists had estimated, as gains in exports
failed to offset weak domestic demand. The euro region’s third-
biggest economy won’t return to its pre-recession level for at
least another two years, and the $2.3 trillion economy needs to
raise productivity, the OECD said this month in a report.  ‘Bottlenecks and Rigidities’  In Italy, “diminished growth prospects stem from what we
consider to be a lack of political commitment to deregulating
the labor market and introducing reforms to boost
productivity,” S&P said. “We believe measures to reduce the
bottlenecks and rigidities in Italy’s economy are especially
important in light of Italy’s limited monetary flexibility.”  The negative outlook implies a one-in-three chance that
Italy’s ratings could be lowered within the next 24 months.  Fitch Ratings yesterday cut  Greece ’s long-term debt rating
to B+, four notches below investment grade, and placed it on
rating watch negative. Even a voluntary extension of the
country’s bond maturities would be considered “a default
event,” the rating company said in a statement. Greek 10-year
bond yields surged to a record 16.6 percent.  Greek Sovereign Debt  The euro fell versus the dollar for the first time in five
days as a policy maker for the  European Central Bank  said it may
not be able to accept Greek sovereign debt as collateral if the
bond maturities are extended.  The European currency weakened 1.1 percent to $1.4161 at 5
p.m. in  New York  yesterday, cutting a weekly gain to 0.3
percent, after earlier advancing to $1.4346, the strongest level
since May 11. The euro sank 0.9 percent to 115.69 yen, after
gaining to as much as 117.17. The Japanese currency slipped 0.1
percent to 81.70 per dollar.  On May 5, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s cabinet,
aiming to spur growth and productivity in the economy, passed a
plan to cut bureaucracy and offer tax breaks for companies that
invest in research. Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti, who
avoided the kind of stimulus policies that inflated budget
deficits in other euro nations, said the plan won’t require any
increase in spending.  The government last month cut its forecast for economic
growth in 2011 to 1.1 percent and in 2012 to 1.3 percent from
previous estimates of 1.3 percent and 2 percent respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  