-- 
Mitsui to Boost Brazil Soy Exports 50% on Expansion in Food Commodities

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-05-20T05:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/mitsui-to-boost-brazil-soybean-exports-by-50-as-food-unit-leads-expansion.html
Mitsui & Co. plans to boost soybean
exports at its Brazilian unit by 50 percent in the next five
years as  Japan ’s second-largest trading company seeks to expand
in food commodities.  Mitsui may spend more than $100 million to add storage and
port facilities to help meet its target of 3 million metric tons
of soybeans a year, Takuya Saito, general manager of Mitsui’s
Multigrain unit, said yesterday in an interview in  Tokyo . That
target constitutes 10 percent of current exports from  Brazil ,
the world’s second-largest supplier of the commodity, he said.  “There are risks with agriculture, but it has a viable
business model and demand for food is only going up” as global
population rises, Saito said. “We’re interested in palm, wheat,
corn and we’re now looking at available opportunities.”  Multigrain, where Mitsui took full control this month after
buying a stake in 2007, will help to account for the fastest
profit growth of all the trader’s businesses in the fiscal year
ending March 31, 2012, according a  Mitsui presentation  earlier
this month.  Profit at the food and retail unit may grow 257 percent to
10 billion yen ($122 million) this fiscal year, mostly because
of Multigrain, Mitsui said. Mitsui’s earnings are dominated by
energy, metals and mining, which brought in more than 80 percent
of the trading house’s net income in the last fiscal year.  Cutting Costs  Mitsui plans to cut costs and may shed jobs at Multigrain,
which employs about 1,500 staff, Saito said. The Brazilian
operation could account for $30 million in pretax profit in the
future, he said. That’s equivalent to 5 percent of Mitsui’s
total pretax profit in the last fiscal year.  Net-income growth at minerals and mining will be 22 percent
this year, while the contribution from energy businesses will be
little changed, Mitsui said May 9.  Spending a total $508 million, Mitsui has gained control of
a company that produces and exports corn, soybeans, and cotton,
allowing the Tokyo-based company to exploit its Asian trading
network to bolster food commodity sales in the world’s most-
populous region.  Mitsui plans to market most of its food commodities in
 China , which accounted for 70 percent of Multigrain’s soy sales
in 2009, Saito said. Japan and  Southeast Asia  will get most of
the rest of the volumes, he said.  Mitsui may still add a partner to co-invest in Multigrain,
as the Japanese company needs a local player to help purchase
more land, Saito said. Multigrain produced 130,000 tons of
soybean in 2010 and may yield 140,000 tons this year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  