-- 
Ivory Coast Cocoa Prices Rise as Exports Resume Post-Conflict, Growers Say

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-05-20T14:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/ivory-coast-cocoa-prices-rise-as-exports-resume-post-conflict-growers-say.html
Prices offered to cocoa farmers in
 Ivory Coast  are rising to levels approaching those seen before
the West African nation’s civil war as shipments from the
world’s biggest producer resume.  Farmgate prices plummeted from an average 800 CFA-francs
($1.74) a kilogram (2.2 pounds) in February after  Alassane Ouattara , now president, imposed an export ban that paralyzed
shipments and almost halted cocoa purchases in the interior.  Ivory Coast’s presidency was disputed for almost five
months as supporters of Ouattara clashed with backers
of  Laurent Gbagbo , who had refused to step down after an
election on Nov. 28. Ouattara, whose cocoa exports ban was
intended to cut off funding for his rival, has taken office,
while Gbagbo was captured in April. Companies including Armajaro
Trading Ltd. and  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN)  said they resumed shipments
from the country this month.  “We are happy because we are currently loading our second
35-ton truck since the crisis ended and we are getting a really
good price: 700 CFA-francs per kilogram,” Willy Lambin, head of
a farmers’ cooperative in the cocoa-producing town of N’Douci,
said in an interview yesterday.  Cocoa prices will recover starting in the third quarter as
West African production falls, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
report yesterday. Consumption will outpace supply by 10,000
metric tons in the season starting in October, shifting from a
102,000-ton surplus in the current period, said Macquarie, which
raised estimates for average prices in the third and fourth
quarters.  32-Year High  Cocoa futures, which reached a 32-year high on March 4,
fell as much as 1.5 percent today to $2,935 a ton, the lowest
price since April 1, and were at $2,939 at 9:12 a.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York .  Cocoa will average $3,150 a ton in the third quarter on ICE
and $3,350 in the fourth quarter, Macquarie said.  Lambin said the farmers in his cooperative had stopped
selling beans for three months due to low prices offered by
buyers, cash flow problems and security concerns triggered by
the violence that accompanied the political standoff.  Farmers said buyers are now offering between 500 and 700
CFA-francs per kilogram, compared to 300 CFA-francs last month
when banks remained closed and warehouses were full of beans.  “The mid-crop is picking up and I see a lot of cocoa
trucks driving by,” Lambert Kouamé, who owns a cocoa farm 100
kilometers (60 miles) north of the commercial capital, Abidjan,
said in an interview yesterday. “I’m selling at 525 CFA-francs
per kilogram.”  Earlier this month, fighting erupted along the fertile
western shore of the country as militias and Liberian
mercenaries loyal to Gbagbo retreated towards neighboring
 Liberia .  “We are still scared when we go to our plantations, but
fortunately prices are climbing -- we can get between 500 and
650 CFA-francs depending on the quality of the beans,” Eugene
Alloco, head of a farmers’ cooperative in the town of Meagui,
said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  