-- 
J&J Wins FDA Approval for First New AIDS Drug in Three Years

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-20T20:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/j-j-wins-fda-approval-for-first-new-aids-drug-in-three-years-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won U.S. regulatory
approval for its Edurant pill, the first new AIDS treatment in
three years.  The medicine from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J was
approved for patients starting their first HIV therapy, the  Food
and Drug Administration  said in a  statement  today. The move
clears a hurdle for a planned combination pill with Gilead
Science Inc.’s Truvada that may generate more than $1 billion in
annual sales, said Courtney Stanton, an analyst at  Decision
Resources Inc.  in Burlington,  Massachusetts .  Edurant stirred excitement among investors who said its
pairing with Truvada might outstrip Gilead’s Atripla, the top-
selling AIDS medicine with $2.93 billion in revenue last year.
While studies showing J&J’s drug is less effective have dimmed
those hopes, the once-daily pill may still find a niche among
patients who don’t respond to Atripla or can’t tolerate its side
effects, Stanton said.  J&J’s drug “will still be a blockbuster, but not quite the
blockbuster that they were hoping for,” Stanton said in a
telephone interview before today’s announcement. “There’s
definitely going to be people that are excited about it and
people that are running out of other options who are going to
take it.”  J&J, the world’s second-biggest seller of health products
after Pfizer Inc., fell 70 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $65.69 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Gilead, based
in  Foster City ,  California , rose 80 cents, or 2 percent, to
$40.98 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  August Decision  The FDA may rule on the combination treatment by August,
Gilead Chief Operating Officer John Milligan told investors at a
May 3 conference. J&J will sell the drug, formerly called
TMC278, to Gilead and also as a stand-alone treatment, Stanton
said. The medicine may generate $870 million for J&J in 2015,
according to a note today to clients from  Larry Biegelsen , a
Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in New York.  The drug is made by J&J’s Cork, Ireland-based Tibotec
Pharmaceuticals unit. The last AIDS drug approved by the FDA was
Tibotec’s Intelence, in 2008.  The AIDS virus infects 56,000 Americans each year,
according to the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention . There were 2.6 million new infections worldwide in
2009, with more than 33 million people living with the virus,
according to  United Nations ’  UNAIDS  program.  Atripla combines Truvada with Sustiva, made by  New York- 
based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)   Side Effects  J&J’s drug, also known as rilpivirine, hasn’t shown the
side effects associated with Sustiva, among them heightened
risks of depression, suicide or birth defects, Stanton said. It
also hasn’t proven as effective, she said. Nine percent of
patients developed resistance to TMC278 in  study results 
released last July, compared with 5 percent on Sustiva.  “In the grand scheme of things, 9 percent is still pretty
low,” Stanton said. “But Atripla is such a powerhouse in this
space, that it’s going to be hard to displace.”  Edurant was approved after two 48-week studies of a
combined 1,400 patients that found it lowered the AIDS virus to
undetectable levels in 83 percent of patients, compared with 80
percent for Sustiva, according to a statement from J&J. Two
percent of Edurant patients quit due to side effects, half the
rate for Sustiva, the company said.  “The complexity of HIV care can be especially challenging
for people who have never before been treated, so the goal is to
find a regimen that is effective and tolerable,” Calvin J.
Cohen, lead scientist on the Edurant studies, said in the
statement. “Edurant may provide a welcome new option,” he
said.  Cohen is research director at the  Community Research
Initiative  of  New England , a Boston-based nonprofit that
promotes AIDS studies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 