-- 
Japan Steel Works’ Parts Orders May Fall 40% on Fukushima

-- B y   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-05-20T07:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/japan-steel-works-parts-orders-may-fall-40-on-fukushima-1-.html
Japan Steel Works Ltd. (5631) , a maker of
nuclear reactor containment vessels, said orders this fiscal
year may fall short of its previous forecast by 40 percent after
the Fukushima nuclear accident in March curbed demand.  Orders for parts used in nuclear stations and  power plants 
will likely be 41.1 billion yen ($502 million) for the year
through March 2012, the Tokyo-based company said today in a
presentation. That’s below the 68.5 billion yen the company
forecast for the period in May a year earlier.  Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami devastated coastal
areas of northern Japan and crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in the worst nuclear crisis
since Chernobyl. The March 11 accident prompted governments to
reconsider the future of atomic energy, hampering efforts by
companies to sell nuclear reactors and prompting a 27 percent
drop in the value of the shares of  Japan  Steel Work.  “The outlook is unclear” after the earthquake and the
accident at the nuclear plant, President Ikuo Sato told analysts
and investors today.  Japan Steel Works shares slid 2 percent to 597 at the 3 p.m.
trading close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japan Steel Works owns the world’s only plant capable of
producing the central part of a large-size reactor’s containment
vessel in a single piece, which reduces radiation risk. Combined
sales and orders at power and nuclear-related divisions for the
current year will likely total 93.3 billion yen, half of which
will account for nuclear-related operations, Sato said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  