-- 
Japanese Bonds Fall, Snapping Five-Week Rally, on Weaker Yen

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-05-20T22:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/japanese-bonds-fall-snapping-five-week-rally-on-weaker-yen.html
Japanese bonds fell this week, with
benchmark debt ending five weeks of gains, as a weaker yen
improved the outlook for the nation’s export earnings.  Twenty-year bonds also declined before the government sells
1.1 trillion-yen ($13 billion) of the securities on May 26.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday he will draft multiple
supplementary budgets to help the nation recover from a record
earthquake, a day after government data showed the economy
shrank for a second quarter.  “I expect yields to rise toward the year-end,” said
 Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at
the government’s debt sales. “There will be a substantial scale
of supplementary budgets as well as demand from rebuilding, so
the economy will recover.”  The benchmark 10-year yield climbed 1.5 basis points this
week to 1.125 percent at  Japan  Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent security due
March 2021, which was auctioned on May 12, traded yesterday at
99.778 yen.  Twenty-year yields climbed 2.5 basis points this week to
1.915 percent. Ten-year bond futures for June delivery were
unchanged at 140.82.  The yen fell to a three-week low of 82.23 per dollar on May
19. A weaker currency boosts the value of overseas sales at
Japanese companies, and counters deflation by pushing up the
prices for imports, diminishing the appeal of the fixed payments
from government debt.  20-Year Auction  The previous sale of 20-year bonds on April 21 attracted
bids for 2.92 times the amount on offer, down from 4.13 times at
the auction on March 16.  Kan, speaking yesterday in parliament in  Tokyo , said the
government will compile its second stimulus plan according to
need and timing. Last month, he unveiled an initial 4 trillion
yen package.  “If necessary, we’ll do a third and fourth extra budget,”
he said.  The decline in bonds was tempered after a government report
on May 19 showed the economy shrank more than analysts forecast
in the first quarter.  Gross domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7 percent
in the three months through March, following a revised 3 percent
drop the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 1.9 percent drop.  Bank of Japan policy makers yesterday kept unchanged their
30-trillion yen credit program and a 10-trillion yen asset-
purchase fund.  “Medium- to long-term bonds are good to buy because the
 Bank of Japan ’s policy helps keep their yields low,” said
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest lender for farmers and
fishermen. “Negative growth for this fiscal year is looking
more likely,” supporting the  bond market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 