-- 
Jollibee Says It Will Invest $41 Million in Overseas Expansion

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T10:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/jollibee-says-it-will-invest-41-million-in-overseas-expansion.html
Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC) , the
Philippines’ largest restaurant operator, will spend $41 million
on overseas expansion in the U.S., China and other countries, as
it looks beyond the domestic market for growth.  Manila-based Jollibee will spend $16 million to buy 20
 Chowking  Chinese restaurants in the U.S. from Fortune Food
Service Co., and invest $25 million in a venture with Viet Thai
International Joint Stock Co. in  Vietnam , two separate stock
exchange filings showed.  “It’s been Jollibee’s ambition to expand in  Asia  and the
U.S. because it has saturated the Philippine market,” said  Ron Rodrigo , head of research at DBP-Daiwa SB Capital Markets in
 Manila . “Its strategy is through acquisitions and the
introduction of their own home-grown brands in overseas
markets.”  Jollibee, which outsells McDonald’s Corp. in the
 Philippines , posted a 9.9 percent decline in first-quarter net
income as higher costs squeezed margins. Chairman Tony Tan Caktiong said May 16 that domestic consumer demand has been
“quite challenging,” while Chief Financial Officer Ysmael Baysa said on the same day that net income growth in the first
half “will likely not be strong.”  Jollibee owns the nation’s biggest hamburger, pizza and
Chinese food chains. Shares rose 0.6 percent to 86.50 pesos in
Philippine Stock Exchange trading today.  The Chowking acquisition gives Jollibee “a more active
role” in expanding the Chinese fast-food chain in the U.S., the
company said in a statement. Jollibee, which owns Chowking in
the Philippines, said the stores it will acquire had $19.2
million in sales last year, with $68,000 in earnings before
interest, taxes and depreciation, or Ebitda.  Margins Hurting  “This can help boost earnings at a time when higher costs
of raw materials are hurting margins,” said Rodrigo of DBP-
Daiwa SB. “This expansion could start paying off six months
onwards.”  Viet Thai, owner and operator of the Highlands Coffee, Hard
Rock Cafe and other food outlets in Vietnam, will own the
remaining stakes of the joint venture’s companies in Vietnam and
 Hong Kong , Jollibee said.  Viet Thai and its related parties will receive a $35
million loan to be repaid in 2016 at an interest of 5 percent a
year, Jollibee said. Viet Thai’s combined restaurant businesses
had $1.7 million in Ebitda last year on $30.2 million of sales,
it said.  Jollibee said part of its investments in the Viet Thai
venture will be used to fund the acquisition of an additional
restaurant chain. The purchase will give the venture a total of
139 stores for all its brands, including 118 in Vietnam and 21
in five other countries, it said.  Jollibee owns six restaurant brands in the Philippines with
a combined network of 1,931 stores in the Southeast Asian
nation. The company also has 407 stores overseas, half of which
are in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  