-- 
JPMorgan Traders Continue Taking Market Share, Deutsche Bank Analysts Say

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-05-20T20:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/jpmorgan-traders-continue-to-take-market-share-o-connor-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most
profitable U.S. bank, is taking trading revenue from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  as investments
including its $1.7 billion purchase of RBS Sempra’s commodities
business begin paying off, Deutsche Bank AG analysts said.  JPMorgan’s share of total trading revenue among the top
five broker-dealers has risen to 24 percent during the first
quarter from 21 percent a year before, Deutsche Bank analysts
Matt O’Connor and David Ho told clients in a research note after
meeting with Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein yesterday.  “We came away more confident than ever that share gains in
FICC trading are sustainable as management noted that strong
relative trading results recently reflect the benefits of
investment spend over the past couple of years,” the analysts
said, referring to JPMorgan’s fixed-income, interest-rate,
currency and commodities trading unit.  Goldman Sachs, which had 26 percent of the trading market
last March, and Bank of America, which had 21 percent, both lost
ground to JPMorgan, according to Deutsche Bank’s data. Goldman
Sachs’s market share fell to 24 percent, while Bank of America’s
dropped to 19 percent. Run by Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon,  JPMorgan is already seeing higher revenue from individual
clients from investments in its capital markets business,
O’Connor and Ho wrote.  First-quarter net income for the New York-based bank
climbed to a record $5.56 billion. Almost 43 percent of that
profit came from the investment bank, where earnings fell 4
percent to $2.37 billion from a year earlier. Fixed-income and
equity markets revenue, where trading results are reported, was
$6.6 billion, or 81 percent of the investment bank’s revenue in
the first quarter.  Proprietary Trading Restrictions  Regulatory restrictions on proprietary trading and
international capital rules won’t result in a “meaningful”
loss in revenue for the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
O’Connor and Ho said. They reiterated their “buy”
recommendation on the stock and raised their 12-month price
target to $54 from $52 a share. JPMorgan fell 87 cents to $43.13
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Expenses will remain high and JPMorgan’s mortgage book has
cost the company $22 billion since 2009, averaging $3 billion to
$4 billion a quarter, according to the note. Braunstein said
“additional mortgage hits were likely and could linger for
another 12 to 24 months,” O’Connor and Ho said. They estimated
the company will take another $3 billion in mortgage-related
litigation charges this year and again in 2012, “although our
bias is they could be higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Dawn Kopecki in New York
at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David Scheer
at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  