-- 
Kenya’s Housing Finance Sees Industry Investment Slowing in 2012, MD Says

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-20T09:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/kenya-s-housing-finance-sees-industry-investment-slowing-in-2012-md-says.html
Housing Finance Ltd.,  Kenya ’s only
publicly traded mortgage company, said investment in housing may
slow in 2012 ahead of an election that may aggravate political
tensions that exploded into violence three years ago.  “The political situation is of great concern due to the
ongoing  international criminal court  cases against prominent
politicians, the implementation of the constitution and the
expectation of a divisive campaign for the 2012 elections, which
carries a lot of risk for investors,” Managing Director Frank Ireri said by phone yesterday from, Nairobi, the capital.  Kenya’s mortgage-finance market more than tripled in the
five years to May 2010 to 61 billion shillings ($711 million),
as the number of mortgages almost doubled to 13,803, according
to the central bank. Housing Finance’s mortgage book totaled
20.4 billion shillings in the first quarter of 2011, Ireri said.  A dispute over the country’s previous presidential election
in December 2007 sparked ethnic fighting that left 1,500 people
dead and forced 300,000 more to flee their homes. The violence
ended after incumbent President Mwai Kibaki and rival candidate
 Raila Odinga  agreed to form a coalition government and to write
a new constitution. The charter was enacted in August and is
currently being implemented.  “While we don’t anticipate violence, investors are cautious
of the expected prolonged election campaigns,” Ireri said.  The International Criminal Court has accused six Kenyans,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and lawmaker William Ruto, of playing leading roles in the violence at the last
election. All six deny the charges.  Candidates  Kenyatta, Ruto and Kenyan Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka
are among officials that may seek nominations for the presidency,
the  Daily Nation , a Nairobi-based newspaper, reported on May 9.
Odinga, the country’s prime minister, and former Justice
Minister Martha Karua have declared their intention to run in
next year’s vote.  Accelerating inflation, boosted by higher crude costs, may
also dampen investment in the housing industry, Ireri said.
Kenyan annual inflation was 12.05 percent in April, exceeding
the central bank’s 5 percent target for the fourth straight
month, according to the Kenya National Statistics Bureau.  Oil prices , which have risen 46 percent in the past year,
will “raise the cost of business, which will be reflected on the
final prices,” Ireri said, without elaborating.  The company earlier this month posted a 65 percent increase
in first-quarter profit to 120.1 million shillings ($1.4 million)
as net interest income, the money earned from interest charges
on loans, jumped 32 percent to 434.6 million shillings.  Housing Demand  Demand for homes in Kenya increased after the central bank
cut its benchmark interest rate eight times between December
2008 and January 2011 to help boost economic growth. Urban areas
in Kenya need 150,000 housing units a year, compared with the
35,000 currently being added, resulting in overcrowding and
informal settlements, according to Housing Finance.  “The outlook for the remainder of this year is promising as
we come to the end of our five-year strategy and we expect last
year’s sales momentum to carry us through,” Ireri said.  In 2008, the company began a program that included steps to
reduce operating costs and raise additional capital.  Last year, Housing Finance raised 7.1 billion shillings,
the first portion of a planned 12 billion-shilling corporate
bond. The funds enabled the company to undertake large-scale
projects, Ireri said.  “Due to the expected challenging times ahead and slow
absorption of the funds, there are no plans to raise the balance
in the immediate future,” Ireri said, citing rising interest
rates as an additional concern.  The central bank in March unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent,
reversing a cut announced two months earlier.  Shares in Housing Finance were unchanged today at 26
shillings. The stock has dropped 1.9 percent so far this year,
outperforming a 10 percent decline in the benchmark NSE 20 index
over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 