-- 
Kuwait Elected to UN Rights Council After Syria’s Withdrew

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-20T16:51:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/kuwait-elected-to-un-rights-council-after-syria-s-withdrawal.html
Kuwait  was elected today to the
 United Nations  Human Rights Council after Syria dropped its bid
for a seat, under pressure from Western nations for President
Bashar al-Assad’s repression of protesters.  The UN General Assembly elected 15 nations to three-year
terms on the Geneva-based body, which has 47 members. Austria,
Chile,  India , Indonesia and Italy were among the countries which
will take seats next month.  Syrian Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari last week told Asian
nations that had endorsed his government’s candidacy that the
Assad regime was “reprioritizing its candidacies in the UN
organization in light of the number of reform measures the
government has started to implement.”  “It is a sign of progress that Syria was unable to find
adequate international support for its cynical candidacy for the
 Human Rights Council , and thus had to withdraw,” Patrick
Ventrell, spokesman for the U.S. mission to the UN, said in a
statement released in New York.  “Two years in a row, the most egregiously unqualified
candidates have had to withdrawal their candidacies due to lack
of support, and a third had its membership suspended on the
basis of its gross violations of human rights,” Ventrell said,
referring to Iran’s withdrawal in 2010 and Libya’s suspension
from the council in March.  Kuwait Issues  The  Human Rights Council  was established in 2006 to promote
and protect human rights, report on the performance of UN member
governments, and put pressure on countries to address
violations. The U.S. was elected to the council in 2009 after
the Bush administration earlier refused to seek membership.  Human rights advocates pressed Kuwait to take steps toward
democracy after it took  Syria ’s place on the slate of Asian
candidates. New York-based Human Rights Watch called on Kuwait
to prevent abuse of migrant workers and New York-based  UN Watch 
said Kuwait wasn’t qualified because it “fails to meet the
standards of an electoral democracy.”  The U.S. State Department, in its 2010 human rights report,
said Kuwait’s problems include “limitations on citizens’ right
to change their government” along with “limited freedoms of
speech, press, assembly, association and religion.”  Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Republic of Congo,
Philippines,  Czech Republic , Romania,  Costa Rica  and Peru were
also elected to the Human Rights Council.  The council currently includes Cuba,  China , Bahrain, Saudi
Arabia and Russia, which advocates have said commit human rights
abuses. Libya’s membership was suspended in response to the
Qaddafi’s regime’s attacks on anti-government protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  