-- 
NATO Aircraft Hit Pro-Qaddafi Libyan Warships as Clinton Says Family Fled

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-05-20T10:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/nato-aircraft-hit-pro-qaddafi-libyan-warships-as-clinton-says-family-fled.html
NATO aircraft hit eight of Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s warships in the ports of Tripoli, Al
Khums and Sirte overnight as U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said members of Qaddafi’s family fled the country.  “Given the escalating use of naval assets, NATO had no
choice but to take decisive action to protect the civilian
population of Libya and NATO forces at sea,” Rear-Admiral
Russell Harding said in a statement released today in Naples.
“All the vessels targeted last night were naval warships with
no civilian utility.”  Flames and smoke could be seen by reporters at Tripoli
harbor, the  Associated Press  reported. It cited Qaddafi regime
officials as saying North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets hit
a warship and five coast guard boats in Tripoli. The U.K.
Ministry of Defence said in an e-mailed statement its jets hit
two Libyan corvettes at Al Khums and a facility constructing
fast inflatable boats used by Qaddafi forces to lay mines.  The three-month fight between troops loyal to Qaddafi and
those opposed to his four-decade rule has cut the country’s oil
exports and spawned a NATO air campaign against pro-government
forces, leaving rebels mostly in control in the east. Arab
uprisings have toppled the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia  and
inspired pro-democracy protests across the region, including in
Yemen and  Syria .  “Now, time is working against Qaddafi,” President  Barack Obama  said yesterday in a  speech  in  Washington  on the Middle
East and North  Africa . “He does not have control over his
country. The opposition has organized a legitimate and credible
interim council.”  Qaddafi’s Wife Flees  NATO pressure on the Libyan military is yielding results,
Clinton said in an  interview  on CBS yesterday. Qaddafi’s wife
and daughter fled across the border into Tunisia in the past two
days, she said, without saying where she got the information.  Qaddafi’s wife, daughter and grandchildren have left the
country, Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the rebels’
National Transitional Council, said at a briefing yesterday,
again without elaborating.  “He’s trying to secure a safe passage for most of his
family,” Ghoga said. “The noose has tightened.”  At least 15,000 Libyans have died during the battle, Ghoga
said in a May 18 interview in Benghazi, the rebels’ eastern
stronghold. He called on NATO to step up its attacks.  ‘Military Machine’  “We hope for greater intervention to protect our people
and civilians,” Ghoga said. “As long as there is a threat to
civilians, strikes must be intensified against the military
machine” of the Libyan leader.  Rebel forces repelled an attack on Misrata by Qaddafi
loyalists yesterday, Fawzi Abd El-Ali, a member of the rebels’
National Transitional Council for the city, said in a telephone
interview today. He said one member of the rebel forces died in
the fighting as Qaddafi forces tried to enter the city from its
western gate.  Clinton last night released a statement saying an
unspecified number of foreign journalists, including two
Americans, had been released from  Libya .  “We call upon the Libyan government to immediately release
all U.S. citizens and others who are being unjustly detained,”
Clinton said in the  statement .  The unrest in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil
reserves, caused supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to decline last month, the  International
Energy Agency  said on May 12. Supplies from the North African
nation “will remain absent from the market for the rest of
2011,” the agency said.  Crude oil for July delivery, the most-active contract for
West Texas Intermediate, rose as much as $1.16 to $100.09 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $99.91 at 10:30 a.m. London time. The June
contract, which expires today, gained 96 cents to $99.40.
Futures are 0.3 percent lower this week and up 46 percent in the
past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Benghazi, Libya, at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley in  Tokyo  at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  