-- 
Natural Gas Futures May Decline on Mild Weather, Survey Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-05-20T10:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/natural-gas-futures-may-decline-on-mild-weather-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline as
mild weather reduces air-conditioning use, limiting demand for
the fuel from power plants, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Eight of 18 analysts, or 44 percent, forecast that gas
futures will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
May 27. Six, or 33 percent, said futures will rise and four
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 42 percent
of participants said gas prices would advance.  Normal or below-normal temperatures are likely across most
of the continental U.S. from May 24 through May 28, according
Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland . Temperatures in
the Midwest may be as much as 8 degrees below normal, the
company said in a note to clients today.  “The market may be vulnerable for a downside test of the
$4 level or even somewhat lower on a further round of long
liquidation,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in  New York . “We currently lack any specific
forecast for a heat wave or early hurricane tracking through the
 Gulf of Mexico  that would ward off renewed price weakness.”  Natural gas for June delivery dropped 15.2 cents, or 3.6
percent, to $4.094 per million British thermal units in the
first four days of trading this week on the New York exchange.  The high temperature in Chicago on May 27 may be 71 degrees
Fahrenheit (22 Celsius), 4 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  There is a 47 percent chance of a hurricane hitting the
 Gulf Coast  during the 2011 storm season, Colorado State
University forecasters said April 6. The season starts June 1
and ends Nov. 30.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6     8         4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  