-- 
Netanyahu Says Obama Is  Endangering Israel Before Oval Office Talks Begin

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-20T10:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/netanyahu-says-obama-s-1967-borders-call-endangers-israel-before-meeting.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Barack Obama’s call for a Palestinian state
“based on the 1967 lines” risks endangering his country, just
hours before the two are scheduled to meet in the Oval Office.  Netanyahu responded to Obama’s speech on the Middle East
yesterday by saying that such borders would be “indefensible”
and could leave major Jewish population centers behind
Palestinian lines. Obama and Netanyahu are scheduled to meet at
11:15 a.m. today.  Obama’s speech marked the first time a U.S. president has
explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the starting
point for talks that would have  Israel  cede control of land to
Palestinians in return for peace and security. The proposal may
have little impact, as Obama offered no steps to restart the
stalled peace talks.  “There are some things that cannot be swept under the
carpet, especially fundamental principles that are important to
the Israeli consensus,” Netanyahu told reporters on the plane
to Washington. Earlier, he said Israel wants Obama to reaffirm
“commitments” made to Israel in 2004 that the country would
not have to withdraw to “indefensible” 1967 boundaries.  Netanyahu’s language reflects his desire to make clear
Israel’s position before today’s meeting, said a government
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Obama said a deal along 1967 lines, which has been the
basis for off-and-on talks for 20 years, needs to include land
exchanges to allow Israel to retain major settlement blocs in
return for granting offsetting land to Palestinians.  Republican Reaction  “The borders of Israel and  Palestine  should be based on
the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and
recognized borders are established for both states,” Obama said
at the State Department in Washington, outlining his vision for
the Middle East.  In Ramallah, Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
“expressed his appreciations” to Obama for continuing to press
for talks, Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said.  Some potential Republican presidential candidates saw an
opening to attack Obama as insufficiently pro-Israel.
“Insistence on a return to the 1967 border is a mistaken and
very dangerous demand,” said former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty .  “President Obama has thrown Israel under the bus,” former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said in a statement.  Obama’s language was an incremental move, not a break with
what has been U.S. policy, said  Daniel Kurtzer , a former
ambassador to Israel and Egypt. He said that while it has long
been assumed that 1967 borders will form the basis for an
agreement, “when you finally get an articulation of U.S.
policy, it means something.”  Small Step  Zbigniew Brzezinski, who served as national security
adviser to President  Jimmy Carter , said, “I think it’s a small
step in the right direction because it reaffirms the U.S.
commitment to the 1967 lines, two states and equal swaps.”  “We know by now that, left to themselves, the Israelis and
Palestinians will never resolve” their issues, Brzezinski, who
serves as a counselor and trustee for the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington , said in an interview.  Obama’s speech laid out for Americans the administration’s
plan to advance values while safeguarding national interests in
reaction to the rapid change sweeping the Middle East.  “At a time when the people of the Middle East and North
Africa are casting off the burdens of the past, the drive for a
lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims is
more urgent than ever,” Obama said, of the Israeli-Palestinian
dispute.  Stall  Israeli-Palestinian negotiations stalled shortly after they
resumed in September 2010 when Netanyahu refused to extend a
settlement-building freeze that Palestinians had said was
necessary for talks to continue.  While Obama reaffirmed the need to ensure Israel’s security
and the right of Palestinians to “govern themselves” in a
“sovereign and contiguous” state, the president had tough
words for both sides.  Time is working against Israel, Obama said. The Palestinian
population is increasing and “the dream of a Jewish and
democratic state cannot be fulfilled with permanent
occupation,” he said.  The president also called for “permanent Palestinian
borders with Israel,  Jordan , and Egypt.” The statement didn’t
seem to leave room for Israel’s position that any agreement must
allow Israeli troops to patrol the seam of an eventual
Palestinian state and Jordan to prevent terrorist groups from
entering.  Military Presence  Netanyahu announced in his statement that when he meets
with Obama, he “will make clear that the defense of Israel
requires an Israeli military presence along the Jordan River.”
Netanyahu wants to discuss Obama’s stance on Palestinian
refugees after clashes last week at four points along Israel’s
border, the government official said. He will also raise the
issue of whether the U.S. will veto any  United Nations  Security
Council resolution recognizing a Palestinian state in September.  Reaction from members of Netanyahu’s coalition government
was even harsher.  Danny Danon, a lawmaker from Netanyahu’s Likud Party,
likened Obama’s plan to one to eliminate Israel by former
Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat , adding that the U.S. president
hoped “to remove the State of Israel from the map.”  Still, some analysts pointed out that Obama hewed to
demands Israelis have made in the past, including the insistence
that security come before issues such as the fate of  Jerusalem 
and the status of Palestinian refugees.  Land Swaps  “The remarks of the president were limited to only two
aspects of the six core issues: borders and security,” Maged Abdelaziz,  Egypt ’s ambassador to the United Nations, told
reporters in  New York . Obama did not talk about settlements,
water and refugees, Abdelaziz said.  At the same time, Obama’s mention of land swaps seemed to
endorse a 2004 agreement between then-President  George W. Bush 
and then-Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, said  Jon Alterman ,
director of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington.  In a 2004 letter Bush sent to Sharon, he recognized that
any peace agreement must take into account major settlement
blocs built since Israel gained control of the  West Bank  and
east Jerusalem in June 1967, as well as the fact that Israel
would not relinquish Jerusalem. In return, Sharon moved to
withdraw completely from Gaza and some parts of the West Bank.  Obama made clear that the Palestinian Authority’s move to
form a unity government with the Islamic militant group Hamas
posed “profound and legitimate questions for Israel.” Hamas is
considered a  terrorist group  by the U.S., the European Union and
Israel.  “How can one negotiate with a party that has shown itself
unwilling to recognize your right to exist?” Obama said.  He dismissed plans byAbbas to unilaterally pursue United
Nations recognition of an independent state within the 1967
borders in a September vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  