-- 
Netanyahu Tells Obama Israel Can’t Return to ‘Indefensible’ 1967 Borders

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-20T22:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/netanyahu-says-israel-can-t-return-to-indefensible-1967-borders-in-talks.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu again rejected President  Barack Obama ’s call to use
the 1967 borders as a starting point for negotiations with the
Palestinians, calling those lines “indefensible.”  Israel “can’t go back” to the boundaries that prevailed
before the 1967 Middle East war, Netanyahu said at the White
House, with the U.S. president sitting next to him. “A peace
founded on illusions will crash eventually on the rocks of
Middle Eastern reality.”  Obama told reporters that he and Netanyahu “discussed in
depth” the principles he laid out yesterday in a speech on the
upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa as well as the
differences they have. He reiterated U.S. support for Israel’s
security, saying “a true peace can only occur if the ultimate
resolution allows  Israel  to defend itself against threats.”  Netanyahu arrived in Washington from Israel hours after
Obama declared support for a Palestinian state in the  West Bank 
and  Gaza Strip  using borders from before the 1967 war as a
starting point for talks with negotiated alterations. He also
called for demilitarization of Palestinian territory.  The two leaders said the reconciliation accord Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  signed this month with Hamas -
- classified as a terrorist group by Israel and the U.S. --
threaten any opportunity for discussions.  “Israel cannot negotiate with a Palestinian government
that is backed by Hamas,” Netanyahu said, calling the group the
“Palestinian version of al-Qaeda.”  Extended Discussion  Palestinian leaders, who have said they will not renew
peace negotiations with Israel unless Netanyahu stops
construction in Jewish settlements, saw no reason for optimism
after the meeting in  Washington .  Netanyahu “looked into Obama’s eyes at the White House and
told him bluntly, ‘I will not accept your vision of the
Palestinian state within the 1967 borders,’” the chief
Palestinian negotiator,  Saeb Erakat , said in a telephone
interview from his home in the West Bank town of Jericho.  The meeting, originally scheduled to last about 50 minutes,
was a “prolonged and extremely useful conversation,” Obama
said. The two continued the discussions at a working lunch.  No Talks  “What I saw was an Israeli prime minister who was
interested in paying back an American president for willfully
giving a public speech on the eve of the meeting that all but
ensured a significant difference of opinion,” said  Aaron David Miller , a former U.S. Mideast peace negotiator who is now a
fellow at the  Woodrow Wilson International Center  in Washington.
The two men took the opportunity to disagree publicly now
because “there’s no peace process and no prospect for a peace
process,” he said.  Obama’s speech yesterday marked the first time a U.S.
president has explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the
starting point for talks that would have Israel cede control of
land to Palestinians in return for peace and security. Obama
offered no steps to restart the stalled peace talks.  He said a deal along 1967 lines, which has been the basis
for off-and-on talks for 20 years, needs to include land
exchanges to allow Israel to retain major settlement blocs in
return for granting offsetting land to Palestinians.  Disagreements  The Israeli leader indicated before reaching Washington
that he expected the talks to focus more on his disagreements
with Obama than on resurrecting the  peace process .  “There are some things that cannot be swept under the
carpet,” Netanyahu told reporters on the flight from Israel.  Obama today said that Israel’s concerns can be met.  “I think that it is possible for us to shape a deal that
allows Israel to secure itself,” Obama said.  “We have differences here and there,” Netanyahu said
today, “but I think there’s an overall direction that we wish
to work together to pursue a real genuine peace between Israel
and its Palestinian neighbors.”  Obama is scheduled to address the  American Israel Public
Affairs Committee , a pro-Israel lobbying organization, May 22 in
Washington. Netanyahu is set to speak to the group the next day.
The Israeli leader will also address a joint session of
Congress.  Israeli-Palestinian negotiations stalled shortly after they
resumed in September 2010 when Netanyahu refused to extend a 10-
month settlement-building freeze that Palestinians made a
condition for talks to continue.  Obama’s language on the borders was an incremental move,
not a break with what has been U.S. policy, said  Daniel Kurtzer ,
a former ambassador to Israel and  Egypt . He said that while it
has long been assumed that 1967 borders will form the basis for
an agreement, “when you finally get an articulation of U.S.
policy, it means something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  