-- 
NRC Lacks Formal Training Plan to Check Casks, Report Finds

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-20T15:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/nrc-lacks-formal-training-plan-to-check-casks-report-finds-1-.html
The U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  lacks a “formalized agencywide training program”
for inspecting the dry casks used to store spent radioactive
fuel rods, the agency’s inspector general said in a report.  Some casks may be unchecked for almost six years, according
the report by Stephen Dingbaum, NRC assistant inspector general,
released today. U.S. nuclear plants are ramping up the use of
dry-cask storage and “there is an increased potential for
inadequate inspections to occur,” the report said.  Nuclear fuel rods can be moved into dry-cask storage after
at least a year cooling down in spent-fuel pools,  according to
the NRC . The casks are usually comprised of leak-proof steel
cylinders, which house the rods, surrounded by additional layers
of metal and concrete to block radiation.  The NRC is studying whether additional spent fuel should be
moved from pools to dry casks as part of a nuclear safety review
triggered by a March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  The disaster crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant with fires, explosions and radiation leaks. The
utility has struggled to keep some of the plant’s spent-fuel
pools filled with water, which cools the rods and serves as a
radiation shield.  By 2025, the U.S. nuclear industry expects all reactor
sites will have moved some spent fuel from pools to casks, the
inspector-general’s report said. While no “significant issues”
are reported with dry casks, their increased use requires better
training for NRC inspectors, the report said.  The NRC inspector general found that most dry casks are
inspected every two years. The NRC’s requirements “are not
clearly defined,” and some casks are checked once a year and
others wait almost six years for a routine inspection, the
report said. The NRC should set a “minimum inspection
frequency” for dry casks at all plants, the report said.  NRC officials reviewed the watchdog’s findings and
generally agree with the recommendations, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  