-- 
Obama Honors CIA, Intelligence Community for Bin Laden Killing

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-20T19:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/obama-honors-cia-intelligence-community-for-bin-laden-killing.html
President  Barack Obama  thanked the
spies and analysts of the Central Intelligence Agency today for
their persistence in helping U.S. forces track down  Osama bin Laden  and vowed to pursue every lead they develop from a trove
of documents and computer files taken during the operation.  The intelligence operation that led to bin Laden’s hideout
in Pakistan will be studied for “generations to come,” the
president said at agency headquarters in Langley,  Virginia ,
outside Washington.  “As you go about your work with incredible diligence and
dedication every single day, I hope all of you understand how
important it is, how grateful I am and that you have the thanks
of a grateful nation,” he said.  Obama told the CIA employees that their work didn’t end
with the death of bin Laden. The intelligence material taken by
the Navy SEALs when they left the terrorist leader’s compound in
Abbottabad,  Pakistan  is “the largest trove” of information
ever seized from a terrorist leader.  “Today, every terrorist in the al-Qaeda network should be
watching their back,” Obama said. “We are going to pursue
every lead.”  The CIA in August 2010 located the residence of a member of
bin Laden’s inner circle, who served as one of his few trusted
couriers. A month later, the agency showed Obama secret
assessments that indicated bin Laden may be in the high-security
compound, because the custom construction suggested someone of
significance.  The detective work set in motion a series of clandestine
actions that led to Obama’s April 29 authorization to conduct a
raid. “We gave President Obama and his team accurate, relevant,
timely intelligence,” CIA Director Leon Panetta said in a May 2
statement.  Panetta has already praised the agency’s counter-terrorism
center and the Office of South Asia Analysis for their
expertise, creativity and tradecraft in tracing bin Laden to a
safe house in Pakistan, and for the SEAL strike team.  Panetta, 72, has been nominated as the next U.S. defense
secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  