-- 
Obama Endorses Israeli-Palestinian Peace Settlement Based on 1967 Borders

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/obama-sees-mideast-deal-based-on-1967-lines-.html
President Barack Obama yesterday
endorsed a key Palestinian demand, calling on  Israel  to agree to
borders of a Palestinian state “based on the 1967 lines” that
existed before Israel captured the West Bank and Jerusalem that
year in the Six Day War with Arab nations.  It was the first time a U.S. president has explicitly
backed using the 1967 boundaries as the starting point for talks
that would have Israel cede control of land to Palestinians in
return for peace and security. The proposal may have little
impact, as Obama offered no steps to restart the stalled peace
talks.  The proposal drew immediate fire from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who meets with Obama at the White
House today. Netanyahu said in a statement that the 1967
boundaries would be “indefensible” and could leave major
Jewish population centers behind Palestinian lines.  Obama said a deal along 1967 lines needs to include land
exchanges to allow Israel to retain major settlement blocs in
return for granting offsetting land to Palestinians.  “The borders of Israel and  Palestine  should be based on
the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and
recognized borders are established for both states,” Obama said
in a major policy speech at the State Department in Washington
outlining his vision for the Middle East.  Republican Reaction  Some potential Republican presidential candidates saw an
opening to attack Obama as insufficiently pro-Israel.
“Insistence on a return to the 1967 border is a mistaken and
very dangerous demand,” said former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty .  “President Obama has thrown Israel under the bus,” former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said in a statement.  Obama’s language was an incremental move, not a break with
what has been U.S. policy, said  Daniel Kurtzer , a former
ambassador to Israel and  Egypt . He said that while it has long
been assumed that 1967 borders will form the basis for an
agreement, “when you finally get an articulation of U.S.
policy, it means something.”  Zbigniew Brzezinski, who served as national security
adviser to President  Jimmy Carter , said, “I think it’s a small
step in the right direction because it reaffirms the U.S.
commitment to the 1967 lines, two states and equal swaps.”  “We know by now that, left to themselves, the Israelis and
Palestinians will never resolve” their issues, Brzezinski, who
serves as a counselor and trustee for the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington , said in an interview.  ‘Burdens of the Past’  Obama’s wide-ranging speech laid out for Americans the
administration’s plan to advance values while safeguarding
national interests in reaction to the rapid change sweeping the
Middle East.  “At a time when the people of the Middle East and North
Africa are casting off the burdens of the past, the drive for a
lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims is
more urgent than ever,” Obama said, of the Israeli-Palestinian
dispute  Israeli-Palestinian negotiations stalled shortly after they
resumed in September 2010 when Netanyahu refused to extend a
settlement-building freeze that Palestinians had said was
necessary for talks to continue.  While Obama reaffirmed the need to ensure Israel’s security
and the right of Palestinians to “govern themselves” in a
“sovereign and contiguous” state, the president had tough
words for both sides.  Jewish Dreams  Time is working against Israel, Obama said. The Palestinian
population is increasing and “the dream of a Jewish and
democratic state cannot be fulfilled with permanent
occupation,” he said.  The president also called for “permanent Palestinian
borders with Israel,  Jordan , and Egypt.” The statement didn’t
seem to leave room for Israel’s position that any agreement must
allow Israeli troops to patrol the western seam of an eventual
Palestinian state and Jordan to prevent terrorist groups from
entering.  Netanyahu announced in his statement that when he meets
with Obama, he “will make clear that the defense of Israel
requires an Israeli military presence along the Jordan River.”  Reaction from members of Netanyahu’s coalition government
was even harsher.  Danny Danon, a lawmaker from Netanyahu’s Likud Party,
likened Obama’s plan to one to eliminate Israel by former
Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat , adding that the U.S. president
hoped “to remove the State of Israel from the map.”  Unresolved Issues  Still, some analysts pointed out that Obama hewed to
demands Israelis have made in the past, including the insistence
that security come before issues such as the fate of  Jerusalem 
and the status of Palestinian refugees.  “The remarks of the president were limited to only two
aspects of the six core issues: borders and security,” Maged Abdelaziz, Egypt’s ambassador to the  United Nations , told
reporters in  New York . Obama did not talk about settlements,
water and refugees, Abdelaziz said.  At the same time, Obama’s mention of land swaps seemed to
endorse a 2004 agreement between then-President  George W. Bush 
and then-Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, said  Jon Alterman ,
director of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington.  Bush Letter  In a 2004 letter Bush sent to Sharon, he recognized that
any peace agreement must take into account major settlement
blocs built since Israel gained control of the  West Bank  and
Jerusalem in June 1967, as well as the fact that Israel would
not relinquish Jerusalem. In return, Sharon moved to withdraw
completely from Gaza and some parts of the West Bank.  Obama made clear that the Palestinian Authority’s move to
form a unity government with the Islamic militant group Hamas
posed “profound and legitimate questions for Israel.” Hamas is
considered a  terrorist group  by the U.S., the European Union and
Israel.  “How can one negotiate with a party that has shown itself
unwilling to recognize your right to exist?” Obama said.  He dismissed plans by Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  to unilaterally pursue United Nations recognition
of an independent state within the 1967 borders in a September
vote.  In Ramallah, Abbas “expressed his appreciations” to Obama
for continuing to press for talks, according to a statement by
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  