-- 
Hong Kong May ‘Tap Brake’ on Record Yuan Deposits

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-20T02:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/hong-kong-may-tap-brake-on-record-yuan-deposits.html
Hong Kong  may introduce measures to
slow growth in the city’s yuan deposits to help stem an exodus
of local currency from the financial system, according to CCB
International Securities Ltd.  The policy makers may try “tapping the brake as the surge
in deposits is bothering; everything is happening so fast,”
 Paul Schulte , global head of financial strategy at CCB
International, the Hong Kong-based brokerage arm of  China ’s
second-largest bank, said in a May 18 interview in the city.
“If you don’t slow down the renminbi conversion, the liquidity
in Hong Kong will continue to dry up and that’s a problem for
the banking system.”  The city’s deposits of yuan, which is also known as the
renminbi, tripled to a record 451 billion yuan ($69 billion) in
the last two quarters, Hong Kong Monetary Authority data show.
The head of the de facto central bank,  Norman Chan , said this
week banks are facing “upward” pressure on lending and deposit
rates as credit demand soaks up funds.  The city’s government may lower the current yuan purchase
quota of 20,000 yuan a day for individual investors to stem the
expansion of renminbi deposits, which now account for 8 percent
of total funds placed with banks in the city, Schulte said. He
joined the unit of China Construction Bank Corp. in September.  The  Hong Kong dollar  loan-to-deposit ratio for local banks
was 81.7 percent at the end of March, up from 71 percent at the
end of 2009, according to the HKMA. Last year, deposits in the
currency rose 7.2 percent and loans grew 17.6 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc and  Standard Chartered Plc (2888)  are among
lenders raising  mortgage rates  after the central bank in April
warned of the risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.” HSBC
home-loan charges are now as high as 2.2 percent, compared to
about 0.9 percent in November.  U.S. Dollar Slide  Charges on mortgages in the city, which are mostly linked
to Hong Kong interbank rates, or Hibor, began climbing at the
end of 2010 after shrinking to a record low of 0.89 percent in
November, according to mortgage service and data provider
mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services. The average rate was 1.21
percent in April.  The city’s exchange rate is fixed at about HK$7.80 to the
U.S. dollar, which has weakened against 14 of 16 major
currencies this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yuan has strengthened 5 percent versus the greenback since a
dollar peg ended in June 2010.  “You don’t want to hold the Hong Kong dollar because it’s
tied to the  U.S. dollar ,” Schulte said. “What’s happening here
is a growing sense of discomfort with the U.S. dollar.”  Yuan Assets  Hong Kong will have more regular sales of yuan-denominated
shares and Chinese government debt as deposits of the currency
double, K. C. Chan, the city’s secretary for financial services
and the treasury, said last month.  Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment
Trust, Hong Kong’s first yuan-denominated initial public
offering, slumped 12 percent in trading since its debut on April
29, easing concern that stock sales will sap demand for bonds
denominated in the Chinese currency.  Borrowers including Volkswagen AG raised a record 47.5
billion yuan selling dim sum debt so far this year, exceeding
the 35.7 billion yuan issued in all of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  