-- 
Looming Iron Ore Market ‘Bubble’ Will Force Down Prices, Baosteel Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-20T04:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/looming-iron-ore-market-bubble-will-force-prices-to-drop-baosteel-says.html
The  iron ore  market has risen to
“bubble” levels that will burst as new mines create oversupply
of the steelmaking raw material, according to Baosteel Group
Corp., China’s second-biggest mill.  “There is a bubble in this market, many are gambling,”
making acquisitions and investment expensive, Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said in an interview in  Shanghai , without saying when
prices would drop. “Everyone who has money is rushing in to
invest in iron ore.”  Vale SA (VALE3) , Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the three
biggest suppliers, plan to spend $45 billion on mines. Global
exports of iron ore may gain 28 percent to 1.4 billion metric
tons by 2016, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences has forecast.  “The reason the big three keep spending is that they
probably think growth in  India , Brazil,  Russia  and South Africa
will be sustained, and also because they believe the return on
their input would beat those blind investments” by smaller
rivals, Xu said.  The biggest losers from the new mines may be the
speculative companies that haven’t yet started production and
their investors, Xu said.  “Some investors are simply making money by trading the
iron ore projects before seeing actual output,” he said. “Iron
ore prices will definitely fall at some point because the
supply-demand situation will have a turnaround.”  Prices Surge  Demand from steelmakers in China spurred an almost
threefold jump in iron ore prices since 2008, driving a surge in
producers’ valuations. The Bloomberg Global Iron Ore Mining
Index of 30 iron ore companies have surged four-fold since 2008.  “In Australia,  South Africa  and America, I’ve seen a lot
of investors whom only ‘dig’ iron ore on the stock market, they
will never see physical output” from their mines, said Xu.  The average profit margin of Chinese steelmakers was 3.5
percent in the 2010, the lowest of any industry, because of
overcapacity and rising raw material costs, according to the
government. That’s about a tenth of the margins the largest iron
ore miners make, Xu said.  China’s economy  may grow at a slower pace in the next five
years, curbing steel demand, the China Iron and Steel
Association estimated on April 29.  The cash price of 62 percent-iron ore shipped to  China ’s
Tianjin port has almost tripled from Nov. 21, 2008 when data
became available, according to the Steel Index. It was $175.30 a
ton on May 19.  Price Decline  Iron ore may trade between $150 and $190 a ton for the next
three years, and may decline to a long-term average of $80 a ton
after 2017, according to Graeme Train, a Shanghai-based analyst
with Macquarie Group Ltd.  “The structural drivers behind Chinese demand growth
remain firmly in place and while we acknowledge new seaborne
supply is coming to market, it will not come on fast enough to
offset the high cost material at the top of the cost curve,”
Train said in an e-mail today.  BHP will spend $6.6 billion expanding output in Western
 Australia  to more than 220 million metric tons a year, the
Melbourne-based company said on March 24. Rio is spending $14.8
billion to boost output by 50 percent to 333 million metric tons
and Vale plans to invest $24 billion this year alone on
expansions.  Iron ore supply may outstrip demand “sooner than
expected,” as production increases after record prices spurred
investment in mines, Baosteel’s Xu said on April 26. He had
previously forecast the market to move into surplus in 2014.  China has been encouraging state-owned steelmakers to
invest in overseas resources to cut their dependence on the
three miners. Baosteel is “very interested” in participating
in Rio and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.’s Simandou iron ore
project in  Guinea , Xu said. Wuhan Iron & Steel Group has
invested in eight projects in  Canada ,  Brazil , Australia, Liberia
and Madagascar.  The cost of the acquisitions has instead forced steelmakers
Magang (Group) Holding Co., which imports 75 percent of its iron
ore needs, to abandon acquisition plans. Angang New Steel Co.
General Manager Zhang Xiaogang said March 5 that asset prices
were “too high” for investment.  --Helen Yuan. Editors: Rebecca Keenan, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 