-- 
Top Seed Nadal Plays Isner, Djokovic Starts French Open Against De Bakker

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-20T14:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/top-seed-nadal-plays-isner-djokovic-starts-french-open-against-de-bakker.html
French Open  defending champion Rafael Nadal will start his quest for a sixth title at  Roland Garros 
against John Isner of the U.S.  “He’s one of these players that you prefer not to have in
the first round,” Nadal told a news conference today at Roland
Garros. “His style of game is dangerous. His serve is
unbelievable.”  Isner, who is ranked 39th on the ATP World Tour, is best
known for playing the longest match in tennis history at last
year’s Wimbledon. The 6-foot-9 player beat Nicolas Mahut of
France in a first-round match at the All England Club that took
more than 11 hours and ended 70-68 in the fifth set. Nadal leads
Isner 2-0 in career meetings. The year’s second Grand Slam event
starts in two days.  Novak Djokovic, the Serb who has yet to lose a match this
season, faces Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands on the other
side of the men’s draw.  Nadal said Djokovic, who beat him on clay in Madrid and
 Rome , is “probably” the favorite for the title. “But even
last year or three years ago when you told me ‘You are the
favorite,’ I didn’t feel like this,” the Spaniard said.
“Because when you arrive to the tournament, every round is
difficult. Every match, every time when you go on court you can
win and you can lose.”  Djokovic has won 37 straight tennis matches to start the
year, threatening John McEnroe’s 1984 record streak of 42
victories. He’ll take the world No. 1 ranking on the ATP World
Tour away from Nadal by reaching his first final in Paris in two
weeks.  “I don’t feel unbeatable; nobody is unbeatable, even
though I had an incredible run that keeps going,” Djokovic told
reporters today. “I was saying in the last couple of weeks that
I’m really not trying to think about the run that I have, or I’m
not trying to think about when this run will end, because that
will mean that I’m thinking about losing.”  The second-ranked Djokovic could meet Grand Slam record
holder  Roger Federer , the 2009  French Open  champion, in the
semifinals. The Swiss, the 2009 champion, plays Spain’s
Feliciano Lopez in his opening round. Fourth-ranked  Andy Murray ,
who could play Spain’s Nadal in the semifinals, begins against a
qualifier.  In the women’s draw, Francesca Schiavone of Italy begins
her title defense against  Melanie Oudin  of the U.S., while  U.S.
Open  and Australian Open champion Kim Clijsters of Belgium faces
Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus.  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, who is trying to win the only
major that has eluded her, will start against Mirjana Lucic of
Croatia. Top-ranked  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, who is
seeking her first major title, plays Japanese veteran Kimiko Date-Krumm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  