-- 
Tornadoes Test Alabama’s Bentley as He Begins Governorship Few Foresaw

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/tornadoes-test-alabama-s-bentley-as-he-begins-governorship-few-foresaw.html
Alabama  Governor  Robert Bentley  was
moments from going on television to warn residents about
tornadoes ravaging the state when he picked up the phone in his
Montgomery office.  On the other end, his wife, Dianne, held up her handset to
relay a broadcast of a  twister  with winds of almost 200 mph
hitting Tuscaloosa.  “I knew it was coming right towards my house there, and
coming towards my children’s homes, and I had to get on
television,” Bentley, 68, said in an interview in his office at
the Capitol in Montgomery. “Was that tough? It was.”  What may be tougher for the first-term Republican is
rebuilding Alabama while balancing the  budget  as $1 billion in
federal stimulus money disappears. On April 27, more than  50
tornados  swept through the state’s northern half, turning homes
to rubble heaps, making forests woodpiles and leaving 238 dead.  “We cannot and we will not let these people down,”
Bentley said in a May 3 address to the Legislature. “We will
see Alabama is rebuilt.”  Few predicted that Bentley, a dermatologist who is a deacon
and Sunday school teacher at Tuscaloosa’s First Baptist Church,
would be the one leading the way out of the ruins.  He served eight years in the minority of the state  House of
Representatives , where he was known mainly for strengthening the
rights of organ donors and funding a program that trains doctors
serving rural Alabama.  Lone Survivor  “Nobody doubts his sincerity, but his whole experience
prior to this was an undistinguished tenure in the state
House,” said Larry Powell, a communications professor at the
University of Alabama at Birmingham who is a former political
consultant. “The others just sort of killed each other off and
he was left standing.”  Granted  statehood  in 1819, Alabama’s economy was dominated
by cotton plantations that relied on slave labor. Birmingham,
founded in 1871, became a center of iron and steel production,
the “Pittsburgh of the South,” and by the 1920 was the 19th-
largest city in the U.S. It is overlooked by a 56-foot  statue  of
Vulcan, god of the forge, perched on a 124-foot pedestal.  Even after the city’s industrialization, the state was
controlled by white, rural interests that disenfranchised blacks
who composed about half the population. In 1963, Birmingham
became the focal point of the  civil rights movement  as protest
marchers led by the Reverend  Martin Luther King Jr . were
attacked by police dogs and firehoses.  Cotton to Cars  In the past decade, Alabama has emerged as a car
manufacturing hub as  Honda Motor Co. ,  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes Benz
and  Hyundai Motor Co.  opened plants. Transportation, trade and
utilities made up 19.4 percent of the state’s nonfarm employment
in 2009, second only to government, according to bond documents.  While Alabama’s gross domestic product grew 45 percent from
2000 to 2009 according to Standard & Poor’s, Bentley’s first
months in office were consumed by combined deficits of more than
$265 million in the general fund and education budgets. He cut
them by 15 percent and 3 percent, respectively, for the rest of
the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.  Then, on his 100th day, more than 50 twisters decimated
cities and rural towns alike. In Tuscaloosa, a tornado ripped a
path a mile wide and six miles (10 kilometers) long, destroying
more than 7,200 homes and businesses and killing 41. In the
northern part of the state,  Hackleburg  was leveled. Twenty-nine
of its 1,500 people were killed.  Aid and Comfort  Since the storms, Bentley has been on a whirlwind tour of
his own, traveling to 26 counties to comfort a stunned populace.
Bentley said his training, including a stint as a medical
officer at Pope Air Force Base at Fort Bragg, North Carolina,
during the Vietnam War, has helped him deal with emergencies.  “You have to think through problems, you have to do it
quickly, and you have to do it in an organized fashion,”
Bentley said. One of his first acts was to pledge that the state
would pay the local share of the cleanup for the first 30 days.  “He’s promised all the resources of the state and he’s
delivered,” said Tuscaloosa Mayor  Walter Maddox , a Democrat.
“Governor Bentley has been there and he’s continued to be there
for us in our darkest hour.”  On the evening after the tornado, National Guard troops
were maintaining order and distributing food and water, as the
city, without power, was shrouded in darkness, Maddox said.  Moving Mountains  While the city runs operations on the ground, the state has
also coordinated the removal of 2 million cubic yards of debris
with the Army Corps of Engineers. Bentley is pressing President
 Barack Obama  to cover 100 percent of the clean-up costs.  John Zippert, director of program operations with the
 Federation of Southern Cooperatives , said Bentley must be
mindful of poor communities. Many residents didn’t have
insurance, he said.  “The real question is, what is going to be the plan to
replace all of these homes that were destroyed?” said Zippert,
who is based in Epes, near the Mississippi border.  Bentley was born in 1943 and reared 10 miles outside
Columbiana, a town of about 3,000 between Birmingham and
Montgomery. His father, David, had a mobile sawmill and later
hauled pulpwood, the governor said. During summers, Bentley
helped his father and worked on a surveying crew to pay for
college.  Bentley knew when he was young that he wanted to be a
doctor, “a calling,” he said. He attended the University of
Alabama at Tuscaloosa, majoring in chemistry and biology. After
graduating in three years, Bentley entered the University of
Alabama School of Medicine in Birmingham.  The Girl Knew  Following his military service and his residency, Bentley
moved to Tuscaloosa, where he and his wife raised four boys.
When Bentley began his gubernatorial run in May 2009, there was
little indication that he had a shot.  About three dozen people came to hear him announce his
candidacy in Montgomery. The only person convinced Bentley could
win was his 13-year-old granddaughter, he said.  Bentley said he took out second and third mortgages and a
personal loan, used his retirement funds and tapped his life
insurance policy. He loaned himself more than $2 million for the
primary and general election campaigns, which has been paid
back, according to Rebekah Mason, a spokeswoman.  Starting out with 3 percent support in the polls, Bentley
pledged not to take a salary until the state’s unemployment rate
reached 5.2 percent. The rate was 9.2 percent in March, 0.4
percentage points higher than the national average.  “People saw in me somebody who isn’t a politician,” said
Bentley.  Chosen One  Bentley came in second in the Republican primary. In a
runoff, he faced  Bradley Byrne , a former chancellor of the two-
year college system, who was endorsed by former Governor  Bob Riley .  Byrne’s platform of changing tenure laws and allowing
charter schools was anathema to the Alabama Education
Association, which represents 100,000 teachers, administrators
and support workers.  The AEA spent about $1 million on advertising painting
Byrne as a liberal. One ad noted that he supported the teaching
of evolution.  Bentley defeated Byrne by almost 57,000 votes and then beat
Democrat  Ron Sparks  in the general election, capturing 58
percent of the vote.  The new governor’s term got off to a rocky start. In an
inauguration day speech at Montgomery’s  Dexter Avenue King
Memorial Baptist Church , where King was once pastor, Bentley
said that people who hadn’t accepted Jesus weren’t his brothers
or sisters. He apologized after the incident drew national
attention.  People Are Listening  “He didn’t mean to do anything wrong,” said Powell, the
UAB communications professor. “When you’re in the state House
you can give a speech like that and nobody notices. When you’re
governor, every word is noticed.”  The controversy was overtaken by Alabama’s Bentley’s
biggest challenge before the storms: its finances.  Bentley, who has pledged not to raise taxes, has proposed a
$1.8 billion general fund budget and $5.6 billion education
budget for the next fiscal year. Some agencies may face cuts as
deep as 45 percent.  Zippert, of the Federation of Southern Cooperatives, said
it is too early to tell whether Bentley’s governorship will be
successful.  “He said Alabama was sick and needed a doctor,” Zippert
said referring to Bentley’s campaign advertising. “He’s a
dermatologist. Some of this might require brain surgery.”  Robert Bentley at a glance:  Born: Feb. 3, 1943, Columbiana (Age 68)  Party: Republican  Spouse: Dianne  Children: Four sons, John Mark, Paul, Luke, Matthew; five
grandchildren  Education: Bachelor of Science, University of Alabama,
Tuscaloosa, 1964; M.D. University of Alabama School of Medicine,
1968  Career: Founded Alabama Dermatology Associates in 1974; Alabama
House of Representatives (2002-2010)  Favorite drink: Sunkist soda  Famous nose: Removed a precancerous growth from the proboscis of
Paul “Bear” Bryant, coach of the University of Alabama
football team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 