-- 
Pan Pacific Copper May Win Annual Fee Hike After Raw-Material Supply Eases

-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-05-20T12:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/pan-pacific-copper-may-win-annual-fee-hike-after-raw-material-supply-eases.html
Pan Pacific Copper Co.,  Japan ’s top
smelter, and other producers may seek higher processing fees
from mining companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  for 12-month
contracts from July 1, analysts say.  “The smelters will likely ask for higher treatment and
refining charges” because spot fees jumped after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami closed processors in Japan, increasing
supplies of raw material, Takashi Murata, an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today.  Japan’s strongest temblor halted operations at some
smelters and refineries, including Pan Pacific and Mitsubishi
Materials Corp., the third-largest producer. Copper fees jumped
“sharply” to $120 to $150 a metric ton from $80, Aurubis AG
said April 14. An increase in fees boosts smelters’ revenue.  Pan Pacific won a 29 percent increase in fees for BHP
supplies for the period from July to December, company spokesman
Kouichi Shirai said yesterday. The company agreed to $90 a ton
for treatment fees and 9 cents a pound for refining, up from $70
and 7 cents in the first half, he said in an interview.  Pan Pacific’s agreement with BHP, the world’s top mining
company, may set a benchmark for other smelters in second-half
deals, said analysts, including Daiwa’s Murata and Kim Gyung
Jung at Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . Large
Chinese producers settled at the same level, Reuters said today,
citing two smelter sources.  Miners, Smelters  Until last year, mining companies and smelters set 12-month
processing fees twice a year, for contracts starting Jan. 1 and
July 1. Japanese smelters cover about 10 percent to 20 percent
of their annual volumes in the mid-year deals.  In January, Pan Pacific said it settled annual fees at $56
and 5.6 cents with  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  That
compared with $39 and 3.9 cents for those starting July 1, 2010.  While the fees for the year starting July 1 this year may
be higher than those for the 12 months from Jan. 1, they may be
lower than the second-half fee announced yesterday as supply
shrinks toward the end of the year, said Daiwa’s Murata.  “Once the Japanese smelters resume full capacity and new
Chinese capacity comes on stream, the concentrates market should
tighten up,” said Li Ye, an analyst at Minmetals Starfutures Co.  Pan Pacific is 66 percent owned by JX Nippon Mining &
Metals Co., a unit of  JX Holdings Inc. (5020)  Mitsui Mining & Smelting
Co. holds the remainder. Melbourne-based BHP spokeswoman Kelly Quirke declined to comment today.  Treatment Fees  Treatment fees are expressed in dollars per ton of
concentrate received and refining fees in cents per pound of
copper in the ore. The fees are deducted from the price paid by
smelters to mining companies for the raw material.  Masashi Takahashi, a spokesman at Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,
Japan’s second-biggest smelter, declined to comment.  Mitsubishi
Materials Corp. (5711) , Japan’s third-largest copper producer, has no
contract with BHP for the second half, said company spokesman
Toshiaki Yamada.  Pan Pacific Copper restarted its Hitachi refinery with an
annual capacity of 120,000 tons of copper in Ibaraki on April 19.
Mitsubishi Materials said April 7 that it aimed to start partial
operations in mid-July at its Onahama smelter in Fukushima.  Mitsubishi Materials declared force majeure on concentrate
shipments to its Onahama smelter with an annual capacity of
258,000 tons after the quake. The company has a 50 percent  stake 
in the smelter, followed by Dowa Holdings Co. with 31.6 percent
and Furukawa Metals & Resources Co. with 12.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in  Tokyo  at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  