-- 
Panasonic Says Impact of Quake This Year ‘Extremely Severe’

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-20T07:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/panasonic-says-impact-of-quake-this-year-extremely-severe-1-.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the world’s largest
maker of plasma televisions, said the impact on business this
year because of continued supply-chain disruptions from  Japan ’s
record quake will be “extremely severe.”  The company expects revenue to be affected in the first
half of the current fiscal year, President Fumio Ohtsubo told
reporters in Tokyo today without elaborating. Osaka-based
Panasonic’s net income in the year ending in March may decline
29 percent while revenue may drop by 1.3 percent, according to
the average of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Supply chain hasn’t recovered fully,” Ohtsubo said.
“For the third quarter and fourth quarter, I’m still not so
sure if the reconstruction demand will be so strong.”  Panasonic, which posted its first annual profit in three
years last year, in April delayed issuing an earnings forecast,
citing difficulties in estimating because of disruptions
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Weekday power
supply to large customers of  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. and Tohoku
Electric Power Co. will be capped at 85 percent of their maximum
usage last summer, the  Ministry  of Economy, Trade and Industry
said.  Ohtsubo announced his second round of job cuts last month
as he seeks to transform Panasonic into a leader of products
such as solar panels and rechargeable batteries amid mounting
competition in TVs. The maker of Viera TV and Lumix cameras
spent more than $6 billion purchasing stakes in Sanyo Electric
Co. and Panasonic Electric Works Co. last year to boost its
energy-related businesses.  Job Cuts  Japan’s biggest maker of home appliances plans to cut its
workforce by at least 4.6 percent to 350,000 from 366,937 in the
two years to March 2013, costing about 160 billion yen ($2
billion) in restructuring fees during the period, the company
said April 28.  Ohtsubo had previously eliminated more than 29,000 jobs and
cut 200 billion yen in costs.  The world’s largest maker of plasma televisions will halt
making new investments for both plasma and liquid-crystal
display operations to revive profitability at the TV unit that
competes with Sony Corp. and  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics
Co., Ohtsubo said. The company will seek alliances to purchase
more LCD panels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 