-- 
Paulson Cast as Stoic Savior in ‘Too Big’ Wall Street Saga: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/paulson-cast-as-stoic-savior-in-hbo-s-big-wall-street-saga-greg-evans.html
Andrew Ross Sorkin ’s sprawling best-
seller “ Too Big to Fail ” is now a TV movie that transforms the
complex tale of Wall Street greed into a knight-in-shining-armor
saga.  The knight is Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , portrayed
by William Hurt as a stoic savior who endures sleepless nights
and a nervous stomach to forestall the economic meltdown.  “What do I say when they ask me why it wasn’t regulated?”
asks a Treasury Department official (Cynthia Nixon), boning up
for a press conference to explain bundled home loans and the
potential collapse of AIG.  “No one wanted it,” Paulson replies. “They were making
too much money.”  Director Curtis Hanson and screenwriter Peter Gould clearly
needed a hero to transform murky, complex reality into save-the-
day storytelling.  In their  HBO  version, which airs Monday night, Paulson
rights the wrongs of money-hungry chief executives like James Woods’s antic Lehman Brothers boss Dick Fuld and ineffective
politicos like Peter Hermann’s hapless SEC chairman Christopher
Cox.  The ploy works as a dramatic device, much as it did for
that other Sorkin (Aaron), who fashioned “The West Wing” from
an idealized presidency. But the chief shortcoming of the
Paulson-engineered cash injections -- public money ending up as
corporate profit -- isn’t noted until the very end.  Master of Universe  The movie, crisply edited to 98 minutes, opens in May 2008
as Lehman’s stock price is plummeting and ends that October with
the blood-staunching bailout of nine major U.S. banks.  It efficiently sketches the personalities behind the lofty
corporate titles and government positions. Bill Pullman is
Master of the Universe personified as JPMorgan Chase’s Jamie Dimon. The real  Timothy Geithner , president in 2008 of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , will no doubt be flattered by
handsome Billy Crudup’s conscientious portrait.  Despite the blue-chip ensemble, some of the characters are
reduced to one-note simplicity. Edward Asner’s  Warren Buffett  is
all Yoda-like wisdom, a gentle guru sharing ice cream with the
grandkids while doling out advice to the nation’s fattest cats.  “Too Big to Fail” airs May 23 on HBO at 9 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Last Frontier’  PBS’s ever-reliable “Nature” series ends its three-part
“ Bears of the Last Frontier ” miniseries with close-ups of the
majestic animals as they eke out survival in their gorgeous but
increasingly hostile Alaskan terrain.  Adventurer and biologist Chris Morgan undertook a yearlong
motorcycle journey through the state’s mountains, tundra, coasts
and cities to track and film various bear species. The first two
episodes focused on black bear and grizzlies. The final program,
“Arctic Wanderers,” concentrates on polar bears.  Morgan and his small crew arrive in the small town of
Kaktovik in northern  Alaska  just as winter arrives and
temperatures plummet. Global warming trends have left the area’s
sea ice thinner than it used to be, though, and Morgan’s crew
captures heart-wrenching images of polar bears exhausting
themselves by falling through weak ice and lifting their massive
heft from the water.  The documentary never succumbs to the anthropomorphic
kitsch so common on other nature programs. Even the final
segment, in which a mama grizzly teaches her cubs to fish for
salmon, resists the urge to make the babies cuddly. They inspire
awe instead.  “Bears of the Last Frontier: Arctic Wanderers” airs May
22 on PBS stations at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***  ‘4th and Forever’  Billed as a real-life “Friday Night Lights,” Current TV’s
new documentary series “ 4th and Forever ” stumbles a yard or
two short of that goal. The hard-knock lives of high-school
athletes pinning their hopes on gridiron victory is compelling
stuff, even though the show relies too heavily on a well-worn
reality TV playbook.  The series chronicles the 2010 season of  California ’s Long
Beach Polytechnic High School. Once touted by Sports Illustrated
as the Sports School of the Century, Poly and its head coach
Raul Lara struggle to redeem themselves from a dismal 2009
season.  The stakes are highest for students like Chaiyse Hales, a
junior quarterback who hasn’t seen his father in five years, and
Jeremiah Hollowell, a senior raising a toddler son. Football is
their way out of dead-end lives.  The students’ stories aren’t always well-served by the
reality-show approach. The first two half-hour episodes feel
stuffed with slow-motion establishing shots, contrived
interactions and melodramatic music, padding the worthy players
with unexceptional gear.  “4th and Forever” debuts May 26 on Current TV at 9 p.m.
New York time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 