-- 
New York, Texas Lead Expansion of Payrolls Across 42 U.S. States for April

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-20T14:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/payrolls-grow-in-42-states-including-new-york-texas-as-job-market-revives.html
Payrolls grew in 42 U.S. states
in April, while the  unemployment rate  fell in 39, indicating
broad-based strengthening in the labor market.  New York  led the nation with a 45,700 increase in
employment, followed by Texas with 32,900 more jobs. Joblessness
decreased most in Nevada, even as it remained the state with the
highest rate in the country at 12.5 percent, figures from the
Labor Department showed today in Washington.  The report signals the 244,000 workers added in April, as
shown in the government’s May 6 report, were dispersed
throughout the country. The data also suggest the unexpected
increase in the unemployment rate nationally last month was
limited in scope.  “The job gains are now filtering through most sectors of
the economy,”  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in New York, said before the report. “You’re
beginning to see small- and medium-sized businesses moving more
firmly into hiring, which is driven by rising sales expectations
and stronger domestic demand pulling consumption higher.”  The jobless rate in Nevada fell 0.7 percentage point in
April, the report showed. The rates in  New Mexico  and  Oklahoma 
each dropped 0.5 percentage point. California had the second-
highest rate in the nation, at 11.9 percent.  Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and Florida, with employment
increases of 23,700, 19,500 and 14,900 respectively, rounded out
the five states showing the biggest payroll gains.  Lowest in U.S.  The jobless rate in  North Dakota , the lowest in U.S.,
decreased to 3.3 percent from 3.6 March.  Unemployment climbed most in Mississippi, where it rose 0.2
percentage point to 10.4 percent. The only other two states to
show an increase were Alabama and Tennessee. The jobless rate
also rose in the District of Columbia.  While employment prospects have improved, the  U.S. economy 
cooled in the first quarter as government spending declined by
the most since 1983 and household purchases slowed.  Payrolls have grown for seven consecutive months, the
longest stretch of gains since the beginning of 2007, Labor
Department figures show. At the same time, gross domestic
product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate from January through
March after a 3.1 percent pace in the final three months of
2010, the Commerce Department said April 28.  Feeling ‘Better’  “Employment and disposable income are slowly improving,
while housing turnover is restrained and  home prices  continue to
decline,” Lowe’s Cos. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock 
said in a May 16 conference call. “Customers may feel better
about their employment situation but are uneasy due to higher
fuel, clothing, and food costs, as well as geopolitical issues
around the world.”  Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s, the second-
largest U.S. home improvement retailer, reported first-quarter
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates and lowered its 2011
profit forecast after customers cut back on renovations.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  