-- 
Pfizer Drug Wins FDA Approval for Jobs’s Type of Cancer

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T20:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/pfizer-drug-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-jobs-s-type-of-cancer.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  won U.S. approval to
expand marketing of a cancer drug for patients with the rare
type of pancreatic tumor diagnosed in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  Steve Jobs  in
2004.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Sutent for
treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, also known as
pancreatic NET, the company said today in a statement.  Novartis
AG (NVS) ’s Afinitor won FDA approval for the same illness on May 5.  Pfizer, based in New York, and Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis plan to market their drugs for pancreatic tumors that
strike about  2,500 people  a year in the U.S., according to the
 University of Southern California Center for Pancreatic and
Biliary Diseases  in  Los Angeles . Both medicines, which target
cancer at the molecular level, work sufficiently to outweigh
risks, outside advisers to the FDA said at an April 12 meeting.  “FDA believes it is important to provide cancer patients
with as many treatment options as possible,” Richard Pazdur,
director of the FDA’s Office of Oncology Drug Products, said
today in a  statement . “The agency is committed to working with
companies to bring innovative new therapies to the market and
encourages companies to continue exploring additional uses for
approved products.”  Pfizer gained 5 cents to $20.74 at 4:22 p.m. in extended
trading after declining 34 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $20.69 at
the close of  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.
Novartis’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, rose 16 cents to $61.55 at 4:17 p.m. in extended
trading after dropping 45 cents to $61.39 at the close.  Attacking Tumors  Sutent, approved by the FDA in 2006 for stomach and kidney
cancer, attacks tumors by cutting off their blood supply.
European regulators approved the medicine in December for
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors that have spread. Sales of
Sutent rose 11 percent last year to almost $1.1 billion,
according to company filings.  Sutent slowed tumor growth in a Pfizer-funded study of 171
patients with pancreatic tumors that had spread, or couldn’t be
removed with surgery, the FDA said in today’s statement. Tumor
progression stalled for a median time of 10.2 months in patients
treated with Sutent, compared with 5.4 months for those taking a
placebo.  Jobs, the 56-year-old co-founder of Cupertino, California-
based Apple, disclosed in 2004 that he’d had successful surgery
to extract a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. He took another
leave of absence in 2009 for a  liver transplant , sometimes done
when the cancer spreads.  Jobs hasn’t said whether the transplant was done to treat a
recurrence of the tumor, and didn’t say on Jan. 17 why he was
taking a third medical leave from Apple.  To contact the reporter on this story: Molly Peterson in
Washington at   mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Reg Gale at
   rgale5@bloomberg.net  