-- 
Piraeus Bank Bond Coupon Boost Increases Access to ECB Funding

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-05-20T12:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/piraeus-bank-bond-coupon-boost-increases-access-to-ecb-funding.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  inflated coupons on
bonds the fourth-biggest Greek lender issued to itself, enabling
it to boost funding from the  European Central Bank .  Piraeus increased interest payments on 8.1 billion euros
($11.5 billion) of 2013 floating-rate notes this week to 12
percentage points more than the euro interbank offered rate,
from as little as 4 percentage points.  The government-guaranteed notes were issued in 2010 and
retained by the Athens-based lender because they’re eligible as
collateral for loans from the ECB. The value of the notes has
since fallen, cutting the amount Piraeus can borrow from the
central bank, as sovereign bonds plunged on speculation that
Greece will default or be forced to restructure its borrowings.  “By increasing the coupon, it increases the amount they
can borrow from the ECB because they’re upping the value” of
the bonds, said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in  London . “It does sound a bit of an
accounting trick, creating value out of thin air. There’s
clearly no other provider of liquidity than the ECB.”  Piraeus Bank Chief Financial Officer George Poulopoulos
said in an e-mail: “We have reset the coupon on these bonds to
better reflect current market conditions. These bonds are both
issued and fully retained by Piraeus Bank and therefore this has
no impact on financial results.”  Repurchase Agreements  Greek banks are only able to fund themselves by issuing
government-guaranteed bonds to create the collateral required to
borrow from the ECB in so-called repurchase agreements. Deposits
by businesses and households held in Greek banks declined to
199.2 billion euros in March from 202.9 billion euros in
February, the Bank of  Greece  said May 12. Total deposits stood
at 227.4 billion euros at the end of March last year.  Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish Banks Plc, the country’s
two largest lenders, registered 5 billion euros of government-
backed notes in January to be eligible as collateral for ECB
loans.  The ECB values bank bonds based on the level of  government
securities , then applies a discount depending on the type of
asset and lends against the security at its repurchase rate,
currently 1.25 percent. In a repurchase agreement, the bonds
remain the property of the borrower and no interest changes
hands.  Yields on Greek three-year bonds have soared in the past 13
months, rising to 24.8 percent today from 5.71 percent on April
1 last year.  Asset Sales  Greece is planning to raise 50 billion euros selling state
assets and preparing its fifth round of deficit cuts in an
effort to comply with the terms of its 110 billion-euro bailout.
The European Commission forecasts the nation’s debt will soar to
almost 158 percent of gross domestic product this year and 166
percent in 2012.  The ECB, which has bought 76 billion euros of  government
bonds  under its Securities Markets Program, has said it is
against any restructuring, at least until 2013.  “It’s puzzling why the ECB is so against any form of
restructuring, even a voluntary one,” said Asfeth. “The answer
is in contagion, and they’re fearing if they don’t continue to
back up Greek banks then you’d get a run on Portuguese banks and
then potentially also Spanish banks and that it escalates from
where we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  