-- 
British Pound Advances Versus Euro on Greek Debt Restructuring Speculation

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-20T16:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/pound-depreciates-versus-euro-for-fifth-day-on-bank-of-england-rate-bets.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro as the  European Central Bank  said it may no longer be able
to accept Greek sovereign debt as collateral if bond maturities
are extended, sapping demand for the shared European currency.  Gilts rose and sterling fell against the dollar as European
stocks reversed losses and investors trimmed bets that the Bank
of England will raise  interest rates .  Fitch Ratings  lowered
 Greece ’s credit grade. The pound has fluctuated between gains
and losses against the euro and the dollar this week as
investors speculated on when the Bank of England will raise
borrowing costs from a record low 0.5 percent.  “This news about Greece isn’t great for the euro, which is
weakening against the dollar and the pound,” said Lee McDarby,
head of dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk
at Investec Bank Plc in  London . “The pound is coming off
against the dollar because of its exposure to the euro region.”  The pound was 0.9 percent stronger against the euro at
87.36 pence as of 4:59 p.m. in London, trimming its weekly
decline to 0.2 percent. It reached 88.45 pence yesterday, the
weakest since May 6. Britain’s currency was 0.1 percent lower at
$1.6222, little changed in the week.  Sterling headed for weekly declines against 12 of its 16
major peers.  The pound extended its advance against the euro after Fitch
Rating lowered Greece’s credit grade to B+ and said it would
consider an extension of the maturities of existing Greek
government bonds to be a “default event.”  BOE Rate Bets  ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said the central
bank may no longer be able to accept Greek sovereign debt as
collateral in its refinancing operations if bond maturities are
extended.  Money markets price in a 25 basis-point increase in the
 Bank of England ’s key rate in February, according to sterling
overnight interbank average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data
show. As recently as February investors were betting the rate
would be lifted this month.  The Bank of England left its key interest rate unchanged at
0.5 percent this month, even as the fastest inflation in more
than two years squeezes household finances. Consumer prices rose
an annual 4.5 percent in April, the fastest since October 2008.  The British currency may depreciate toward the lowest level
since April 1 against the dollar, Gaitame.com Research Institute
Ltd. said, citing trading patterns.  Buying ‘Tapering Off’  The currency may drop toward $1.6065, which lies on a trend
line connecting the lows of Dec. 28 and 29, said Tsuyoshi Okada,
managing director at Gaitame.com in  Tokyo .  “A strong trend of buying the pound seems to be tapering
off,” Okada said yesterday. “The pound is likely to test lower
prices for a while.”  Ten-year gilt yields were four basis points lower at 3.35
percent, while two-year yields were three basis points lower at
0.98 percent.  Short-sterling futures rose, pushing the implied yield on
the contract expiring in June 2012 down five basis points to
1.41 percent, indicating investors pared bets that borrowing
costs will increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  