-- 
Prada Said to Win Approval for $2 Billion Hong Kong Initial Public Offer

-- B y   F o x   H u ,   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-20T08:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/prada-said-to-win-approval-for-2-billion-h-k-initial-offer.html
Prada SpA, the Italian producer of
Miu Miu bags and Church’s shoes, won approval from  Hong Kong ’s
stock exchange for a $2 billion initial public offering, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Milan-based company set June 24 as a tentative listing
date, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s Banca IMI SpA,
Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are managing the IPO.  Prada follows European companies including  L’Occitane
International SA (973)  in seeking to sell shares in Hong Kong, where
IPOs reached a record last year. By listing there, the Italian
company will tap local funds and individual investors betting on
the luxury-goods industry’s growth in Asia. Bag makers Coach
Inc. and Samsonite LLC are also planning listings in Hong Kong.  A spokesman for Prada in Milan, who declined to be
identified citing company policy, had no comment.  Mainland China will remain the fastest-growing market for
 luxury goods  in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion
euros ($16.5 billion), consulting company Bain & Co. said this
month. The country is on course to become the world’s third-
largest luxury market in five years, it said.  Prada’s net income more than doubled to 250.8 million euros
last year on growth in the Asia-Pacific region, where sales
jumped 63 percent. Total revenue increased 31 percent to 2.05
billion euros, the company said March 28.  Prada, which postponed plans to list in 2008 because of
adverse market conditions, is controlled by Chief Executive
Officer Patrizio Bertelli, his wife Miuccia Prada and her
family. The company sells clothing and accessories under the
Prada, Miu Miu, Church’s and Car Shoe brands.  Prada may start taking orders for stock on June 6 and plans
to meet investors in cities including Hong Kong, Milan and  New
York , people familiar with the plans said May 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at   fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 