-- 
Qaddafi Is ‘Effectively’ in Hiding as NATO Aircraft Attack Libyan Warships

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-20T14:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/qaddafi-is-effectively-in-hiding-as-nato-aircraft-attack-libyan-warships.html
NATO said its intensified air
campaign over  Libya  has “effectively” pushed  Muammar Qaddafi 
into hiding as the alliance turns its firepower on the regime’s
navy, hitting eight warships.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization destroyed the ships
after what it called a change of tactics by Qaddafi loyalists to
mine the port of rebel-held Misrata and target NATO forces by
sea, an alliance spokesman, Wing Commander Mike Bracken of the
British Royal Air Force, said today.  “We have seen a significant and highly concerning increase
in the activities of pro-Qaddafi maritime assets,” Bracken told
reporters in Brussels after showing a video of a ship being
struck. He said NATO’s decision to attack the vessels came after
“long and careful deliberation.”  The strikes on Libyan naval ships took place overnight in
the ports of Tripoli, Al Khums and Sirte. The  U.K. Defense
Ministry  said its jets hit two Libyan corvettes at Al Khums and
a facility constructing fast inflatable boats used by Qaddafi
forces to lay mines.  The three-month fight between troops loyal to Qaddafi and
opponents of his four-decade rule has cut the country’s oil
exports and spawned the NATO air campaign against pro-government
forces, leaving rebels mostly in control in the east.  Bracken said alliance air strikes have helped halt the
regime’s progress on rebel-held territory in the east, stop
attacks on civilians in Misrata and constrain Qaddafi and regime
officials’ movements in Tripoli.  Wife, Daughter Flee  Qaddafi’s wife and daughter fled across the border into
 Tunisia  in the past two days, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said in an  interview  on CBS yesterday. Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice
president of the rebels’ National Transitional Council, said at
a briefing in rebel-held Benghazi yesterday that Qaddafi’s wife,
daughter and grandchildren have left the country.  “He’s trying to secure a safe passage for most of his
family,” Ghoga said. “The noose has tightened.”  The unrest in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, caused supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to decline last month, the  International
Energy Agency  said on May 12. Supplies from the North African
nation “will remain absent from the market for the rest of
2011,” the agency said.  Crude oil for June delivery dropped $1.77, or 1.8 percent,
to $96.67 a barrel at 9:54 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have dropped 3 percent this week and risen 42
percent in the past year. The June contract expires at the close
of Nymex floor trading today. The more active July crude slipped
$2.27, or 2.3 percent, to $96.66 a barrel.  Lost Control  President  Barack Obama  said that Qaddafi no longer has
control of his country and that the Libyan leader would
“inevitably” leave power.  “Now, time is working against Qaddafi,” Obama said
yesterday in a  speech  in  Washington  on the Middle East and North
Africa.  Qaddafi said in a telephone interview with Libyan state
television last week that he’s in a place “you can’t reach and
where you can’t kill me,” hours after Italian Foreign Minister
 Franco Frattini  said he may have been wounded and left Tripoli.  “We’ve increased the pressure by striking military command
and control centers,” NATO’s Bracken said. “This has limited
Qaddafi’s ability to give orders to his forces. It has also
constrained his freedom of movement. Effectively, he’s gone into
hiding.”  While Bracken cited progress along Libya’s eastern coast
and in Misrata, he said Qaddafi forces still threaten civilians
in cities dotting the mountainous Berber highlands in the west,
forcing Libyans to flee over the border into Tunisia.  Intensify Strikes  “We hope for greater intervention to protect our people
and civilians,” Ghoga said. “As long as there is a threat to
civilians, strikes must be intensified against the military
machine” of the Libyan leader.  Rebel forces repelled an attack on Misrata by Qaddafi
loyalists yesterday, Fawzi Abd El-Ali, a member of the rebel
council for the city, said in a telephone interview. He said one
rebel died in the fighting as Qaddafi forces tried to enter the
city from its western gate.  In Benghazi, the rebels’ eastern stronghold, a few thousand
residents gathered outside the courthouse to attend an anti-
Qaddafi rally.  Gunmen manned rooftops and an effigy of Qaddafi with a rope
around the neck hung from a wooden pole. Some chanted “Raise
your head up high, you are free Libyans.”  “We are here to support our brothers in all the besieged
cities,” said Besheer El-Houni, 27, an accountant. “The number
one demand is for Qaddafi to leave and for him to be
prosecuted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Benghazi, Libya, at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 