-- 
Thrashers, Suitor, NHL Commissioner Deny Deal to Move Team to Winnipeg

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/thrashers-suitor-nhl-commissioner-deny-deal-to-move-team-to-winnipeg.html
The  Atlanta Thrashers  haven’t reached
an agreement to be sold and relocated to  Canada , the team’s
president, National Hockey League Commissioner Gary Bettman and
the group seeking to buy the franchise said.  Terms of a sale to Winnipeg, Manitoba-based  True North
Sports & Entertainment  have been completed and will be announced
on May 24, the Toronto Globe & Mail  reported  last night, citing
people it didn’t identify.  “There is no deal to move the club anywhere right now,”
Bettman said in an interview in Tampa, Florida, before last
night’s playoff game between the Tampa Bay Lightning and  Boston
Bruins . “There’s really nothing to report.”  The Thrashers will only move if no owner can be found to
keep the team in  Georgia ’s capital city, Bettman has said.  “Not true,” Thrashers President Don Waddell said in an e-
mail about the Globe & Mail report.  Waddell told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution yesterday
that the team is in discussions with one group to keep the team
in Atlanta. No agreement is imminent, he told the paper.  “The story is not accurate,” True North spokesman  Scott
Brown  said in an e-mail. “True North Sport & Entertainment
denies that a deal is done.”  The NHL hasn’t had a team in Winnipeg since the Jets moved
to Phoenix in 1996. The Thrashers would be the second NHL team
to leave Atlanta, following the Flames, who were sold to a group
of Canadian businessmen and relocated to Calgary in 1980.  The Thrashers, who have made the playoffs once in their 11-
year history, may be sold for $110 million, Forbes magazine
reported on May 2. The magazine valued the franchise at $135
million in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Tampa,  Florida , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  