-- 
Real Madrid May Sell Cristiano Ronaldo, Daily Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-20T09:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/real-madrid-may-sell-ronaldo-daily-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Real’s Ronaldo Sale  Real  Madrid  will seek as much as 150 million pounds ($244
million) for  Cristiano Ronaldo  after the forward’s relationship
with manager Jose Mourinho worsened, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Club president Florentino Perez will listen to offers
for the world’s most expensive player following a rift that
developed after Ronaldo and Mourinho argued about tactics at
Madrid’s training ground, the newspaper added.  Ronaldo moved to the Spanish capital for 80 million pounds
from  Manchester United  in 2009. He’s scored more than 50 goals
this season, including the winner in the Spanish cup final
against Barcelona.  Tevez Out  Manchester City  striker  Carlos Tevez  has told the English
F.A. Cup winning-team that he’s quitting,  the Sun  reported.  Tevez’s admission that he wants to leave comes just days
after manager  Roberto Mancini  said the 27-year-old wanted to
stay and lead the team into its first season in the Champions
League, the newspaper said.  “I want to leave Manchester City,” the Sun quoted the
City captain telling Radio del Plata in  Argentina . “Football
has changed a lot for me and I don’t know if I will even make it
to the next  World Cup .”  Tevez said he’d been treated well by the club but that he
needed “a change of scene,” according to the Sun.  Porto Price  Clubs that want to hire Porto’s 33-year-old manager Andre
Villas-Boas will have to pay a 15 million-euro ($21.5 million)
release clause, the  Telegraph said .  Chelsea has been linked with a move for Villas-Boas, who
led Porto to the Europa League title two days ago, but he’ll
probably remain in  Portugal  for another season because of the
size of the fee, the Telegraph added.  He’s more likely to leave at the end of next season because
the clause appears to only apply to the upcoming off-season, the
Telegraph said.  As well as winning the Europa League, Porto went unbeaten
in winning the Portuguese league championship and is in the
final off the national cup.  Diego to Liverpool?  Liverpool may make a move for Wolfsburg’s Brazilian
attacking midfielder Diego, the  Sun reported .  The 26-year-old may be available for as little as 9 million
pounds after walking out on a pre-match training camp, the
newspaper said. He cost more than twice that figure when he
moved to Juventus in May 2009.  Prank Probe  The pilot who carried a banner from Millwall fans taunting
ex-West Ham manager  Avram Grant  during the Hammers’ defeat at
Wigan may face a “hefty fine” from aviation authorities, the
 Daily Mail  said.  The banner which said ”Avram Grant - Millwall legend” was
flown over the DW Stadium in Wigan as West Ham gave up a two-
goal lead to lose the match 3-2 and become the first Premier
League team to be relegated this season. Grant was fired after
the game.  According to guidelines, it’s forbidden to fly a plane in a
built up area below 1,000 feet, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  