-- 
Former Minnesota Governor Pawlenty to Announce Presidential Bid on May 23

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-20T20:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/republican-pawlenty-will-announce-bid-for-u-s-president-may-23-aide-says.html
Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , the first major Republican to begin raising money for
a presidential run, will announce next week that he is
officially entering the 2012 race, an aide said.  The announcement on May 23 will come during an appearance
in Des Moines, Iowa, according to the aide, who wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record about the plan.  The decision to kick off his bid in his neighboring state
of Iowa underscores its importance for Pawlenty’s campaign,
which is seeking a strong showing in the nominating caucuses
there in hopes of building momentum for a candidate who’s less
well known than some potential rivals. The Iowa caucuses,
scheduled for Feb. 6, will be the first balloting in next year’s
nomination contest.  Ken Martin, the Democratic chairman in  Minnesota ,
criticized Pawlenty’s entry into the race, saying he doesn’t
“bring much to the table in terms of leadership,
accomplishments or vision.”  Pawlenty, 50, was elected governor in 2002 and served two
terms after spending a decade in Minnesota’s legislature. He
chose not to seek re-election in 2010, and set up a presidential
fundraising committee in March. Through March 31, he had taken
in $160,000 for his campaign. Before that, he used a political
action committee to pay staff salaries and help fellow
Republicans.  Short List  The former governor was on the short list of prospective
running mates for 2008 Republican presidential nominee  John McCain , who eventually chose then-Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  Pawlenty has built a team of experienced political
operatives, especially in Iowa. In a news release today,
Pawlenty’s exploratory campaign announced that his senior
advisers in Iowa will include Chuck Larson Jr., a former Iowa
Republican Party chairman; Karen Slifka, a former Republican
National Committee Midwest regional political director; Ed
Failor Jr., a former president of Iowans for Tax Relief; and
Eric Woolson, who led the winning 2008 Iowa caucuses campaign
for former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee .  In early polling, Pawlenty has trailed most of the
potential Republican field. He received 4 percent in an April
26-May 1 survey by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut .  Republican Field  The Republican race is taking shape after Huckabee, real
estate developer Donald Trump and Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour each announced they had decided against running.  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  and U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  have formally announced their
candidacies. Pawlenty and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney have filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission
to raise money for potential runs, as has former U.S. Senator
Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and former Louisiana Governor
Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-Republican.  Herman Cain, the former chief executive officer of
Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson have also declared their candidacies.  Other potential candidates include Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, Jon Huntsman Jr., a former U.S. ambassador to  China  and
ex-governor of  Utah  who was testing the waters for a run in a
visit that began yesterday in New Hampshire, as well as Palin
and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, both favorites
of the Tea Party movement.  Pawlenty has already made several trips to  Iowa , New
Hampshire and  South Carolina , states with early contests for the
nomination and places where he would need a strong showing to
gain momentum. He has made 13 visits to Iowa since November
2008, according to the  IowaPolitics.com  website.  Fiscal Record  Minnesota faces a forecast budget deficit of $5 billion for
its next two-year budget cycle, down from $6.2 billion when
Pawlenty left office. The state’s  population  grew 7.8 percent
between 2000 and 2010, more than anywhere else in the Midwest
except  South Dakota , according to 2010 census data.  Pawlenty was given an “A” for his fiscal record in a 2010
 analysis  of National Association of State Budget Officers data
by the Washington-based  Cato Institute , a policy research
organization that advocates limited government and lower taxes.  During the worst recession since the Great Depression, the
state’s unemployment never was as high as the national average.
It peaked at 8.4 percent in May and June 2009 and has been on
the decline since.  Pawlenty has faced questions over reversing his position on
 climate change . The Pulitzer Prize-winning  Politifact  said
Pawlenty did a “full flop” on the issue.  In 2009, he objected to congressional efforts to curb
emissions, calling them “very burdensome on our economy.” Two
years earlier, as chairman of the National Governors
Association, Pawlenty promoted efforts to reduce  greenhouse
gases .  “It’s an area where the people are ahead of the
politicians,” Pawlenty said in a September 2007 interview,
adding that states “can move more aggressively and more quickly
than the federal government can in many of these cases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  