-- 
Rising Cattle Sales Signal More Beef Supply, Lower Tyson Costs

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/rising-cattle-sales-signal-more-beef-supply-lower-tyson-costs.html
U.S. ranchers in April probably sold
the most cattle to feedlots since 2003 after drought ravaged
pastures in Texas and  Kansas , signaling more beef supplies and
lower costs for meat processors including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)   Feedlot operators probably bought of 1.704 million head of
cattle last month, up 4.3 percent from a year earlier, according
to a Bloomberg survey. That would mark the highest so-called
placement for April in eight years, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show. The agency will report inventories at 3
p.m. today in  Washington . Texas is the leading U.S. cattle
producer, followed by Kansas.  Cattle futures, down 11 percent from an all-time high of
$1.21625 on April 4, may fall an additional 7.3 percent to $1 a
pound in the next 30 to 60 days, said Troy Vetterkind, the owner
of Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage. That may ease costs for
processors and retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  that have
passed along higher meat prices to consumers.  “The combination of very strong feeder-cattle prices and
very dry pasture conditions on the Southern Plains has forced a
lot of cattle into feedlots earlier than normal,” said
Vetterkind, who has monitored livestock markets for more than
two decades. More supplies may be a “little depressing for
prices,” he said.  Placements climbed in January and March, and the rise in
April means that supplies will be high through October, said
 Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale Inc. in
McHenry,  Illinois . Yesterday, wholesale beef dropped 1 percent
to $1.7559 a pound. That was down 8.5 percent from $1.9196 on
April 5, the highest since at least 2002.  ‘Severe’ Drought  More than 60 percent of the South, including  Texas  and
 Oklahoma , is experiencing “severe” drought, according to the
University of Nebraska’s U.S. Drought  Monitor . Pasture and range
conditions were rated “very poor” or “poor” in 71 percent of
Texas.  In the U.S., the world’s leading beef producer and second-
largest exporter, feedlots buy year-old cattle that weigh 500
pounds (227 kilograms) to 800 pounds, called feeders. It takes
about four or five months on a diet of mostly corn before the
animals weigh about 1,200 pounds, when they are sold to
meatpackers.  “The market has been tight and prices have been high, and
that’s an incentive to move animals along,” said Timothy S. Ramey, a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson &
Co. who has a “buy” rating on Tyson. Meat processors may have
“slightly easier prices, and so perhaps better results in the
near to medium term” because of the higher placements, he said.  Exports Jump  Yesterday, cattle futures for August delivery fell 1.1
percent to $1.07925 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
yesterday. The price has climbed 18 percent in the past year
after export demand for U.S. beef increased.  U.S. exporters shipped 633.3 million pounds (287.3 million
kilograms) of beef in the first quarter, up 32 percent from a
year earlier, the latest government  data  show.  South Korea  was
the biggest buyer, followed by Mexico and  Japan .  Brazil  is the
leading shipper.  U.S. shoppers may pay as much as 8 percent more for beef
this year, the biggest gain of any major food group, the
government  forecasts . Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer,
said this week it has raised prices on some grocery items,
particularly meat and dairy.  Tyson, which also processes poultry and pork, is the
biggest U.S. meat company. The company, based in Springdale,
 Arkansas , declined to comment on how increased placements might
affect its business.  U.S. retail-beef prices rose to a record $4.453 a pound in
April, up 11 percent from a year earlier, the USDA said on May
13.  ‘Margin Stability’  “Over the last 10 years, there has been a 95 percent
correlation between cattle and beef prices, so packers have
largely been able to maintain some margin stability, despite
rising or falling supplies,”  Ken Goldman , an analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said in an e-mail. He has a
“neutral” rating on Tyson.  While the increased placements could “potentially” ease
meat-processor costs, it won’t have that much of an impact,
Goldman said.  The total feedlot herd probably totaled 11.101 million head
on May 1, up 6.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the
Bloomberg survey. That would be the biggest for the month since
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 