-- 
Rolls-Royce Loses Engine-Patent Case Against United Technologies’ Pratt

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-20T18:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/rolls-royce-loses-jet-engine-case-against-pratt-whitney-1-.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , the world’s
second-largest maker of jet engines, lost the patent-
infringement case it brought against United Technologies Corp.’s
 Pratt & Whitney  over fan technology.  Pratt’s GP7200 Fan Stage doesn’t violate a patent issued in
2000 for a Rolls-Royce Trent engine used on the Airbus SAS A380
airplane, U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria,
 Virginia , said in a decision issued today.  Rolls-Royce had been seeking as much as $3.7 billion in
damages before Brinkema on May 4 told the London-based company
it was likely overstating the effect of competition on sales.
Brinkema rejected the infringement claims today after
determining the two competing technologies weren’t the same
because the Rolls-Royce patent covers a fan stage with three
sweep regions, while Pratt fans have four, according to the
opinion.  “Rolls-Royce takes protection of its technology and
intellectual property very seriously,” the company said in a
statement. “We are disappointed by today’s ruling and will
carefully consider our options.”  Rolls-Royce competes against a venture of East Hartford,
Connecticut-based Pratt and  General Electric Co. (GE)  to provide
engines for the A380. GE is the largest maker of jet engines.  The swept-fan blade design at issue in the case allows for
a twist, giving the largest part of a jet engine greater
resistance to damage by foreign objects, more stability and
lower noise levels. The trial was scheduled to begin June 6, and
Brinkema said Pratt must decide whether to pursue claims the
patent is invalid and unenforceable.  Pratt’s Case  “The court’s ruling confirms what we have always
maintained, that our products do not infringe the Rolls
patent,” Pratt said in an e-mailed statement. “If Rolls
chooses to appeal the decision, we will continue to defend
ourselves.”  Pratt in November filed its own patent-infringement case
against Rolls-Royce with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in  Washington . A trial is scheduled for October before the
agency, which has the power to block imports of products found
to violate U.S. patents.  The case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
10cv457, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  