-- 
Group With White House Ties Releases First Ad of 2012 Season

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-20T18:18:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/romney-target-of-first-2012-election-ad-put-out-by-group-with-obama-ties.html
A political organization with ties to
President  Barack Obama  is releasing its first ad of the 2012
presidential race with an assault on  Mitt Romney , one of the
Republican Party’s leading potential candidates.  The ad by Priorities USA Action asks whether Romney
supports the House Republicans’ budget plan that would end
Medicare as a government health-care plan for the elderly. The
ads will run in South Carolina, where Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor who is exploring a second White House
bid, is visiting this weekend.  “It has become a litmus test for the Republicans,” South
Carolina’s former Democratic Governor Jim Hodges said on a
conference call with reporters. “We want Mitt Romney to have to
answer the question.”  The ad focuses on former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s
comment earlier this week that the legislation, which changes
Medicare into a system of subsidies to buy private insurance,
represented “radical change,” a remark he has since apologized
for after receiving criticism from Republicans, including South
Carolina’s Republican Governor Nikki Haley.  The plan was sponsored by House Budget Committee Chairman
Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin .  ‘Straight Question’  “My guess is the Romney campaign knows they’ve got a
problem here and they don’t want to talk about Medicare,”  Bill Burton , a co-founder of Priorities USA Action and a former White
House deputy press secretary, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “So our view is that he ought to just
answer a straight question: Where does he stand on  Paul Ryan ’s
plan that would essentially end Medicare?”  Hodges and Democratic consultant  Paul Begala , a one-time
adviser to former President Bill Clinton and now an adviser to
Priorities USA, said the group decided to target Medicare in its
first ad because its future will be debated in the next
election.  “We believe that will be a dominant issue in 2012,”
Begala said.  Burton declined to say how much the group was spending on
the advertisement.  “It will run during Romney’s trip over the weekend across
South Carolina and online at election-year levels,” he said in
an e-mail. “If you’re watching the news in South Carolina this
weekend, you will see this ad.”  A spokeswoman for Romney said the Democrats were trying to
change the subject away from the economy.  ‘Change the Subject’  “President Obama and his team are desperate to change the
subject to anything other than jobs and the millions of
Americans out of work,” said the spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, in
an e-mail. “In  South Carolina , voters are looking for a jobs
plan, not a smear campaign.”  Romney, who leads in early polls of possible Republican
presidential candidates, used a speech in Michigan last week to
try to defuse one of his biggest political liabilities by
drawing distinctions between a health care plan he supported as
governor and one pushed into federal law by Obama that is
unpopular with Republicans.  Obama and his aides have cited the Massachusetts law as a
prototype for the health-care legislation that they guided last
year through what was then a Democratic-controlled Congress.
Aspects of the federal law are similar to the Massachusetts
measure, including a provision that adults who aren’t covered by
their employers or a government program must buy insurance or
face a financial penalty.  Political Money Race  Priorities USA and  Priorities USA Action  were created last
month by Democrats to match political money raised by
organizations led by Republican strategist  Karl Rove  and
billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch of Koch Industries
Inc. Priorities USA will pursue the kind of unlimited and secret
donations Obama has said he opposes.  The  Supreme Court ’s 2010 Citizens United decision made it
easier for political groups to accept corporate and labor union
money and run ads advocating the election or defeat of a
candidate. The new Democratic groups said they were organizing
because of the potential that Republicans taking advantage of
the ruling will raise and spend $500 million this election
cycle.  Priorities USA Action will report regularly to the  Federal
Election Commission  and disclose its donors. The group will be
able to accept unlimited donations from individuals,
corporations and unions, though it cannot make direct
contributions to candidates. Its sister group, Priorities USA,
won’t have to disclose its donors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 