-- 
Saudi Arabia Appoints Officials as Protests Sweep Through Region

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-05-20T15:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/saudi-arabia-appoints-officials-as-protests-sweep-through-region.html
Saudi Arabia  named officials in
several departments amid a wave of demonstrations across the
Middle East by protesters demanding civil rights.  Seven royal decrees announced by  King Abdullah  call for new
appointments in the kingdom’s grievances, education,
telecommunications and military departments, the official Saudi
Press Agency said in a statement on its website today.  Sheikh Abdul Aziz bin Mohammed Nassar was appointed as head
of the grievances board, replacing Sheikh Ibrahim bin Shaya
Hugail, and given the rank of minister, according to the
statement. Ahmed bin Mohammed bin Hamad Al Seef was named deputy
minister of higher education, replacing Ali bin Suleiman Al
Attiyah, SPA said.  Four months of political unrest have shaken the region as
citizens demand civil rights, higher  living standards  and the
ouster of autocratic regimes. Saudi Arabia’s leaders have
“positioned themselves as the guardians of the status quo,”
according to Christopher Davidson, author of “Power and
Politics in the Persian Gulf Monarchies.” The Al Saud royal
family is resisting “genuine reform by using a mixture of
carrots and sticks.”  King Abdullah also named Field Marshal Hussain al-Gubail as
chief of general staff for the Saudi army, replacing Saleh al- Muhaya, who is retiring. Abdullah al-Dharrab was appointed
governor of the Communication and Information Technology
Commission, replacing Abdul Rahman al-Jafari, SPA said.  The Saudi king also extended the terms of Abdul Aziz al-
Hugail, president of Saudi Railway Organization, and Mohammed
al-Suwaiyel, president of King Abdul Aziz City for Science and
Technology, the country’s research and development body, for
another four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  