-- 
HSBC Must Face Lawsuit by Taiwanese Banks Over Pang-PEMgroup Fraud Losses

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-21T01:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/hsbc-must-face-lawsuit-by-taiwanese-banks-over-pemgroup-losses.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  was denied a
request for dismissal of a lawsuit by a group of Taiwanese banks
that accuse HSBC Bank USA of helping deceased financier Danny Pang’s PEMGroup defraud them of more than $500 million.  U.S. District Judge Philip Gutierrez on May 19 rejected
HSBC’s arguments that the banks should have brought their claims
in the British Virgin Islands, where the PEMGroup entities that
issued the securities were based, rather than in Los Angeles. He
also dismissed contentions that the banks didn’t provide enough
facts to support their fraud and conspiracy claims.  “These allegations, taken together, create a reasonable
inference that, based on the close business relationship between
HSBC and PEM Group, as well as the material incentives HSBC
stood to gain by providing investors with misleading or
inaccurate data regarding the investments, HSBC had sufficient
knowledge of PEM Group’s fraud,” Gutierrez said in his order.  Hua Nan Commercial Bank claimed $191 million in losses; Hua
Nan Investment Trust, $48 million;  Cosmos Bank Taiwan (2837) ,
$45 million;  EnTie Commercial Bank (2849) , $50 million; Bank SinoPac,
$122 million; and  Taichung Commercial Bank (2812) , $70 million,
according to their October 2010 complaint.  The banks said HSBC, the cash and asset custodian for the
PEMGroup securities, lied to investors about how long the bank
had serviced PEMGroup’s investments and falsely represented that
PEMGroup’s prior investment products had been performing in
conformity with their offering memoranda.  Amended Complaint  Gutierrez dismissed fraud and negligent misrepresentation
claims by EnTie and Taichung. The banks were allowed to restate
their claims in an amended complaint.  Juanita Gutierrez, a spokesman for HSBC in  New York , said
the bank wouldn’t comment on pending litigation.  The court-appointed receiver for  Irvine , California-based
Private Equity Management Group Inc. sued HSBC in May 2010,
alleging the bank had helped Pang defraud Taiwanese investors.
Judge Gutierrez the previous year had frozen the assets of
PEMGroup and appointed a receiver after the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission leveled accusations against Pang.  The SEC accused Pang of lying about his credentials,
forging insurance documents and paying existing investors with
funds raised from new ones, while claiming the returns came from
investments in life insurance policies. Pang, 42, committed
suicide in September 2009.  The case is Hua Nan Commercial Bank v. HSBC Bank USA, 10-
8773, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 