-- 
Scene Last Night: Griffin, Debbie Harry, Christo, Marissa Mayer

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-20T16:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/scene-last-night-citadel-s-griffin-debbie-harry-christo-google-doodles.html
Under a party tent at the new
downtown site of the Whitney Museum of American Art last night,
shovels hung from the ceiling, Debbie Harry performed, and
guests included Citadel LLC’s  Ken Griffin , whose wife, Anne, is
a trustee.  The artist Christo dug into grilled cheese, tomato soup and
meatloaf. Real shovels will dig into the ground on a vacant lot
in the Meatpacking District Tuesday morning.  Yes, the Groundbreaking Gala was a little early, but
understandable after decades of scrapped building plans. On
Tuesday night, it will throw a less formal party.  If all goes according to plan, by 2015 the Whitney will
have a Renzo Piano-designed building with 50,000 square feet of
gallery space.  “It’s going to work for the art and the artists,” said
Walton Street Capital LLC’s Neil G. Bluhm, president of the
Whitney board. “It’s going to be like  Willie Mays , it’s going
to do everything.”  Bluhm was standing next to museum co-chairmen Robert Hurst
and Brooke Neidich.  “We’re here, right on our site right now,” Hurst said,
grinning. “We’ve been here before but now we own it!”  Neidich seemed to know everyone in the room. A few of the
people she pointed out: artist Tauba Auerbach; Chris Jennings,
the son of the late news anchor Peter Jennings; Darius Bikoff,
the now-retired founder of Vitamin Water, who is a new trustee
of the Whitney; and real-estate developer Scott Resnick, a vice
president of the board. (It takes a lot of trustees to raise
$720 million, the estimated cost of the project.)  Artists Connecting  Adam Weinberg, the director of the museum, wants the new
building to “be alive, not just a repository,” he said. “One
of the key measures of our success will be how the artist
community comes around and connects with it.”  For many the location will make a difference.  “I’ll be popping in three times a month rather than every
few months,” said artist Irit Batsry, who lives in the East
Village.  “It’ll be a three-block walk from my house,” said Matthew
Blank, chairman and chief executive officer of Showtime Networks
Inc., who collects photography.
      Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s New York headquarters are also about three
blocks away, which is one of the reasons why  Marissa Mayer ,
a Google vice president, received the museum’s American Art
Award at the event (even though she lives in  San Francisco ).  Geranium-Challenged  Mayer said she is not an artist -- couldn’t draw a geranium
if her life depended on it, in fact -- but she has created a
platform that has encouraged thousands of children to make art:
the Doodle 4 Google contest, for which children submit designs
for the Google logo.  “Any way we can foster imagination, creativity and
innovation is really a wonderful thing,” Mayer said.  This year’s first-place winner, Matteo Lopez’s space-themed
design, is featured on the Google home page today. Several
winning entries will be displayed at the Whitney through June
16.  Mayer’s award from the Whitney was a green-grass Ellsworth Kelly painting, which somewhat matched her green Oscar de la
Renta dress.  Many Google staff doodlers were in attendance and requested
their own party favor: one of the shovels. “They said they’ll
send one over,” said Google designer Ryan Germick.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 