-- 
Scottish & Southern Profit Rises on Regulated Network Sales

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-20T16:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/scottish-southern-profit-rises-on-regulated-network-sales-2-.html
Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , the
U.K.’s second-largest power producer, said full-year adjusted
profit before tax rose 1.6 percent as the company boosted
earnings from its electricity transmission business.  Profit before tax for the year ended March 2011 rose to
1.31 billion pounds ($2.1 billion), from 1.29 billion pounds a
year earlier, the Perth, Scotland-based company said in a
statement today. This was in-line with the 1.28 billion pound
median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company will pay a full-year dividend of 75 pence a share, up
from 70 pence a year earlier.  “This leads to earnings growth of two percent,” Investec
analyst Angelos Anastasiou said in a note to investors today.
“This level of growth is not particularly impressive given the
increased level of investment expenditure.”  The utility, which has paid shareholders an above-inflation
dividend payment every year for the last 12, committed to paying
a full-year dividend of at least 2 percent more than inflation
in fiscal year 2012 and 2013. Revenue from new customers and
generation projects due to come online this year and next will
underpin dividend payouts, Chief Executive Ian Marchant said on
a conference call today.  “Our entire investment program is designed to give that
continuing momentum to dividend beyond 2013,” Marchant said.
The company is seeking to add as many as 100,000 customers over
the course of the year, the executive added.  Capital Spending  Scottish & Southern’s capital expenditure totaled 1.4
billion pounds over the year, an increase of 9.8 percent, the
company said. About 784 million pounds was spent on renewable
energy projects, including the utility’s Greater Gabbard and
Walney offshore wind farms. The company will spend 1.7 billion
in fiscal year 2012, Marchant said.  Household electricity consumption dropped almost 2.5
percent in the British market during the period, the company
said. Income from the company’s regulated businesses compensated
for lower-than-expected renewable energy generation.  Scottish & Southern rose 14 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 1,341
pence in  London . The stock has risen 9.5 percent this year,
valuing the company at 12.6 billion pounds.  Separately, the utility said it completed the purchase of
the Skykon wind turbine tower manufacturing and assembly plant.
The company also announced the purchase of a 34-turbine wind
farm near its Keadby power station in North Lincolnshire,
 England . Once completed, the farm will be able to supply energy
to between 38,000 and 47,000 homes, the company said.  Load Factor Down  The average load factor of Scottish & Southern’s wind farms
in the U.K. and Ireland was 24 percent, compared with 26 percent
a year earlier, because of “still weather conditions,” the
company said. As of March 31, the utility has more than 1,900
megawatts of onshore wind farm capacity in operation,
construction or with development consent.  The company is seeking to develop two large-scale pumped
storage facilities at Loch Lochy and Loch Ness in  Scotland . The
Loch Lochy project will have the capability of producing more
than 1,000 gigawatt hours of electricity in an average year,
Scottish & Southern said. A similar output could be achieved
within the same time-frame at Loch Ness, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  