-- 
Shell Fails to Sell Forties Oil; Nigeria Cuts June Crude Prices

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-05-20T16:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/shell-fails-to-sell-forties-oil-nigeria-cuts-june-crude-prices.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc failed to sell
cargoes of Forties and  Brent crude . Nigeria cut official selling
prices for its crude oil grades in June, including benchmark
 Bonny Light  and Qua Iboe.  North Sea   Shell failed to sell a Forties shipment for June 8 to June
10 at a 85 cents a barrel more than the cash cost of North Sea
crude in August, according to a survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts trading window. The company also didn’t
manage to vend Brent crude at a $1 a barrel premium to Dated
Brent scheduled for June 5 to June 7.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
the Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before
the window, Forties loading in 10 to 21 days cost 51 cents more
than Dated Brent, compared with 65 cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nexen Inc. will complete repairs to the cooling system at
its Buzzard oil project in the U.K.’s North Sea by the end of
this month, the company said yesterday.  Rates at Buzzard will be limited to the equivalent of about
80,000 barrels of oil daily until the work is completed,
Calgary-based Nexen said in a statement. Production will be
ramped up to full capacity of 200,000 barrels a day by the end
of July. A two-week turnaround at Buzzard scheduled for
September has been realigned because of the cooling work.  “Buzzard usually accounts for around 30 percent of
benchmark-setting Forties production, meaning that the fewer
volumes available will be both lighter and sweeter,” said
analysts led by  David Wech , head of research at Vienna-based
researcher JBC Energy GmbH.  “Normally this would result in strong demand for the
crude, but buyers have been wary because of the possibility of
cargoes being deferred to the following month or even dropped
out of the loading program,” JBC said in a note today.  Brent for July settlement traded at $110.51 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the
window, up from $112.05 the previous session. The August
contract was at $110.04, 47 cents less than July.  Mediterranean/Urals  Eni SpA failed to buy an 80,000-metric-ton cargo of Urals
in the Mediterranean at a discount of $2.85 a barrel to Dated
Brent for June 5 to June 9 loading, according to the Platts
survey. The grade traded yesterday at $2.90 a barrel less than
Dated Brent.  In northwest  Europe , Glencore International Plc withdrew
its buying interest for a shipment at a $2.60-a-barrel discount.  West Africa  State-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. cut its
official selling price for benchmark Bonny Light and Qua Iboe
crudes for June loading by 60 cents to a $3.20-a-barrel premium
over North Sea Dated Brent, a price list obtained by Bloomberg
News showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  