-- 
Tepco President Exits After $15 Billion Loss, Biggest by Japanese Company

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-05-20T06:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/shimizu-resigns-as-tepco-president-after-japan-s-biggest-corporate-loss.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. President
Masataka Shimizu resigned as the utility posted the biggest loss
by a Japanese company, triggered by the worst nuclear crisis
since Chernobyl.  Toshio Nishizawa, 60, a managing director at the utility,
will replace Shimizu, 66, Tokyo Electric said in a press release.
The company known as Tepco reported today a loss of 1.25
trillion yen ($15 billion) in the year ended March 31, eclipsing
the 812 billion yen loss posted by Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
Corp. nine years ago.  Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north of Tokyo has been
releasing radiation since a magnitude-9 quake and tsunami took
out cooling systems on March 11 and caused at least one of six
reactors to melt down. Management has been criticized by the
prime minister for its handling of the crisis and Shimizu didn’t
visit Fukushima until a month later.  “Their response has been no good at all,” Tokyo Governor
Shintaro Ishihara said on March 25, describing Tepco’s reaction
to the crisis. “It’s been slow.”  On March 15, an hour-long delay in Tepco informing Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  of a reactor fire prompted him to demand of
utility officials: “What the hell is going on?”  Kyodo News  and
other news agencies cited Kan as saying within earshot of
reporters.  Shimizu met with Fukushima’s governor Yuhei Sato on a visit
to the prefectural capital on April 22 to apologize for the
accident, after the Tepco president was refused meetings with
Sato on April 11 and March 22.  Nuclear Safety  Shares in Tepco have fallen 83 percent since the day before
the disaster. The stock closed at 367 yen today, before the
earnings announcement, up 2.5 percent.  The Fukushima disaster came less than four years after a
temblor shut Tepco’s biggest atomic plant at Kashiwazaki Kariwa.
Shimizu took over as president in June 2008 after the 6.8-
magnitude quake damaged the station and stoked mistrust among
the Japanese public about nuclear safety.  Shizumi’s predecessor,  Tsunehisa Katsumata , himself became
president amid controversy. He was promoted in October 2002
after Hiroshi Araki and Nobuya Minami, chairman and president at
that time, stepped down to take responsibility for fake safety
reports at three nuclear plants, including Kashiwazaki Kariwa.  Melting Uranium Rods  On May 15, more than two months after the disaster, Tepco
said conditions were worse than believed in reactor No. 1 after
it found all uranium fuel rods had melted.  Beside radiation leaks into the atmosphere forcing about
50,000 families near the plant to evacuate, more than 10 million
liters (2.6 million gallons) of radiation-contaminated water
have leaked or been released into the sea.  Millions of liters of radiated water have also filled
basements and trenches at the station from leaking reactor
vessels and piping.  Tepco faces as much as 11 trillion yen in compensation
claims after the disaster, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in
a report on March 29.  Japan ’s government in April raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster. The station, which has
experienced hundreds of aftershocks since March 11, may release
more radiation than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained,
Tepco officials have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo in  Singapore  at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net . 