-- 
Singapore Finance Chief Gets Thai, Philippine Support for Strauss-Kahn Job

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   Y a p   a n d   J o h n   D a w s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T05:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/singapore-s-finance-minister-backed-for-imf-job-by-thailand-philippines.html
Southeast Asian nations backed
 Singapore  Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam as a possible
choice to succeed  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  as head of the
 International Monetary Fund .  Shanmugaratnam “is certainly well qualified” and the IMF
should consider all candidates for the role of managing director,
including those from  Asia  or  Latin America , Philippine Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said
yesterday Asia has good candidates, including Shanmugaratnam.  “In the late 90s, Asia went through a debt contagion itself
and I think that experience leading through that crisis can come
in handy in helping our European friends in their own debt
crisis,” Purisima said today.  Strauss-Kahn’s resignation this week after being charged
with attempting to rape a New York hotel maid kicked off a
contest for his successor.  Europe ’s officials have moved to
retain the job as emerging markets including Asia,  South America ,
and Russia seek greater representation at the IMF, which has
always been headed by a  European  since it started in 1946.  The IMF made Shanmugaratnam the chair of its steering
committee for up to three years in March, and the minister is
also a member of the Group of Thirty, an international economic
and monetary affairs advisory group.  Thailand’s Korn said the Singapore finance chief was “one
of the most capable, technically sound, well rounded and
experienced finance ministers in the world.”  Deputy Premier  Shanmugaratnam, 54, was named this week as deputy prime
minister and manpower minister while retaining the finance
portfolio during a cabinet reshuffle by Singapore Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong.  He has headed the island’s  finance ministry  since December
2007, and was managing director of the central bank in 2001. The
Southeast Asian nation’s gross domestic product grew a record
14.5 percent last year after shrinking in 2009 amid the global
recession.  Shanmugaratnam said the announcement of Singapore’s new
cabinet has “put paid” to any rumors that he will move to the
IMF, the Straits Times newspaper reported on May 19. The finance
ministry declined to comment on the IMF role when contacted by
Bloomberg News today.  European officials have moved to retain the privilege of
leading the IMF, set up after World War II to promote global
financial stability, supporting French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde . The U.S. has said it wants “an open process
that leads to a prompt succession.”  Under the IMF’s rules, its executive board selects the
managing director and any member can make a nomination. Prior to
appointing Strauss-Kahn in 2007, the board said candidates must
have a “distinguished record in economic policy-making at
senior levels” and “demonstrated the managerial and diplomatic
skills needed to lead a global institution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  