-- 
Smurfit Shareholders Lose Bid to Block $3.5 Billion Rock-Tenn Buyout Offer

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-20T22:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/smurfit-shareholders-lose-bid-to-block-3-5-billion-rock-tenn-buyout-offer.html
Smurfit-Stone Container Corp.
investors lost a bid to block a $3.5 billion buyout of the
packaging maker by  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT)  after a judge found Smurfit-
Stone executives didn’t sell the company too cheaply.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons concluded
today Smurfit-Stone’s directors properly accepted Rock-Tenn’s
offer, which includes $17 a share in cash, after forcing the
rival packaging company to increase its bid several times.
Shareholders of Chicago-based Smurfit-Stone are slated to vote
on the offer May 27.  Investors didn’t show “a reasonable probability of success
on their claim that the board breached” its legal duties by not
shopping around for other offers, Parsons concluded in a 67-page
decision.  Rock-Tenn, based in Norcross,  Georgia , agreed earlier this
year to buy Smurfit-Stone for about $35 a share, half in cash
and half in Rock-Tenn stock, according to court papers. The
combination would create North America’s second-biggest
containerboard producer after Memphis, Tennessee-based
 International Paper Co. (IP)   Neither Lisa Esneault, a Smurfit-Stone spokeswoman, nor
John Stakel, a Rock-Tenn spokesman, immediately returned calls
for comment on Parson’s ruling.  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for Smurfit-Stone investors who
sued, declined to comment on the ruling. Parsons’ decision
clears the way for next week’s shareholder vote on the deal.  Investor Opposition  Third Point LLC,  Royal Capital Management LLC  and  Monarch
Alternative Capital LP , which collectively own about 9 percent
of Smurfit-Stone’s shares, have vowed to vote against the deal,
which the funds contend undervalues Smurfit-Stone.  The  company , which makes paper-based packaging and
corrugated containers, has 12 paper mills, 110 container plants
and 29 reclamation plants, according to court documents. It has
operations in Canada, Mexico, China,  Puerto Rico  and the U.S.  Smurfit-Stone had sought  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors in 2009 as a result of the economic decline in the
U.S., officials said. The company emerged from Chapter 11 a year
later with a new board selected by its creditors’ committee,
according to court papers.  Takeover Target  Smurfit-Stone officials argued in the chancery court case
that since the company was a takeover target while in Chapter
11, there was no reason to shop around for offers for the
container maker after it emerged from court protection.  Smurfit-Stone executives also worried that publicly seeking
offers would jeopardize the existing offer from Rock-Tenn and
leave the impression that the company was in trouble, lawyers
said during a hearing earlier this week.  Some Smurfit-Stone shareholders complained that approach
allowed Rock-Tenn to buy the company too cheaply and questioned
whether the firm’s executives were influenced by the prospect of
reaping millions in bonuses as a result of the sale.  Parsons backed Smurfit-Stone directors’ handling of the
sale, saying they were in the best position to judge who were
the “potential strategic buyers.”  “I find the board possessed a sufficient amount of
reliable evidence from which is could reasonably conclude that a
market check was not worth the risks of jeopardizing” the Rock-
Tenn offer, the judge said.  The judge also found that investors hadn’t shown the
allegedly conflicted executives “acted at Smurfit-Stone’s
expense” or tainted the sales process.  The chancery case is Marks v. Smurfit-Stone, CA-6164,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The bankruptcy case was
 Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. (SSCC) , 09-10235,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 