-- 
Southern Sudan Army, Rebels Clash in Unity State; Four People Are Killed

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-05-20T13:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/southern-sudan-army-rebels-clash-in-unity-state-four-people-are-killed.html
At least four people died and 37 were
wounded when a militia led by former  Southern Sudan  army general
Peter Gadet attacked the semi-autonomous region’s forces in oil-
rich Unity state, officials said.  Clashes erupted at around 6 a.m. today at Mankien, about
542 kilometers (337 miles) northwest of the capital, Juba, when
the militia attacked, Charles Machieng Kuol, commissioner of
Mayom county, said in an interview.  “The fighting lasted for about two hours before they were
forced out by the army,” Kuol said. Sporadic clashes took place
during the day at other villages near Mankien, he said.  Among the dead were three policemen who died when their
vehicle hit a landmine, and a soldier who was dead when he
arrived at the Mayom Primary Healthcare Center, said Peter Gai,
chief nurse at the facility.  The violence adds to a series of conflicts in the region
that have overshadowed Southern  Sudan ’s preparations for
independence in July. Fighting has killed more than 1,000 people
this year and displaced at least 93,783 in Southern Sudan,
according to the  United Nations .  Gadet is the leader of the rebel South Sudan Liberation
Army that was involved in clashes with Southern Sudanese forces
earlier this month in which at least 72 people died, army
spokesman Philip Aguer said on May 10.  The authorities in Southern Sudan say the group is backed
by President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum and that
Gadet is mobilizing a northern nomadic tribe, the Misseriya, to
fight with his forces in Unity state.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration   To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 