-- 
Most U.K. Stocks Fall, Paring FTSE 100’s Weekly Gain; RBS Drops

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-05-20T16:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/stocks-advance-bp-standard-chartered-royal-dutch-shell-lead-the-gains.html
Most U.K. stocks fell, trimming the
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX) ’s weekly advance, as concern about the outlook
for Europe’s economy overshadowed gains in  BP Plc. (BP/)   Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  dropped with financial shares across Europe as  Fitch Ratings 
downgraded  Greece ’s debt and Germany’s Bundesbank said the
economy will slow. BP rose 2.7 percent as it received a $1.07
billion settlement related to last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill.  The benchmark FTSE 100 lost 7.5, or 0.1 percent, to
5,948.49 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, with two stocks
falling for every gainer. The decline brought this week’s
advance to 0.4 percent.  The FTSE 100 failed to hold on to gains of as much as 1
percent today and add to advances from the previous two days as
concern lingered that the world economy may be cooling. The
index is 0.8 percent higher this year after gaining as much as
3.2 percent in February.  “As the day progressed markets began to tail off,
suffering a little withdrawal after the feel-good buzz from
yesterday’s sugar highs started to turn into a bit of a
hangover,” said  Michael Hewson , market analyst at CMC Markets
in London.  The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also decreased 0.1 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.4 percent.  Credit Rating  Greece’s credit rating was cut three notches by Fitch
Ratings, which said that even a voluntary restructuring of the
country’s debt being studied by European Union policy makers
would be considered a default. Fitch reduced its rating to B+,
four notches below investment grade, from BB+ and said that the
country could face a further reduction in its creditworthiness.  “One thing is clear there: we have not yet reached the end
of this matter,” said William De Vijlder, Brussels-based chief
investment officer at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which
oversees $780 billion. “Let us hope that the solution that is
being hammered out for Greece is sufficient to ward off another
wave of contagion. Equity investors have plenty more reasons to
follow the markets with heightened suspicion in the coming
weeks.”  The German Bundesbank said Europe’s largest economy will
probably lose some growth momentum over the coming months after
an “explosive” start to the year.  Lloyds dropped 2.9 percent to 51.61 pence, a sixth straight
decline for the longest losing streak since October. RBS fell
1.5 percent to 41.5 pence.  Mitchells, Imperial  Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB)  sank 5.2 percent to 319 pence after
posting first-half profit that dropped 29 percent as revenue
declined and the company incurred one-off costs.
       Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  slid 1.3 percent to 2,186
pence. The tobacco company’s Altadis Spanish unit has cut the
price of its main cigarette brands in Spain to maintain its
competitiveness, the company said. The new prices on its
Fortuna, Nobel and Ducados brands come into effect today.
      Glencore International Plc, the commodities trader that
sold $10 billion in an initial public offering yesterday,
slipped 1.1 percent to 524 pence. The world’s biggest IPO this
year yesterday generated trading commissions worth as much to
London brokers as 70 percent of all trades in FTSE 100 stocks,
according to Bloomberg data.  BP Payout  BP advanced 2.7 percent to 460 pence, its biggest gain in a
month.  Europe ’s second-largest oil company said it will receive
$1.07 billion from a unit of Mitsui & Co., one of its partners
in the Macondo well, after reaching a settlement over last
year’s accident.  BP said it reached a settlement with MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC
covering all claims between the companies. MOEX had a 10 percent
stake in the well. The agreement with Japan’s second-largest
trading house is the first payment by a company other than BP
toward the cost of the disaster.  The move “suggests that MOEX is no longer confident that
it can secure its claim that BP was the proximate cause of
damages suffered,” wrote Deutsche Bank AG analysts in a report
today. “We expect the market to gain confidence that claims of
gross negligence against BP will not be upheld and that further
Macondo costs will be recovered from related parties.”  Investec Bank Plc upgraded BP to “buy” from “hold”
today.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  surged 7.8 percent to 398.6
pence after saying it received a “a number of preliminary, non-
binding approaches which it has chosen to explore” including
from  Bain Capital  and Advent International.  Minerva Plc (MNR)  climbed 7.4 percent to 102 pence, the biggest
increase in four months, after the developer in the City of
London said it’s in “advanced” discussions with several
parties about a takeover offer for the company.  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  soared 10 percent to 11 pence. The company
said it conditionally agreed to sell its Waterstone’s bookstore
chain to a group controlled by a trust, in which Russian
billionaire  Alexander Mamut  has an interest, for 53 million
pounds ($86 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  