-- 
Ex-IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Trades Rikers for Manhattan After Posting Bail

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/strauss-kahn-bail-order-signed-as-temporary-housing-found-near-ground-zero.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , was released from jail
on Rikers Island and taken to a downtown Manhattan residence,
where he will be under 24-hour private armed guard.  “Inmate Dominique Strauss-Kahn has been discharged from
the custody of the NYC Department of Correction to the custody
of the security company, Stroz Friedberg,” Sharman Stein, a
spokeswoman for the department, said yesterday in an e-mail.
“Mr. Strauss-Kahn is no longer on Rikers Island.”  New York  state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus signed
the release order yesterday. Strauss-Kahn, accused of sexual
assault and attempted rape of a hotel housekeeper, will spend
the next few days in housing near the former site of the World
Trade Center after an Upper East Side apartment fell through,
prosecutors said yesterday at a state court hearing.  Strauss-Kahn paid $1 million to the court as part of his
bail agreement. He also posted a $5 million bond as a guarantee
that he will appear for trial. The bond is secured by cash from
the defendant’s wife, Anne Sinclair, said Ira Judelson, the bail
bondsman.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for  Manhattan  District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment.  Guards, Electronic Monitors  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was granted bail on condition that he pay
the cash, post the bond and agree to home detention under armed
guard and electronic monitoring. Prosecutors have called the
French national a flight risk. He was taken into custody May 14
on an Air France flight minutes before departure and had been
confined to Rikers Island since May 16, except for court
appearances.  The apartment where he originally planned to stay didn’t
work out because of the overwhelming media presence at the Upper
East Side building, said defense attorney William Taylor, who
likened the situation to the throng of reporters who surrounded
 Bernard Madoff  after he was arrested in a  Ponzi scheme .  “It was a Madoff kind of circus,” Taylor said in an
interview after the hearing. “The building made it known they
didn’t want” Strauss-Kahn.  Strauss-Kahn was taken to a building with rental
apartments at 71 Broadway, the New York Times reported, citing
an unnamed source.  Assistant District Attorney John “Artie” McConnell told
the judge at the hearing that prosecutors still believe Strauss-
Kahn should remain in jail pending trial. McConnell also said he
was concerned about using a temporary residence, which he said
the security company told him was only available for three or
four days.  ‘Ring of Steel’  McConnell said the temporary apartment was located in
downtown Manhattan, within what the police department refers to
as the “ring of steel.” He said there’s construction nearby
and at most one or two lanes of traffic.  “To throw what has become a very large media presence into
the mix is really potentially crippling,” McConnell said.
“They haven’t really thought about anything beyond Mr. Strauss-
Kahn’s immediate needs.”  Taylor said in an interview that the temporary housing
won’t have security cameras. Three security guards would be
posted at the location, he said.  Obus said that the initial housing arrangements didn’t work
out “perhaps in part as a result of all the media attention.”  “I trust the media will do what they need to do, to do
their jobs without unduly interfering with the rest of the
public in  New York City ,” the judge said.  Movements Restricted  Obus said that while Strauss-Kahn is in temporary housing,
he isn’t permitted to leave except for a medical emergency. Once
he is in more permanent housing, he will be able to make
arrangements to leave escorted and with notice for court
appearances, meetings with attorneys and religious observances.  The neighborhood where Strauss-Kahn, who resigned May 18 as
managing director of the IMF, will reside comprises the southern
tip of Manhattan. It contains  City Hall ,  Wall Street  and the
site where the World Trade Center stood before it was destroyed
on Sept. 11, 2001. The area is also home to police headquarters
and state and federal courthouses.  Security measures installed after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks include vehicle barriers, cameras, license-plate readers
and radiation detectors throughout the district. Federal, state
and city law enforcement personnel patrol the streets.  Denied Charges  In an indictment filed May 19, Strauss-Kahn is charged with
criminal sex acts, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful
imprisonment and forcible touching. While he has denied the
accusations, he hasn’t entered a formal plea to any of the
charges. He’s scheduled to be arraigned June 6.  Strauss-Kahn is accused of attacking a housekeeper at the
Sofitel hotel in Midtown Manhattan on May 14. He allegedly
closed the door of the room to keep the woman from leaving,
grabbed her breasts and tried to pull down her pantyhose,
according to court papers. He also forced her to perform oral
sex, prosecutors said. The maid escaped and later picked
Strauss-Kahn out of a lineup, police said.  Jeffrey Shapiro, a lawyer for the alleged victim, declined
to comment yesterday about Strauss-Kahn’s release, saying he had
not spoken to his client yet.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 