-- 
Strauss-Kahn Posts $1 Million Bail in Sexual Assault Case, Remains in Jail

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-20T17:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/strauss-kahn-posts-1-million-bail-5-million-bond-in-sex-assault-case.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund  accused of sexual
assaulting a hotel maid, paid $1 million to a Manhattan court as
part of his bail agreement.  State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus today signed the
$5 million bond Strauss-Kahn also agreed to post as a guarantee
that he will appear for trial. The bond is secured by cash from
the defendant’s wife, Anne Sinclair, said Ira Judelson, the bail
bondsman. Strauss-Kahn remains in custody.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was granted bail yesterday on condition
that he pay the cash, post the bond and agree to 24-hour home
detention under armed guard. Prosecutors have called the French
national a flight risk. He was taken into custody May 14 on an
Air France flight minutes before departure and has been confined
to the Rikers Island jail complex since May 16, except for court
appearances.  Obus set a hearing on the bail conditions for later today.
He said Strauss-Kahn won’t be released until all the bail terms
are met.  In an indictment filed yesterday, Strauss-Kahn is charged
with counts including criminal sex acts, attempted rape, sexual
abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. While he has
denied the accusations, he hasn’t entered a formal plea to any
of the charges. He’s scheduled to be arraigned June 6.  Strauss-Kahn is accused of attacking a housekeeper at the
Sofitel hotel in Midtown Manhattan on May 14. He allegedly
closed the door of the room to keep the woman from leaving,
grabbed her breasts and tried to pull down her pantyhose,
according to court papers. He also forced her to perform oral
sex, prosecutors said. The maid escaped and later picked
Strauss-Kahn out of a lineup, police said.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of  New York  (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  