-- 
Sudan-UN Convoy Members Missing After Ambush by Gunmen, the Military Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-20T10:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/sudan-un-convoy-members-missing-after-ambush-by-gunmen-the-military-says.html
Some Sudanese soldiers being escorted
by United Nations peacekeepers were missing after an ambush by
gunmen in the disputed region of Abyei, according to  Sudan ’s
military.  The Sudanese army accused Southern Sudanese troops of a
role in yesterday’s assault and said it reserved the right to
respond “in the appropriate time and place,” according to a
statement carried by the state-run Sudan News Agency. The
Southern Sudanese army dismissed the accusation as false and
called for an investigation, the army spokesman, Philip Aguer,
said today by phone from Juba, Southern Sudan’s capital.  The peacekeepers were escorting Sudanese troops as they
withdrew from the area, Kouider Zerrouk, spokesman for the UN
 mission  in the country, said today by phone from Khartoum,
Sudan’s capital. He said he had no information on whether there
were casualties and that the attackers’ identities are unknown.
The ambush took place about 10 kilometers north of Abyei town,
the peacekeeping force said in an e-mailed statement.  Both Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s government and the
authorities in  Southern Sudan , which is due to become
independent on July 9, claim Abyei. The two sides agreed to
withdraw “all unauthorized forces” from the region by May 17
after clashes this month killed 14 people.  Abyei was scheduled to vote in January on whether to join
the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north. The referendum was postponed indefinitely because of
disagreements over who was eligible to vote.  A two-decade civil war between troops from the government
in Khartoum and the southern fighters from the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement ended with a  peace agreement  in 2005.  Abyei is disputed by the region’s Ngok Dinka people, who
consider themselves southerners, and Misseriya nomads who herd
their cattle south to Abyei in the dry season and are supported
by al-Bashir’s government.  Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels a day, according to
Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 