-- 
Summers Says Bubble Concern in U.S. Technology Shows Rebound in Confidence

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-21T03:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/summers-says-he-s-seeing-bubble-concern-in-u-s-technology-as-stocks-soar.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  said rising concern that technology stocks are
in a bubble shows how sentiment has rebounded since the 2007-
2009 American mortgage and credit collapse.  “Who could have imagined that the concern with respect to
any American financial asset, just two years after the crisis,
would be a bubble?” Summers, who is now a professor at  Harvard
University , said at a conference today in  Shanghai . “Yet that
concern is increasingly raised with respect to American
technology, with respect to certain other American assets. That
is a reflection of the resumption of confidence.”  LinkedIn Corp., the largest professional-networking website,
more than doubled yesterday after its initial public offering,
an echo of some of hottest stocks in the dot-com boom. Yahoo!
Inc. rose 154 percent when it first traded in 1996. Elsewhere,
U.S. farmland prices may be in a bubble, Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig  said earlier this year.  “Today there are very substantial risks, to be sure, but
the economy is growing, unemployment is falling and financial
conditions are normalized,” said Summers, who was director of
the White House National Economic Council in the Obama
administration from 2009 to 2010.  Summers said the “central irony” of a financial crisis is
that it’s caused by too much confidence, borrowing and lending,
and is resolved by more confidence, borrowing and spending. He
was Treasury chief from 1999 to 2001 under President  Bill Clinton , a term that coincided with the collapse of technology
shares. The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  slid 39 percent in 2000.  LinkedIn today held most of its gains after climbing 109
percent yesterday. The shares climbed as much as 14 percent
before a late retreat left them down 1.2 percent for the day at
$93.09 on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  