-- 
Supertanker Rates Gain for Third Session on Additional Cargo

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-20T16:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/supertanker-rates-gain-for-third-session-on-additional-cargo.html
The cost of delivering Middle East
crude to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers, rose
a third day as  oil companies  sought vessels to load cargo.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route gained 0.8
percent to 49.97 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London. Rental income, which varies with changes in
fuel costs, strengthened 11 percent to $6,170 a day.  “A couple of cargoes came out simultaneously and owners
took advantage” to secure higher charter rates, Nikos Varvaropoulos, a Dubai-based official for Optima Shipbrokers
Ltd., said by e-mail today.  Owners are contending with a fleet that’s swelling more
quickly than seaborne trade in crude. The transportation
capacity of the fleet will increase 7.4 percent to 172.8 million
deadweight tons this year, more than double the 3.1 percent
climb in demand to 128.4 million tons, according to the research
unit of  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of crude-
oil transportation costs that includes ships smaller than VLCCs,
fell 0.3 percent to 783 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  