-- 
Swiss Franc Gains on German Growth, Hungarian Loans as Greek Bonds Plunge

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T16:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/swiss-franc-gains-on-german-growth-hungarian-loans-as-greek-bonds-plunge.html
The Swiss franc strengthened for the
first time in four days against the euro after the Bundesbank
said German growth will probably slow and Greek bonds plunged,
fueling demand for  Switzerland ’s currency as a haven.  The franc reached its strongest level since at least 2000,
according to a Deutsche Bank AG trade-weighted index, which
measures the currency against the euro, dollar, pound, yen and
Canadian dollar. Hungary’s government and lenders agreed to fix
exchange rates on foreign currency-denominated household
mortgage loans for 3 years to 3 1/2 years, Banking Association
chief adviser Janos Muller said.  Greece ’s credit rating was cut
three levels by  Fitch Ratings  today.  “The franc is benefiting from  risk aversion  today,” said
 Beat Siegenthaler , a strategist in Zurich at UBS AG, rated as
the world’s third-largest foreign-exchange trader in an annual
survey by Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc.  The Swiss currency strengthened 1.2 percent to 1.2447
francs per euro as of 5:18 p.m. in  London , leaving it 1.2
percent stronger since May 13. It climbed for a second day
against the dollar, trading 0.4 percent stronger at 87.77
centimes. The franc surged 1.7 percent to 215.81 forints.  Hungary’s government and banks made “serious progress” on
a package to deal with the end of an evictions moratorium, MTI
reported earlier, citing Muller. They also made progress on
measures to boost lending to small- and medium-sized companies
and mortgage lending, MTI reported.  Rating Cut  The final decision will be made by May 24, when the package
will be announced, Muller said in a phone interview today.  Some investors may be “buying Swiss francs in preparation
for liquidation of franc mortgages,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “If these mortgages and loans are repaid, then the
Swiss franc that’s been borrowed has to be paid back.”  The franc extended gains as Fitch cut Greece’s rating to
B+, four notches below investment grade, from BB+ and said that
the country could face a further reduction in its
creditworthiness. A voluntary restructuring of the country’s
debt being considered by European Union policy makers would be
ruled a default, the ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  