-- 
Symrise Has Shortlist for Purchases That Includes Larger Deals

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-20T15:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/symrise-has-shortlist-for-purchases-that-includes-larger-deals.html
Symrise AG (SY1) , the German fragrance
maker that supplies ingredients for perfumes, said it has a
shortlist of potential acquisitions and could make a larger
purchase of about 500 million euros ($707 million).  “I wouldn’t rule out something larger,” Chief Financial
Officer Bernd Hirsch said in Frankfurt today. “When it comes to
neighboring businesses, bolt-on acquisitions won’t get us very
far because we don’t have the critical mass. Then you’d be
looking at the region of 500 million euros, give or take.”  Symrise is seeking to increase sales and beat market growth
this year, and the company would look at the larger acquisitions
to enter the consumer health and life essentials segments,
Hirsch said. The German company has made five purchases since
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,  The fragrance maker wouldn’t have to seek external funding
for 300 million-euro to 500 million-euro deals, Hirsch said in
an interview in  Frankfurt , where he attended a Deutsche Bank AG
investor conference. Symrise could make smaller purchases
without the advice of an investment bank, he added.  “I’m not a friend of transactions where we have to use
equity,” the CFO said. “It has the drawback that existing
shareholders aren’t happy because they get diluted and have no
say in whether to participate.”  Prepared to Defend  Symrise has prepared a defense strategy should the company
become a takeover target, the CFO said. The goal would be “to
create maximum value for our investors, not to defend the
independence of our company at all cost.”  The company hasn’t been contacted by potential buyers, the
CFO said. Consolidation in Symrise’s segment of the market won’t
necessarily create value for buyers because it would cost market
share, he said.  DuPont Co., the third-biggest U.S. chemical maker, won
control of Danisco A/S this month after getting 92.2 percent of
the Danish food-ingredient maker’s shares in its 33.4 billion-
krone ($6.34 billion) tender offer.  Symrise said March 9 that it expects sales in 2011 to
increase as much as 5 percent from 1.57 billion euros last year.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will stay at more than 20 percent of revenue in the period,
Holzminden, Germany-based Symrise said then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  