-- 
Syms Urged by Shareholder Capstone to Stem Retail Losses, Sell Real Estate

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-20T19:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/syms-urged-by-shareholder-to-stem-losses-sell-real-estate.html
Syms Corp. (SYMS) , the 52-year-old discount
retailer, was urged by a shareholder to stem losses in its
clothing business and sell some of the real estate holdings
accumulated by late founder Sy Syms.  Capstone Equities Capital Management LP sent a letter to
Syms directors and Chief Executive Officer Marcy Syms yesterday
advocating asset sales, share buybacks and other steps to
“enhance  shareholder value ,” according to a copy e-mailed to
Bloomberg. The writer, Joshua Zamir, a Capstone managing
principal, said he hoped to speak with the addressees before
releasing the letter to the public on May 31.  “Everyone has known for a long time that Sy Syms did a
remarkable job of building a real-estate portfolio,” said
Thomas Kahn of Kahn Brothers Group Inc., a Syms shareholder who
received a copy of the Capstone letter. “The problem today is,
he’s deceased and the retailing model he pioneered no longer
works.”  Capstone values Syms’s real estate at more than
$200 million, or about 50 percent more than the company’s worth
as a money-losing retailer, according to the letter from Zamir,
who says he and other Capstone principals own about five million
square feet of property.  Syms rose 21 cents, or 3 percent, to $7.34 at 2:25 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, valuing the shares at
$106.1 million.  Marcy Syms, the founder’s daughter, and Zamir didn’t
immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Syms Loss  Syms’s stores include 400 Park Avenue near  Manhattan ’s
Lever Building and 42 Trinity Place in the financial district.
The company reported a loss of $12.1 million, or 84 cents a
share, after certain one-time items in its latest fiscal
quarter, compared with a loss of $7.3 million, or 50 cents, a
year earlier.  Kahn Brothers owns about 3 percent of Syms, according to
data collected by Bloomberg. Michael F. Price, listed on the
letter as a recipient, owns about 2 percent. Marcy Syms holds
13.6 percent and a family partnership, Cortlandt Enterprises,
holds 40.8 percent.  “She’s not obliged to do anything,” said Kahn, who said
he had discussed the company’s options with Marcy Syms. “The
hope is she doesn’t let it bleed too long.”  Capstone’s letter was reported earlier by the  New York 
Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 