-- 
Syncrude, Western Canadian Crudes Steady as Fire Threat Wanes

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-20T20:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/syncrude-western-canadian-crudes-steady-as-fire-threat-wanes.html
Syncrude’s premium to West  Texas 
Intermediate oil was unchanged, ending the week down 50 cents as
the threat of wildfires in  Canada ’s oil-sands producing region
decreased.  Rain is forecast by  Environment Canada  for the Fort
McMurray tomorrow, easing the fire threat to oil-sands plants.
Plains All American Pipeline LP said it may resume work on a
conduit in northern  Alberta  shut by the fires by May 24.  Fires in northeastern Alberta prompted Syncrude Canada Ltd.
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc to remove nonessential workers from
mines and upgraders because of air-quality and visibility
concerns. Remaining crews have been able to maintain output at
the facilities and rain forecast for northern Alberta.  The premium for Syncrude was unchanged at $12.75 a barrel
at 2:07 p.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Syncrude is a light, low-sulfur synthetic oil derived
from the  tar sands  in Canada.  The discount for Western Canada Select was unchanged at
$17.25 a barrel.  U.S. Gulf oil premiums over benchmark West Texas
Intermediate were mixed as New York futures closed higher after
losing as much as $2.45 a barrel in early trading.  Oil erased earlier losses after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported total deliveries of petroleum products, a
measure of demand, climbed 5.2 percent in April from a year
earlier. Crude for June delivery rose $1.05, or 1.1 percent, to
settle at $99.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Heavy Louisiana Sweet  Heavy Louisiana Sweet’s premium to WTI was unchanged at
$13.90 a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet’s premium lost 5 cents to
$14.25 over the benchmark.  Southern Green Canyon’s premium gained 80 cents to $6.80 a
barrel. Thunder Horse’s premium narrowed 45 cents to $13.20.  Among sour, or high-sulfur, grades, Mars Blend strengthened
10 cents to a premium of $7.85 a barrel over WTI. Poseidon’s
premium was unchanged at $8.  West Texas Sour’s discount widened 5 cents at $2.60 a
barrel. It has tracked more closely to its historical average
discount versus WTI because it’s delivered in Midland, Texas,
away from the Gulf Coast and close to Cushing, Oklahoma, the
delivery point for oil traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  