-- 
U.K. Deal Rules Won’t Impede Private Equity Bids, Panel Says

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-20T13:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/u-k-deal-rules-won-t-impede-private-equity-bids-panel-says.html
Changing merger and buyout rules to
shorten the amount of time a company has to make a takeover
offer won’t impede private equity bidders, the U.K.’s deal
regulator said.  One of the rule changes would require potential buyers to
make a firm offer within four weeks of announcing an approach,
in order to curb so-called virtual offers.  The changes being proposed -- the result of pressure by
politicians following  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s acquisition of Cadbury
Plc last year -- are intended to protect shareholders of
companies that are targets of takeover bids, Robert Gillespie,
the director general of the Takeover Panel, said in a speech
today. They are also meant to reduce advantages for hostile
bidders, he said.  “The 28 days is a checkpoint you have to go past. We want
to know where you are and how much time you need,” he said. A
private equity firm would only lose out if a target refused to
give it more time to conduct due diligence and get financing.  The regulator started a review of Britain’s takeover code
last year after the Cadbury buyout provoked criticism from
politicians, who said the outcome of the hostile bid was overly
influenced by short-term investors seeking a profit. The
consultation on the rules closes next week, and the changes may
take effect in the second half of the year, Gillespie said at
the  Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales .  ‘Our Concerns’  “Our concerns over the changes to the takeover code remain
the same, namely that they will do little to prevent a similar
repeat of the Kraft takeover of Cadbury and instead impose
unnecessary and unhelpful constraints on financial bidders,”
the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association said
in a statement. “These changes hit the wrong target.”  Gillespie, a senior managing director at Evercore Partners
Inc. who began a three-year stint at the regulator in September,
said the takeover panel “is confident there will be no
impediment” to private equity because, if both parties want
them, extensions are likely to be granted.  A virtual bid period “allows a protracted period where the
market trades on a virtual, unfinanced bid, and pressures boards
to approve bids,” allowing some bidders “an unfair tactical
advantage,” Gillespie said. By shortening the timeframe, “a
fundamental unfairness in the code has been removed,” he said.  The panel also plans to prohibit inducement fees except in
formal auctions and in cases were a company is in financial
distress. The buyer’s financial information, the financing of a
bid, and fees for all deal advisers must be disclosed.  Gillespie said the panel also decided against: raising the
minimum threshold for a target company to accept a takeover;
limiting the influence of short-term investors; and giving
greater protection to shareholders of the bidding company.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 