-- 
Judges Dismiss Gagging Order Critics Saying Only Two Granted in 16 Months

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T12:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/u-k-courts-have-granted-two-super-injunctions-since-jan-2010-judges-say.html
Senior U.K. judges dismissed
criticism over media restrictions, saying only two so-called
super-injunctions were granted since January 2010, and neither
are in force at the moment.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has accused judges of making
privacy law without Parliamentary authority. While a judicial
report on media gagging orders conceded there has been an
increase in U.K. courts granting anonymity orders blocking the
media from naming people involved in lawsuits over news stories,
Lord Chief Justice Igor Judge said at a press conference that
privacy laws come from the Human Rights Act of 1998 which
Parliament passed.  “Contrary to some commentary, unelected judges in the
country did not create  privacy rights . They were created by
Parliament,” said Judge, the U.K.’s most senior judge. “Now
they have been created, judges in this country cannot ignore or
dispense with them: they must apply the law as created.”  Gagging orders, typically preventing the media from writing
about celebrity infidelities, have risen since Formula One
president Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his privacy was
violated by a story in the News of the World about a Nazi-themed
sex party. Former Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc Chief
Executive Officer Fred Goodwin yesterday withdrew part of an
injunction barring media from reporting on a “sexual
relationship” he had, hours after a lawmaker discussed details
of the matter.  ‘Level of Secrecy’  Super-injunctions are orders that not only prevent the
publication of information, but also prevent the media from
reporting that a gagging order was granted, the report said. The
two super injunctions that were granted were only in force for a
short period of time and are no longer effective, it said.  “Super-injunctions are now only being granted for very
short periods and only when the level of secrecy is necessary to
ensure that the whole point of the order is not destroyed,”
according to the report.  It said media have often confused super-injunctions with
anonymized injunctions, which stops the publication of specified
information and the names of either or both of the parties to
the proceedings, and privacy orders, which render private a part
of proceedings or a judgment where publicity would undermine the
legal process, such as a blackmail case.  Open Justice  The report said that the principle of open justice should
apply as much as possible, and that when judges grant anonymity
orders they should explain why with a public judgment. It also
called for media companies to be notified before a hearing on an
injunction takes place and that there should be a bias toward
open hearings on the matters.  The report also said that it is “unclear” to what extent
journalists can quote lawmakers in Parliament when they break
injunctions. “Unfettered reporting of Parliamentary proceedings
(in apparent breach of court orders) has not been established as
a clear right,” it said.  “It’s important we find the right balance between
individual rights to privacy on the one hand and the right to
freedom of expression on the other,” said Steve Field,
Cameron’s spokesman. “This is a very useful report, it’s
something we will be considering very carefully.”  Freedom of Expression  The report contains “important recommendations which will
ensure that injunctions are only granted where strictly
necessary,” Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke said in an e-
mailed statement. “The government is considering the wider
issues around privacy and freedom of expression,”  John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat lawmaker, speaking before
the report was published, said judges are to blame for the rise
in gagging orders. Parliament never intended to create “the
most rigid privacy regime in the world where people can be
jailed for gossiping,” he said in an interview.  “Justice Eady is known as someone who wants to keep things
secret,” he said, referring to David Eady, the U.K.’s most
well-known media judge. Judges “are not interpreting statute in
the way Parliament intended.” They should have more regard for
freedom of expression, and less for the right to a private life,
he said.  While the injunctions generally limit descriptions of the
celebrities to a “sportsman” or a “businessman,” their
identities are increasingly becoming public. A Twitter Inc. user
on May 8 posted messages claiming a number of U.K. celebrities
had won super-injunctions and made allegations detailing the
activities which the notable people had sought to keep private,
causing lawyers to question the orders’ effectiveness.  ‘Emblazoned’  Master of the Rolls David Neuberger told reporters it
wasn’t a matter for concern. Being the subject of a story on the
internet or spread though social media is “in no way” as
serious as being “emblazoned on the front page of a national
newspaper,” he said.  Neuberger chaired the committee that produced the report,
which has been in the works for a year. Neuberger’s committee
included other judges and media lawyers.  The privacy debate is likely to be at the forefront of
policy-making for “many years” said  Tom Watson , an opposition
Labour party lawmaker.  “Society is changing and people’s views on what is right
and wrong to report on are changing as well,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It is very hard for Parliament to capture
that sense of change and work out what a legislative response
should be. We are not going to get it right on the first go.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 James Lumley  in  London  at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 