-- 
Treasuries Rise on Stock Drop, Concern Greece Debt Turmoil Getting Worse

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-20T21:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/u-s-two-year-notes-head-for-sixth-weekly-advance-with-fed-policy-on-hold.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields toward the lowest level this year as global stocks fell
on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse and
 Germany ’s economic growth will lose momentum.  Yields on two-year notes had a sixth weekly drop after
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the  European Central
Bank  may no longer be able to accept Greek sovereign debt as
collateral in its refinancing operations if bond maturities are
extended. Greece’s 10-year yields touched a record high as  Fitch
Ratings  cut the nation’s ratings.  “There are still concerns out of Europe that is also
helping the bid in the market,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc. in New York. “The uncertainty
never seems to stop.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.15 percent at 5:22 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security maturing in May 2021 increased 7/32, or $2.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 26/32.  The 10-year note yields touched 3.09 percent on May 18, the
lowest level since Dec. 7. The yields dropped that day to within
a basis point of the 200-day moving average, then 3.08 percent.
Two-year note yields slid one basis point to 0.51 percent today
and fell two basis points for the week.  The comments from Weidmann, a member of the ECB Governing
Council, added to signs of a rift between central bank policy
makers and political leaders, who this week floated the idea of
extending  Greece ’s debt repayment schedule as the nation
struggles to meet the terms of last year’s 110 billion euro
($157 billion) rescue.  Weidmann’s colleagues Lorenzo Bini-Smaghi and Juergen Stark
have also ruled out any restructuring of Greek debt.  Greece’s Yields  Yields on 10-year Greek debt surged as much as 59 basis
points to a record 16.59 percent. The 10-year bund yield
decreased six basis points to 3.06 percent. It touched 3.05
percent, the lowest level since January.  Greece’s credit rating was cut three levels by Fitch, which
said that even a voluntary restructuring of the country’s debt
being considered by European Union policy makers would be
considered a default.  Fitch lowered its rating to B+, four levels below
investment grade, from BB+ and said that the country may face a
further reduction in its creditworthiness.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
Socialists were headed for defeat in elections on May 22 after a
week of protests over his economic policies. The German
Bundesbank said in a monthly bulletin that  Europe ’s largest
economy will probably lose some growth momentum over the coming
months after an “explosive” start to the year.  Drop in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent. Crude oil
for June delivery gained 1.1 percent to $99.49 a barrel after
earlier dropping 2.5 percent to $95.99.  U.S. two-year note yields fell yesterday the most in almost
a month as reports showing regional manufacturing and housing
weakness reinforced speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
keep borrowing costs low.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters after last
month’s policy meeting that he was unsure when stimulus would
end after a $600 billion program of debt buying stops in June.
The central bank purchased $6.9 billion of Treasuries due from
November 2016 to April 2018 today.  “Keeping an underlying bid in the market is the
combination of global sovereign risk out of Europe, the Fed that
is still buying and a clearer picture of the economy that shows
it is beginning to stumble,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  Fed Rate Outlook  Fed funds futures indicate a 32 percent chance that the
central bank will increase the target lending rate at its March
2012 meeting, compared with 50 percent odds a month ago. The
central bank has held its target lending rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, dropped today to
2.27 percentage points after touching 2.26 percentage points on
May 18, the narrowest since Feb. 17.  The Philadelphia Fed’s factory index slid to 3.9 this month
from 18.5 in April, a report showed yesterday. Readings greater
than zero signal expansion. Existing home sales fell 0.8 percent
in April after a 3.5 percent increase in the previous month, the
National Association of Realtors said.  Treasuries have returned 0.8 percent in May, following a
1.2 percent gain in April, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  The government plans to sell $35 billion of two-year notes,
the same amount of five-year notes and $29 billion of seven-year
notes next week in three sales starting May 24. The sizes are
unchanged from the previous offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  