-- 
U.S. Stocks Slump Amid Europe Concern as Gap Tumbles on Profit

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-20T15:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-foot-locker-climbs-in-european-trading.html
U.S. stocks retreated, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its third weekly decline, amid
concern that Greece will default on its debt and as  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s
profit forecast fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  dropped more than 1
percent as a stronger  U.S. dollar  sent oil prices lower. Gap
tumbled 17 percent after the largest U.S. apparel chain cut its
full-year profit forecast by 22 percent after costs to make
clothes rose faster than expected.  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  slumped 18
percent as its profit projection trailed analysts’ estimates.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.7 percent to 1,334.83 at 11:53 a.m. in
New York, extending its weekly drop to 0.2 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  declined 86.77 points, or 0.7 percent,
to 12,518.55 today. The euro fell after Greece’s credit rating
was cut one notch by Fitch Ratings, which said that even a
voluntary restructuring of the country’s debt being discussed by
European Union policy makers would be considered a default.  “Investors are turning more defensive,” said  Walter Todd ,
who helps manage $950 million at Greenwood Capital Associates in
Greenwood,  South Carolina . “The market had been ignoring some
risks for a while. There’s no getting around in having to
restructure  Greece ’s debt, whether you want to call that a
default or not. Bondholders will have to take some type of hit.
On top of that, we got some bad prints in U.S. data. Volatility
will be on the rise.”  Corporate Earnings  The S&P 500 rose 6.8 percent in 2011 through yesterday amid
higher-than estimated earnings and government stimulus measures.
Profits at S&P 500 companies that have reported results since
April 11 have expanded 20 percent, with 72 percent topping
analysts’ estimates for per-share earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro weakened, snapping a four-day gain versus the
dollar, after Fitch cut its Greece rating to B+, four notches
below investment grade, from BB+ and said that the country could
face a further reduction in its creditworthiness.  “The rating downgrade reflects the scale of the challenge
facing Greece in implementing a radical fiscal and structural
reform program necessary to secure solvency of the state and the
foundations for sustained economic recovery,” Fitch said in an
e-mailed statement.  German Economy  Earlier today, the European currency also fell as the
Bundesbank said  Germany ’s economy will probably lose growth
momentum. Germany’s 1.5 percent growth rate in the first quarter
“considerably overstates the underlying economic momentum,”
the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said.  Chevron fell 1.1 percent to $102.72, while Exxon Mobil lost
1 percent to $81.48. Oil retreated as the dollar rose, reducing
the appeal of commodities as an alternative investment.  Gap tumbled 17 percent to $19.31. Expenses per unit will
rise 20 percent in the second half, outweighing price increases,
Gap said. The apparel industry is facing cost inflation for the
first time in two decades because of surging cotton prices and
increased pay for workers who make clothes in China and other
parts of  Asia . Retailers have said they plan to raise prices to
counter the higher costs.  “While we acknowledge that costing pressure is impacting
our business, we’re working hard to navigate this short-term
macro challenge to our profitability in the current fiscal
year,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Murphy said
in the statement.   Aeropostale slumped 18 percent to $17.41. The teen-
clothing retailer forecast second-quarter profit of no more than
16 cents a share, below the average analyst estimate of 27 cents
a share.  “There’s concern that we’re sliding backward a bit,” said
Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel in
Charlottesville, Virginia, which manages $1.5 billion. “Some
retailers missed earnings estimates and cited higher costs. We
got some weak figures, including housing yesterday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  