-- 
U.S. to Assess N. Korea Food Shortages

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-20T21:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/u-s-team-goes-to-n-korea-to-assess-food-shortage.html
A U.S. delegation will visit  North
Korea  next week to conduct a survey of the country’s food
shortages, the State Department announced today.  Ambassador Robert King, the U.S. special envoy for North
Korean human rights, will also meet with officials of the
communist regime of  Kim Jong Il  from May 24 to 28, State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said in  Washington .  King will raise human-rights concerns with North Korean
officials as he travels the country to assess food needs, Toner
said. The last time a senior U.S. government official was in
North  Korea  was in December, 2009.  King and Jon Brause, a U.S. Agency for International
Development deputy assistant administrator, will see how the
U.S. may build on the work of the  United Nations  World Food
Program, which launched an emergency aid effort last month for
an estimated 3.5 million North Koreans.  “It doesn’t necessarily mean that we will provide food
assistance, but it’s the first step in evaluating the need,”
Toner said at a State Department briefing in Washington. North
Korea has agreed to give the team the access required, he said.  The last U.S. food assistance program to North Korea was
abruptly suspended in March of 2009, Toner said.  Former President  Jimmy Carter  last month accused the U.S.
and South Korea of a “human-rights violation” for refusing aid
to North Korea amid tensions over its nuclear-weapons program
and deadly attacks on South Koreans last year.  Carter, who visited North Korea last month to try to revive
stalled six-nation talks on nuclear weapons, urged immediate
donations of food aid.  Shrinking Economy  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent in 2009 when the
United Nations stepped up sanctions that curbed trade and
international aid following the regime’s second nuclear test,
according to the  Bank of Korea  in  Seoul .  “We face a critical window to get supplies into the
country and reach the millions who are already hungry,” said
Amir Abdulla, the World Food Program deputy executive director
and chief operating officer, in a written statement announcing
the aid program last month.  U.S. special envoy on North Korea,  Stephen Bosworth , the
last U.S. official to visit North Korea, was in Seoul this week
to discuss the North Korean situation with South Korean
officials.  South Korea has shunned dialogue with the North, demanding
that the government Pyongyang apologize for torpedoing a South
Korean warship in March 2010 and shelling an island in November.
North Korea has denied any role in the sinking of the warship
and claimed it fired artillery at the island to protect its
territory.  While  South Korea  is open to providing humanitarian aid
across the border, North Korea should allow more transparency in
ensuring that the donations reach people in need, the South’s
Unification Minister Hyun In Taek said on April 25.  North Korea has relied on outside handouts since the
mid-1990s when an estimated 2 million people died from famine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  