-- 
U.S. Airline Pilot-Rest Plan May Advance With Lawmaker Move

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-05-20T16:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/u-s-airline-pilot-rest-plan-may-advance-with-lawmaker-move-2-.html
A proposed U.S. regulation that would
require additional rest for airline pilots may advance after
Representative Bill Shuster withdrew legislation he had added to
a Federal Aviation Administration budget plan.  The amendment would have stalled the rest rule, according
to safety advocates and pilot unions. Shuster’s action may speed
agreement on a FAA budget plan being negotiated by House and
Senate lawmakers. The Shuster plan was one of a handful of
provisions that needed to be resolved.  “It is apparent that the inclusion of my amendment in the
FAA bill may slow down conference negotiations and delay the
adoption of this critical legislation to dramatically reform and
streamline” FAA programs, Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Shuster’s proposal was added April 1, by a 215-209 vote, to
a $59.7 billion FAA budget plan. The FAA legislation is more
than three years overdue, forcing the agency to operate on 18
extensions of the most recent aviation-funding law.  The FAA proposed a rule last year that would give airline
pilots nine hours of  rest  between shifts, a 13 percent increase
from current schedules. The plan also requires that pilots get
at least 30 consecutive work-free hours a week, a 25 percent
increase from existing rules.  Buffalo Crash  The FAA proposed changes in response to an airplane crash
in 2009 near Buffalo,  New York , that left no survivors.
Relatives of people who died in the crash of the  Pinnacle
Airlines Corp. (PNCL)  Colgan plane, flown on behalf of Continental
Airlines, have said the Shuster amendment would “cripple” FAA
efforts to enact the fatigue rule.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  concluded the
Colgan pilots’ performances were likely impaired by fatigue,
though it couldn’t determine the extent of their tiredness or
the role it may have played.  Shuster’s proposal would have required the FAA to consider
alternatives, differing industry segments and adverse effects on
the economy before issuing any rules.  U.S. airlines, through their trade group, the Washington-
based  Air Transport Association , have called the FAA rule
“onerous.” The group said the proposal would cost the industry
$19.6 billion over a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  