-- 
Hungarian Debt Risk May Increase on Deficit, DZ Bank Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-20T15:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/hungarian-debt-risk-may-rise-on-deficit-concern-dz-bank-says.html
The cost of protecting bondholders
against a Hungarian government default may rise after the
 Economy Ministry  said the  budget deficit  would widen this year
without the one-time revenue from private pension funds,
according to DZ Bank AG.  The 2011 budget gap would reach 7 percent of gross domestic
product if not for the government’s move to force pension
savings from private funds into state coffers, the Economy
Ministry said on May 18 in e-mailed comments to Bloomberg News.
That would be the widest since 2006, when the deficit was 9.3
percent. Pension-fund revenue will swing the budget into a
surplus of 2 percent this year, the ministry said.  “News on a large underlying budget deficit for 2011 -- 7
percent of GDP without one-off revenues, according to the
Economy Ministry - once again raised concerns about the conduct
of fiscal policies,” Zoltan Adam, an analyst at  DZ Bank ’s unit
in Budapest, wrote in a research report today. “Hungarian
spreads may therefore face some widening ahead of the weekend.”  Hungary’s credit-default swaps were little changed at 251
basis points today, according to data compiled by CMA in  London .
The perceived risk has dropped, with Hungarian CDS having fallen
160 basis points from 410 on Jan. 10, after Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said he would cut welfare payments and drug
subsidies to tackle the biggest debt burden among the European
Union’s eastern members.  Forint  Forint-denominated bonds have returned as much as 23
percent this year for the biggest gains worldwide.  “We continue to favor Hungarian debt, but would be more
cautious at this stage of the rally,”  Dmitry Gourov , a
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Vienna, wrote in an e-mail to
clients today.  The forint weakened 0.6 percent to 268.65 per euro by 4:39
p.m. in Budapest, leaving it little changed in the week. Today’s
depreciation offset a 0.6 percent rally yesterday, which was
supported by a jump in demand at an auction of  government bonds ,
according to analysts at BNP Paribas SA and Commerzbank AG.  The government sold 67.5 billion forint ($363 million) of
bonds at the auction, compared with the planned 45 billion
forint, according to results published by the Debt Management
Agency on Bloomberg. Investors bid to buy 224 billion forint of
debt, compared with 158 billion forint at the last sale.  ‘Investor Confidence’  “The very strong demand is a sign of ongoing investor
confidence in the government’s fiscal plan and ample liquidity
seeking higher-yielding assets,” analysts at Erste Group Bank
AG in Budapest including Zoltan Arokszallasi wrote in a note
today.  The forint has gained 3.7 percent against the euro this
year, the second-biggest advance among more than 20 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Romanian leu.  Morgan Stanley is “unwilling to reverse” its bullish call
on Hungary “entirely” until it sees more evidence that the
government is struggling to implement its fiscal plans, analyst
Pasquale Diana wrote in an e-mailed research report yesterday.
The investment bank sees “forint strength” in the medium term
and keeps Hungarian credit at “overweight” rating in its model
portfolio, Diana wrote.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  