-- 
PDVSA Bonds Fall Most in Two Weeks on Central Bank Plan to Sell Securities

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-05-20T22:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/venezuela-may-weaken-currency-rate-to-discourage-import-surge.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA bonds
maturing in 2022 fell the most in two weeks after a central bank
director said more of the securities will be offered to
investors in a state-run currency trading system.  Yields on the PDVSA bond that matures in 2022 rose 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage points, to 16.42 percent after
central bank director  Armando Leon  said in an interview
yesterday in Caracas they would be sold on the Sitme market for
the first time. The yield on PDVSA bonds maturing in 2017, which
are currently offered in Sitme, fell 5 basis points to 15.26 
percent after  Barclays Capital  recommended buying following 
Leon’s comments.  Leon said the expanded offering of bonds issued by PDVSA,
Venezuela’s state oil company, will help maintain a daily supply
of dollars of $30 million to $40 million in Sitme, the currency
trading system created by the central bank after President  Hugo
Chavez  banned foreign-exchange dealing last May.  “That’s the principal reason why you’re seeing one bond
rising and another falling”  Alejandro Grisanti , Latin America
economist at Barclays said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “The bank is about to finish selling the 17’s and will
start selling the 22’s next.”  Venezuela will probably weaken the exchange rate in the
central bank-administered  currency market  in the “medium
term,” as the government seeks to avoid a boom in imports at
the expense of national production, Leon said yesterday in an
interview in Caracas.  Adjustment  The  central bank  plans to maintain the exchange rate in
Sitme, as the exchange market is known, at 5.3 bolivars per
dollar for now, Leon said. He didn’t provide details about the
timing or size of any eventual exchange rate adjustment.  Chavez devalued the bolivar for the second time in less
than year in January to increase the amount of bolivars he
receives from oil sales as he looks to ramp up spending ahead of
elections next year. Last year, he shut down an unregulated  bond
market  after accusing brokerages of driving inflation through
 currency speculation  and replaced it with Sitme.  “It is not convenient to fix an exchange rate for too long
because the economy moves on,” Leon said. “In the medium term,
it will probably be adjusted.”  Materials, Machinery  The currency exchange market offers bonds to local
importers who resell them in a secondary international market in
exchange for dollars. Since June, the market has sold $8.1
billion in bonds at a fixed exchange rate of 5.3 bolivars per
dollar.  “The government appears to be focused completely on
generating the maximum stimulus possible to accelerate economic
growth ahead of the election,” Barclays economists Alejandro
Arreaza andGrisanti wrote in a report yesterday after Leon’s
interview was published.  International reserves held by Venezuela,  South America ’s
biggest oil producer, stood at $26.8 billion as of May 16, down
from $42.2 billion in January 2009 even as the price of crude
oil has more than doubled. By comparison,  Brazil ’s reserves now
stand at $330.54 billion, up from $188 billion.  Venezuela experienced a surge in imports four years ago as
a result of an oil boom that flooded the market with dollars,
said Leon. Weakening the exchange rate for the bolivar in Sitme
would increase the cost of imports and thereby encourage local
production, said Leon.  “The policy now is to supply currency for raw materials
and machinery with the aim of strengthening the manufacturing
and commercial sectors,” Leon said.  Expanded Offerings  The Jan. 1 devaluation involved weakening the preferential
exchange rate reserved for “essential” goods such as food and
medicine, unifying its two official exchange rates. The Foreign
Exchange Commission, known as Cadivi, sells dollars at 4.3
bolivars per dollar.  Leon, 49, said Venezuela will expand its offering of
dollar-denominated bonds it sells in a bid to maintain the
average $30 million to $40 million it injects daily into the
central-bank administered foreign exchange market.  Private companies have increased sales of bonds in Sitme by
30 percent in the last month, prolonging the stock of bonds the
central bank can offer, Leon said.  Growth Horizon  Venezuela’s gross domestic product will expand more than 4
percent in the next two years as manufacturing, commerce and
construction grow, and as Cadivi and Sitme increase their offer
of dollars, allowing the sectors to import raw materials, Leon
said.  Venezuela’s GDP expanded 4.5 percent in the first quarter
of 2011, the quickest pace in almost three years, as  government
spending  backed by higher  oil prices  helped the economy emerge
from  Latin America ’s longest recession faster than expected.  “Economic growth will be solid and will last a long
time,” Leon said.  Imports rose 22 percent in the first three months of the
year, boosting internal demand as more foreign currency was made
available to businesses.  The central bank will not make any further transfers to the
off-budget development fund known as Fonden, Leon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  