-- 
Vietnam Protests China Mobile Move to Disputed Islands, VNA Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-20T07:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/vietnam-protests-china-mobile-s-plans-for-service-to-spratlys.html
Vietnam objected to reported plans by
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)  to expand cellular phone coverage to disputed
islands in the  South China Sea , the state-run Viet Nam News
Agency said.  Vietnam’s Foreign Ministry told a Chinese Embassy official
in Hanoi that the Paracel and Spratly islands "are inseparable
parts of Vietnam’s territory," according to a VNA story  posted
 on the ministry’s website yesterday. It cited the mobile service
report among  China ’s "recent acts" that violate Vietnamese
sovereignty.  China Mobile, the world’s largest wireless carrier by
customers, said this week it had expanded coverage to serve
soldiers and fishermen in the Spratlys, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported May 16, citing project manager Chen Zegang.
Vietnam set up mobile service in 2007 to assert sovereignty over
the islands, also claimed by China,  Taiwan , Brunei,  Malaysia  and
the  Philippines .  The countries have stationed troops and sought to develop
infrastructure on the rocky outcrops to bolster their claims to
oil, gas and fish in the waters vital to world trade. The South
China Sea carries about half the world’s merchant fleet by
tonnage each year and may be rich in oil and gas.  “Letting a mobile company expand service to the Spratlys
may seem like nothing, but it’s China’s way of laying basis for
them to claim sovereignty by granting contracts, concessions and
doing all the usual things a country with sovereignty would
do,” said Carlyle A. Thayer, an emeritus professor at the
Australian Defence Force Academy in Canberra.  China’s Foreign Ministry didn’t immediately respond to a
faxed question about Vietnam’s response to China Mobile’s plans.
Rainie Lei, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at China Mobile, said
she couldn’t immediately comment on the matter.  The countries have clashed several times near the islands
in the past three decades, including a  1988 battle  in which
several Vietnamese boats were sunk and more than 70 soldiers
killed.  Vietnam Military Telecommunications Corp., known commonly
as Viettel, established mobile coverage in the Spratlys in 2007
to assert sovereignty and allow soldiers to speak with their
families back home, the company said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  