-- 
Wal-Mart, CVS, Drug Price Case Sent to West Virginia Court by U.S. Judges

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-21T02:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/wal-mart-cvs-drug-price-case-sent-back-to-west-virginia-court.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  and four other drug retailers lost their bid to move to
federal court a lawsuit by the state of West Virginia over
pricing of generic drugs on claims the case was a class action.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, said today
that the drug retailers failed to show that the state was
pursuing a group lawsuit, or class action, which would have
required the litigation to be handled by a federal court. The
four other defendants are  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ,  Kroger Co. (KR) 
and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s Kmart chain.  The lawsuit “was brought under a West Virginia statute
regulating the practice of pharmacy and the  West Virginia 
Consumer Credit Protection Act, neither of which includes
provisions providing for a typical class action,” the appeals
court wrote in its 2-1 decision.  West Virginia Attorney General Darrell McGraw sued the
retailers in state court in Boone County, alleging the stores
overcharged state residents while filling prescriptions in
violation of two state laws. West Virginia law requires
substitution of generic drugs when available and requires
pharmacies to pass on the savings from using generics to
consumers, according to the state’s lawsuit.  The defendants sought to move the case to federal court in
Charleston, West Virginia, claiming the lawsuit was a
“disguised class action.”  Lower Costs  The state, which is seeking disgorgement and other civil
penalties, alleges the defendants aren’t giving consumers the
full benefit of the lower wholesale costs pharmacies pay for
generic drugs.  In a dissent, U.S. appeals judge Ronald Lee Gilman, said
West Virginia’s case has the elements of a class action and
should remain with the federal court.  “There is a saying that if something looks like a duck,
walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it is probably a
duck,” Gilman said.  Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, said Gilman’s dissent sums up the company’s view
“nicely.”  Molly Koenst, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based Target,
declined to comment.  Kimberly Freely, a spokeswoman for Sears, based in  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois, and Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Cincinnati-
based Kroger, declined to comment. Tiffani Washington, a
spokeswoman for Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreen, and
Christine Cramer, a spokeswoman for Woonsocket, Rhode Island-
based CVS Caremark, also declined to comment.  The case is West Virginia v. CVS Pharmacy Inc., 11-1251,
4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  