-- 
WaMu, Shareholders, Biggest Creditors Said to Settle Reorganization Fight

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-20T20:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/wamu-said-to-settle-with-lenders-shareholders-on-post-bankruptcy-control.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  and its
biggest creditors agreed to settle a fight with shareholders by
giving them equity in the company that will emerge from
bankruptcy, two people familiar with the proposal said.  The outline of the deal includes $25 million for a
litigation trust that would bring lawsuits to collect more money
for shareholders. In return, shareholders would drop allegations
that hedge funds who own $2.54 billion of WaMu’s debt used
confidential information to guide their investments.  Washington Mutual shares rose as much as 90 percent to 7.9
cents in over-the-counter trading.  How much the deal is worth to shareholders can’t be easily
calculated because the value of the reinsurance company they
will get a stake in relies in part on future tax breaks, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  “That is impossible to assess,” one of the people said.  Shareholders are among the last opponents to WaMu’s
reorganization plan, which would pay more than $7 billion to
creditors, who are mostly unsecured note holders. The parties to
the negotiation haven’t decided how to split equity in the
reorganized company between preferred and common shareholders.  Hedge Funds   The deal would include the court-appointed committee of
WaMu’s equity holders, WaMu, and four hedge funds that helped
negotiate the current reorganization plan: Appaloosa Management
LP, Centerbridge Partners LP, Owl Creek Asset Management LP and
Aurelius Capital Management LP.  Mark Gallogly, a managing principal of Centerbridge, and
 David Tepper , president of Appaloosa, didn’t immediately respond
to e-mails seeking comment.  Details of the proposed settlement have not yet been
decided and the deal could still fall through, one of the people
said.  The two sides have agreed that the noteholders will provide
$100 million in exit financing to the new reorganization plan.
The form the financing will take has not been worked out, one of
the people said.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath has given shareholders
permission to question the hedge funds’ under oath and collect
documents about their WaMu trades. Depositions of the hedge
funds were scheduled to begin this month.  Hearing Next Month  Any evidence they found could be used at a hearing Walrath
scheduled for June 29 to decide whether to approve WaMu’s
reorganization proposal.  Under the plan WaMu would distribute more than $7 billion
in cash and tax refunds and reorganize a reinsurance company
that has the right to offset taxes on future profits with losses
from the former bank-holding company.  Until now WaMu and its creditors had argued that
shareholders were not entitled to receive anything under the
reorganization plan. Senior noteholders owed $4.13 billion are
scheduled to be fully repaid with interest, as are senior
subordinated noteholders owed $1.67 billion, under WaMu’s
original reorganization plan.  Washington Mutual shares rose as much as 90 percent to 7.9
cents in over-the-counter trading. WaMu’s 5 3/8 percent
convertible bonds rose as much as $2.85, or about 24 percent, to
$14.60 before closing at $12.50. The securities can be converted
to shares until 2041.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 