-- 
Weidmann Says ECB May No Longer Take Greek Debt If Maturities Are Extended

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-20T15:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/weidmann-says-ecb-may-no-longer-accept-greek-debt-if-maturities-extended.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said the central bank may no longer
be able to accept Greek sovereign debt as collateral in its
refinancing operations if bond maturities are extended.  “A prolongation of Greek government bonds in an
environment of prevailing strong doubts about the sustainability
of public finances would make it impossible to accept them as
collateral for refinancing operations under the existing
rules,” Weidmann, who heads the Bundesbank, said at a
conference in Hamburg today. “Consequently large parts of the
Greek financial sector would be cut off from funding.”  Weidmann’s comments add to signs of a division between ECB
policy makers and political leaders, who this week floated the
idea of extending  Greece ’s debt repayment schedule as the nation
struggles to meet the terms of last year’s 110 billion euro
($157 billion) rescue. Weidmann’s colleagues Lorenzo Bini-Smaghi
and Juergen Stark have also ruled out any restructuring of Greek
debt, saying it won’t solve the crisis.  Weidmann said such a move “would do nothing to improve
other factors that determine the sustainability of the current
debt level” such as economic growth prospects.  “In addition, the risks for contagion to other countries
would significantly rise,” he said.  The euro dropped after the remarks, and traded at $1.4169
as of 5:15 p.m. in  Frankfurt . It was at $1.4309 yesterday.  ‘Insufficient Collateral’  “The ECB is clearly against this and trying to fight hard
with almost everything it has to make sure the debate goes in
the direction it wants to,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European
economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam.  Proposals to extend debt maturities “seem to assume
implicitly that the Eurosystem would provide financial means
against insufficient collateral,” Weidmann said. “But such a
monetization of public debt cannot be tolerated.”  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Greece’s credit rating to B+ from
BB+ today and said a reprofiling of Greek debt would “trigger a
credit event and default rating.”  The ECB last year suspended the minimum credit-rating
threshold for Greek bonds after the country’s banks were shut
out of credit markets for funding. Banks can borrow as much
money as they need for up to three months against collateral.  ‘Blurring’  ECB policy makers have called on governments to toughen
austerity measures and step up efforts to restore investor
confidence in the 17-member currency union. The central bank has
provided banks with unlimited liquidity over three months and
also purchased  government bonds  to fight the debt crisis.  “Instead of blurring the responsibilities of monetary and
fiscal policy even further, fiscal policy must take up its
responsibility in fighting the sovereign-debt crisis in the
respective countries and at the European level,” Weidmann said.  Weidmann also signaled he’s in favor of scaling back non-
conventional measures set up during the crisis.  “Sticking to non-standard policy measures for too long
will not only change the perception of risk in financial markets
in an undesired manner but will also preserve inefficient
banking structures,” he said. “The question is not whether an
exit from non-standard monetary policy is necessary, but when it
will take place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Hamburg at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  