-- 
Westinghouse Official Sees No Delay in Temelin Tender Caused by Fukushima

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-05-20T11:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/westinghouse-official-sees-no-delay-in-temelin-tender-caused-by-fukushima.html
Westinghouse Electric Co., the U.S.-
based nuclear reactor builder owned by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , doesn’t
expect the disaster in  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant
to cause delays in the tender for two reactors at Czech nuclear
station Temelin.  “I don’t think it will impact the schedule,” Anders
Jackson, Westinghouse’s European chief executive officer, said
today in an interview in Prague. “As long as there is a
commitment for the need for nuclear power, I don’t see any big
effects of Fukushima here.”  Westinghouse is bidding against  Areva SA (CEI)  and ZAO
Atomstroyexport of  Russia  to build two additional reactors at
CEZ SA’s Temelin nuclear power plant in the  Czech Republic .
State-controlled CEZ has said it will pick the winner in 2013
and have the new reactors running by 2025 at the latest.  CEZ is at an advantage because it has not yet started the
licensing process so there is time to include potential future
changes in the project, said the executive, who was attending a
nuclear energy conference in Prague.  “It would have been much worse if you had started the
licensing and were half through, or even already started the
construction, and then Fukushima happened,” Anders said. “But
in this case I feel pretty confident that the regulator here can
incorporate any potential effects and lessons learned.”  Temelin remains CEZ’s priority and the company doesn’t
expect delays in the process, Chief Executive Officer Martin
Roman said on May 10 after the power producer released earnings.
The company plans to send out final documentation to the three
bidders in October, according to Anders.  The European Union is discussing new parameters for stress
tests on atomic plants to reassess safety risks after the
Fukushima disaster in March and may reach an agreement before
June 1, EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said yesterday
in Prague. Oettinger is pushing for the tests to include manmade
threats such as terrorist attacks, a requirement that would go
beyond the recommendation by the Western European Nuclear
Regulators’ Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  