-- 
Why Swiss Women Can’t Work After Winning Votes to Lead Nation

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-05-20T06:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/why-swiss-women-can-t-work-after-winning-votes-to-lead-nation.html
Since women won the right to vote in
the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden in 1990, females have risen
to rule Switzerland’s politics, making up four of the seven-
member cabinet. Combining a career and motherhood presents a
steeper climb.  Parents can end up spending almost a third of their wages
on childcare, with Zurich nursery schools charging as much as
1,500 francs ($1,700) a month. Those costs, coupled with poor
maternity benefits, banish many mothers to the home, said Clivia
Koch, the former chief executive of an 8 billion-franc pension
fund who now heads the non-profit  Swiss Business Women  group.  A second revolution is needed in the workplace to ensure
more businesswomen emulate people like  Panalpina Welttransport
Holding AG (PWTN)  Chief Executive Officer Monika Ribar and Isabelle
Welton, International Business Machines Corp.’s general manager
in Switzerland, Koch said. Less than 10 percent of Swiss
families with children aged up to 14 years have both parents who
work full-time, compared with more than 70 percent in the U.S.,
the  Organization  for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  “The first women who wanted freedom to choose their career
path, the fighters, the pioneers, had to do it through politics,
there was no other way,” said Koch, 53, in an interview at her
organization’s Zurich headquarters. “Now we need fighters in
business too.”  Of Swiss directors, 8.3 percent are women, down from 9
percent in 2004, management recruitment company Egon Zehnder’s
most recent annual figures show. About 37 percent of Swiss
couples with no children have both partners working full time.
This drops to 8.7 percent after they have children, according to
 government figures .  Watershed Election  The election in October of Simonetta Sommaruga, a trained
concert pianist who is now Justice Minister, was a watershed as
women for the first time held more cabinet posts than men. It
came almost four decades after the first Swiss women were
permitted to vote in 1971.  Voting rights for Swiss women came 54 years after females
in the former  Soviet Union  won the right to vote. All women in
the U.S. were first permitted to cast a ballot in 1920.  Energy Minister Doris Leuthard, who was Swiss President in
2010, remembers her mother’s joy when female suffrage finally
arrived in her country.  “She had given up her professional life when she got
married,” she said in an interview. “For her, political rights
were a form of recognition and vital for her self-esteem.”  Female Parliamentarians  Early female leaders like Josi Meier and Elisabeth
Blunschy, among Switzerland’s first female parliamentarians,
“were a great influence on me,” Leuthard said. “They
influenced and encouraged many other women to become more active
themselves.”  In the world’s fourth-richest nation, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , child care can cost parents 30
percent of their net income, the second-highest rate in the
developed world behind the U.K.,  data  from the OECD show. That
compares with a global OECD average of 13 percent, and 19
percent in the U.S. and 4 percent in  Belgium .  Switzerland didn’t introduce paid maternity leave until
2005, awarding mothers 14 weeks. Norwegian and German women are
entitled to 47 weeks.  “We’re too rich,” Koch said. “There has never been a
great necessity for women to work. We have to reassess our
social security systems. In other countries, there is much
better child care and society is more open to women pursuing a
career.”  Population Decline  Swiss women have an average 1.33 children, government
statistics show. That compares with 2 in  France ,  Norway  and the
U.S., and a global average of 2.5, according to the Population
Reference Bureau’s latest figures.  One third of over-45 year-old Swiss men and women say they
would have liked more children, according to a recent poll for
the  L’Hebdo  magazine. Sixty-six percent see women’s employment
conditions as a brake on parenthood and 38 percent cite the lack
of childcare as holding back the birth rate, the survey showed.  “The price we’re paying is population decline,” said
sociologist Franz Schultheis, a professor at the University of
 St. Gallen . “It sounds paradoxical, but countries where more
women work and state childcare is better actually have a higher
birth rate.”  The Federal Commission for Family Affairs, a government
body, proposed an initiative to extend maternity leave from 14
to at least 24 weeks, including for the first time an option for
fathers to take four of those weeks.  A parliamentary vote won’t come for another year or two,
said Juerg Krummenacher, the commission’s president.  Unique History  “We have to do more in Switzerland to combine family and
career,” said Sommaruga. “I hope in my office I can contribute
to that.”  The men of  Appenzell Innerrhoden , whose chalets and cheese-
making are among the country’s biggest tourist attractions,
clung on until 1990 before a Supreme Court ruling forced them to
let their female counterparts go to the polls.  One reason why Switzerland lags so far behind other nations
when it comes to equality and  women’s rights  is its unique
history and geography, said Dominique Grisard, a gender studies
expert at the universities of Basel and  Chicago .  With its natural mountain defenses, the country hasn’t
faced a foreign invader since Napoleon, while neutrality in two
world wars let the Swiss escape the “ruptures” that brought
the rest of  Europe ’s women into factories to replace men drafted
onto the battlefield, Grisard said.  ‘Status Symbol’  When peace returned to the continent in 1945, Swiss
governments preferred to fill a prospering jobs market with
labor migrants, mostly from  Italy , rather than encourage Swiss
women to work, said  Fabienne Amlinger , a historian at the
University of Bern.  “In the 1950s, working men could increasingly afford to
keep their wives at home,” Grisard said. “It became a status
symbol.”  With a lower chamber in Parliament that is 19 percent
female,  Switzerland  ranks 25th in the Inter-Parliamentary
Union’s rankings, between  Trinidad and Tobago  and Timor-Leste.  “There’s still a long way to go,” said Leuthard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 