-- 
Twitter Inc., Unknown Posters Sued by Athlete Known as ‘CTB’ at U.K. Court

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-20T19:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/twitter-inc-unknown-posters-sued-by-athlete-known-as-ctb-at-u-k-court.html
Twitter Inc. and some of its users
were sued by an entity known as “CTB” in London, according to
a court filing.  While the document gave no details, CTB are the initials
used by the court in a separate lawsuit to refer to an athlete
who won an anonymity order banning the media from publishing
stories about his alleged affair with a reality-television star.  The Twitter suit was filed May 18 at the  High Court  in
London according to court records, and named as defendants the
San Francisco-based company and “persons unknown responsible
for the publication of information on the Twitter accounts”
listed in confidential court documents.  A Twitter user on May 8 posted a series of messages
claiming a number of U.K. celebrities had received so-called
super-injunctions and made claims detailing the activities that
the people had sought to keep out of the public eye.  “We are unable to comment,” Matt Graves, a Twitter
spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Daniel Ingram-Fletcher, a spokesman for the law firm
representing CTB, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment.  James Quartermaine, a lawyer at Charles Russell in  London 
said today that Twitter is unlikely to cooperate and the suit is
probably intended to deter people from breaking injunctions on
the Web.  “Twitter will probably just ignore it and consider it to
be offensive to their first amendment rights,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It’s probably an attempt to try and show
that actions have consequences in cyberspace.”  The case is CTB v. Twitter Inc., Persons Unknown, High
Court of Justice (Queens Bench Division), HQ11X01814.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  