-- 
TMX Rejects Maple Group, Affirms LSE Agreement

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-20T22:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-20/tmx-rejects-maple-group-affirms-lse-agreement.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  rejected an
unsolicited takeover bid from Maple Group Acquisition Corp. for
the Toronto Stock Exchange owner, saying it isn’t superior to a
friendly offer from  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   The C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion) proposal from Maple Group,
a group of four Canadian banks and five pension funds, is too
low and would result in too much debt, TMX said in a statement.
The company also cited the change in control that would result
from Maple’s offer, in contrast to the LSE agreement.  “The board believes the financial consideration proposed by
Maple is inadequate given that the proposal entails a change in
control of TMX Group,” said Thomas Kloet, TMX’s chief executive
officer, in a telephone interview. The merger with LSE “is a
combination of the holding company whereby our shareholders
continue to share in the growth of the company,” he said.  TMX estimated that an acquisition by Maple would boost its
debt to 2.9 times 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, from 1.1 now. The leverage
“generates much, if not all, of the earnings accretion
referenced in the Maple proposal and could constrain TMX Group’s
ability to execute and implement strategic opportunities,” it
said in the statement.  Luc Bertrand, vice chairman of  National Bank of Canada (NA)  and
a spokesman for Maple Group, didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call to his office or an e-mail after the TMX
announcement.  Takeover Wave  LSE’s bid for TMX was part of about $30 billion in takeover
offers for exchanges globally in less than six months, as
bourses try to cut costs and generate more revenue from trading
in stocks, options and futures.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. dropped an unsolicited attempt to
buy NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, on May
16 after battling with Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG.  Maple offered on May 13 to buy TMX for cash and stock worth
about C$48 a share. LSE’s Feb. 9 agreement would give TMX
shareholders 2.9963 LSE shares for each they own. LSE investors
would own 55 percent of the company, while TMX shareholders
would hold the rest.  In comparison, under the Maple plan, TMX shareholders would
get C$33.52 in cash plus 0.3016 of a Maple share for each TMX
share. The group, which was created for this bid, would pay as
much as C$2.5 billion in cash under the proposal, which is
priced about 15 percent higher than the LSE offer.  Alpha Group  Maple also said it aims to acquire Alpha Group, a bank-
owned operator of an alternative trading system that competes
with TMX, and Canadian securities clearing house CDS Inc. after
completing a takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner.  LSE needs approval from  Canada ’s federal government as well
as provincial securities regulators and two-thirds of
shareholders. LSE and TMX submitted their application to
Canada’s federal government on April 29. The country’s industry
minister has 45 days, with a potential 30-day extension, to
review the application to determine whether the transaction is a
“net benefit” to the country.  The Maple bid wouldn’t require Industry Canada approval
because it’s not a foreign transaction, though it would face
reviews by regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the group
said in a May 16 presentation.  TMX also said today that Maple has provided “inadequate
information” about its plans for TMX and that it carries the
risks regulators would reject integrating  Alpha Group , a bank-
owned trading system that competes with TMX, and CDS Inc.,
Canada’s clearinghouse for equities, into TMX.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  