-- 
Australian Business Council Proposes A$10 a Ton Carbon Tax

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-05-28T04:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/australia-s-business-council-proposes-10-70-a-metric-ton-for-carbon-tax.html
The Business Council of  Australia 
said a carbon tax should be implemented gradually, starting at
A$10 ($10.70) a metric ton to limit the financial impact on
households and businesses.  The group, made up of chief executive officers of
Australia’s top 100 companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO) , said that businesses should initially receive
full compensation for the tax to ensure Australia’s policy to
price greenhouse gas emissions doesn’t affect trade and
investment. The council made its proposals in a  submission  to
the government yesterday.  Australia, which burns coal to generate more than 80
percent of its electricity, plans to impose a price on
greenhouse gas pollution starting July 2012 in preparation for a
trading system that could begin as early as 2015, Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  said in February.  The A$10 levy should be followed by “a modestly increasing
trajectory to reduce the need for compensation to households and
business,” the group said in a statement. The step-by-step
approach is needed “in recognition of the limited opportunities
for domestic emissions reduction in the early years.”  Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  welcomed the business
group’s support for the carbon policy although the government
has yet to decide on the price and other details.  Market Mechanism  “It’s very important that the Business Council has got the
view that carbon price is appropriate and a market mechanism to
achieve it is the best way to go,” Combet told reporters during
a two-day meeting of the Multiparty Climate Change Committee in
Canberra that started today. He said that talks so far have been
“constructive.”  The committee of lawmakers is advising the government on
what the price of carbon should be under the emissions trading
system.  Australia, also the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set
a target of generating 20 percent of the nation’s energy from
renewable sources like wind and solar by 2020. Gillard wants to
start an emissions trading system next July with a fixed per-ton
charge for the first three to five years before an open market
begins.  Details of her plan will be released by early July,
including compensation to households and businesses and funding
for clean energy projects.  Household Costs  The annual impact on households of an A$30 per metric ton
carbon price, excluding petrol price concessions, would be
A$863.20, according to preliminary Treasury estimates released
on April 1 under an Australian Freedom of Information Act
request. At A$20 a ton the cost would be A$577.20.  “The BCA recommends that all trade-exposed industries be
eligible for a 100 percent allocation of their permits to offset
the cost impost,” the group said. The compensation should
continue “until at least 80 percent of relevant competitors in
the industry” worldwide face similar levies, it said.  Combet has said the carbon price would affect 1,000
Australian companies. According to the government’s greenhouse
register for the year ended June 30, 2010, the biggest polluters
were power generators led by Macquarie Generation and Delta
Electricity.  Some companies have called for changes to the plan and
warned of job losses. They include Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-largest mining company by sales,  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,
Australia’s biggest steelmaker, and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , the
nation’s second-largest oil and gas producer.  “Carbon pricing is about us moving to a clean energy
future,” Gillard said at a press conference in Australia’s
Queensland state yesterday. “We’ve got an abundance of
resources that will enable us to do that, our resources in LNG
are part of it, our abundant sunshine, our access to wind and
tidal power, to geothermal, our investments in innovation to
drive cleaner usage of coal, all of these things are things
Australia is good at and will be increasingly good at in the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  