-- 
Biden Says Chrysler Loan Repayment Vindicates Automaker Bailout

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-28T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/biden-says-chrysler-loan-repayment-vindicates-automaker-bailout.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said
Chrysler Group LLC’s repayment of government loans vindicates
the administration’s decision to rescue the automaker and shows
that the economy is on the mend.  The resurgence of Chrysler and  General Motors Co. (GM)  since
both emerged from bankruptcy in 2009 has saved the jobs of
thousands of people at the automakers, dealers and suppliers,
Biden said in the administration’s weekly  address  on the radio
and Internet.  “Because of what we did, the  auto industry  is rising
again,” said Biden, who delivered the address in place of
President Barack Obama, who is wrapping up a six-day trip to
 Europe . “Manufacturing is coming back. And our economy is
recovering, and it’s gaining traction.”  The economy will be a dominant issue in the 2012
presidential election, and  job creation  was also the topic of
the Republican address. More than 8.75 million jobs were lost as
a result of the recession, and the  unemployment rate  was 9
percent last month.  The Treasury provided $85 billion of commitments to the
auto industry, which included $64 billion to GM and Chrysler,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . Biden said the
administration went ahead with the bailout even though it was
unpopular.  “At the time, many people thought the president should
just let GM and Chrysler go under,” Biden said. Obama
“certainly wasn’t going to abandon an industry that had meant
so much to our economy, and so much to so many for so long.”  Repaying Loans  Chrysler has repaid $7.6 billion in U.S. and Canadian
government loans, and  Fiat SpA (F)  announced yesterday that it plans
to buy the U.S. government’s remaining stake in the Auburn Hill,
Michigan-based automaker by the end of 2011, bringing its share
to 57 percent.  Detroit-based GM raised more than $23 billion selling
common and preferred stock in its initial public offering in
November. The  U.S. Treasury  still owns 33 percent of the company.  In the Republican  address , House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  stressed party differences over how to spur
job creation and lower gasoline prices during one of the biggest
traveling weekends of the year.  Cantor said that Democrats, when they had majorities in the
House and the Senate, increased the government’s debt with a
$814 billion economic stimulus that “failed to get people back
to work” after the worst recession since the 1930s. Only the
Republican victories in last November’s elections, in which the
party won control of the House, prevented Obama and Democratic
congressional leaders from pushing through “one of the biggest
tax increases in American history,” he said.  Jobs Growth  The Republican plan would boost job growth by cutting both
government spending and taxes and repealing “onerous
regulations,” Cantor said.  “For too long,  Washington  has relied on gimmicks or
government-knows-best solutions,” he said. “No more. Now, more
than ever, our nation needs small businesses and entrepreneurs
to get people back to work.”  He cited a House-passed budget plan that would cut the
corporate  tax rate  to no more than 25 percent, and urged
approval of trade deals with Colombia,  South Korea  and Panama.  Cantor called for bipartisan legislation to expand domestic
energy exploration and production.  The U.S. “lacks a realistic national energy strategy that
will truly meet our country’s needs in the 21st century,” he
said. “We cannot wait for this administration or the Democrat-
led Senate to act -- they have had ample time and done
nothing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  