-- 
BP Unit Accused of Mismanaging Retirement Plans by Investing in Own Stock

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/bp-unit-mismanaged-employees-retirement-plans-before-spill-workers-say.html
BP Plc (BP) ’s North American unit was
accused in a lawsuit by its employees of mismanaging their
retirement savings plans by investing heavily in its own stock
before last year’s Gulf of Mexico  oil spill .  BP’s safety and compliance record before the April 2010
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig made the company’s
U.S. shares an “imprudent investment,” according to a
consolidated master complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in Houston. BP Corp. North America Inc., its directors and
members of the savings plan committee breached their fiduciary
duty by buying BP stock and “failing to divest the plans” of
the shares, the employees said.  “A disaster of the proportion of Deepwater Horizon and the
resulting losses were both predictable and likely,” the
employees said. “Because of defendants’ failure to protect the
participants’ retirement savings from being imprudently invested
in an excessively risky BP stock fund, plaintiffs and the class
have lost hundreds of millions of dollars in retirement
benefits.”  BP workers last year filed multiple lawsuits on behalf of
all U.S. employees participating in the company’s retirement
savings plans. The suits, combined together in the Houston
court, claim losses of more than $1 billion from the stock
plunge after the rig explosion and subsequent spill.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  Fatal Blast  The employee suits, brought under the federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, or  ERISA , are among hundreds of
claims filed in U.S. courts after the explosion. The blast
killed 11 rig workers and set off the largest offshore oil spill
in U.S. history.  BP’s U.S. shares initially lost more than half their value
after the explosion, before rebounding. BP’s American depositary
receipts, each representing six ordinary shares, which closed at
$60.48 on April 20, 2010, the day the well blew out, had fallen
as low as $26.75 on June 28.  About one-third of investments in the employees’ retirement
plans were in the BP stock fund, according to court papers. The
value of the plans dropped from $9.5 billion in total assets in
2007 to $7 billion in 2010, according to the filing. The value
of BP shares in the plans dropped from $3.1 billion to about
$1.25 billion in that period, it said.  ‘Prudent Funds’  The workers are seeking a return of the profit “that had
been lost by investing in the BP stock fund instead of investing
in other prudent funds within the plans that were available at
the time,” they said in yesterday’s filing. These funds have
outperformed the returns on BP shares, they said.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston is
overseeing the employee cases along with two other categories of
BP investor lawsuits consolidated in his court: claims brought
by shareholders on the company’s behalf accusing its directors
and officers of mismanagement; and securities-fraud allegations
claiming diminished share value.  Claims by fishermen, restaurants, real estate interests,
governments and others for economic losses have been combined
with personal-injury and wrongful-death suits for pretrial
treatment in a federal multidistrict litigation in  New Orleans 
before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier .  Cash Flows  Defendants in the employee lawsuits include  BP Plc (BP/) , BP
Corp. North America and BP America. The employees have also sued
current and former members of the North American unit’s board,
including Robert A. Malone,  Lamar McKay  and Stephen J. Riney, as
well as current and former BP Plc officers such as  John Browne 
and Anthony Hayward.  The employees claim BP and its subsidiaries appointed
people to oversee the plans “who were likely to, and did,”
maintain investments in company stock. These defendants “reaped
the benefits of the company stock being offered and held as a
plan investment option, including tax benefits, keeping
significant amounts of stock in friendly hands, and helping with
the corporate defendants’ cash flows,” the employees said.  BP and its subsidiaries “had effective control over the
disposition of the plans’ assets,” according to the complaint.  The case is In re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 4:10-md-
2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  