-- 
Can a Palestinian Spring Bring Middle Eastern Peace?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/can-a-palestinian-spring-bring-middle-eastern-peace-view.html
The Israeli and Palestinian
governments say they are committed to negotiations to resolve
their conflict. President  Barack Obama  insists there must be
progress in the  peace process .  In reality, there is no such process.  The U.S. special envoy to the Mideast,  George Mitchell ,
quit in frustration in mid-May. Talks are off, and the two sides
have dug in. The Israelis are expanding Jewish settlements in
the West Bank, inflaming Palestinian sentiments. The
Palestinians are planning to embarrass Israel at the UN in
September with a symbolic vote to support a Palestinian state.  The recent contentiousness between Obama and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over whether the borders of a future
Palestine state would be based in principle on pre-1967 lines
aggravated U.S.-Israeli relations. That is no recipe for
peacemaking.  What is needed is a deus ex machina to shake things up. The
Arab Spring may be just that.  In a new Pew Research Center poll, 73 percent of
Palestinians said they thought the protests by fellow Arabs
demanding their rights from  Morocco  to  Syria  to Yemen would lead
to greater democracy in the Mideast. Among the 23 Muslim publics
surveyed, only Jordanians were as optimistic.  The question is, what lessons will the Palestinians draw
for their own struggle for self-determination?  Peaceful Resistance  The uprisings in the Arab world have demonstrated the
enormous power of peaceful resistance to oppression. Unarmed
crowds in Tunisia and  Egypt  achieved, in a matter of weeks, the
downfall of two long-standing dictators, far exceeding the
accomplishments of 50 years of violent Palestinian resistance to
Israeli occupation.  It almost looked as if the Palestinians were getting the
message when, in mid-May, hundreds of them marched, unarmed, on
Israeli frontiers from the  West Bank , Gaza Strip, Syria, Lebanon
and Jordan. However, some pushed across Israeli lines, which
went beyond peaceful protest.  For the past nine years, a network of Palestinian groups
have slowly built up popular committees that organize weekly
non-violent protests in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The
peaceful sentiment behind these efforts, however, gets canceled
out every time the militants of the Palestinian group Hamas fire
a missile on civilians, as they did at an Israeli school bus on
April 7.  If the Palestinians proceed with their plan to force the UN
General Assembly to vote on statehood, it will embarrass Israel.
But it will get them no closer to a real state with real powers.
That will require  Israel ’s assent.  Power-Sharing Arrangement  And as things stand now, the asymmetry of power in the
Middle East gives Israel little incentive to compromise.
Israel’s military is superior to the militaries of its neighbors
combined. Its economy is booming. The wall Israelis built to
keep out Palestinian bombers has worked remarkably well.  Yet the dynamic may shift. Hamas and the mainstream
Palestinian movement Fatah have entered into a power-sharing
arrangement that, according to a negotiator of the deal,
includes a pledge by Hamas to cease violence. If that promise
sticks long-term -- a big if -- and if the Palestinians take up
non-violent protest in a momentous way, Israelis would find it
difficult to maintain their current hard line on a peace
settlement.  International Isolation  This is not because Israel would otherwise be isolated
internationally; Israelis have developed a thick skin for the
opprobrium of others. Rather, as citizens of a democratic
nation, they would not easily stomach having their soldiers
subjugate a people who have laid down their arms.  It was, in fact, the unbearable asymmetry of the first
intifada -- the Palestinian uprising from 1987 to 1993 in which
boycotts of Israeli goods, labor strikes and rock-throwing were
met by Israeli military might -- that first drew the Israelis to
the peace table with the Palestinians. Those talks eventually
resulted in the Oslo accords. Though often derided today, Oslo
at least provided Palestinians limited autonomy in the  Gaza
Strip  and parts of the West Bank.  At this stage, the Israelis’ savviest move would be to
return, with a spirit of magnanimity, to serious bargaining with
the Palestinians, while Israel’s might still works to its
advantage. As the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt discovered,
overwhelming military power is not a permanent trump card.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  