-- 
Canadian Dollar Declines for Fourth Consecutive  Week as U.S. Growth Slows

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-28T04:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/canadian-dollar-declines-for-fourth-consecutive-week-as-u-s-growth-slows.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a fourth
consecutive week versus the greenback, matching a stretch of
declines in July 2009, as U.S. economic growth slowed.  The currency slid against 14 of its 16 major counterparts,
decreasing more than 3 percent against the Swiss franc as
investors took refuge. The loonie touched its weakest level
since March versus its American counterpart before the  Bank of
Canada ’s May 31 meeting on reduced speculation policy makers
will raise interest rates by the fourth quarter.  “The loonie’s lag on the crosses is manifestly attributed
to its role as a North American currency,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada 
in Toronto. “It’s a good example of the overriding influence of
soft U.S. economic data.” Crosses refer to trades involving
currencies other than the  U.S. dollar .  Canada’s dollar, also known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.2 percent to
97.61 cents versus the greenback, from 97.42 on May 20,
extending its monthly drop to 3.2 percent. The currency touched
98.16 on May 25 and 26, the weakest level since March 28. The
loonie tumbled 3.4 percent to 86.98 centimes versus the franc.  While the Bank of Canada is due to meet next week, it’s not
expected to raise its 1 percent target rate for overnight
lending until the third quarter, according to the median
forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  December 2011 bankers’ acceptance contracts, which indicate
short-term rate expectations, yielded 1.50 percent yesterday,
the lowest since the contract started trading in 2008.  BOC Rate View  “The back end continues to price out hikes,” said  David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives at Le Groupe Jitney
Inc. in  Montreal , referring to the decline in yields, which
signal traders are trimming bets on the pace of increases in
borrowing costs.  The so-called Bax contracts indicate about a 20 percent
chance of an interest-rate increase at the Bank of Canada’s
Sept. 7 meeting, compared with odds of about 40 percent last
week, according to Love. The contracts average about 18 basis
points above the central bank’s overnight target, Bloomberg data
since 1992 show.  Interest-rate futures signify a 23 percent chance that the
 Federal Reserve  will raise its zero to 0.25 percent target rate
in March 2012, compared with 47 percent odds a month ago.  “With Fed policy on hold for a very long time, it’s
unlikely that the BOC is going to move rapidly ahead of them,”
said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York.  Carney on Rates  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in Ottawa earlier
this month that “while many emerging economies have begun
raising  interest rates  and applying other restrictive measures,
monetary policies remain quite stimulative.”  America’s gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent
annual rate in the first quarter after a 3.1 percent increase in
the last three months of 2010, U.S. Commerce Department figures
showed May 26. The gain was the same as estimated last month.  Canada’s economy expanded 2.6 percent in March from a year
earlier after a 2.9 percent pace of growth in the previous
month, according to the median forecast of economists before a
Statistics Canada report May 30.  The loonie ended the week at almost a two-month low as
futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, headed for a
monthly drop of 11 percent, trading at $100.59 a barrel. The
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has lost 3.8 percent in May.  Oil ‘Struggling’  “Equities and crude oil have been struggling over the past
month,” said  Michael Leavitt , an institutional-derivatives
broker at  MF Global Canada Co . in Montreal. “That has combined
with the dovish tone by the Bank of Canada to weaken the
Canadian dollar.”  Canadian government two-year bonds yielded 1.51 percent
yesterday, having dropped 10 basis points this week. The yields
touched 1.5 percent, the lowest level since November. The 1.75
percent security maturing in March 2013 climbed 17 cents to
C$100.42.  Canada will auction $700 million ($716 million) of real-
return bonds on June 1, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The inflation-linked securities mature in
December 2044.  Morgan Stanley foreign-exchange strategists have ended
trade recommendations favoring currencies including the Canadian
dollar, citing market turmoil.  “The broad  risk reduction  and market turmoil of the past
three to four weeks has persisted as investors continue to
unwind overcrowded reflation trades,” analysts including
Christine Tian in  New York  wrote in a report this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 Cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  