-- 
Federer Plays Wawrinka at French Open Away From the Limelight

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-28T22:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/djokovic-beats-del-potro-joins-nadal-murray-in-french-open-fourth-round.html
No longer in the spotlight at the
 French Open , former top-ranked Roger Federer today faces
countryman Stanislas Wawrinka for a place in the quarterfinals.  With five-time champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain and Serb
Novak Djokovic vying for the top spot in men’s tennis, the now
third-seeded Federer said he doesn’t mind no longer being at the
center of attention at Roland Garros. The 29-year-old Swiss last
won a major at the 2010 Australian Open, extending his title
haul to a men’s record 16 Grand Slam trophies.  “Now the expectations are sky high for Novak and Rafa
because he’s the defending champion; that leaves me a bit out of
the pressure situation, which is not a bad thing for me,” 2009
champion Federer said after his previous round.  Australian Open champion Djokovic yesterday beat Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina  in the third round to extend his
unbeaten run since the start of the season to 40 consecutive
matches. He can tie John McEnroe’s 27-year-old record of 42
straight wins at the start of a season if he reaches the
semifinals. Djokovic will take the No. 1 ranking on the ATP
World Tour away from Nadal if he makes the final.  Federer leads his friend Wawrinka, with whom he won the
doubles gold medal for Switzerland at the Beijing Olympics, 8-1.
Wawrinka’s only win dates back to the 2009 Monte Carlo clay-
court tournament.  Wawrinka, 26, doesn’t have high expectations of today’s
encounter with Federer.  “I’ll do my best,” he said, after he overcame  France ’s
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in five sets in the previous round. “I’ll be
playing on the center court, and it’s going to be great.”  In more fourth-round action today, defending women’s
champion Francesca Schiavone of Italy plays three-time
semifinalist Jelena Jankovic of Serbia. Djokovic faces France’s
Richard Gasquet, while  Vera Zvonareva , at No. 3 the highest
women’s seed left in the draw, meets fellow Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova.  Svetlana Kuznetsova , the champion at Roland
Garros two years ago who is also from Russia, plays Daniela Hantuchova, the No. 28 seed from Slovakia who knocked women’s
No. 1  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark out of the previous round.  Wawrinka has had “a wonderful year on the tour, probably
his best,” Federer said about his tenth match against Wawrinka,
who is ranked 14th thanks to making the quarterfinals at the
 U.S. Open  in September and the Australian Open in January.  “So that’s a big change for him. Mentally I think he has
more confidence,” Federer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 