-- 
Dollar Drops Versus Major Trade Partners on Speculation Recovery Faltering

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-28T04:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/dollar-drops-versus-major-trade-partners-on-speculation-recovery-faltering.html
The dollar fell for a second week
against its major trading partners as reports showing growth
cooled in the U.S. fueled speculation the recovery of the
world’s biggest economy may be stagnating.  New Zealand ’s currency approached a record high after China
Investment Corp. said it will buy the nation’s bonds. The Swiss
franc rose to its strongest against the euro and the dollar as
speculation increased  Greece  may need to restructure its debt,
increasing demand for safety. U.S. employment growth slowed this
month, a report next week is forecast to show.  “We’ve had some disappointing data, and it has weighed on
the dollar,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist
in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s
largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets
under administration. “There are so many fleas on that dog --
no one necessarily wants to hold dollars for longer than they
have to, and the Swiss franc is benefiting from that.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners including the euro, pound and yen, dropped 0.9
percent to 74.758, from 75.435 on May 20.  The greenback slid 1.1 percent to $1.4319 per euro, from
$1.4161 last week. It also depreciated 1.1 percent to 80.80 yen,
from 81.70. The yen was little changed at 115.67 per euro.  No Manipulation  The U.S. said yesterday China has made “insufficient”
progress on letting the yuan rise and urged faster appreciation,
without branding the world’s fastest-growing major economy a
currency manipulator. The report, originally due in April, said
“no major trading partner” of the U.S. met the legal standard of
improperly manipulating its currency.  Futures traders cut bets the dollar will fall versus five
of its major peers to the lowest since January in the week ended
May 24, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission yesterday and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decrease in the dollar versus the
euro, yen, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc
compared with those on an advance -- so-called net shorts -- was
115,541 on May 24, the smallest since Jan. 16.  The Swiss currency gained the most over the past month
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, rising 4.6 percent. The
dollar gained 1.2 percent and the euro fell 2.4 percent.  Rate Speculation  The franc reached 1.2102 per euro yesterday, the strongest
level since the shared currency’s 1999 debut, amid speculation
its strength won’t prevent the  Swiss National Bank  from raising
 interest rates  as the economy expands. It touched 84.65 centimes
per dollar, the strongest since at least 1971.  The KOF Swiss Economic Institute said the nation’s leading
economic indicator was at 2.30, unchanged from April, the
highest since August 2006. Economists forecast a drop to 2.22.  “The Swiss franc seems like it really can’t do anything
wrong,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “It firms on the
back of  risk aversion  in the  euro zone  as a safe haven, but it
also looks more favorable as the SNB may have to tighten policy
after favorable data.”  The euro headed for its first monthly loss since November
versus the greenback as European leaders struggled to keep the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis from worsening.  Aid Payment  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads euro-area
finance chiefs, said May 26 the  International Monetary Fund  may
not release its share of an aid payment to debt-strapped Greece
next month. The IMF is due to contribute 3.3 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of a 12 billion-euro payment under the 110 billion-euro
rescue approved last year. Further aid is under discussion.  The dollar fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid speculation a faltering U.S. recovery will
delay interest-rate increases by the  Federal Reserve .  U.S. gross domestic product grew more slowly in the first
quarter than forecast, a 1.8 percent annual rate, Commerce
Department data showed May 26. A Bloomberg News survey forecast
a 2.2 percent rise. GDP accelerated 3.1 percent from October
through December.  Consumer spending  rose 0.4 percent in April, less than a
0.5 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey, department data
showed yesterday. Durable-goods orders fell in April and pending
home resales plunged, other reports showed.  ‘Weak Data’  “In the past few days we’ve gotten a lot of weak data out
of the U.S., so that’s fueling speculation of longer-term
accommodation by the Fed, and that’s obviously going to weigh on
the  U.S. dollar ,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York .  U.S. employers added the fewest jobs this month since
January, 185,000, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast
before the Labor Department issues the data on June 3.  The euro rose on May 26 after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers are
“carefully” monitoring inflation, spurring bets the region’s
economy is strong enough for higher borrowing costs.  The ECB raised its key rate to 1.25 percent in April from a
record low 1 percent. The Fed has held its benchmark at zero to
0.25 percent since 2008, and is forecast to keep it unchanged
until first-quarter 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed to a three-year high as
Finance Minister Bill English confirmed that  China  Investment, a
sovereign wealth fund, was interested in purchasing the nation’s
bonds at auction.  The currency, called the kiwi, reached 81.98 U.S. cents
yesterday, the strongest since March 17, 2008. Its record since
exchange-rate controls ended in 1985 is 82.14 cents, reached
Feb. 27, 2008. The kiwi closed at 81.92 cents, up 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  