-- 
EMC Unit Said to Fix Defense Security Systems After Data Breach

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o m   G i l e s
-- 
2011-05-28T22:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/emc-unit-said-to-bolster-defense-security-systems-after-breach-steals-data.html
EMC Corp.’s RSA unit is bolstering
security for clients, including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , after a
network breach in March resulted in the theft of RSA data, a
person familiar with the process said.  The remediation involves replacing the SecurID tokens
issued by RSA that often expire in three years, said the person,
who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
company’s defense-contractor clients, which make missiles,
aircraft and other weapons, also include  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Dave Farmer, a spokesman for EMC declined to
comment.  In March, EMC, based in Hopkinton,  Massachusetts , reported
that a cyber attack resulted in information being taken from its
systems, including data related to RSA’s SecurID authentication
products. Reuters reported May 27, citing unidentified people,
that hackers gained access to Lockheed’s networks by duplicating
the SecurID data.  Jeffery Adams, a spokesman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor and maker of
the F-35 jet fighter, declined to comment on the reported
network breach or the remedial efforts. The company regularly
acts to “increase the security of our systems and to protect
our employee, customer and program data,” Adams said.  Remote Access System  Users trying to access their employer’s network from remote
locations may use a SecurID type device, a memory stick-like
unit that generates random numbers that must be used in
combination with a personal identification number to gain entry.  “If intruders get the key, the seed that enables one-time
passwords to be generated,” then they may have the capability
to break into networks that depend on such systems to
authenticate users, Alan Paller, director of research at the
SANS Institute, a computer security training institution in
Bethesda,  Maryland , said in an interview. Paller said he could
not say if Lockheed’s networks were breached.  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Northrop
Grumman and Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Raytheon of Waltham,
Massachusetts, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  