-- 
FIFA Vice President Jack Warner Says He Didn’t Take Bribes from Bin Hammam

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-28T16:53:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/fifa-vice-president-warner-submits-statement-to-bribery-panel.html
FIFA Vice President Jack Warner
submitted a written statement to soccer’s governing body denying
wrongdoing in a bribery case that has enveloped him, FIFA
President Sepp Blatter and presidential challenger Mohamed  Bin Hammam .  All three might be suspended or expelled when they face an
ethics panel called for tomorrow after U.S. soccer official
Chuck Blazer alleged Bin Hammam, a Qatari who heads the sport in
 Asia , offered to bribe officials in the Caribbean to vote for
him over Blatter in the June 1 poll. Bin Hammam said Blatter was
told about alleged payments and didn’t report them.  The Zurich-based body is responsible for sport’s most-
watched tournament, the World Cup, a competition that generates
$4 billion in revenue to the organization. It’s been disrupted
by several corruption allegations since the award of the 2018
and 2022 tournaments. None of the three men will attend today’s
 Champions League  final, the biggest club soccer game that will
be played in  London  between Manchester United and Barcelona.  “I wish to state that, at no time, did Mr. Bin Hammam give
any money to me for distribution to the delegates, nor did we
discuss any matter relative to this, nor did he give me any gift
or inducement whatsoever personally or otherwise as alleged or
at all,” Warner, who’s also president of Concacaf, the
confederation that represents North and Central America, said in
the statement.  Warner’s Denial  Warner also denied claims he indicated to members of the
Caribbean Football Union that he received calls from Concacaf
and Blatter about “the gift.” Warner confirmed Bin Hammam’s
position that he only paid Caribbean delegates’ costs to attend
the May 9-10 meeting in Trinidad where the alleged bribes were
handed out. He has also submitted letters from 12 Caribbean
associations, denying any rule breaches took place.  A file of evidence submitted by Blazer to FIFA General
Secretary  Jerome Valcke  contains affidavits, e-mail and text
message transcriptions and photographs to support the
allegations that Bin Hammam handed out about $2 million to
soccer officials for “football development.”  Bin Hammam denies the claims and has said they’re part of a
plot by his rivals to discredit him before the election. Blatter,
75, also denies the claims. The Swiss has been FIFA president
since 1998 and is going for his fourth term. Bin Hammam, 62, has
promised greater transparency if elected.  ‘Impugn the Character’  Warner in his statement said that Blazer and other
Americans he didn’t identify were trying to “impugn the
character” of Bin Hamman after the U.S. lost a vote for the
2022  World Cup  that was awarded to Qatar. Warner, who said he
voted for the U.S., added he was never contacted about the
claims before Blazer sent his evidence to FIFA.  Blazer said in a telephone interview he wouldn’t comment
until after tomorrow’s inquiry.  U.K. Sports Minister Hugh Robertson yesterday said FIFA
needs reforms after several rounds of allegations of
improprieties. He said holding an election where both candidates
face a ethics inquiry would be “a farce.”  Earlier this month,  David Triesman , former chairman of
 England ’s Football Association, told U.K. lawmakers that four
officials sought favors during the country’s failed bid for the
2018 World Cup, which was secured by  Russia . U.K. Parliament
also heard allegations that Qatar’s successful 2022 World Cup
bid team had paid bribes to secure the  soccer tournament ,
accusations that the Qataris said were “completely false” and
based on “worthless” evidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 