-- 
Two Funds Sued by Madoff Trustee Picard File Claims Against Custodian HSBC

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-30T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/funds-sued-by-madoff-trustee-file-claims-against-custodian-hsbc.html
Alpha Prime Fund Ltd. and Senator
Fund SPC, two funds sued along with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  by the
trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, filed so-called cross
claims against HSBC to try to recoup damages they incurred in
the fraud.  HSBC, which acted as custodian for the funds, failed in its
duty to monitor Madoff and profited from his  Ponzi scheme  at
their expense, Alpha Prime and Senator Fund said in a filing.
The London-based bank is therefore “liable for any damages
accrued by” the funds, they said in the May 27 filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  HSBC is “the direct cause of the loss of hundreds of
millions of Alpha Prime’s dollars and tens of millions of
Senator Fund’s dollars,” they said.  Irving Picard , the Madoff firm’s trustee, sued HSBC and a
dozen feeder funds for $9 billion in December, saying they
should have known of the fraud. HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest lender,
has asked a district court judge in  New York  to dismiss Picard’s
suit, saying it didn’t know of the fraud and lost $1 billion of
its own money investing in funds that in turn put money with
Madoff.  The tax and advisory firm KPMG LLP told HSBC about the
risks of Madoff’s business in 2006 and 2008, according to copies
of the reports obtained by Bloomberg, which was allowed access
to them on the condition they not be published.  KPMG Report  KPMG identified 25 “fraud and related operational risks”
in the way Madoff received, checked and accounted for client
funds, it said in a 56-page report dated Feb. 16, 2006, more
than two years before the fraud came to light.  The limited controls in place “may not prevent fraud or
error occurring on client accounts if management or staff at
Madoff LLC either override controls or undertake activities
where appropriate controls are not in place,” according to the
report.  In an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg in March, HSBC said
that “KPMG did not conclude in either of its reports that a
fraud was being committed by Madoff. HSBC did not know that a
fraud was being committed and lost $1 billion of its own assets
as a victim,” the bank said.  According to Alpha Prime and Senator Fund, HSBC failed to
verify trades reported by Madoff, even though that was its duty
as custodian. If the bank had done so, it “would have seen that
trades were allegedly executed at prices outside the daily range
of prices of such securities on the days in question,” the
funds said.  Trade Tickets  “HSBC misled Alpha Prime and Senator Fund to believe that
they were complying with these obligations,” they said in the
filing. The funds said they were told on Dec. 5, 2008, about a
week before Madoff’s arrest, that the bank had started to
receive copies of trade tickets from Madoff and to try to
replicate the trades.  Answering Picard’s case against them, the two funds said
they were investment funds, not feeder funds. They received
money from Madoff in good faith and weren’t obliged to return it,
they said.  Picard’s suit against Bermuda-based Alpha Prime seeks to
recover $213 million.  HSBC spokesman Patrick Humphris and spokeswoman Juanita Gutierrez didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in
 North Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Alpha Prime, 09-01364,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  