-- 
Gaza Border with Egypt Opens After Four Years

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-05-28T09:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/gaza-border-with-egypt-opens-after-four-years-amid-israel-security-concern.html
Hundreds of Palestinians from the
 Gaza Strip  entered  Egypt  as the border crossing was opened
permanently for the first time in four years amid Israeli
concerns that the move strengthens Hamas’s rule of the area.  About 300 Palestinians crossed into Egypt this morning, and
“it was smooth and easy,” said a Hamas police officer at the
crossing who gave his name only as Abu Osama. “If the situation
remains as smooth as it was today, I don’t see any future
problems.”  Egypt’s decision to scale back crossing restrictions for
the Gaza Strip has been welcomed by the Hamas Islamic movement,
which controls the Palestinian enclave, while raising concern in
 Israel  that the wider border access poses a security threat.  “We will obviously be looking to preserve security
arrangements at the border and hope nothing will be done to
allow Hamas to empower itself and to reinforce its terrorist
infrastructures,” Yigal Palmor, an Israeli Foreign Ministry
spokesman, said in a phone interview. “The Israeli position has
been made known to all relevant authorities, including in
Egypt.”  In addition to reducing restrictions at the Rafah crossing,
Egypt will waive visa requirements for most Palestinians
entering from other departure points, except neighboring  Libya ,
the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported this week.
Egypt’s move was the “right decision” to help the Gazan
population “ease its suffering,” Hamas said on May 26.  Israeli Policy  Israel maintains an embargo on the Gaza coast in what it
says is an effort to prevent weapons smuggling. The government
has restricted the flow of goods and people in and out of Gaza
through its own border crossings since Hamas, the Islamist
political party that has governed Gaza Strip since winning
elections in January 2006, gained full control of the
area in 2007.  Egypt has also restricted the passage of Gazans through its
own crossing since Hamas clashed with Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah movement, breaking apart their
unity government.  The Egyptian border opening is part of the government’s
efforts to back the Palestinian groups’ reconciliation, MENA
said. The new Egyptian leadership, which has taken a more
favorable approach to Hamas since President  Hosni Mubarak  was
forced out in February following anti-government protests,
brokered an agreement between Fatah and Hamas in Cairo this
month that paves the way for a new unity government.  EU’s Hamas View  Hamas is defined as a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  In easing the border restrictions, Egypt is restoring the
rules that existed before the 2007 Gaza clashes, with only
Palestinian men aged 18 to 40 requiring visas, MENA said. As a
result of the turmoil in Libya, all Palestinians entering from
there will also need visas, the agency said.  Abu Zeyad Yassin, a 56-year-old Palestinian from Gaza who
holds Romanian citizenship, said he was returning to  Romania 
today via Egypt after visiting his parents.  “My mother was sick and I came to see her, and after she
recovered I decided to return back to Romania,” Yassin said.
“My flight from Cairo is scheduled tomorrow, and I’m so glad
that the restrictions were eased and we can now easily enter and
leave Gaza.”  Tunnels dug underneath the Egypt-Gaza border have become a
central means of smuggling goods and people back and forth to
evade restrictions at the Rafah crossing. Israel says the
tunnels are also used to bring in weapons and the rockets that
are fired into the country’s south.  Flotillas  Humanitarian and pro-Palestinian groups have repeatedly
tried to break the sea blockade by sailing ships toward Gaza.
Nine Turkish activists from one such flotilla were killed in a
clash with the Israel navy a year ago. Another Gaza-bound aid
flotilla is scheduled to leave  Turkey  next month.  Israel eased restrictions on essential goods and fuel
brought into Gaza via its Kerem Shalom crossing over the past
year, in part as a reaction to international pressure spurred by
the flotilla clash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in the Gaza Strip at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gwen Ackerman at   gackerman@bloomberg.net  