-- 
Djokovic Beats Del Potro, Joins Nadal, Murray in French Open Fourth Round

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-28T20:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/li-na-azarenka-win-at-french-open-as-last-u-s-woman-king-is-eliminated.html
Novak Djokovic beat Juan Martin del Potro at the  French Open  to extend his unbeaten run since the
start of the season to 40 consecutive matches.  Djokovic prevailed 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 in a matchup of Grand
Slam champions that took two days to complete. The third-round
match was suspended last night at one set all because of
darkness in Paris.  “I managed to control my game a little bit better today
than I did yesterday,” Djokovic told a news conference. “That
resulted with the win.”  Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  and former Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova won easily while No. 4  Andy Murray  overcame an ankle
injury to move to the fourth round. Tenth-seeded Mardy Fish
lost, marking the first time since tennis turned professional in
1968 that no man or woman from the U.S. has reached the fourth
round at  Roland Garros .  The second-ranked Djokovic of Serbia can tie John McEnroe’s
27-year-old record of 42 straight wins at the start of a season
if he reaches the semifinals. Djokovic will take the No. 1
ranking on the ATP World Tour away from five-time French Open
champion Nadal should the Serb make the final.  Nadal Advances  Nadal lost just four games in beating Croatian qualifier
Antonio Veic 6-1, 6-3, 6-0. The Spaniard is trying to join
Sweden’s Bjorn Borg as the only man to win six trophies at
Roland Garros.  “I did a few things much better than in the previous
days,” Nadal told reporters. “Happy for that. I have to
continue this way”  Nadal played his first five-set match at the French Open in
the opening round against  John Isner  of the U.S. He also
struggled in the second round against fellow Spaniard Pablo
Andujar, saying afterwards he had yet to find the form that had
helped him win previously in Paris.  Fish, the top American man at Roland Garros, was beaten by
No. 18 Gilles Simon of France 6-3, 6-4, 6-2. It is only the
second time in the Open era that there aren’t any American
players in the last sixteen of a major. The only other time was
at the 1973 Australian Open, when no Americans played.  “Simon played really well; I tried a lot of things but
he’s pretty confident out there,” Fish told a news conference.
“Being the highest-ranked American, it’s a different feeling.
You want to perform, you want to play well,” said Fish, who has
never got past the third round at Roland Garros in six visits.  Americans Out  Earlier in the day, fellow American  Vania King  lost to
Wimbledon semifinalist Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  6-4,
6-2, leaving no U.S. woman in the singles draw.  Venus and Serena Williams, the American sisters who have
won 20 major singles titles between them, are both absent from
Roland Garros because of injuries.  “Went in there a bit nervous,” the 115th-ranked King told
reporters. “I was expecting a big game, but she was playing
really fast. And sometimes when you’re nervous, the ball comes
faster than you think it will.”  Murray had a tougher time than Nadal against Michael Berrer
of  Germany . The Scot screamed in pain as he rolled his right
ankle while chasing a drop shot early in the second set. After
receiving treatment from the trainer he went on to win the match
6-2, 6-3, 6-2.  “I don’t know if I’ll be playing the next match,” Murray
said in a news conference. “I don’t know if I’ll be 100 percent
fit. Maybe I will be. You never know with these things. They can
go away quickly. There are things you can do to recover faster.
That’s what I’ll do.”  Murray will have a scan on his ankle tomorrow.  Soderling Moves On  Two-time finalist Robin Soderling, the fifth seed from
 Sweden , beat  Argentina ’s Leonardo Mayer 6-1, 6-4, 6-3. Ivan Ljubicic of  Croatia  ousted  Spain ’s No. 16 seed Fernando Verdasco, 6-3, 7-6 (8-6), 6-4. He’ll play Nadal next.  Former world No. 1 Maria Sharapova of  Russia  defeated Yung-
Jan Chan of Taipei, 6-2, 6-3. The French Open is the only major
that has eluded the Russian, who won Rome the week before Roland
Garros.  Li Na , the No. 7 seed who was the first Chinese player to
reach a Grand Slam final at the Australian Open in January,
defeated Romania’s Sorana Cirstea 6-2, 6-2. The Netherland’s
Arantxa Rus, who upset Kim Clijsters earlier in the tournament,
lost to Russia’s  Maria Kirilenko , 6-1, 6-1.  Azarenka Result  Victoria Azarenka , the No. 4 seed from Belarus who is
seeking her first major title, eased past  Italy ’s Roberta Vinci,
6-3, 6-2.  “I don’t think it was the best match, the best
performance,” Azarenka told a news conference. “I can improve,
and I have been improving from match to match, which is
important.”  Viktor Troicki, the 15th seed from  Serbia  and Murray’s next
opponent, advanced in four sets over No. 21 Alexandr Dolgopolov
of Ukraine, as did Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina, who beat
Lukas Rosos of the Czech Republic.  Agnieszka Radwanska, the No.12 seed from  Poland , beat
Belgium’s No. 21 seed Yanina Wickmayer in straight sets. No. 15
Andrea Petkovic of Germany also won while the 16th seeded Kaia
Kanepi of Finland lost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk in London at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  