-- 
NATO Topples Towers in Qaddafi Compound; Yemeni Forces, Tribes Cease Fire

-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-28T21:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/nato-topples-towers-in-qaddafi-compound-yemeni-forces-tribes-cease-fire.html
NATO planes leveled guard towers atop
the walls of Muammar Qaddafi’s compound in central Tripoli, the
U.K. said, increasing pressure for the Libyan leader to quit a
day after  Russia  offered to negotiate his exit.  NATO aircraft “used precision guided weapons to bring down
guard towers along the walls” of the Bab Al Aziziyah complex,
according to an e-mailed statement from Major General John
Lorimer.  Russia said May 27 it’s seeking to negotiate Qaddafi’s
departure, for the first time supporting the goals of the
military campaign led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Qaddafi has forfeited his right to govern and Russia is using 
its contacts with the Libyan regime to persuade him to step 
down, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in Deauville,  France ,
after a Group of Eight summit.  In Benghazi, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the head of  Libya ’s
Interim Transitional National Council, welcomed the Russian
offer. “Free Libya is looking forward to building and
strengthening its relations with the Russian Federation,” he
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Jalil’s statement said Qaddafi’s troops continue to attack
cities with artillery, tanks and rocket launchers, and “impose
arbitrary measures that include random arrests, torture and
raids of homes.” Qaddafi’s troops fired at protesters in four
areas of Tripoli, Al Jazeera reported yesterday.  Amnesty Offered  Libya’s rebels offered amnesty to soldiers willing to
abandon Qaddafi, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.
Those who committed crimes before the start of the rebellion on
Feb. 17 will be guaranteed “a fair trial,” while people who
committed crimes since then will be forgiven if they leave the
regime now, the Journal reported, citing Jalil.  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh and Sheikh Sadiq 
al-Ahmar, leader of the Hashid confederation of tribes, agreed 
to end fighting that killed at least 124 people, the Washington
Post reported, citing a mediator in the conflict.  The clashes began May 23 after Saleh refused to sign a Gulf
Cooperation Council-brokered accord that provides for him to
step down within 30 days of accepting the agreement.  Yemeni Opposition  Yemen’s opposition yesterday called for Saleh to step down
immediately, backing away from the Gulf agreement on a 30-day
transitional period.  “The accord as it stands is no longer acceptable to us
unless it provides for his immediate departure,” Mohammed al-
Mutawakkil, a member of the opposition Joint Meeting Parties’
higher council, said in a telephone interview in the capital
Sana’a.  Three French nationals have been reported missing in Yemen,
Hasan Muksim, deputy security director of Seyoun city, in the
southeastern province of Hadramaut, said yesterday.  The man and two women “have been missing since this
afternoon,” Muksim said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
been searching the region.”  In  Syria , five soldiers were shot by army colleagues
because they refused to follow orders to fire on civilians
protesting the government of President Bashar Al-Assad,  Al
Jazeera  television reported, citing Abdullah Abu Zaid, an
activist who filmed the injured soldiers in Daraa.  Syrian Soldiers Shot  “We have provided them with first aid and saved their
lives,” Zaid said in a telephone interview with Al Jazeera. The
network showed footage of the bleeding soldiers.  Syrian demonstrators called on the army to join the
protests after Friday prayers May 27. Syria’s crackdown has
killed at least 1,100 people, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi,
head of Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights.  The government has blamed the unrest on Islamic militants
and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the country.
Assad initially promised reforms in response to the protests,
which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in Tunisia
and  Egypt , though those pledges haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their crackdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Harrison in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  