-- 
Obama Says U.S., Poland Will Cooperate on Economy, Energy

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-05-28T14:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/obama-says-u-s-poland-will-cooperate-on-economy-energy-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said Poland
serves as a “living example” for democratic transition in the
Middle East and North Africa and promised closer cooperation
between the two counties on economic and energy issues.  “Poland is one of our strongest and closest allies in the
world,” Obama said at a news conference in Warsaw with Polish
Prime Minister  Donald Tusk . It stands as “a living example of
what is possible when countries take reform seriously.”  Obama said he had an “extensive” discussion with Polish
leaders about Poland’s shale gas reserves and that the U.S.
would share its technology on energy extraction.  “We are also aiming to expand our bilateral economic
relationship with Poland,” Obama said. “Poland’s economy was
the only economy in the EU not to fall into recession during the
economic crisis and has enormous potential for economic
growth.”  Obama returns home today after a six-day European trip and
will hit the road again tomorrow to visit the town of Joplin,
 Missouri , where tornadoes killed at least 116 people last week.
He’ll also be occupied by negotiations, led by Vice President
 Joe Biden , with congressional Republicans to trim cumulative
budget deficits and raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Energy Development  Obama and Tusk pledged cooperation on energy development,
including tapping Poland’s shale gas reserves and expanding
nuclear power.  “This is a moment of breakthrough,” Tusk said at the news
conference with Obama. “We’re talking about cooperation and
investments between two partners of whom one is a leader
regarding technology, and the other has turned out to be a
leader in terms of resources.”  Poland may have as much as 187 trillion cubic feet (5.3
trillion cubic meters) of shale gas reserves, according to
estimates by the U.S.  Energy Information Administration . That
would meet domestic demand for three centuries, enabling the
European Union’s biggest eastern member to reach its goal of
independence from Russian gas imports.  “We had an extensive discussion about both shale gas and
nuclear power,” Obama said at today’s press conference. “I
think Prime Minister Tusk and I both believe that it’s important
for us to diversify our energy sources.”  Poland’s Reserves  Poland’s resources are attracting attention from  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Chevron Corp. and ConocoPhillips, the three biggest
U.S. oil companies, which are among those granted 86 licenses to
explore for shale gas. It could cost as much as 50 million zloty
($18 million) for each of the 124 exploratory wells needed to
search for Poland’s reserves, Deputy Treasury Minister Mikolaj
Budzanowski said earlier this month, putting the total
investment needed at as much as 6.2 billion zloty.  Standing next to his Polish counterpart, Obama said he
supports legislation in Congress that would make it easier for
Poles to travel to the states. Poland doesn’t meet the criteria
under an existing law, passed after the Sept. 11 attacks, that
would allow its citizens to enter the U.S. without a visa.  The visa issue has been a source of tension in the U.S.-
 Poland  relationship.  “We very much want you to shop on Fifth Avenue,” he said,
responding to a question from the Polish media.  Symbol of Democracy  Obama also stressed Poland’s role as a symbol for countries
in the Middle East and North Africa for making the transition to
democracy.  Poland “has gone through what many countries want to now
go through,” Obama said. “We welcome their leadership in
reaching out to North Africa and the Middle East.”  Obama said he and Tusk also talked about political
repression in Belarus and had harsh words for the leader of
Poland’s Central European neighbor, Aleksandr Lukashenko.  “President Lukashenko has shown a total disregard for
democratic values, the rule of law and human rights of his own
people,” he said.  Obama said yesterday that the U.S. will pursue new
sanctions against some Belarusian state-owned enterprises
following the conviction and sentencing of opposition
presidential candidates. The measures would be in addition to
travel restrictions, asset freezes and other sanctions announced
in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Paris at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Warsaw at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  