-- 
Hoenig Seeks Higher U.S. Interest Rates to Boost Saving, Avoid New Bubbles

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/hoenig-calls-for-raising-interest-rates-to-boost-saving-avoid-new-bubbles.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig , the central bank’s longest-serving
policy maker, said the U.S. needs to raise  interest rates  to
encourage individuals to save and avoid future asset bubbles.  Hoenig, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, has
repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten lending to prevent
inflation and asset price bubbles. He voted eight times in 2010
against record monetary stimulus led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980
for most dissents in a single year.  The Fed cut its benchmark rate to zero to 0.25 percent in
2008 to boost economic growth and will keep it unchanged until
the first quarter of 2012, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists and analysts.  “I’m not advocating for tight monetary policy, but I do
think we have to get off of zero if we want to avoid repeating
some of the mistakes of the past with a very easy credit
environment,” Hoenig said in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” show scheduled for broadcast today.  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600 billion
in  U.S. Treasuries  by the end of June. They are also considering
a strategy for how to remove stimulus, with a majority favoring
ending the policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing
securities first before raising interest rates or selling
assets, minutes of their April 26-27 meeting showed.  Spending Encouraged  Leaving the Fed funds target at its current level
encourages consumers to spend at a time when the U.S. needs
higher savings rates to ensure long-term prosperity, Hoenig said
in the CNN interview.  The savings rate held at 4.9 percent in April, the Commerce
Department said, the lowest level since October 2008.  The Fed under Chairman  Alan Greenspan  kept interest rates
at 2 percent or less from December 2001 to December 2004. The
savings rate averaged about 3.4 percent during that period,
compared with 5.4 percent in the previous two decades, and fell
to 0.8 percent in 2005, the lowest level since at least 1959,
according to Commerce Department data. Defaults on home loans to
the riskiest borrowers in 2007 and 2008 triggered the worst
recession and financial crisis since the 1930s.  “We kept the interest rates too low,” Hoenig, who served
on the  Federal Open Market Committee  that sets interest rates,
said of those years in the CNN interview. “It’s not that I want
to point blame to myself or anyone else, but I do have to say
this is what happened, what were the consequences and what have
I learned from it and -- and adjust policy the next time going
forward.”  Bernanke, speaking on April 27 at a press conference,
signaled that the central bank will maintain its record monetary
stimulus after June and indicated that the need to contain
inflation means further easing is unlikely.  Hoenig plans to retire from the central bank in October
after 20 years as leader of the Kansas City district bank.  “If we want to be a great nation, continue to be a great
nation, then we do have to address our fiscal challenges,”
Hoenig said in the CNN interview, according to an advance
transcript of his remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  