-- 
Pakistan to Increase Spending on Roads, Health

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-28T15:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/pakistan-plans-to-increase-spending-on-roads-health-58-.html
Pakistan  plans to increase spending
on roads, education and healthcare by 58 percent in the next
fiscal year to revive an economy hurt by floods and terrorism.  The government will spend 730 billion rupees ($8.5 billion)
on so-called development projects in the year starting July 1,
compared with a revised estimate of 462 billion rupees in the
current year, Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh said at a
news conference in Islamabad today.  The government projects economic growth will accelerate to
4.2 percent next year, helping to create jobs and cut poverty.
Pakistan was forced to slash spending in the current year by 35
percent from its original target to reduce the  budget deficit ,
according to the country’s Planning Commission.  Growth in the  South Asia ’s second-biggest economy probably
has slowed to 2.4 or 2.5 percent in the year ending June 30 from
the targeted 4.5 percent, Shaikh said, as the worst monsoon
flooding destroyed crops and militant attacks undermined foreign
investment.  ”Our economy is passing through a stabilization period
after being hurt by floods, the security situation and rising
inflation,” Shaikh said. ”Our focus for the next year is to
control spending and increase revenue.”  The government will unveil the federal budget in parliament
on June 3.  Pakistan plans to cut its budget deficit to 4.5 percent of
gross domestic product from 5.5 percent of GDP in the year
ending June 30, according to the Planning Commission.  The Planning Commission allocated 300 billion rupees for
development projects in the coming year to the federal
government, up from 196 billion rupees this year and 430 billion
rupees to the provinces from 266 billion this year.  Pakistan ’s federal government will spend 155 billion rupees
on infrastructure including roads and railways, and 122 billion
rupees on social services such as education and health, Shaikh
said.  Pakistan is likely to spend 442 billion rupees on defense
in the current fiscal year, about 14 percent of the total
budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  