-- 
Pound Gains Against Euro as Debt Concern Boosts Relative Appeal

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-28T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/pound-gains-against-euro-as-debt-concern-boosts-relative-appeal.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar and the euro amid concern that the euro-region debt
crisis may worsen and the U.S. recovery is faltering, boosting
the relative appeal of the U.K. currency.  Sterling gained versus all but three of its 16 major peers
this week. A report showed U.K. gross domestic product expanded
0.5 percent in the first quarter, as stronger exports outweighed
the biggest slump in  consumer spending  in almost two years.
Sterling has gained against the euro in three of the past four
weeks as euro-region policy makers clashed over how to resolve
 Greece ’s debt woes. U.S. data showed the economy expanded less
than forecast in the first quarter.  “External factors are driving the pound, especially this
week,” said You-na Park, a currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “The U.K. growth data came out as expected.
The euro-region debt crisis drove the pound against the euro,
and the bad U.S. data supported the pound against the dollar.”  The pound strengthened 0.7 percent to 86.63 pence over the
week against the euro as of 4:51 p.m. in  London  yesterday, and
gained 1.7 percent to $1.6498, its biggest weekly advance since
the five days ending April 8.  U.K. central bank officials are locked in a debate over
whether to tighten monetary policy after inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest since 2008.  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  says it’s too soon because the recovery
remains weak. The  European Central Bank  and Sweden’s Riksbank
have already started raising rates.  Interest-Rate Bets  Money markets price in a 25 basis-point increase in the key
rate in February, unchanged from a week ago, according to
sterling overnight interbank average forwards, Tullett Prebon
Plc data show. As recently as February investors were betting
the rate would be lifted this month.  Short-sterling futures were little changed during the week,
leaving implied yield on the contract expiring in March 2012 at
1.17 percent.  U.K. services growth slowed in May, a report from Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  is forecast to show next week. The gauge, based on a
survey of companies, fell to 54.2 from 54.3 in April, according
to the median forecast of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Britain’s currency has gained 0.4 percent over the past
month, compared with a 2.5 percent loss by the euro, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
the performance of a basket of 10 currencies. The dollar has
gained 1.6 percent over the same period.  Gilt Returns  U.K. government bonds rose in the week, pushing the yield
on the 10-year gilt down six basis points to 3.29 percent. Two-
year note yields were also six basis points lower, at 0.92
percent. They reached 0.895 percent on May 25, the least since
November 10.  Gilts have handed investors 2.3 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. German bunds are
little changed, while  U.S. Treasuries  returned 2.6 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 