-- 
Russia Lifting Grain-Export Ban

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-05-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/russia-will-end-grain-export-ban-on-july-1-as-planting-climbs-putin-says.html
Russia , once the world’s second-
biggest wheat exporter, will let a grain-export ban expire July
1, increasing supply as drought and flooding threatens crops
from  Europe  to the U.S.  Farmers have sown 10 percent more acres and stockpiles
exceed 6 million metric tons, First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov said yesterday, according to a government statement.
Russian grain traders accelerated purchases in the last several
weeks, moving supply to silos near ports in anticipation of the
end of the ban which began in August, agricultural researcher
SovEcon said May 20.  Wheat traded in Chicago, a global benchmark, as much as
doubled in the past year as drought and flooding from  Canada  to
Russia to Europe ruined crops. Russia’s export ban, combined
with quotas on shipments imposed by Ukraine, tightened supply
and contributed to global food prices tracked by the  United
Nations  surging to a record in the first quarter. While extra
shipments will help ease supply concerns, extreme weather may
curb output elsewhere and keep prices high.  “The complicated weather and crop situation around the
world means we shouldn’t expect a significant price drop,”
Dmitry Rylko, general director of the Institute for Agricultural
Market Studies in Moscow, said yesterday. It may also take some
time for exports to resume after the ban is lifted and “I don’t
expect record-high exports from Russia in July,” he said.  Wheat Prices Jump  Wheat for July delivery rose 0.6 percent to $8.1975 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade on May 27, while corn for
delivery in the same month jumped 1.7 percent to $7.585 a
bushel. Rain is delaying planting in the U.S. Great Plains and
Canadian prairies. About 45 percent of the U.S. winter wheat
crop was in very poor or poor condition, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said May 23.  By contrast, Russia’s  Agriculture Ministry  estimates the
total grain harvest may be 85 million to 90 million tons, up
from 60.9 million tons last year.  Russia will export 10 million tons of wheat in the 12
months ending in June next year, up from 4 million tons in the
current year, according to the USDA. That’s still less than the
18.6 million tons sold a year earlier. Corn shipments will jump
to 1 million tons from 25,000 tons and barley cargoes to 800,000
tons from 300,000 tons, the USDA estimates.  Wheat Available  Russia has about 4 million tons of wheat available for
export in the south of the country, though as much as half of it
may not be of good enough quality to ship, said Alexander Korbut, vice president of Russia’s Grain Union, the largest
lobby group for cereal exporters. Russian ports can handle as
much as 3.5 million tons a month, he said.  The resumption of exports may drive international wheat
prices 5 percent to 7 percent lower, while boosting domestic
prices 15 percent to 20 percent, Korbut said.  Ukraine President  Viktor Yanukovych  said in an interview
May 24 he would lift export quotas because of forecasts for a 15
percent increase in the harvest. Ukraine, once the world’s
biggest barley exporter, set export quotas on corn, wheat and
barley in October after drought ruined crops.  Increasing Russian and Ukrainian supply will help
compensate for anticipated declines elsewhere. The U.S., the
world’s biggest wheat exporter, will ship 29 million tons in the
next marketing year, down from 35.5 million tons this year, the
USDA says.  ‘Weather Risks’  “The weather risks that are developing in other producing
regions will be more than enough to offset any type of exports
coming of Russia,” Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International in  London , said before the Russian announcement.
“Wheat prices will stay at elevated levels.”  While international prices may decline on the resumption of
Russian exports, domestic prices will likely jump, SovEcon
Managing Director Andrey Sizov Jr. said yesterday. That may spur
the government to restrict sales again later in the year, he
said.  The jump in world food prices means inflation is
accelerating around the world, spurring at least two dozen
central banks and the  European Central Bank  to raise  interest
rates  this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Higher
interest rates may curb global economic growth the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said May 25 would rise
to 4.6 percent next year from 4.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  