-- 
Shirakawa Opposes BOJ Underwriting Bonds a Day After Japan’s Outlook Cut

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-05-28T10:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/shirakawa-opposes-boj-underwriting-bonds-a-day-after-japan-s-outlook-cut.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa opposed the central bank underwriting of Japanese
government bonds for the second time in a week, a day after
 Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook for the country because of
rising levels of government indebtedness.  Underwriting government bonds may lead to rapid inflation,
which won’t improve Japan’s fiscal position, Shirakawa said in
an address to the  Japan Society of Monetary Economics  at Meiji
University in  Tokyo  today. Underwriting JGBs would also may
hamper bond issuance, raise yields on government debt and erode
confidence in the yen, he said.  “Underwriting government bonds by a central bank, which
may not appear problematic at first, will lead to limitless
issuance of currencies and cause rapid inflation and devastate
people’s life and economic activities,” Shirakawa said. “The
improvement of fiscal balance can’t be achieved by causing
inflation.”  Shirakawa is resisting pressure from lawmakers in the
ruling  Democratic Party  of  Japan  and academics urging the bank
to help finance reconstruction after the March 11 earthquake. So
far, the BOJ has injected record amounts of cash into the money
market and doubled to 10 trillion yen a fund that buys assets
including corporate debt to real estate investment trusts, a
boost that is about one-tenth the size of the U.S. Federal
Reserve's so-called QE2, or second round of quantitative easing.  Prime Minister Kan  The Bank of Japan also last month unveiled the one-year
loan program for banks, aimed at getting funds to companies hit
by the quake. The record temblor and tsunami in northern Japan
left about 24,000 people dead or missing, and the government
estimated that the cost of the damage could be as high as 25
trillion yen.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has pledged 4 trillion yen in
spending to help rebuild areas devastated by the temblor. Some
lawmakers have called on the central bank to finance further
stimulus packages by underwriting bonds, reducing pressure on
Japan’s debt burden, which is already the largest in the
industrialized world.  ‘Higher Risk’  “There is a higher risk of leaving the economic condition
as poor as it is now than the risk from the BOJ’s direct
purchases of bonds,” said Yoichi Kaneko, secretary-general of
the DPJ’s backbench Anti-Deflation Group and a former economist
at the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Shirakawa said May 25 that underwriting government bonds
could make the nation’s debt expand beyond taxpayers’ funding
capacity.  The governor also said today that the central bank’s
secondary market government bond purchases should be conducted
at a “stable pace as much as possible.” The BOJ currently buys
1.8 trillion yen in  government bonds  from lenders per month.  Shirakawa said today that Japan’s bond yields are low at
stable levels compared with other countries, even though the
country’s fiscal conditions keep worsening, because of confidence
in the central bank.  “A major prerequisite for a central bank’s ability to make
aggressive actions is that the confidence in a central bank is
maintained,” he said. Without faith in fiscal and monetary
policies, yields would rise and economic growth would suffer, he
said.  Japan Downgrade  Fitch Rating yesterday revised the outlook for its AA-long-
term local-currency rating for Japan to negative from stable,
urging policy makers to put forward a “more credible” debt
consolidation plan.  Japan’s government debt is projected to reach 219 percent
of gross domestic product next year, the OECD said this week.  Shirakawa’s 40-trillion yen boost in short-term funds since
the March 11 quake eschews the scale of longer-dated asset
purchases the  Federal Reserve  mounted after confidence in credit
markets collapsed and the U.S. entered its worst recession since
the Great Depression.  The BOJ has kept the benchmark overnight rate between zero
and 0.1 percent since October.  The government said yesterday that consumer prices, which
exclude fresh food, advanced 0.6 percent in April from a year
earlier, the first gain in more than two years. The number is
still far from the BOJ board’s definition of price stability of
sustained 1 percent gains in prices.  Asset Bubbles  Shirakawa has said the BOJ’s balance sheet, at 133.1
trillion yen, is larger than the Fed’s as a share of the
economy. Even so, its assets, which include securities used for
open-market operations and those accumulated through liquidity
injections and stimulus programs, have shrunk 11 percent from
the peak after the temblor, tsunami and nuclear crisis.  The BOJ chief has consistently warned against keeping
 interest rates  too low for too long and planting the seeds for
asset bubbles. He reiterated the point in a May 5 speech in
Helsinki, saying that the 1980s bubble was brought on in part by
“monetary accommodation.”  There’s also been scant signs of asset bubbles: the Nikkei
225 Stock Average is about 75 percent lower than its record
reached in 1989 and land prices have fallen in 18 of the past 20
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  