-- 
Ugandan President Museveni Promotes Wife to Enlarged Cabinet

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-05-28T08:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/ugandan-president-museveni-promotes-wife-to-enlarged-cabinet.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
named his wife as a cabinet minister and increased the size of
his cabinet after winning a Feb. 18 election, according to a
list of 75 ministers published today by state-run New Vision
newspaper.  Janet Kataha Museveni was promoted to full cabinet minister
responsible for the semi-arid Karamoja region. She was
previously minister of state. The list of ministers is in
addition to the vice president and prime minister who were
appointed last week. One more minister will be named at an
unspecified date, according to New Vision.  “This cabinet is one of the biggest in the world and will
be a burden to the taxpayers as they will have to fork out
resources to maintain it,” Kassiano Wadri, a lawmaker from the
opposition Forum for Democratic Change said today by phone from
the capital, Kampala. “These ministers will need expensive cars
and allowances to maintain their extravagance.”  Museveni, who has held power since 1986, was sworn in for a
fourth term as president this month, as thousands of opposition
supporters turned out to welcome opposition leader Kizza Besigye
home from neighbouring  Kenya .  The nation’s parliament on May 25 raised the number of
cabinet ministers to 29 from 21, while those of ministers of
state were increased to 47 from 41..  Museveni’s former private secretary since 1979, Amelia
Kyambadde, and former press secretary, Mary Karooro Okurut, as
well as three opposition politicians who crossed to the ruling
party before the Feb. 18 election were also named ministers.  “The policy of cronyism, sycophancy and disregard of
democracy is being promoted as we have seen those who crossed
from other parties being rewarded,” Wadri said.  Museveni argues that a bigger cabinet promotes the
efficient delivery of services to the electorate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  