-- 
Xavi, Messi ‘Mesmerize’ Manchester United to Give Barcelona Cup Final Win

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-28T23:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/xavi-messi-mesmerize-manchester-united-to-give-barcelona-cup-final-win.html
Before last night’s final with
Barcelona,  Manchester United  manager  Alex Ferguson  believed
there was a “solution” to stop any player, even  Lionel Messi .  His team failed to find an answer to the passing of Xavi Hernandez and the skill of Messi, who combined to give the
Spanish league title holder a 3-1 win and a fourth European Cup.  Messi and Xavi embraced each other after the final whistle
at London’s Wembley Stadium. Xavi completed 91 percent of his
passes, including the one that created the opening goal for
 Pedro Rodriguez . Messi slammed in the second, before his run led
to  David Villa  getting the third.  Wayne Rooney  had tied the
match with a first-half goal.  “They do mesmerize you with their passing, and we never
really controlled Messi,” Ferguson said after the game. The
manager, who’s collected 12  Premier League  titles and two
European Cups in 26 years with the Red Devils, said the current
 Barcelona  team is the greatest he’s ever faced. “No one’s given
us a hiding like that. It’s great moment for them, they deserve
it because they play the right way and enjoy their football.”  Barcelona beat United in the championship game in Rome in
2009 to give its coach Josep Guardiola a sweep of Champions
League, Spanish cup and national championship in his first year.
Guardiola said this year’s team is better than that one,
singling out Messi for special praise.  Best Player  “Lionel is the best player I’ve seen, probably the best
I’ll ever see,” Guardiola said about the diminutive striker who
moved to Barcelona in his early teens to tackle a growth
disorder. He’s the reigning  FIFA  World Player of the Year and is
likely to get the accolade again after scoring more than 50
goals this season as Barcelona also added a third straight
Spanish championship.  Xavi was Barcelona’s standout player in the first half. The
midfielder completed his first 40 passes before cutting the
United defense apart with a pass that allowed Pedro to slot past
Edwin Van der Sar after 27 minutes. His combinations with Messi
and  Andres Iniesta , which Ferguson once described as a
‘carousel’, kept  United  pressed back as Barcelona looked the
most likely to get the next goal.  Rooney exchanged passes with Giggs to bring United level
against the game’s momentum with a shot from inside the area
that Ferguson described as a “lifeline.”  Messi became the biggest threat after halftime. He
regularly got into dangerous areas by dancing through challenges
to create openings for teammates.  A minute after Evra deflected his goal bound effort away
with his head, Messi came back in the 54th minute. The Argentine
national team forward took three touches before slamming a left-
footed shot from outside the area into the bottom corner for his
12th goal in 14  Champions League  matches.  Panic  Van der Sar, who was in goal for the last time in his
career, conceded again ten minutes later. Messi created panic
with another surging run before Sergio Busquets laid the ball
off for David Villa to curl in from the edge of the box.  Such was Barcelona’s dominance it was able to bring on club
captain Carles Puyol to play in his third winning European Cup
final after being part of the winning team in 2006. At the
game’s end Puyol gave his captain’s armband to  Eric Abidal , a
French national team player who underwent surgery on a liver
tumor earlier this season. The defender was given the honor of
collecting the trophy from UEFA President  Michel Platini  to
roars from the Spanish team’s fans.  “For two-and-a-half months a player who had a tumor is the
one we have to say most suffered,” Guardiola said. “Players
are human beings and you have to look at the human being too.
Whether you win or lose you have to look at a human quality.”  The 40-year-old coach, a former Barcelona captain, said
he’d see out the remaining year of his contract with the Spanish
champion. He agreed with Ferguson that he’ll never manage a team
as talented when he leaves.  “My future will be very tough, very difficult because
where are these kind of players? Where can you find them?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Wembley Stadium,  London , on 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 