-- 
Typhoon Songda Weakens, Changes Path to Japan

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-05-28T07:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/typhoon-songda-weakens-changes-path-to-japan.html
Typhoon Songda weakened to a Category
3 storm off  Taiwan , while a change in its forecast path cut the
risk it will pass over  Japan ’s stricken Fukushima nuclear plant.  The eye of the storm was about 300 kilometers (190 miles)
east of Taipei at 9 a.m. Japan time, the U.S. Navy  Joint Typhoon
Warning Center  said on its  website  today. The typhoon’s path
shifted south compared with the Center’s projections yesterday,
and the storm is now forecast to pass along the south coast of
Japan from tomorrow.  The center’s forecast graphic yesterday included a possible
path over the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which spewed radiation
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling
systems. Three of six reactor buildings have no roof after
explosions blew them off, exposing spent fuel pools and
containment chambers that are leaking.  A Category 3 storm on the five-step on the  Saffir Simpson
Hurricane Wind Scale  indicates winds of as much as 209 kilometer
per hour (129 miles an hour), which may snap trees and damage
apartments, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.
Songda was the highest-rated Category 5 early yesterday with
winds exceeding 249 kilometers per hour.  The  Japan Meteorological Agency  said today the storm’s
winds slowed to 144 kilometers per hour as of 3:50 p.m. local
time from 162 kilometers per hour at 8:45 a.m. The winds are
forecast to decrease to 83 kilometers per hour by 3 p.m. on May
30, it said.  Typhoon Measures  Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman for Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
operator of the nuclear plant, said yesterday it is still
considering typhoon measures and can’t announce plans yet when
asked about the storm. The utility known as Tepco plans to
complete the installation of covers for the buildings by October,
he said.  Japan is regularly buffeted by typhoons and tropical storms
during the northwestern Pacific cyclone season. In 2004, eight
cyclones passed over or skirted the country’s Tohoku region,
where the Fukushima station is located, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency . The earliest was in May that year. The
eyes of two storms passed within 300 kilometers of Tohoku last
year, the agency’s data show.  Songda, the name of a branch of the Red River in  Vietnam ,
is the fourth storm to form over northwest Pacific this year.
The storm lashed the  Philippines  as it passed the eastern
seaboard, leaving one person dead, according to the country’s
disaster council. Songda prompted evacuations of coastal areas
and caused flooding that jammed traffic and stranded travelers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  