-- 
Zelaya Back in Honduras, Paving Way for Nation’s OAS Return

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-28T22:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-28/zelaya-back-in-honduras-paving-way-for-nation-s-oas-return-2-.html
Manuel Zelaya, whose ouster as
president almost two years ago led to  Honduras ’s expulsion from
the  Organization of American States , returned home from exile
today in a move that may allow for the country’s reinstatement
into the regional group.  Zelaya arrived at Tegucigalpa’s international airport from
Managua,  Nicaragua , in a plane belonging to Venezuelan state-run
airline Conviasa. He was accompanied by his family and a
delegation of international allies, including former Panamanian
President Martin Torrijos and Venezuela Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro.  “Thanks to your efforts I’ve been able to return to my
land,” he told a crowd who had come to the airport to welcome
him. Many were dressed in red in a show of solidarity with
Zelaya’s National Popular Resistance Front, a coalition that
advocated for his return. “Your presence here this afternoon,
and international support, shows that blood was not spilt in
vain.”  Honduran President Porfirio Lobo signed an agreement May 22
with Zelaya, allowing him to return from exile and help change
the country’s laws. The agreement, brokered with the help of
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  and Venezuelan President
Hugo Chavez, also guarantees that Zelaya supporters can return
safely to Honduras and form a party to participate in elections.  Zelaya said on arriving he would meet with Lobo and OAS
Secretary General Jose Miguel Insulza.  June 1 Vote  Chavez on his  Twitter account  said Zelaya’s return is a
“great victory” for the people of Honduras.  “Down with dictatorships! Long live popular power! Long
live real democracy!” he wrote.  The vote to restore Honduras to the OAS will occur June 1,
according to a resolution passed May 24 in  Washington .  Honduran soldiers put Zelaya on a plane to  Costa Rica  in
June 2009 after the country’s  Supreme Court  ruled that his push
to rewrite the constitution and extend presidential term limits
was illegal. On May 2, a court dropped the last of the remaining
charges against the former president.  Zelaya, who spent more than four months in the Brazilian
Embassy in Tegucigalpa after sneaking back into Honduras last
year, has since remained in exile in the  Dominican Republic .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 goodman@bloomberg.net  