-- Lacker Says Separating Fed Rate Guidance From QE Is Impossible
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-11-21T20:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/lacker-says-separating-fed-rate-guidance-from-qe-is-impossible.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said fully separating guidance on when
the central bank will end asset purchases from when it will
raise interest rates is impossible because both depend on what
economic reports show.  “It’s unreasonable to expect a complete disconnect between
asset purchases and the expected interest rate path,” Lacker,
who doesn’t have a vote on policy, told reporters today in
Asheboro, North Carolina. “I don’t think it’s feasible to
completely separate them and I don’t think it would be desirable
either.”  It’s “inevitable” investors will draw inferences about
the path of the  fed funds rate  based on any change central bank
officials make to bond buying or other policies, Lacker said.
Because the Fed says rates and purchases both will be “data
dependent,” then it follows that changes to the purchases known
as quantitative easing reflect shifts in economic data that also
affect rates, he said.  Lacker spoke after minutes of the Oct. 29-30 Federal Open
Market Committee meeting released yesterday signaled policy
makers may taper their $85 billion in  monthly bond buying  “in
coming months” if the economy improves as anticipated. The
Fed’s challenge in slowing the purchases will be doing so
without causing a jump in interest rates.  U.S. Unemployment  The FOMC has said it will hold rates near zero at least as
long as  unemployment  remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook
for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. The U.S. unemployment
rate was 7.3 percent in October.  Lacker also said Fed communication risks becoming muddled.
The FOMC statement, which it releases after each of the panel’s
eight meetings per year, “right now is pretty complicated and
pretty long,” and includes a “lot of language” to show how
policy will react to economic data, Lacker said.  Fed officials at their last gathering in Washington debated
several ways to change how the central bank telegraphs to
investors and the public how it will shift monetary policy.  “The spirit of the discussion last time was whether we
could improve communications by providing a fuller sense to how
policy is going to react to incoming data,” Lacker said today.
Officials should be “really cautious about tweaking the forward
guidance apparatus” because the message is complex and changes
may erode the Fed’s credibility, he said.  “If you go changing what you are saying about how you are
likely to behave from time to time you could erode people’s
confidence that you are going to follow through on what you say
you’re going to do,” the Richmond Fed chief said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  