-- After Nokia, STMicro Bets on European Factories
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-21T17:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/after-nokia-stmicro-bets-on-european-factories.html
Gerard Matheron could write volumes
about how  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  suffered as orders from its
largest customer plunged. Instead, the chief of its biggest
European factory has squeezed years of pain into a short slogan
hanging over his desk: “Falling down to bounce back stronger.”  The Geneva-based semiconductor maker reported eight
unprofitable quarters and $1.6 billion in losses as orders from
one-time mobile-phone king  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  plunged after it lost
market share to the iPhone.  Today, as STMicro restructures plants and revamps its
offerings, it’s winning new mobile clients and selling chips for
products from  Nintendo Co. (7974)  game consoles to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  cars.
Sales, though, are headed for a third consecutive annual
decline, to about $8.2 billion, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  While rivals  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  have
shuttered factories and outsourced manufacturing to  Asia ,
STMicro -- 27.5 percent  owned  by the French and Italian
governments -- is betting it can prosper by keeping production
in Europe, close to its design teams.  “Nokia is no longer the issue, but there are new
challenges,” Matheron said, looking out at the panoramic view
of the Alps from his office in the southeastern French city of
Crolles. “The market has changed -- growth has softened.”  Lost in Middle  Europe, still struggling with the legacy of its debt
crisis, is having trouble rekindling expansion and creating jobs
as companies from French automaker  Peugeot SA (UG)  to  Spain ’s biggest
builder, Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA, cut
spending.  “Innovation happens at companies in the U.S., and
production happens at companies in Asia,”  Michel Combes , chief
executive of STMicro customer Alcatel-Lucent SA, said at a
hearing by deputies of  France ’s National Assembly on planned job
cuts at the company. “Europe is lost somewhere in the middle.”  That makes STMicro’s survival strategy -- keeping
production close to home to focus on high-end chips tailored to
sophisticated products from the likes of  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.
and Microsoft Corp. -- a test for Europe.  “Can STMicroelectronics become profitable? Yes,” said
Stephane Houri, an analyst at Natixis Securities SAS in Paris.
“But it needs the right equation of costs and volumes, in a
business that will never be totally predictable.”  Delaying Target  Once valued at $85 billion on the stock market, the
chipmaker dropped to about $4 billion in 2009 as Nokia stumbled.
In the past 12 months, STMicro shares have gained 26 percent,
valuing the company at $7.1 billion.  Today, they dropped 1.4 percent to 5.82 euros in Paris.
Italy said today it plans to sell stakes in companies including
STMicroelectronics.  CEO  Carlo Bozotti  has promised to improve operating margins
to 10 percent, from 2.7 percent last quarter, excluding
impairment and restructuring.  In October, though, the company delayed the date it expects
to reach that target by six months, to mid-2015, as weaker
consumer appetite for high-end smartphones caused order cutbacks
for the entire chip industry. STMicro posted a $142 million  loss 
in the third quarter, while Qualcomm,  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and
Broadcom all reported earnings or forecasts that missed analyst
estimates -- though they were all profitable.  Hard Way  “We still have no real visibility into 2014,” Bozotti
said yesterday at an investor conference in Barcelona. “October
was better than the third quarter, but it’s all really short
term.”  STMicro learned that the hard way with Nokia. Three years
ago, the handset maker was STMicro’s  top customer , accounting
for more than a fifth of group revenue and half of production at
Crolles. Today, Nokia accounts for about 5 percent of STMicro’s
sales and is no longer among its 10 largest buyers, though Apple
and Samsung now are. Nokia declined to comment.  “We needed new clients,” said Matheron. “A year of
production suddenly vanished into thin air.” So the company
dispatched sales teams “around the world to find them and show
what our technology can do.”  STMicro has spent more than 4 billion euros on equipment at
Crolles since the factory opened in 1992. Today 4,200 people
work at the 100-acre site about 20 kilometers north of the
Olympic city of Grenoble. Over  24 years  at STMicro, 59-year-old
Matheron has seen the industry cut costs by scaling up. Disks
have grown from 8 to 12 inches in diameter -- with as many as
1,000 chips on a single wafer -- and will be 18 inches in a few
years.  Self-Parking Cars  The billions of dollars of investment required to keep up
with each new technology cycle have spurred many in the industry
to outsource production, fueling the growth of Asian foundries
like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  STMicro has bet on making high-end products at Crolles and
four other European factories. The company has promised to
invest and keep jobs in  Europe  in exchange for tax breaks.  European sites focus on higher-end products and more than
half of group revenue comes from chips made there. At Crolles,
for instance, 2,300 designers help make image sensors and micro-controllers for products like cars, lighting, routers and
cameras. Simpler chips for refrigerators, microwaves or TV set-top boxes are produced in larger volumes at a Singapore factory
STMicro opened in 1984.  Manufacturers of smartphones, autos and game consoles are
increasingly relying on chips to boost processing power and
memory, or to beat rivals with new features from touchless
hover-over screens to self-parking systems for cars. That means
they’re asking their suppliers for better design, faster
production and cheaper prices.  Nerve Center  To help sway picky customers, Matheron said keeping
production near researchers is essential. While Asian rivals can
offer cheaper prices, STMicro is betting its engineers can come
up with sophisticated designs and rush them straight to the
production floor, going from concept to chip in just days.  “A good prototype is essential to set us apart,” said
Matheron, a veteran of the French industry ministry. “That, as
well as working closely with our clients, is how we remain on
our feet.”  The wafer fabrication facility has become the nerve center
for signing contracts as clients come to Crolles to audit early
versions of a design. There, wrapped head to toe in anti-dust
gear, customers see robots on rails moving disks from one
machine to the next in the 600- to 700-step production process.  A U.S. company recently selected a design from Crolles
after engineers managed to produce a working prototype in about
10 days. Matheron, who declined to name the client in question,
expects to turn a dozen prototypes now being tested into firm
orders by summer.  “We can’t bet only on volumes,” Matheron said. “We’re
smaller than the big foundries, and our costs aren’t as
competitive as in Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona via 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  