-- Thai Rice Hoard at Record Seen Hurting Prices Amid Global Glut
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-11-21T04:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/thai-rice-hoard-at-record-seen-hurting-prices-amid-global-glut.html
Record reserves of rice in Thailand,
accumulated from a state-buying program that’s spurred concern
from the  International Monetary Fund , are seen contributing to
lower prices next year as worldwide harvests expand.  The stockpiles probably total 16 million metric tons, which
will pressure global prices, according to Eklavya Chandra,
director at Bangkok-based Phoenix Commodities Ltd. (Thailand).
The Thai holdings will surge 18 percent to 14.9 million tons in
2013-2014, the International Grains Council forecasts.  The third-largest shipper started buying the grain from
farmers at above-market rates in 2011 to boost rural incomes,
fulfilling a campaign pledge by the Pheu Thai Party, which won a
parliamentary majority that year. The IMF said last week the
program was likely to generate wider losses and should be
dropped in favor budgetary transfers to low-income households.
Thai ministers said they will press on with the intervention.  “Everybody realizes that 16 million tons cannot be sold in
a year or two years, so there is no bullish trend in the
market,” the Phoenix director said in an interview in  Hong
Kong , where he’s attending a conference. “Supply continues to
increase, while Thai stocks put more pressure on prices.”  The price of Thai 5 percent broken white rice, an Asian
benchmark, tumbled 26 percent this year to $433 a ton,
contributing to lower food costs as harvests of corn, wheat and
soybeans increased. World food prices tracked by the Food &
Agriculture Organization lost 5.3 percent in the past year.  ‘Buyers’ Market’  “It’s still a buyers’ market because supply is actually
more than demand,” said Anthony Lam, vice chairman at Hong
Kong-based Golden Resources Development International Ltd. “In
the short term, the  Philippines  is going to buy and  Indonesia 
will buy soon, before the election, that will spike up prices.”  The Philippines may boost imports 20 percent to 1.2 million
tons next year after Typhoon Haiyan struck the country, the FAO
said on Nov. 19. Still, the storm’s impact on output is minimal
as most harvests had been gathered, Orlan Calayag, administrator
of National Food Authority, told the conference today.  “The global surplus is large enough to be able to cope
with any large tender by the Philippines,” said  Darren Cooper ,
senior economist at the International Grains Council. “I doubt
that it would have a significant impact on the world market
since the additional demand would likely be temporary.”  World stockpiles  will expand 1.2 percent to 109.3 million
tons in 2013-2014 as reserves in the five largest exporters
including Thailand gain to records, IGC forecasts show. Global
output will climb to an all-time high of 474 million tons,
topping demand by 2 million tons, the data show.  Hurt Crops  Bad weather that hurt crops in the Philippines as well as
in India will provide price support in the near term, said
Samarendu Mohanty, senior economist at the International Rice
Research Institute, based in Los Banos, the Philippines. Output
in  India  may drop as much as 5 million tons to about 100 million
to 105 million tons in 2013-2014, Mohanty said.  “With these Philippines and India cases, and  China 
importing more, I don’t think the price will go down any more,”
said Mohanty, forecasting a gain of as much as $30 a ton by the
end of March. “The upside is limited by ample supply in the
market and stockpiles in Thailand.”  Thailand has spent 678 billion baht ($21.3 billion) since
October 2011 buying about 29 million tons of milled rice from
farmers. The program spurred the buildup of record reserves and
dethroned the country as the largest exporter.  Thailand  will sell 1.2 million tons of rice to Beijing
Great Northern Wilderness Rice Industry, a state-owned company,
according to a statement from the Commerce Ministry yesterday.
The price will be based on market rates and the shipment will be
delivered by the end of December, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  