-- Albright Says U.S. Must Overcome Loss of Arab World Trust
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-11-21T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/albright-says-u-s-must-overcome-loss-of-arab-world-trust.html
Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said the U.S. must overcome a loss of trust from Arab
nations that’s developed since the  Iraq  war as it seeks a deal
with  Iran  on its nuclear program.  “In many different ways, there was an erosion of trust in
terms of what we were doing there,” Albright said of the Iraq
war in a session yesterday at “The Year Ahead: 2014,” a two-day conference in  Chicago  hosted by Bloomberg LP.  The decision to invade Iraq in 2003 and U.S. handling of
the wave of popular unrest known as the Arab Spring that began
in late 2010 have complicated U.S. efforts to overcome Arab
skepticism about American intentions on Iran, Albright said.
 Israel ’s doubts about efforts to seek a compromise with Iran are
shared by Arab allies of the U.S. such as Saudi Arabia.  “The politics here have to do with a lack of trust, and
the politics there clearly do,” she said. “And this is going
to be a long process.”  Albright, who was the top diplomat under President Bill Clinton, endorsed the Obama administration’s effort to seek an
interim deal with Iran aimed at freezing some of the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program in exchange for a limited loosening
of economic sanctions. Some members of Congress from both
political parties have opposed any deal that doesn’t freeze all
of Iran’s uranium enrichment.  Albright described the “segmented approach” of an interim
deal as “a very important step” toward a long-term solution.  Providing Time  Joao Vale de Almeida, the European Union’s ambassador to
the U.S., joined Albright in arguing for the first-step
negotiations now under way in Geneva.  “You cannot have a second agreement if you don’t have a
first agreement,” Vale de Almeida said at the conference, as
part of a panel that sought to forecast geopolitical risk around
the world next year.  Ivo Daalder, a former U.S. ambassador to NATO in the Obama
administration, said Asia was the most likely hotspot for
military conflicts next year because of a “fundamental
mistrust” among nations such as China and  Japan . The two
countries have had skirmishes over territorial disputes in the
South China Sea.  “Those are recipes for accidental wars,” said Daalder,
who’s now president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.  Snowden Damage  All three panelists said disclosures of American spying on
allies made by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden had damaged U.S. relations with Europe.  “It’s really bad,” Daalder said. “We’ve lost a lot of
trust. It’s going to take serious efforts to get it back.”  Albright, who now teaches and leads firms that consult on
global strategy and investments in  emerging markets , scoffed at
European governments for taking umbrage at American spying.  When she traveled to Europe as secretary of state, Albright
said, she couldn’t always read her intelligence in her hotel or
a public place.  “I had to do it in a tent so people wouldn’t see it,” she
said.“The Europeans are hypocrites about this.”  Other panelists at yesterday’s conference discussed the
U.S. economy, politics and government. CBOE Holdings Inc.’s
William Brodsky and Ariel Investments LLC’s Mellody Hobson said
the biggest risk to equity markets and growth next year is
dysfunction in  Washington , after the strongest year in American
stocks in a decade.  Debt Ceiling  Events such as the fight between Democrats and Republicans
over lifting the nation’s debt ceiling, are “the cause of many
of the problems” with the economy, Brodsky said. The White
House Office of Management and Budget has estimated that last
month’s partial government shutdown would trim economic growth
by as much as 0.6 percentage point in the fourth quarter.  Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, formerly President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff, agreed that Washington’s fumbles have
hindered the economy.  “The American economy would be growing better and faster
if Washington wasn’t always getting in the way,” he said.
Emanuel acknowledged there were problems with the rollout of
Obama’s signature health-care program, which he played a central
role in creating, while saying the U.S. is already seeing a
payoff from the plan.  America’s lack of cohesion also risks having an impact
abroad.  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , the billionaire investor and
a member of Saudi Arabia’s royal family, said government turmoil
is hindering a strong foreign policy from the U.S.  “Unless your house is in order here and unless the
bickering stops between the Republican side and the president,
you can’t have a strong foreign policy,” he said. Alwaleed
described the U.S. economy as “somewhat down now, but it’s not
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  