-- Aluminum Fees in Japan Seen Near Record in First Quarter on Abe
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-11-22T04:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/aluminum-fees-in-japan-seen-near-record-in-first-quarter-on-abe.html
Aluminum premiums in  Japan  probably
will hold near record levels in the first quarter as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe continues economic stimulus and supply is
disrupted, according to four executives who are scheduled to
start price negotiations next week.  Surcharges for the three months starting in January are
likely to be set around this quarter’s $245 to $246 a metric ton
over the London Metal Exchange cash price, said the Tokyo-based
executives, who represent buyers and sellers and asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.
Premiums in  Asia ’s biggest importer of the metal reached a
record $255 in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Shipments of rolled-aluminum products by Japanese
fabricators expanded for a third month in September as the Bank
of Japan’s record stimulus and Abe’s plan to raise sales taxes
boosted orders for houses and motor vehicles, increasing demand
for the metal. Supply has been crimped by a partial shutdown at
a Saudi Arabian smelter and the end of a pact with an Indonesian
supplier, the executives said.  “Growth in demand will accelerate this quarter and next as
construction work picks up and car sales gather pace before the
tax increase in April,” said Koji Iida, the head of statistics
at the Japan Aluminium Association.  Premiums in Japan more than doubled last year as fees in
the U.S. and  Europe  rallied. While the surcharge declined this
quarter from the three months ended Sept. 30 as the London
bourse decided to change rules to speed up withdrawals from
warehouses, it has remained above $240 throughout 2013.  LME Prices  Spot aluminum on the LME, which rose 0.2 percent to
$1,738.75 a metric ton yesterday, dropped 15 percent this year.
The metal for delivery in three months climbed 0.2 percent to
$1,786.75 at 1:23 p.m. in Tokyo.  Premiums add to costs for fabricators including Tokyo-based
 UACJ Corp. (5741) , the third-largest after  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and Novelis Inc.,
with production capacity exceeding 1 million tons a year.  UACJ, which was created by the merger of Furukawa-Sky
Aluminum Corp. and Sumitomo Light Metal Industries Ltd., had no
comment on the fees, said Ryu Sawachi, a spokesman for the
company.  Japan’s economy expanded for a fourth quarter in the three
months through September, led by  government spending . The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development raised its
outlook for the nation’s growth for 2013 and 2014. Aluminum-product shipments by Japanese fabricators probably will reach
the highest level in three years in the 12 months to March 31,
according to Iida.  Imports from PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium ended with the
expiration of a joint venture in October with the government set
to take control of the stake owned by Japan’s Nippon Asahan
Aluminium.  Supply from the  Middle East  was restricted after production
at one of two potlines was halted at a smelter jointly owned by
Alcoa and  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  