-- Appaloosa’s David Tepper Says Equity Markets Not Inflated
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-11-21T22:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/appaloosa-s-david-tepper-says-equity-markets-not-inflated.html
David Tepper , the billionaire hedge-fund manager who runs Appaloosa Management LP, said stock
markets are not inflated as economies in the U.S., Europe and
China are on “firm ground.”  “I know there’s talk about bubbles, this is not one,” he
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Stephanie Ruhle 
at the Robin Hood Investors Conference in New York today.  Tepper said that while he remains bullish on U.S. stocks,
markets may fall 5 percent to 10 percent when the Federal
Reserve curbs its monthly stimulus program. He said his firm
recently bet against U.S. Treasuries as a hedge.  Tepper, 56, said in January that investors should own
equities because they were historically inexpensive, companies
had little debt and interest rates were low. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  rose  to a record this month, gaining 26 percent
in 2013.  In today’s interview, he said his gross returns in 2013 are
“well into the 40s.” Hedge funds returned an average of 6.9
percent this year through October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Tepper’s firm, based in Short Hills,  New Jersey ,
manages about $20 billion.  Tepper, whose holdings include  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , said his “big play in the
market” is airlines. He said he is optimistic on Japan, where
the benchmark Topix index has a low price-to-earnings multiple.  Citigroup, Twitter  The fund manager said he still holds investments in U.S.
and European banks, an industry that he described as
“interesting.” He said  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which closed today in
New York at $51.73, may increase to $70 a share, without
specifying a time frame.  Tepper said he isn’t worried about inflation as central
banks globally are more bothered by prospects for deflation.  He said his firm had sold shares of  Twitter Inc. (TWTR) , which
held an initial public offering this month, at an average of
$47, a price “way above” Appaloosa’s target. The stock closed
today at $42.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  