-- Apple Wins $290 Million From Samsung in Patent Retrial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-11-21T23:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/apple-wins-290-million-from-samsung-in-patent-retrial.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won more than $290
million in damages from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  for patent
infringement in a do-over trial that restored most of the amount
cut from the iPhone maker’s jury victory in 2012.  A jury of six women and two men decided the damages amount
today after a week-long trial in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California , where Apple won a $1.05 billion verdict against
Samsung last year over copying of technology used in
smartphones.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh cut $410.5 million in March
after finding the original verdict was flawed because jurors
miscalculated the period that the infringement occurred for 13
Samsung devices. In the retrial, Apple sought to restore $380
million of the amount cut, while Samsung recommended that the
jury award $52 million.  Apple has won almost $1 billion from Samsung “and has the
possibility of winning an injunction against infringing
devices,” said  Carl Howe , an analyst with  Yankee Group .
“Samsung may consider patent infringement simply a cost of
doing business -- fair enough,” Howe said. “However, I think
the costs in public perception will end up being higher, and
will force Samsung to do things differently in the future.”  The world’s top two smartphone makers have spent hundreds
of millions of dollars in legal fees on claims of copying each
other’s features in a global battle to dominate the market.
Apple, which initiated the legal fight in 2011, had 13 percent
market share in the third quarter of this year, while Samsung
had 31 percent, according to IDC, a research firm based in
Framingham,  Massachusetts .  Fifth-Largest  On its own, today’s verdict is the fifth-largest jury award
in the U.S. in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It’s the largest jury award this year in a patent case. Total
damages owed by Samsung now stand at $930 million.  The verdict includes a breakdown for damages for the 13
Samsung devices covered by the retrial, including almost $100
million for Samsung’s Infuse 4G. None of the devices covered by
the trial are currently sold by Samsung.  “For Apple, this case has always been about more than
patents and money,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, said in a phone interview after the
verdict. “It has been about innovation and the hard work that
goes into inventing products that people love. While it’s
impossible to put a price tag on those values, we are grateful
to the jury for showing Samsung that copying has a cost.”  Lauren Restuccia, a spokeswoman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, said the company is disappointed with the
verdict, “which is based in large part on a patent that the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  has recently deemed invalid.”  Samsung Appeals  “While we move forward with our post-trial motions and
appeals, we will continue to innovate with groundbreaking
technologies and great products that are loved by our many
customers all around the world,” Restuccia said in an e-mail.  Colleen Allen, who served as forewoman of the jury, said in
an interview after the verdict that Apple’s expert witness on
damages,  Julie Davis , “was on it.”  Davis was a “superstar witness” who remained steady even
on cross-examination, said Allen, an ex-U.S. military medic who
served a tour in  Afghanistan  and now runs a mobile blood
collecting business.  In closing arguments, Apple lawyer Bill Lee of WilmerHale,
employing a tactic that proved successful in the 2012 trial,
urged jurors to focus on documents that he said revealed
Samsung’s motive for copying, including a Samsung executive’s e-mail lamenting that the company was experiencing a “crisis of
design” due to competition from the iPhone.  Damages ‘Windfall’  Bill Price  of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, an
attorney for Samsung, told jurors to resist Apple’s
“emotional” argument. In his opening and closing arguments,
Price argued Apple sought a “windfall” of damages based on its
attempt to patent “beautiful and sexy,” when in fact the
patents at issue are “very narrow.”  While Koh rejected Apple’s bid after the 2012 verdict for a
U.S. sales ban on infringing Samsung devices, a federal appeals
court on Nov. 18 cleared the way for the iPhone maker to pursue
an injunction targeting some of its rival’s products.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said that Apple can tailor its request to focus on
infringement of patents covering smartphone features, such as
multitouch technology, that were at issue in the 2012 trial. The
company can’t block Samsung products for infringing patented
designs, according to the opinion.  The jury’s damages verdict today concludes the first U.S.
patent-infringement trial between the two companies. A higher-stakes trial is scheduled to go before Koh in March. That case
covers technology in newer smartphones, including Apple’s iPhone
5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  Apple rose 1.2 percent to $521.14 in trading in  New York .  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  