-- Ara Said to Plan Mall Sale With O’Connor Above $380 Million
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-21T22:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ara-said-to-plan-mall-sale-with-o-connor-above-380-million-1-.html
Consorcio Ara SAB (ARA*) , Mexico’s biggest
homebuilder, and real-estate firm O’Connor Capital Partners plan
to sell nine shopping malls for more than 5 billion pesos ($384
million), two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The companies are pushing for a sale agreement by the end
of the year, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the details of the sale process aren’t public. While
most of the malls are jointly owned by Ara and O’Connor, the
sale includes some properties held separately.  The mall sale would allow Ara to focus on its main business
at a time when the collapse of competitors including
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  and Corp. Geo SAB has opened
opportunities for growth, according to Javier Gayol, an analyst
with brokerage Corporativo GBM SAB. Obtaining financing from
banks or the  bond market  has become more difficult, so the sale
of assets is the best way to raise funds, he said.  “They should take advantage of opportunities that present
themselves,” Gayol said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “They could accelerate development in areas where
competition had previously been an obstacle.”  Alicia Enriquez, an investor relations official for Mexico
City-based Ara, declined to comment. Chief Executive Officer
German Ahumada Russek said in an Oct. 23 conference call that
the company had hired Morgan Stanley to explore a possible mall
sale.  Rick Matthews , an outside press official for New York-based O’Connor, declined to comment on the sale.  Largest Builder  Ara has turned into Mexico’s largest builder based on
market capitalization and third-quarter earnings as output
plummets at its three main competitors, including Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB. Third-quarter revenue fell by 15
percent from a year earlier to 1.33 billion pesos ($102
million), compared with a 99 percent drop at Homex.  Government programs created under former President  Felipe Calderon  to subsidize and finance housing backfired over the
past two years as homeowners weary of hours-long commutes
abandoned the communities en masse. The government has since
shifted policies to favor urban construction, crushing the value
of builders’ land inventory.  Ara’s sales were less dependent on subsidies, and it was
the least indebted of the four biggest publicly-traded
homebuilders. Ara shares have surged 43 percent this year, even
as the Habita index of Mexican homebuilders lost 76 percent.  The malls may attract interest from real-estate investment
trusts that are flush with cash from stock offerings, Gayol
said.  Ara’s Ahumada Russek said in the conference call he expects
the company to net at least 1.3 billion pesos from its portion
of the mall sales after paying associated debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  