-- Argentina Not Planning Any Drastic Policy Changes, Kicillof Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-11-21T16:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/argentina-not-planning-any-drastic-policy-changes-kicillof-says.html
Argentina isn’t planning any drastic
changes in economic policy and will continue to focus on
generating employment, increasing production and making the
distribution of wealth more even, Axel Kicillof said in his
first press conference as economy minister.  The government will continue to negotiate with different
sectors of the economy on price subsidies, Kicillof said, adding
that he will announce his economic team tomorrow.  Kicillof, who as deputy economy minister helped orchestrate
the nationalization of energy company YPF from  Spain ’s Repsol SA
last year, echoed President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who
last night, in her first appearance since Oct. 8 surgery, said
her government will deepen its economic model.  “We’re not going to do anything that generates brusque
changes in the economy,” Kicillof, 42, told reporters at his
ministry today. “We’re going to continue with our targets,
which focus on production, employment and distribution of
wealth.”  As deputy minister, Kicillof helped Fernandez tighten
foreign exchange controls, limit imports and use central bank
funds to finance spending and pay foreign creditors.  Kicillof said Argentina’s international reserve levels are
“consistent” and “strong” and that the country needs to find
ways to increase the supply of dollars while controlling the
outflow of foreign currency.  Argentina ’s  reserves  fell to $31.9 billion yesterday, the
lowest in almost seven years, as the government uses them to pay
the country’s international debt obligations.  Asked if he planned to create a dual currency system to
encourage tourists to bring dollars to Argentina, Kicillof said
the government wouldn’t do anything that jeopardizes Argentines
with lower incomes.  Earlier today, Jorge Capitanich, who was sworn in as
Fernandez’s new cabinet chief last night, said the government is
working on measures to shore up reserves by finding new ways to
attract inflows of foreign currency.  Reserves should be spent on imports that would help the
economy grow rather than going on “luxuries,” Capitanich said.  “It’s much more important to have essential raw materials
for the production chain than to buy a luxury car that only
satisfies one person,” Capitanich said in comments broadcast on
C5N television station.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in  Buenos Aires  at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  