-- Hartford CEO Says Can’t Be on Defensive After Paulson
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/hartford-ceo-says-can-t-be-on-defensive-after-paulson.html
Liam McGee, who led a rebound at
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  after shunning  John Paulson ’s call to split the insurer, said executives shouldn’t
be defensive when handling activist investors.  “You can’t circle the wagons,” McGee, Hartford’s chief
executive officer, said yesterday at The Year Ahead: 2014, a
conference sponsored by Bloomberg LP in Chicago. “You’ve got to
pay respect to the idea.”  Paulson pressed McGee to split Hartford in two in 2012,
after a stock slump the previous year. Paulson was Hartford’s
biggest  investor  at the time, with an equity stake of more than
8 percent. McGee, 59, resisted, instead reaching deals to sell
units and focus on property-casualty coverage.  “You’ve got to run the firm in a way that you think can
create  shareholder value ,” McGee said. “In our case, we made
the right set of decisions, I believe. I think that investor
actually agrees with that.”  Following a 39 percent  stock slump  in 2011, Paulson got on
a conference call in February 2012 to tell McGee to “do
something drastic” to boost the shares. McGee told Paulson on
the call that it would be costly to split the company, and that
he had an “incredible sense of urgency” to create value for
shareholders.  Shares Rally  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
has sold its individual-life unit, a retirement-plans business,
a broker-dealer and an annuities business. The insurer  rallied 
38 percent in 2012, and has advanced 56 percent this year.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. with
WalekPeppercomm, declined to comment on McGee’s remarks.  Paulson’s firm praised Hartford in April for performance
“ahead of their own plan and our expectations.” Paulson & Co.
reported holding 5.97 million shares of Hartford as of Sept. 30,
or about a 1.3 percent stake, as well as Hartford warrants.  McGee joined Hartford in 2009 after the insurer got a U.S.
bailout. He repaid the rescue the following year, raising funds
from private investors.  McGee has used hedges to limit remaining liabilities on
retirement contracts and paid policyholders to surrender some of
the policies, known as variable annuities.  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed in June to pay $285 million for Hartford’s U.K.
variable-annuity business, adding to assets  Warren Buffett ’s
firm can manage.  Rising stock markets and higher  interest rates  have
benefited life insurers this year.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest
U.S. life insurer, gained 58 percent from Dec. 31. through
yesterday. The companies invest in stocks and bonds to back
future obligations to policyholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  