-- U.S. Shares Rebound While Oil, Gasoline Rally; Gold Falls
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-11-21T21:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/asia-stocks-drop-on-china-data-as-yen-weakens-with-baht.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
following its first three-day slump since September, as gasoline
and oil rallied while gold and silver slid. Emerging market
stocks fell as a gauge of Chinese manufacturing missed estimates
and the  Federal Reserve  said it may reduce stimulus.  The  S&P 500 (SPA)  added 0.8 percent to 1,795.85 by 4:30 p.m. in
New York, after losing 0.9 percent in the previous three
sessions, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  closed above
16,000 for the first time ever. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
sank 1.4 percent and Brazil’s real lost 1.4 percent versus the
dollar, leading emerging market currencies lower. Oil climbed
the most in seven weeks and gasoline rose to a two-month high,
while gold futures reached the lowest price since July.  U.S. stocks rebounded after sliding yesterday when minutes
from the Fed’s last meeting showed policy makers expected
ongoing improvement in the labor market to “warrant trimming
the pace of purchases in coming months.” U.S. reports today
showed jobless claims slid more than forecast, while a gauge of
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area trailed economists’
estimates. China’s manufacturing fell for the first time in four
months, and the  Bank of Japan  left policy unchanged.  “After three consecutive negative days it’s reasonable to
expect a breather,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees
about $364 billion, said in a phone interview. “There is some
good news in the labor report too in that it does indicate a
degree of improvement in the labor market.”  Annual Advance  The  S&P 500  fell the past three days after reaching its
latest record Nov. 15. The benchmark index is up more than 25
percent in 2013, poised for its best yearly gain in a decade,
and traded at 17 times its companies’ reported earnings at the
last record, the highest  valuation  in more than three years.  Stocks have rallied this year, extending the S&P 500’s gain
from its bear-market low in 2009 to 165 percent, amid growth in
 earnings  and unprecedented monetary stimulus from the Fed. The
Senate Banking Committee today voted 14-8 to approve  Janet Yellen  as the next chairman of the Fed, sending the nomination
to the full Senate for approval.  Among U.S. stocks moving today, Johnson Controls Inc., the
largest U.S. auto-parts maker, rallied as much as 7.6 percent to
a record $51.90 a share after saying that it will increase a
stock-repurchase program by $3 billion and raise its dividend by
16 percent due to confidence in its outlook for fiscal 2014 and
beyond.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 1.2 percent, extending gains after winning
$290 million in damages from Samsung Electronics Co. for
infringement of some of its patents. Apple sought $380 million
in the case, while Samsung recommended the jury award $52
million.  Dow Drivers  General Motors Co. jumped 1.1 percent, snapping a three-day
drop. The U.S. Treasury Department announced plans to sell its
remaining 31.1 million common shares in the automaker, possibly
by year end depending on market conditions and trading volumes.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , the maker of Keurig-brand single-cup pods and machines, jumped 14 percent after
reporting fourth-quarter profit that beat estimates. Target
Corp. lost 3.5 percent after profit declined as U.S. consumers
curtailed spending. Dollar Tree Inc. slid 4.5 percent as third-quarter earnings fell short of forecasts.  Gains of more than 2 percent in  Intel Corp . and American
Express Co.  fueled  the Dow’s 0.7 percent jump to 16,009.99 after
two days of declines. The gauge has climbed 22 percent this
year, also set for the biggest annual advance in a decade.  Employment Data  U.S. jobless claims dropped by 21,000 to 323,000 last week,
the fewest applications since September, the Labor Department
said. The median forecast of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a drop to 335,000. Another report showed wholesale
prices fell for a second month in October and the Philadelphia
Fed’s index of manufacturing in the region dropped to 6.5 in
November, trailing the median economist estimate for a reading
of 15.  Ten-year Treasury yields reversed their climb after rising
to the highest level since September. Rates on the notes lost
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.79 percent after
rising nine basis points yesterday.  About three stocks fell for each that gained in MSCI’s
emerging-markets gauge. Markets in Asia and Europe were closed
when the Fed’s minutes were released yesterday.  The Fed “minutes were perhaps on the hawkish side as it
was difficult to rule out the December taper,”  Jim Reid , a
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a report.
“To taper ahead of year-end would likely be negative for
markets as there hasn’t been enough consistently strong data for
markets to calmly accept a handover from the huge external
support to organic growth.”  Emerging Markets  India’s S&P BSE Sensex Index slid 2 percent, the most since
September. Benchmark gauges in South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand
declined more than 1 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 0.9 percent. A preliminary Purchasing
Managers’ Index of China’s factory activity in November from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 50.4 from 50.9
the previous month. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected
a reading of 50.8, with 50 the dividing line between growth and
contraction.  Three shares declined for every two that advanced in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, sending the regional benchmark down 0.2
percent amid trading volumes that were 21 percent less than the
30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Movers  Atos (ATO) , a French computer-services supplier, lost 4.1 percent
after an investor sold 8.9 million shares. Intermediate Capital
Group Plc retreated 3.4 percent after Numis Securities Ltd. cut
its rating on the  money manager .  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) , the producer of a third of the world’s
auto-catalysts, climbed 3.8 percent after reporting a profit
increase in the first half of the year. Daily Mail & General
Trust Plc, the publisher of Britain’s second-biggest U.K. daily
newspaper, rose 2.6 percent after saying its dependence on
newspapers for revenue dropped.  Japan’s currency slid against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts, losing 1.4 percent versus the euro. The yen
weakened past 101 per dollar for the first time since July after
the Bank of Japan stuck to its pledge to expand the nation’s
monetary base. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rose 0.2 percent,
advancing for a second day.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy
makers haven’t changed their mind on a negative deposit rate.  Euro Rebound  The euro weakened 0.7 percent versus the dollar yesterday
after the ECB was said to weigh a negative deposit rate to ward
off deflation, according to people familiar with knowledge of
the debate who asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The ECB would reduce the  rate  for commercial
lenders who park excess cash at the bank to minus 0.1 percent
from zero, the people said.  The shared currency rebounded today, rising 0.3 percent to
$1.3482, as Draghi said “don’t try to infer anything from what
I say, anything about the possibility of negative rates.”  “This was discussed in the last monetary-policy meeting
and there’s no more news since then,” he said in a speech in
Berlin today.  The yield on U.K. 10-year gilts jumped nine basis points to
2.82 percent. U.S. Treasury 10-year yields note yields erased
earlier gains to fall 1.8 basis point to 2.78 percent after
rising nine basis points yesterday.  Commodity Markets  Australia’s dollar dropped to a two-month low of as little
as 91.99 U.S. cents after central bank Governor Glenn Stevens
said he remained “open-minded” on currency intervention, even
as policy makers had been unconvinced that the benefit of
lowering the currency, known as the Aussie, would outweigh
costs.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities increased 1.3 percent,
the most in more than a month. Gasoline futures led gains,
rising as much as 3.1 percent to a two-month high, as the
largest oil refinery in the U.S. carried out maintenance,
threatening to curtail supplies. Motiva Enterprises LLC began
work at its 600,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur, Texas, plant on
Nov. 19, according to Destin Singleton, a company spokeswoman
based in Houston.  West Texas Intermediate oil for January delivery rallied
1.7 percent to $95.44 a barrel.  Gold futures for December delivery slid 1.1 percent to
$1,243.60 an ounce, while contracts on silver slipped 0.6
percent to $19.976 an ounce.  Gold,  iron ore , soybeans and copper will probably drop at
least 15 percent next year as commodities face increased
downside risks even as economic growth in the U.S. accelerates,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The risks are strongest for iron ore and follow increases
in supplies, analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a report
yesterday that identified the New York-based bank’s top 10
market themes for the coming year. Price pressures will mostly
become visible later in 2014, the analysts wrote, forecasting
that bullion, copper and soybeans will decline to the lowest
levels since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  