-- Stocks, Treasuries Rise on Fed as S&P 500 Tops 1,800
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2013-11-22T22:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/asian-futures-rise-on-weaker-yen-while-platinum-declines.html
U.S. stocks and Treasuries rose, as
improving economic data offset concerns that the Federal Reserve
will cut monetary stimulus as soon as next month. The euro
strengthened after German business confidence climbed to the
highest in more than 1 1/2 years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent to a
record 1,804.76 at 4 p.m. in New York, capping its seventh
straight weekly gain and leaving it poised for the best annual
gain since 1998. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.1 percent
after earlier rising as much as 0.6 percent. The euro climbed
0.6 percent to $1.3558. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes fell
4 basis points to 2.75 percent. West Texas Intermediate oil lost
0.7 percent.  Job openings in the U.S. climbed to a five-year high in
September, indicating employers were confident about demand
before the federal government shutdown. Reports yesterday showed
weekly jobless claims fell to the lowest level since September
and American consumers became less pessimistic this month.
 Germany ’s Ifo business climate index climbed more than predicted
in November, exceeding all 43 economist forecasts in a  Bloomberg
News survey .  “There’s really no deterrent for the market to move
forward,” Karyn Cavanaugh, a vice president and market
strategist at ING U.S.Investment Management in New York, said in
a phone interview. Her firm oversees $196 billion. “There’s not
really any bad news. We have a little bit of a pullback and then
people jump in and say, ’Hey, I want a piece of this.’”  Weekly Rally  The S&P 500 rallied yesterday on the jobless data after
three days of losses. The gauge advanced 0.4 percent over the
five-day period, extending its longest weekly winning streak
since February. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  gained 0.3
percent today after closing yesterday above 16,000 for the first
time. It has rallied seven straight weeks, the best streak since
January 2011.  Minutes of the Fed’s October meeting released Nov. 20
showed officials may reduce their $85 billion a month of bond-buying if the economy improves as anticipated. Stimulus from the
Fed has helped the S&P 500 soar 167 percent since its March 2009
low. The index rallied 27 percent this year, headed for its best
 annual performance  in 15 years.  David Tepper, the hedge-fund manager who runs Appaloosa
Management LP, said stock markets are not inflated, as economies
in the U.S., Europe and  China  are on “firm ground.” He said
that while he remains bullish on U.S. stocks, markets may fall 5
percent to 10 percent when the Fed curbs its monthly stimulus
program. He said his firm recently bet against U.S. Treasuries
as a hedge.  Bubble Talk  “I know there’s talk about bubbles, this is not one,”
Tepper said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Stephanie Ruhle  at the Robin Hood Investors Conference in New
York yesterday. United Continental Holdings Inc. climbed 3.7
percent after Tepper said that his “big play in the market” is
airlines.  Time Warner Cable Inc. surged 10 percent to a record after
people with knowledge of the matter said Comcast Corp. and
Charter Communications Inc. have discussed a joint bid for the
company. Foot Locker Inc. rallied 4.1 percent after it posted
higher-than-estimated quarterly earnings. Intel Corp. lost 5.4
percent to $23.87 after the world’s largest maker of
semiconductors said revenue will be approximately unchanged in
2014.  In Europe, Whitbread Plc and Daily Mail & General Trust Plc
gained more than 3 percent after banks raised their stock
ratings. Rhoen-Klinikum AG fell 3.3 percent after saying its
second-biggest shareholder sued to block the sale of 43 clinics
to Fresenius SE’s Helios unit. TUI Travel Plc and Eurazeo SA
lost more than 4.6 percent after investors sold shares.  German Confidence  The 17-nation euro rose against 11 of its 16 major
counterparts and added 0.7 percent to 137.29 yen, reaching its
strongest level against the Japanese currency since October
2009. The yen fell 0.2 percent against the dollar to 101.34.  German business confidence rose in November. The Ifo
institute’s business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, increased to 109.3 from 107.4 in October. Economists
forecast a gain to 107.7, according to the median of 43
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Data released today confirmed a preliminary estimate that
showed German economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the third
quarter from 0.7 percent in the previous three months. The
expansion was driven by domestic demand that offset weaker
exports, the report showed.  Treasury Tool  Treasuries rose as 10-year note yields at the highest level
in two months yesterday attracted buyers. Fed policy makers
discussed creating a program to buy short-term Treasury
securities to keep yields in line with their policy intentions,
according to minutes of their October meeting.  Such a tool could help reinforce the Fed’s commitment to
keep the benchmark overnight lending rate near zero even after
it starts to reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  The yield on benchmark 10-year German government bonds
climbed 1 basis point to 1.75 percent, after rising to 1.78
percent yesterday, the highest since Nov. 13.  The Australian dollar slipped 0.7 percent to 91.68 U.S.
cents, for a 2.1 percent loss since Nov. 15, the biggest drop
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said
yesterday he’s open-minded about intervention to weaken its
currency.  “Every indication is for low interest rates in the
developed world for a very long time,” said Daniel Weston, a
portfolio manager at Aimed Capital GmbH in Munich. “Investors
believe equities are the place to be.”  Oil Slide  Crude oil fell 0.7 percent to $94.77 a barrel in New York
after jumping 1.7 percent yesterday.  Brent crude’s premium over West Texas Intermediate reached
reached an eight-month high as rising U.S. inventories weighed
on prices and nuclear negotiators with  Iran  made little
progress.  WTI declined as rising domestic production added to crude
inventories at record highs for this time of year. Brent touched
a five-month high as envoys stumbled in their efforts to ease
the standoff over the atomic ambitions of Iran.  “It’s hard to ignore all the tailwinds to this market,”
Chris Bouffard, chief investment officer of the Mutual Fund
Store in Overland Park,  Kansas , which oversees $8.5 billion,
said in a phone interview. “We’ve got low oil, that’s
definitely helping consumers, especially going into the key
holiday spending period. Buybacks and dividends are doing very
well. Housing continues to do pretty well and there’s basically
no inflation to speak of.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith in London at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  