-- Maybank Posts Record Profit as Islamic Banking Income, Fees Grow
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-11-21T07:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/maybank-posts-record-profit-as-islamic-banking-income-fees-grow.html
Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s
biggest lender, said third-quarter profit rose 16 percent,
joining Public Bank Bhd. in posting record earnings as economic
growth spurred credit demand.  Net income  climbed to 1.75 billion ringgit ($545 million),
or 20.05 sen per share, in the three months ended Sept. 30 from
1.5 billion ringgit, or 19.14 sen per share, a year earlier, the
lender said in a stock exchange filing today. Fee income and
Islamic banking boosted profit.  Maybank has been Malaysia’s top arranger of syndicated
loans and number one underwriter for equity and rights offerings
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
helped manage some of the country’s biggest initial public
offerings of the year, including share sales by UMW Oil & Gas
Corp. and Westports Holdings Bhd.  “There continue to remain windows of opportunity in the
different markets we serve,” Chief Executive Officer Abdul Farid Alias said in a separate e-mailed statement today.
“Maybank’s three home markets consisting of  Malaysia , Singapore
and  Indonesia , which contribute more than 90 percent of the
group’s income and profit, are expected to record positive
revenue growth.”  The lender benefitted from 5 percent growth in  Southeast
Asia ’s third-largest economy last quarter, which spurred demand
for credit.  Non-interest income rose 19 percent to 1.54 billion ringgit
in the third quarter last year, Maybank said. Income from
Islamic banking increased 29 percent to 734.9 million ringgit.  Interest Income  Shares of Maybank advanced 0.8 percent to 9.64 ringgit as
of 3:26 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur after earnings were announced
during the midday break. The stock has climbed 4.8 percent this
year, trailing a 6.2 percent gain in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, gained 1.1 percent to
2.38 billion ringgit in the third quarter, Maybank said.
Allowances for losses on loans more than tripled to 280.3
million ringgit, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  