-- Mazda 3 at $30,000 Rides Like Cars Twice Its Price
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/mazda-3-at-30-000-rides-like-cars-twice-its-price.html
Who said modesty and fun can’t go
hand in hand?  Mazda’s (7261)  latest 3 sedan and hatchback start at a
humble price of around $17,700, and top out at less than $30,000
with all the options. (Those $100 all-weather floor mats? Bring
‘em on.)  Jamming over narrow, bumpy Michigan roads, the Mazda 3
doesn’t seem scrappy or harsh, like many compact cars. Rather,
it hums along smoothly over ragged ridges of bad pavement,
showing off a supple suspension that’s so good as to be
unlikely. Mazda has sprinkled engineering magic dust into that
charming chassis: it rides as well as cars twice its price.  The 2014 model year is the third generation of the 3, and
it’s an especially important car for Mazda, which is a niche
player compared to  Japan ’s behemoth brands,  Toyota (7203)  and Honda.
The 3 is Mazda’s best-selling model in the U.S. So the all-new
car, which went on sale in September, must have a broad appeal.
To achieve that, Mazda offers the compact both as a four-door
sedan and a five-door hatchback, with a variety of trim levels
and two engine choices.  The base sedan has a 2.0-liter four-cylinder, with 155
horsepower, standard with a six-speed manual transmission. That
gets 29 miles per gallon around town, and a full 41 on the
freeway.  The more expensive models are available with a 2.5-liter
four-cylinder with 184 horses and 185 pound-feet of torque. The
downside is that, currently, it only comes with a six-speed
automatic. The extra power sacrifices some efficiency, for 28
and 37 mpg in the hatchback.  Potent Engine  It really is a shame about the transmissions, because the
more potent engine would be sweeter if it were also offered with
the manual for maximum driving fun. After all, Mazda has one of
the better stick and clutch combos in the business.  Though the company says buyers can expect one eventually,
that’s of little help to them today. And the automatic could use
a seventh gear, making the shifts smoother and a little less
noisy, one of the drawbacks to the otherwise quite refined car.
It’s one of the loudest I’ve driven in some time, a combination
of racket from the tires, wind and engine.  The good side of the 2.5 liter is it rarely feels
underpowered, especially on secondary roads, where it happily
wrings its little heart out.  There’s plenty of midrange punch, which is to say it’s easy
to surge from 35 to 55 mph. Steering on the car is good, and the
Mazda negotiates through both curves and tight spaces with
precision. While it isn’t pint sized like a Fiat 500 or Smart,
it fits easily into narrow parking spots.  Flashy Black  My test car was a Grand Touring hatchback with a base price
of $26,495 and $29,185 as tested. It was painted a flashy black
that nicely complimented the gray rims on the 18-inch wheels.  The hatchback has the more captivating of body styles. It’s
quirky, with a long, bulbous hood and a cabin placed further aft
than one typically finds in a front-wheel-drive car. The sides
are shapely, with an interesting interplay of contours. Compared
to the last generation, the new look wins hands down.  (The compact segment used to be a barren desert design-wise, but has taken a serious turn for the better with
competitors like the  Ford Focus  and Hyundai Elantra.)  The hatchback has plenty of room. It’s easy to pop luggage
or groceries into the hatch, and I spent two hours in the rear
seat with minimal complaint. My knees weren’t jammed against the
seat backs, nor was my head jack-hammered into the roof liner.  Clean Design  Few buyers will ever buy a Mazda because of the fine
qualities of its materials. The new interior design is clean and
efficient, with a minimum of button clutter. However, you won’t
spend much time running your hand over the leather-trimmed seats
or plastic.  Plenty of electronic safety equipment is on offer,
including blind-spot monitoring with rear cross-traffic alerts
which come standard on the upmarket trim levels. There’s also an
available lane departure warning and forward collision warning
system if you’re into that kind of thing.  The car looks good, even adequately expensive, and doesn’t
stint on the technology. But it’s really the overall drivability
and ease of use that makes the new 3 as the new potential king
of the compact cars. Pop it into sport mode and you may find
yourself looking for the long way around to do errands.  The 2014 Mazda 3 S Grand Touring hatchback at a Glance  Engine: 2.5-liter four-cylinder with 184 horsepower and 185
pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about seven seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 28 city, 37 highway.  Price as tested: $29,185.  Best features: Good design, peppy engine.  Worst feature: Loud.  Target buyer: The shopper who wants a compact with some
pizazz.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 