-- MLB’s Detroit Tigers Trade Fielder to Texas Rangers for Kinsler
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-11-21T05:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/mlb-s-detroit-tigers-trade-fielder-to-texas-rangers-for-kinsler.html
The Detroit Tigers traded first
baseman Prince Fielder and cash to the Texas Rangers for second
baseman  Ian Kinsler  in an exchange of All-Star players.  “We have been trying to create some financial
flexibility,” Detroit General Manager Dave Dombrowski said in a
conference call with reporters late last night. “We’re in a
situation where we have a lot of stars. They’re well-paid stars,
and you can only have so many of those.”  The Tigers, who have reached the American League
Championship Series the past two years, were fifth highest in
 Major League Baseball  in 2013 with an opening-day payroll of
$148.4 million, according to USA Today. Dombrowski did not say
how much money was sent to Texas along with Fielder. Detroit
will contribute $30 million of the $168 million due to Fielder
over the next seven seasons, MLB.com reported.  Fielder, 29, a five-time All-Star who signed a nine-year
contract as a free agent with the Tigers before the 2012 season,
has hit 25 or more home runs in each of the last eight years.  Fielder has struggled in the postseason, though,
hitting .196 with one home run and three runs batted in over 92
at-bats as the Tigers lost to the  San Francisco  Giants in the
2012  World Series  and to the  Boston Red Sox  in the ALCS this
season.  Kinsler, 31, a three-time All-Star who has spent his entire
career with the Rangers, hit .277 with 13 homers and 72 RBIs
this season.  The trade would allow the Tigers to move oft-injured third
baseman  Miguel Cabrera , who is the two-time reigning American
League Most Valuable Player, to first base.  “It gives us some flexibility at the first base spot,”
Dombrowski said. “I’m not really sure what we’re going to do
here today with Miguel. Eventually we see him as a first baseman,
I’m not sure about this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  