-- Bafin Issues Rate-Submission Standards in Wake of Libor Probes
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-21T12:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/bafin-issues-rate-submission-standards-in-wake-of-libor-probes.html
Germany ’s financial watchdog told
banks to bolster internal oversight of benchmark-setting
processes to guard against manipulation in the wake of the
Libor-rigging scandal.  Bafin last month wrote to German lenders on benchmark
panels, including Libor and Euribor submissions, Bafin spokesman
 Ben Fischer  said in an interview today. The  document  specifies
minimum risk-control standards banks must adhere to and includes
regular reviews from bank units not involved in rate setting, he
said.  The rules “are the result of our reviews and probes of
about a dozen banks and their rate submitting processes,”
Fischer said. “While we have already asked banks individually
what to change, we wanted to formulate a general standard
applicable uniformly to all.”  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank AG, colluded to rig
benchmark  interest rates . Barclays Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are among companies that have been fined
about $3.7 billion for rigging the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities worldwide.  The Bafin requirements stipulate transparent documentation
and the clear allocation of responsibilities within banks.
Senior management must get involved as soon as implausible
findings are flagged that can’t be sorted by the units handling
the rates, according to the rules.  Independent Units  At least once a month an independent unit not handling rate
submitting must review the process. It must also be possible to
examine submissions at a later stage to allow sample tests in
hindsight, according to the rules.  Bafin found that lenders had classified rate submission
processes as “low risk,” prompting banks to either have no
controls at all or to weak ones, the regulator said on its
website.  The new standards were posted on the regulator’s website to
make sure all banks are aware of the requirements, Fischer said.
Those banks who have participated in a benchmark were also
informed by the letter, he said.  Starting in 2012, Bafin has reviewed processes at about a
dozen banks, according to Fischer. The regulator ordered special
probes at some where it deemed such a step necessary, he said.
He didn’t identify any of the banks.  A Frankfurt labor court in September said Deutsche Bank’s
internal rate submitting processes caused a “permanent conflict
of interest.”  The lender “is complaining about a behavior the bank
itself only made possible,” according to the court that ruled
four Libor traders were wrongfully fired by the bank. Deutsche
Bank filed an appeal against the ruling last week.  Bafin in August finalized its first report as part of its
special probe into Deutsche Bank, a person familiar with the
issue said at the time. That probe is continuing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  