-- Baht Falls to Two-Month Low on Taper Bets, Thai Political Risk
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-21T02:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/baht-falls-to-two-month-low-on-taper-bets-thai-political-risk.html
Thailand ’s baht fell to a two-month
low and government bonds declined after minutes of the  Federal
Reserve ’s October meeting showed stimulus could be cut in the
“coming months.”  The baht touched dropped the most in almost two weeks amid
concern political unrest in Thailand will subdue economic
growth. The  Constitutional Court  ruled against the government’s
attempt to establish a fully elected Senate yesterday,saying the
change would undermine its role as a check-and-balance on the
lower house. Supporters and opponents of the government called
for separate rallies on Nov. 24, according to National News
Bureau of Thailand’s  website .  “The market’s interpretation is that the timing of the
tapering is brought forward, which is negative for emerging-market currencies,” said Pareena Phuangsiri, a Bangkok-based
analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl. “For domestic issues, there seem
to be big protests this weekend and investors are still worried
about the political risk in Thailand, weighing on the baht.”  The baht depreciated 0.5 percent, the most since Nov. 8, to
31.787 per dollar as of 9:01 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 31.810, the weakest level
since Sept. 17, One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
three basis points to 5.84 percent.  Taper Talk  The Fed expects economic data to signal continued
improvement in the job market and “thus warrant trimming the
pace of purchases in coming months,” according to the minutes
released yesterday. Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James
Bullard  also stoked tapering speculation, saying a reduction in
bond buying is possible in December.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy grew 2.7 percent
last quarter, the slowest pace since the first three months of
2012, official data showed Nov. 18. The government cut its 2013
expansion forecast the same day to 3 percent from a range of 3.8
percent to 4.3 percent projected in August.  The yield on the 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due June
2023 increased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to a
two-month high of 4.17 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  