-- Bain Capital Said to Halt Talks With TI Automotive on Price Gap
-- B y   J o d i   X u   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-11-21T01:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/bain-capital-said-to-halt-talks-with-ti-automotive-on-price-gap.html
Bain Capital Partners LLC decided
not to pursue an acquisition of TI Automotive because it
couldn’t agree with the auto-parts maker on price, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The buyout firm was in advanced talks to buy  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based TI as recently as last week, said one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks were
private. Bain submitted a bid close to $2 billion that TI’s
owners considered too low, the person said.  Bain was the front-runner as of last week after some
potential buyers walked away, two of the people said. TI,
founded almost a century ago, is seeking a price in the mid-$2
billion range, one of the people said. If talks with Bain remain
stalled, TI’s advisers will try to interest other potential
buyers, said one of the people familiar with the process.  The company hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG
to start a sale process in August, people familiar with the
situation said then.  Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman for  Bain Capital , declined to
comment, and Frank Buscemi, a spokesman for TI, didn’t return a
call seeking comment on the sale process. Representatives for
JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Bain’s decision marks its second failed attempt to acquire
the auto-parts maker, which once supplied fuel lines to Ford
Motor Co.’s Model T and traces its roots to 1919. In late 2011,
Boston-based Bain was one of the firms that bid for TI before
that deal was pulled because of worsening financial conditions.  Car Components  TI generated about $3 billion in revenue last year, with
more than one-fourth coming from  North America , a spokesman for
the company said previously. It has about $400 million in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to one of the people familiar with the situation.  At that amount, Bain’s offer represented a multiple of
about 5 times TI’s Ebitda. That compares with a multiple of 4.9
in American Industrial Partners’ $375 million acquisition of
rubber-tire maker Carlisle Transportation Products Inc.,
announced last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TI, which makes components for cars and trucks, was
acquired by a group of funds led by  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) 
and Duquesne Capital Management LLC in a 2007 debt
restructuring. The company is chartered in Britain and
headquartered in  Michigan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  