-- Banco do Brasil Sees Less Loan Demand From Individuals
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-21T16:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/banco-do-brasil-s-cfo-sees-lower-credit-demand-from-individuals.html
(Corrects date in second paragraph.)  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s
largest lender by assets, expects the slowdown in credit to
individuals to continue as demand from the nation’s middle class
wanes, Chief Financial Officer Ivan Monteiro said.  Members of  Brazil ’s middle class “come to the market and
acquire their first mobile, their first plasma TV,” Monteiro
said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in
New York. “But they don’t change this type of thing every
single year. That’s why you see a slowdown in consumption.”  Economists are lowering 2014 growth estimates for Latin
America’s largest economy, even after the government cut taxes
by more than 13 billion reais ($5.7 billion) this year and
offered 18.7 billion reais in subsidized credit for consumer
goods. Analysts surveyed by the central bank have cut their 2014
growth forecast by more than a percentage point since President
Dilma Rousseff five months ago announced below-market interest
rates for purchases of everything from televisions to furniture
by low-income Brazilians.  Banco do Brasil’s credit to individuals grew 14 percent in
the 12 months ended in September compared with the same period a
year earlier, the Brasilia-based lender said on Nov. 12, down
from a 16 percent expansion in the second quarter. Overall
lending expanded 22.5 percent, compared with a 25.7 percent
advance in the previous quarter.  ‘Adjustment Phase’  “Banco do Brasil will go through an adjustment phase,”
Andre Riva Gargiulo, an analyst at brokerage GBM Grupo Bursatil
Mexicano SA, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Now
you’ll have slower credit growth and increasing delinquency
rates, and the lowest spreads in the industry. The question is,
how does that add up.”  Banco do Brasil’s loan growth in mortgages and agriculture
should remain strong enough to offset the slowdown in credit to
individuals, Monteiro said.  “The banks will continue to pull in their credit offers,
especially as we see some further slowing in emerging
economies,” Paul Christopher, the St. Louis-based chief
international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversees about $1.3 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  