-- BAT Gets Court Receiver on $778 Million Suit Against Sequana
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-21T21:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/bat-gets-court-receiver-for-778-million-lawsuit-against-sequana.html
A London judge agreed to appoint a
receiver to sue French paper maker  Sequana SA (SEQ)  on behalf of a
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  unit in a dispute linked to the
cost of cleaning up two U.S. rivers polluted by chemicals.  BAT Industries is trying to force Windward Prospects Ltd.
to sue Sequana, its former parent, over $778 million in five-year-old dividend payments, Judge Nicholas Hamblen said. BAT is
seeking to protect Windward’s assets because it claims the
company agreed to cover its share of the $1 billion clean-up of
the Fox River in  Wisconsin  and the Kalamazoo River in  Michigan .  “I have concluded that justice and convenience does
require the appointment of a receiver,” Hamblen said. The claim
against Sequana risks being lost if action isn’t taken before
December, he said in a written judgment.  The U.S. has sued nine companies, including  NCR Corp. (NCR) , over
leaks of carcinogens in the production of paper from the
mid-1950s until 1971. BAT is liable because it owned NCR paper
divisions in the 1990s through a series of mergers and de-mergers that resulted in the creation of Windward, according to
Hamblen’s ruling.  Windward denies it is liable for the environmental work at
the rivers, which could cost about $1 billion, Hamblen said.  Minimal Effect  Windward’s lawyer, Duncan Aldred, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “Sequana sold its investment in Windward Prospects Ltd. on
May 18, 2009, and believes that dividends distributed by
Windward Prospects Ltd. to Sequana prior to the sale were paid
in compliance with all relevant legal requirements,” said
Claire Doligez, a spokeswoman for Sequana.  BAT said in an e-mailed statement it was pleased steps had
been taken to protect the claims against Sequana.  Windward could avoid the appointment of a receiver if it
filed the lawsuit itself, Hamblen said. The judge said the
effect of a receiver on Windward would be minimal, while the
loss to BAT if no claim against Sequana was issued would be
“very great.”  BAT said Windward shouldn’t have paid dividends totaling
about 578 million euros ($778 million) to Sequana in 1998 and
1999 because it didn’t have sufficient assets to pay its share
of the river cleanup, Hamblen said.  The case is BAT Industries Plc v. Windward Prospects Ltd &
Anr, High Court of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial
Court, 12-213.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  