-- Baucus Would Cut Corporate Rate With Slower Write-Offs
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-21T18:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/baucus-would-cut-corporate-rate-with-slower-write-offs.html
Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus 
proposed requiring companies to take deductions for many capital
asset purchases over a longer period, showing for the first time
the tradeoffs in his plan to lower the corporate  tax rate .  Baucus’s  proposal  would replace the system known as
accelerated depreciation with simpler rules. Some business
spending that can now be immediately deducted -- research,
advertising and oil and gas extraction costs -- would be spread
over several years for tax purposes.  “America today is using a bloated tax code that was built
for businesses close to 30 years ago,” Baucus said today in a
statement. “The code is completely outdated and acting as a
brake on economic growth.”  The proposals are part of the third  discussion draft  Baucus
released this week as part of his attempt to build momentum for
the biggest  tax code  changes since 1986. That work has been
stymied in part by a partisan divide over whether the government
should collect more money.  The changes proposed today would generate about as much
money during the next decade as repealing accelerated
depreciation, according to Finance Committee staff. A  2011
estimate  from the Joint Committee on Taxation said that such a
change would generate $724 billion over a decade.  Rate Cut  That’s enough to finance a corporate rate cut of several
percentage points, though final estimates aren’t available.
Baucus has said he wants to see the U.S. corporate tax rate, now
at 35 percent, reduced to less than 30 percent.  For public companies, the depreciation change combined with
a corporate rate cut would cause an immediate one-time boost to
earnings. That’s because, for financial statement purposes,
changes in timing of  tax deductions  don’t affect earnings.  The corporate rate cut would reduce the value of deferred
tax assets, lowering earnings. It would have the opposite effect
on deferred tax losses, so the financial statement effect for
any company would depend on its individual circumstances and
other provisions in any tax law.  Under current depreciation rules, the cost of each asset is
deducted over a set period. The changed system, modeled in part
on rules in  Canada , would group assets into four pools designed
to better reflect the assets’ economic life.  Real Property  Within each pool, companies could deduct a set percentage
of the value each year -- 38 percent, 18 percent, 12 percent and
5 percent. Real property would be depreciable over 43 years.  The proposal would repeal last-in, first-out accounting,
adopting an administration proposal opposed by wholesalers and
oil and gas companies.  Costs related to extracting natural resources and
conducting business research would be deducted over five years.
Advertising expenses could be deducted 50 percent in the first
year and the rest over five years, a change that advertisers and
broadcasters have been anticipating and fighting.  “For 100 years, advertising has been treated as an
ordinary and necessary expense of doing business, no different
than the costs of employee salaries, rent and utilities,” the
 National Alliance  of State Broadcasters Associations wrote to
Baucus Nov. 19.  “Any modifications to the tax treatment of advertising
will have a significant impact on local television and radio
stations, our audiences, and those community businesses that
rely on broadcast advertising to sell their goods and
services,” according to the state broadcasters’ group.  For small businesses, Baucus’s proposal would make it
easier to use cash accounting and expense $1 million in capital
purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  