-- Belarus Extradites Uralkali CEO Baumgertner to Russia
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-11-21T18:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/belarus-agrees-to-extradite-uralkali-ceo-baumgertner-to-russia.html
Belarus agreed to extradite OAO
 Uralkali (URKA)  chief Vladislav Baumgertner to  Russia , days after a
plan to change ownership of the potash producer that may end a
dispute over joint global sales of the key crop nutrient.  Belarus prosecutors have handed over the biggest potash
supplier’s chief executive officer, who was being held under
house arrest in an apartment in the capital Minsk, to Russian
authorities, the state-owned Belta news service reported, citing
the national television channel Belarus 1. The decision to
extradite Baumgertner was made yesterday, the Russian Prosecutor
General’s Office said today in a statement.  Baumgertner, 41, was arrested on Aug. 26 and spent a month
in a Belarusian KGB jail after he withdrew his company from a
joint venture with potash supplier Belaruskali. The extradition
agreement comes days after a buyer was found for the stake of
Uralkali’s biggest owner, billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov . Belarus
had called for a change in ownership before any prospect of a
resumption of joint potash marketing.  The likelihood that Baumgertner “will resign soon is
high,” Kirill Chuyko, an analyst at BCS Financial Group, said
by phone. “A lot depends on Belarus President  Aleksandr
Lukashenko ’s attitude to Baumgertner, and given that it may not
be warm, it would be easier for Uralkali to negotiate the terms
of the new trading venture with Belarus with another CEO.”  Uralkali rose as much as 1.1 percent in Moscow trading
after the Russian prosecutors’ statement and closed up less than
0.2 percent at 169.06 rubles.  Extradition Terms  Russia opened a case against Baumgertner last month after
Lukashenko demanded the country press criminal charges as a
condition to extradite the Uralkali CEO, who’s also the chairman
of the joint trading company. A Moscow court placed Baumgertner
under arrest in absentia, Interfax said on Oct. 21, citing court
spokeswoman Nataliya Romanova.  Uralkali accused its Belarusian partner of selling cargoes
outside their marketing agreement, which accounted for 40
percent of global exports of the crop nutrient, and said this
was the reason for it quitting the venture at the end of July.
Berezniki-based Uralkali said at the time that it would boost
output, favoring volume over price. The decisions sent the
market into a tailspin, dragging down producers’ shares and
depressing prices.  Petr Kiselev, a spokesman for the Belarusian Prosecutor
General’s Office, confirmed the extradition agreement, without
elaborating on the timing. Alexey Basistov, Baumgertner’s lawyer
in Moscow, didn’t immediately answer phone calls seeking
comment. Uralkali’s press service declined to comment.  ‘Outstanding Man’  Baumgertner is “very ethical,” Uralkali Deputy Chairman
Robert Margetts said in  London  yesterday before the prosecutor’s
statement. “We find it very difficult to believe he was doing
anything other than following through the directions of the
board. Two-and-a-half years I’ve known him. He’s an outstanding
man.”  Baumgertner was arrested after traveling to Minsk at the
invitation of Belarus Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich to
discuss the dispute. His arrest prompted talks between Kerimov,
who shares a 33 percent stake in Uralkali with two partners, and
potential investors over their holdings.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Group this week
agreed to buy Kerimov’s 21.75 percent.  Belarusian-born billionaire Dmitry Mazepin may later buy
the stake of about 11 percent that Kerimov’s partners hold,
three people with knowledge of the plans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  