-- BofA Argues It Shouldn’t Pay Penalty in Countrywide Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-21T05:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/bofa-argues-it-shouldn-t-pay-penalty-in-countrywide-case.html
Bank of America Corp . told a judge
it shouldn’t pay any penalty in a U.S. lawsuit accusing it of
selling defective loans to  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   The government argued earlier that, given the egregiousness
of the fraud, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank should
pay the maximum penalty of $863 million. The bank, in its filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan, said it should pay $1.1
million at the most.  Bank of America’s Countrywide unit was found liable by a
federal jury last month for selling the government-sponsored
entities thousands of defective loans in the first mortgage-fraud case brought by the U.S. to go to trial.  Bank of America argues the U.S. can’t prove that the scheme
to misrepresent the quality of its High Speed Swim Lane or
“HSSL” loans and not other factors were a proximate cause to
any pecuniary loss to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “The government cannot show that any loss suffered by
Fannie and Freddie in connection with the HSSL loans proximately
resulted from a misrepresentation by Countrywide about the
loans, as opposed to other factors such as the worldwide
mortgage crisis, which had an enormous effect on  mortgage loans 
purchased by Fannie and Freddie during the relevant period,”
the bank said in the filing.  The case, brought under the Financial Institution Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 or FIRREA, has been used by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office at least six
times. The office has used the statute and another law to obtain
almost $500 million in mortgage fraud recoveries. Bank of
America said that the government’s calculated number of faulty
loans of more than 28,882 is also incorrect and told U.S.
District Court Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the case,
that the U.S. isn’t entitled to a penalty hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 12-cv-01422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  