-- Boies-Olson Legal Pair Proud Allies on Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-21T19:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/boies-olson-legal-pair-proud-allies-on-same-sex-marriage.html
Attorneys  David Boies  and  Theodore Olson , adversaries in the 2000 U.S. Supreme Court battle over
the presidential election vote count and allies in the fight to
legalize gay marriage in California, agreed again about same-sex
unions.  It’s important that “the American people accept that
decision and say, ‘Yes, that’s the right decision,’” Olsen said
in a panel discussion with Boies today in  Chicago .  The lawyers were discussing key cases before the U.S.
Supreme Court as part of The Year Ahead: 2014, a two-day
conference at the Art Institute of Chicago sponsored by
Bloomberg LP. Asking the lawyers about their teaming up to back
same-sex marriage in California was Canadian Supreme Court
Justice Rosalie Abella.  The men allied in 2009 in filing a federal lawsuit to
overturn Proposition 8,  California ’s voter-passed referendum
outlawing same-sex marriage. The U.S. Supreme Court in June
declined to disturb a federal appeals court decision to affirm a
trial judge’s finding the measure was unconstitutional.  Olson said they were called “strange bedfellows” and
“the odd couple” as they sought to explain same-sex marriage
to Americans so that, when the decision they sought came, people
would say, “Yes, this is happiness.”  Boies said the bar to same-sex marriage “was causing
enormous pain and damage to our fellow citizens” without
justification.  While the country has far go in achieving equality in
racial, sexual and other types of equality, when marriage
barriers fell, many Americans were happy for the people directly
affected “but also happy for the country,” he said.  Gore, Bush  In 2000, Abella told the men, “half the country loved each
of you.” That was the year they were on opposite sides in Gore
v. Bush, the Supreme Court case that sent  George W. Bush  to the
White House.  Olson, 73, a Washington-based partner with Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP, bested Boies in that battle and later served the
 Bush administration  as U.S. solicitor general, the federal
government’s top litigator and Supreme Court advocate.  He is a law graduate of the University of California at
Berkeley, once officially known as Boalt Hall.  Boies, 72, is chairman of Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, an
Armonk, New York-based law firm.  The Yale Law School graduate represented ex-U.S. Vice
President  Al Gore  in the 2000 dispute with Bush, Olson’s client,
over a recount of ballots in  Florida .  Current Issues  Among issues now before the high court are campaign
contribution limits, affirmative action, prayer in legislative
bodies and presidential recess-appointment power.  Two years ago, Boies represented the  National Football
League  in labor litigation with suing players  Tom Brady , Drew
Brees and Payton Manning. Arguing for the players before a St.
Louis-based federal appeals court was Olson.  While the NFL prevailed in its fight to maintain a lockout,
Boies watched from the sidelines as the league’s winning
argument was made by Paul D. Clement, who succeeded Olson as
solicitor general in 2005 before turning to private practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 