-- BOJ Seen Postponing 2% Inflation Goal as Policy Kept Steady
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-11-21T08:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/boj-seen-postponing-2-inflation-goal-as-policy-kept-steady-2-.html
The  Bank of Japan  will need to
postpone the time-frame for achieving a 2 percent inflation
target as it refrains from enlarging its asset-purchase program,
economists forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Twenty-two of 37 analysts see Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s
board altering the objective adopted in April. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. says the change may come in April or July next year, with
the time-frame extended to the fiscal year starting April 2016.
The BOJ today stuck with a pledge to expand the monetary base by
60-70 trillion yen ($700 billion) a year.  An economic slowdown last quarter and the likely blow to
consumption from a sales-tax increase in April next year
highlight the risk that Abenomics will lose steam and fail to
stamp out deflation. The central bank estimated last month that
a key inflation gauge will rise 1.9 percent in the fiscal year
starting April 2015, an assessment that economists dispute.  “The BOJ will at first extend the time-frame for its
goal,” said  Kyohei Morita , chief  Japan  economist at Barclays
Plc. “Revising or abandoning the 2 percent part of the target
is a non-starter as it would provoke a market backlash.”  The central bank said in April it will achieve the target
“at the earliest possible time, with a time horizon of about
two years.”  Policy Action  It’s too soon to discuss any policy changes as Japan’s
economic recovery remains on track, Kuroda said at a press
conference following the BOJ’s decision. The central bank has
room to act against upside and downside risks, he said.  “It’s too early to discuss specifics about our response as
Japan’s economy is moving in line with our expectations, and
upside and downside risks are not about to appear,” Kuroda
said, adding that the central bank won’t hesitate to make policy
adjustments if needed.  Kuroda declined to comment when asked why private-sector
economists and the BOJ differed in their views on reaching the 2
percent target in two years.  The BOJ said overseas economies as a whole are “picking up
moderately,” revising its wording from Oct. 4, when it said
they were “gradually heading toward a pick-up.”  The decision today was in line with all forecasts in the
Bloomberg survey.  The Topix index rose 1 percent in  Tokyo  today after falling
the past two days, as the yen extended declines and investors
weighed recommendations that the country’s $1.21 trillion
pension fund invest more in risk assets. The Japanese currency
traded at 100.81 per dollar at 4:55 p.m., down 0.8 percent.  Breakeven Rate  At the policy meeting, board member Takahide Kiuchi
repeated his proposal for the BOJ to switch to a target of 2
percent inflation in the “medium to long term,” and to
describe its easing as “an intensive measure” intended to last
about two years.  Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan in Tokyo and a
former central bank official, earlier said the BOJ may alter its
time-frame when it revises down its price forecast for fiscal
2015. Yuichi Kodama, chief economist at Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance Co. in Tokyo, said the change may be made in October
next year.  Of the economists polled, 35 said the BOJ won’t achieve its
goal.  Inflation expectations have fallen from a May high. The so-called  breakeven rate  that represents the inflation level that
investors expect over five years was at 1.53 percentage points
today, compared with a 1.89 point reading on May 23.  Fed Minutes  Parting company with the target would mark an end to
Kuroda’s effort in April to simplify the BOJ’s communication by
expressing his goals as a series of twos -- pledging to double
the monetary base in two years to achieve 2 percent inflation.  Nineteen economists in the Bloomberg survey said the BOJ
will add stimulus in the second quarter of next year after the
sales-tax bump, with seven saying it will ease in the July-September period.  The BOJ’s American counterpart is by contrast debating
whether to scale back stimulus. Minutes of the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s meeting three weeks ago released yesterday
showed that a reduction in the U.S. central bank’s $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases is possible “in coming months” as
the economy improves.  In  Europe , where policy makers are confronted with a Japan-like threat of deflation, officials are considering a new tool -
- a negative  interest rate  for commercial lenders who park
excess cash at the  European Central Bank . The ECB is discussing
a cut of less than the typical quarter percentage point
magnitude, two people with knowledge of the debate say.  The Japanese central bank pays an interest rate of 0.1
percent on similar deposits of excess cash.  Joint Statement  The BOJ said in its outlook report last month that consumer
prices “will likely reach around 2 percent toward the latter
half of the projection period,” which will run to the end of
March 2016, having started in April.  A joint statement in January by the bank and government
committing to a 2 percent inflation target may be an obstacle to
any alteration, according to some analysts including Naomi Muguruma.  “The BOJ can’t modify or abandon its target just because
it’s harder to reach than expected as it made a pledge to the
public,” said Muguruma, senior market economist at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Unless the yen depreciates
further or bond yields rise for bad reasons, the BOJ will have
to continue accommodative measures to achieve 2 percent
inflation.”  Public Pledge  The central bank adopted the 2 percent inflation goal in
January at the prompting of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who urged
unlimited easing in an election campaign that saw him reinstated
as prime minister in December. In April, the BOJ added the 2-year time-frame and committed to buying more than 7 trillion of
 government bonds  a month.  In April, Abe noted that the inflation objective shouldn’t
be pursued at “all costs” and could be beyond the nation’s
reach if global conditions changed. “What is important is to
aim steadily for the target,” he said.  A report on gross domestic product released Nov. 14 pointed
to headwinds for Abenomics as companies’ capital spending grew
at a slower pace and a trade deficit widened. Gross domestic
product rose at an annualized 1.9 percent, down from 3.8 percent
the previous quarter, with the gain relying on  government
spending  and an accumulation of inventories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  