-- Australia’s NAB Eyes Dollar Bond as Banks Sell Most in 45 Weeks
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-11-21T04:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/bond-risk-falls-in-japan-australia-credit-default-swaps-show.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  is
planning a sale of dollar-denominated debt as the nation’s
lenders boost offerings in the U.S currency to the most in 45
weeks. Corporate bond risk in Australia and Japan fell.  Melbourne-based NAB, the country’s fourth-largest bank, is
considering offering senior-unsecured notes and covered bonds in
the near future, a person familiar with the matter said, asking
not to be identified because the terms aren’t set. Korea East-West Power Co. and China Mengniu Dairy Co. plan to sell five-year dollar securities, separate people said.  A gauge of investment-grade bond risk in Australia is set
to slide today after rising from a six-month low earlier this
week, according to credit-default swap traders. Westpac Banking
Corp. issued $3.25 billion earlier this week, the most by the
nation’s financials since the period ended Jan. 11, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It would seem that they view the market as appropriately
receptive,” said John Sorrell, the Sydney-based head of credit
at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd. “If they can fund
comfortably, they will within reason take opportunities to use
markets in advance of needs.”  The Markit iTraxx  Australia  index retreated 0.75 basis
point to 104 basis points as of 11:43 a.m. in Sydney, according
to Citigroup Inc. The measure is declining for the first time in
three days after falling to 101.3 basis points on Nov. 18, the
lowest since May. 21, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  Bond Pipeline  Korea East-West Power, part of South Korea’s largest
electricity generator, is marketing five-year notes at about 155
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, a person
with knowledge of the matter said. Mengniu Dairy is offering
bonds at about 250 basis points more than U.S. government debt,
another person said.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  advanced one basis point to 132.5 as of
8:46 a.m. in Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. prices show. The benchmark, which has ranged from 117.5 to
170.3 this half, is on track for its highest close since Nov.
15, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped one basis point to
81.75 basis points as of 9:45 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup prices
show. The gauge is poised to fall 8.95 basis points from Oct.
31, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  