-- Brazil May Delay State Debt Bill on Fiscal Discipline Concerns
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-11-21T13:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/brazil-may-delay-state-debt-bill-on-fiscal-discipline-concerns.html
Brazil’s government wants to delay
approval of a bill easing terms on state and municipal debt
because of concern it could undermine perceptions of fiscal
discipline, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday.  Mantega said the bill, which still requires Senate
approval, could be interpreted as the government encouraging
increased spending by states and municipalities. “Given that
possible interpretation, the government prefers it to be
approved at a later opportunity,” the finance minister said to
reporters in Brasilia.  Brazil in September posted the largest  budget deficit  since
2009 as slower economic growth and tax breaks eroded revenue,
reinforcing investor concern the country’s credit rating could
be downgraded. President  Dilma Rousseff  said Nov. 19 she signed
a pact with party leaders in which they agreed not to support
legislation that would lead to increased public spending or
reduced revenue.  The government “avoided bringing on more fiscal strain but
they haven’t addressed the existing problems,” said  Jankiel Santos , chief strategist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimentos, by phone from  Sao Paulo . “This more rigorous
fiscal rhetoric isn’t reflected by their actions.”  Santos cited as a risk to fiscal discipline legislation
approved yesterday in Congress that lifts the requirement for
the federal government to make up state and municipal shortfalls
in meeting their primary budget surplus target.  The debt bill that Mantega said he wants to delay was
approved by the lower house of Congress on Oct. 23. It writes
down the debt that states and municipalities owe the federal
government and reduces the rate of interest charged.  Brazil’s budget  surplus  excluding interest payments in the
12 months through September narrowed to 1.6 percent of gross
domestic product from 2.3 percent a year earlier.  Standard & Poor’s  put Brazil’s rating, the second-lowest
investment grade, on negative outlook in June, citing slow
economic growth and expansive fiscal policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  