-- Brazilian Swap Rates Climb as Unemployment Drops; Real Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-11-21T12:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/brazilian-swap-rates-climb-as-unemployment-drops-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose as a drop
in unemployment and a decline in the real added to speculation
that central bankers will increase the target lending rate to 10
percent this month to curb inflation.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015 climbed
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 10.86 percent at
9:28 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real declined 1.2 percent to 2.3004
per dollar in its biggest drop in two weeks. Markets in Brazil
were closed yesterday for a holiday.  The national statistics agency reported today that the
 unemployment rate  fell to 5.2 percent in October, below the 5.4
percent median estimate of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Inflation accelerated to 5.78 percent in the 12 months through
mid-November, more than a percentage point higher than the
central bank’s target. The real dropped as an index of  China ’s
manufacturing slipped for the first time in four months,
spurring concern that the recovery in Brazil’s largest trading
partner is stalling.  “ Monetary policy  is still loose, and this is maintaining
demand and pressuring inflation,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief
economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao Paulo,
said in a telephone interview. “The data in China are troubling
the  currency market .’’  Brazil’s central bank extended the maturity on $989 million
of currency swaps on Nov. 19 in the fifth straight session of
rollover auctions. It sold $497 million of swaps today as part
of a $60 billion intervention to bolster the real and curb
import price increases.  Deficit Concern  The currency has pared its gain since the program was
announced Aug. 22 to 5.9 percent on concern Brazil’s government
budget deficit will lead to cut in the nation’s credit rating.  Brazil has raised the  target lending rate  to 9.50 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent this year, the most among 49
nations tracked by Bloomberg, in a bid to cool consumer demand
and hold down prices.  In China, the preliminary 50.4 reading for this month’s
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index published today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics compares with final reading of 50.9 in
October. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  