-- Brazil’s Congress Passes Law Easing Government Budget Obligation
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-11-21T01:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/brazil-s-congress-passes-law-easing-government-budget-obligation.html
Brazil ’s Congress approved
legislation today that exempts the federal government from
making up state and municipal budget shortfalls in a move that
threatens to deteriorate fiscal accounts.  The proposal, which was approved along with the 2014 budget
guidelines in a joint session of both houses of Congress, would
apply to the 2013 and 2014 budgets. States and municipalities
account for 31 percent of the public sector’s 167.4 billion-real
($73.7 billion) 2014 primary budget surplus target, which
excludes interest payments.  Brazil’s primary budget surplus in the 12 months through
September fell to 1.6 percent of gross domestic product from 2.3
percent a year earlier due to lower revenue amid slowing
economic growth and increased tax breaks. The legislation could
lead to further slippage in Brazil’s fiscal performance just
five months after  Standard & Poor’s  threatened to downgrade its
 credit rating , Felipe Salto, economist at consulting firm
Tendencias, said before the vote.  “I don’t see the sense in only the central government
meeting the primary surplus,” Salto said by telephone from  Sao
Paulo , referring to uncertainty about whether state and
municipal targets will be met. “It increases the risk of a
deteriorating public sector fiscal performance.”  Proposed bills in Congress that would require higher
spending on health care and a writedown of debt owed by cities
and states could heighten the government’s budget challenges in
coming months, Salto said.  Under the 2014 budget guidelines, the government would no
longer be able to cut spending earmarked by legislators without
congressional approval, further limiting flexibility on budget
implementation. The law would allow the Treasury to discount
from its 2014 primary budget target 67 billion reais in
infrastructure investments and tax breaks.  S&P put Brazil’s rating, the second-lowest investment
grade, on negative outlook in June, citing slow economic growth
and expansive fiscal policy.  Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said Nov. 7 the budget
will be easier to manage next year as tax collection increases,
the government reduces capital injections to public banks and
the  minimum wage  grows at a slower pace, which helps to restrain
pension payouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  