-- Bullard Predicts Fed Won’t Cut Interest Rate on Excess Reserves
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-21T20:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/bullard-predicts-fed-won-t-cut-interest-rate-on-excess-reserves.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , a voter on policy this year who has
backed record stimulus, predicted the Fed won’t cut the interest
rate on excess reserves to further stimulate the economy.  “Attitudes haven’t changed very much on that” among
 policy makers , Bullard said to reporters today after a speech in
Rogers,  Arkansas . The interest rate that the Fed currently pays
on bank reserves is 0.25 percent.  “Unless there was some special situation, some special
circumstance, I don’t think we would go ahead with that part of
the policy,” he said. “If there was a sharp downturn in the
economy, then we might come back and really take a hard look at
lowering the” interest rate on excess reserves.  Most Federal Open Market Committee members believed a
reduction in the so-called IOER “could be worth considering at
some stage, although the benefits of such a step were generally
seen as likely to be small except possibly as a signal of policy
intentions,” according to minutes of the committee’s October
meeting released yesterday.  “It is something we could consider going forward,” Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  told the Senate Banking Committee on
Nov. 14 in a hearing on her nomination to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as Fed chairman. “It certainly is a possibility.”  Still, the view of most policy makers on the issue hasn’t
changed, Bullard said.  “It has been debated for four years,” Bullard said. “I
don’t think arguments have changed very significantly.”  Rate Increase                           The committee has made progress in persuading investors it
views  interest rate  policy and a decision on tapering of $85
billion in monthly bond buying as separate issues, and that a
decision to reduce purchases wouldn’t imply that the FOMC will
sooner increase the main interest rate.  “We have made progress on that,” he told reporters. “The
chairman has been very clear that the committee views its
commitment to rates as a separate arm of policy from its
decision on the quantitative easing program.”  The FOMC expects to taper bond buying “in coming months”
based on expected improvement in the labor market, according to
the minutes.  The St. Louis Fed official said to reporters that the
committee could take steps to strengthen “forward guidance” on
 interest rates , and he would favor setting a 1.5 percent floor
for inflation. That would help in “defending the inflation
target from the low side,” he said.  Bullard said in response to an audience question that he’s
optimistic about the 2014 economic outlook, predicting that
headwinds to growth including European recession and household
debt reduction will continue to wane next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  