-- California Rejects Obama’s Insurance Cancellation Fix
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-11-21T23:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/california-rejects-obama-s-insurance-cancellation-fix.html
California officials implementing
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul rejected a one-year extension of insurance plans that are to be canceled under
the law.  The president has urged states to give people with
substandard medical plans an additional year to meet the law’s
requirements after hundreds of thousands received cancellation
notices and were told new policies to meet minimum rules for
coverage would cost more.  “That’s making the best of not-great options, but I think
it’s the best option and then we can focus in the coming months
on the enrollment we need,” Peter V. Lee, the executive
director of  Covered California , the health exchange, said today
at a meeting in  Sacramento .  California’s decision is critical to the rollout of
Obamacare nationwide. The most populous U.S. state, which
received almost $1 billion in federal  grants  to implement the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, led the U.S. in
signups last month. The law requires all Americans to be covered
next year or pay a penalty.  Obama appealed for the added time because the cancellations
conflicted with his promise that consumers who liked their
existing plans could keep them. The Covered California board
weighed extending the canceled plans through March 31 or through
Dec. 31, 2014, or allowing them to expire at the end of next
month.  Individual States  Prolonging the policies “is up to individual states to
decide,” White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters in
 Washington  when asked about states not complying with the
president’s request. “That is as much as we can do.”  At least 12 states, from  Florida  to Hawaii, have agreed to
the extensions, according to America’s Health Insurance Plans, a
Washington lobby group for the industry.  California Insurance Commissioner  Dave Jones  said last week
he opposed the cancellations and agreed with Obama’s call to
allow people to stay in existing plans for an extra year.  Jones asked Covered California to release health insurers
from a requirement that they cancel existing individual policies
that don’t comply with the health law’s rules.  The exchange said 79,891 Californians had selected a health
plan through Covered California as of Nov. 19. Enrollment began
Oct. 1.  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services today
called on insurers to tell customers that if the substandard
plans are extended, they won’t be subject to the rights and
protections of the health-care law. Insurers also must inform
people they have new options through government-run marketplaces
and may be eligible for tax credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  