-- California Analyst Sees Annual Surpluses of $10 Billion
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-11-21T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/california-analyst-sees-annual-surpluses-of-10-billion.html
California may reach annual budget
surpluses of almost $10 billion, much of it from gains in
stocks, by the time higher sales and income taxes expire in
2018, the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office forecast.  The surplus outlined in a  report  yesterday marks a
turnabout for the most-populous U.S. state, which fought $100
billion in cumulative deficits for four years ending in 2012.  The gains may allow Governor  Jerry Brown , a 75-year-old
Democrat, to begin building an $8 billion reserve, pay down debt
and address unfunded liabilities for the second-largest U.S.
pension, the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, as
well as retiree health care and  University of California 
pensions, Legislative Analyst Mac Taylor said.  “The state’s budgetary condition is stronger than at any
point in the past decade,” Taylor said in the report. “The
state’s structural deficit —- in which ongoing spending
commitments were greater than projected revenues -— is no
more.”  Brown championed a 2012 ballot measure that helped close
deficits by temporarily raising the statewide sales-tax rate to
the highest in the U.S. and boosting levies on income of
$250,000 or more. The rate reaches 13.3 percent on those making
$1 million or more, the most of any state.  Brown forecast an $817 million surplus this year, the first
in almost a decade. The actual year-end surplus will be $2.2
billion, rising to $3.2 billion in the year ending June 30,
2015, and peaking at $9.6 billion in 2018, as the last of the
higher taxes expire, according to the report.  Capital Gains  Income taxes, fueled by  capital gains  from the performance
of the stock market, cover 61 percent of general-fund spending
last year. Those taxes are expected to yield $66 billion this
year, of which about $10 billion is attributable to capital
gains, according to Jason Sisney, a deputy state legislative
analyst.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has gained about 25 percent
this year, after a 13.4 percent increase in 2012.  The $170 billion teachers’ retirement system has a $70
billion long-term funding shortfall, according to its  website .
Unlike the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest U.S. pension, Calstrs’ annual contributions from
teachers, school districts and the state are fixed and can only
change through legislation.  The state’s relative borrowing costs have declined this
year as its fiscal outlook has improved.  Investors demand about 0.35 percentage point of extra yield
to own 10-year California debt rather than top-rated bonds, down
from a gap of about 0.6 percentage point in January, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Phase Out  Standard & Poor’s  raised the state’s credit rating to A,
sixth-highest, in January, the first boost since 2006.  Fitch
Ratings  did likewise in August. Moody’s Investors Service grades
it four steps below the top.  Standard & Poor’s may raise the state’s credit rating again
if lawmakers continue to exercise fiscal discipline and build a
cushion against economic downturns, Standard & Poor’s analyst
Gabriel Petek said by e-mail.  “It’s useful to recall that despite the recent revenue
improvement, the state still does not have a rainy day fund,
which makes retiring its budgetary loans and deferrals all the
more important from a credit standpoint,” Petek wrote.
“Repaying those loans effectively builds capacity to redeploy
those as stop-gap measures in the event that an unexpected
budget shortfall were to emerge.”  California had about $103 billion of gross tax-supported
debt in 2012, ranking it first among U.S. states, according to
Moody’s. It placed seventh on a debt-per-capita basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  