-- Cameron Uses Co-Op Bank Probe to Turn Scrutiny on Labour
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-21T15:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/cameron-co-op-probe-seen-aimed-at-getting-tough-on-banks.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
trying to use the promise of a probe into Co-Operative Bank Plc
to deflect criticism of the government’s supervision of the
lender and score points off the opposition  Labour Party .  The government will set out the details of the
investigation into the bank in the coming days, Cameron’s
spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in  London  today,
without giving any specifics. Co-Operative Bank’s creditors are
poised to take control of the lender under plans to plug a 1.5
billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital shortfall.  “There have to be serious concerns on the part of
government that this bank got into trouble after they thought
things had been cleared up,” Tim Bale, professor of politics at
Queen Mary University in London, said in a telephone interview.
It also offers an “irresistible chance” for Cameron’s
Conservatives of “bringing up anything that casts doubt on  Ed
Miliband ’s character,” he said.  Miliband, the Labour leader, was forced to defend his
party’s links to the bank after its former chairman, Paul Flowers, a Methodist minister and former local Labour councilor,
was accused by the Mail on Sunday newspaper of buying illegal
drugs. Miliband told ITV News that his party had acted with
“utmost integrity” in dealing with Flowers and the bank.  Flowers, 63, was a member of the Labour Party’s business
advisory panel, though Miliband said he had met with him only
once. The party, which has been linked to the co-operative
movement throughout its history and has a number of lawmakers
who stand as Labour and Co-Operative candidates, has received
loans and donations from the bank.  Leadership Issue  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will discuss
with regulators “what is the appropriate form of inquiry to get
to the bottom of what went on,” Cameron told lawmakers in
Parliament in London yesterday. Gray said Cameron had singled
out Flowers, who left the bank in June this year, for criticism
yesterday because “it’s very important to look at issues around
leadership” at the lender.  With 18 months to go before elections, Cameron is keen to
show his government has toughened rules governing banks after a
series of scandals rocked the financial industry. Concern that
regulators approved Flowers as chairman of a bank comes only a
week after House of Commons Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie , a Conservative, warned the government risked a “botched
job” of banking reform by trying to speed up the passage of a
bill setting new standards for the industry.  Regulator’s Probe  The board of the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority, a
unit of the  Bank of England  that oversees the largest banks,
will discuss possible inquiries into Flowers tomorrow, according
to a person familiar with the plans who requested anonymity
because the meeting is private.  Len Wardle, 69, resigned this week as chairman of Co-Operative Group Ltd., which owns the lender and appointed
Flowers as chairman of the bank. Co-Operative Group is reviewing
its governance structure after the Mail reported on Nov. 17
Flowers had bought crystal meth and  crack cocaine  in Leeds,
northern  England . Flowers has apologized in a statement issued
through the Methodist Church.  “This year has been incredibly difficult, with a death in
the family and the pressures of my role with the Co-Operative
Bank,” he said. “At the lowest point in this terrible period,
I did things that were stupid and wrong. I am sorry for this and
I am seeking professional help, and apologize to all I have hurt
or failed by my actions.”  George Osborne  Labour’s Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , said he’d had no
individual contact with Flowers and dismissed suggestions that
the Labour government in power until 2010 should have prevented
his appointment that year.  “David Cameron yesterday alleged Ed Miliband and I knew
about Paul Flowers when we didn’t,” Balls said on Sky News
television today. “You should ask him and the government, why
didn’t George Osborne act in the last three years when Paul
Flowers was in charge.”  Under the 2012 Financial Services Act, the chancellor has
the power to order an independent inquiry if he wants it to look
at areas wider than those that would be covered by a single
regulator.  Regulators pressed Co-Operative Group, which has businesses
ranging from supermarkets to funeral parlors, to close a capital
shortfall at its banking unit following the failure of its bid
for more than 600 branches owned by Lloyds Banking Group Plc
earlier this year. Co-Operative Group ceded control of the bank
last month as part of a plan to fill the capital hole.  Cameron’s spokesman rejected a Financial Times report today
that Osborne had pushed the European Union to spare the Co-Operative Bank from stricter  capital requirements .  “What the U.K. was publicly arguing for earlier in the
year in Brussels was for all and any U.K. mutuals to be treated
in the same way as mutuals in other parts of the European
Union,” Gray said. “That was a very public position.”  ¼  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  