-- Canada Dollar at Weakest Since September
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-21T22:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/canadian-currency-falls-after-poloz-says-stimulus-still-needed.html
Canada ’s dollar slid to the weakest
level since September before data tomorrow forecast to show the
consumer-price index fell below policy makers’ target, boosting
the case for the central bank to keep  interest rates  on hold.  The currency fell versus most major counterparts after Bank
of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz reiterated to lawmakers
yesterday that low rates will remain appropriate until the
economy shows more signs it’s gaining momentum. The central bank
surprised investors after its last policy meeting by saying the
next rate move won’t necessarily be higher, citing the risks of
slowing inflation.  “Our team’s perspective on the Canadian dollar is now
negative because the Canadian central bank is taking that
position, that they’re going to keep rates low for a very long
time,” Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at Scotiabank’s
ScotiaMcLeod unit, said by phone from Toronto.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.6 percent to
C$1.0517 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0526, matching the weakest level since Sept. 4. One Canadian
dollar buys 95.08 U.S. cents.  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark  10-year bond  down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 2.62 percent. Earlier the yield increased three basis
points to 2.66 percent, the highest level since Oct. 16. The
price of the 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 gained
10 cents to C$90.63.  Volatility Rises  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
against its Canadian counterpart climbed to a six-week high. It
reached 6.21 percent, the most since Oct. 10. The measure is
used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace of
currency swings. The 2013 average is 6.47 percent.  The Canadian currency extended losses after data showed
fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for jobless
benefits last week, adding to bets the  Federal Reserve  is moving
closer to reducing the stimulus that has fueled risk appetite
worldwide. Claims dropped by 21,000 to 323,000, the  lowest level 
in almost two months, the Labor Department reported. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a decrease to 335,000.  Minutes released yesterday of the Fed’s October meeting
showed officials said they might cut bond purchases “in coming
months” if the economy improves as anticipated. The U.S.
central bank buys $85 billion of bonds each month to push down
long-term yields and boost growth. The purchases tend to debase
the greenback as they spur appetite for higher-yielding assets.  Oil Climbs  The loonie dropped today even as futures on crude oil,
Canada’s biggest export, rose as much as 2.5 percent to $95.63 a
barrel in  New York , the highest level since Nov. 1.  Canadian consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in October from a
year earlier, trailing a 1.1 percent gain the previous month, a
Bloomberg survey forecast before tomorrow’s report. The Bank of
Canada’s inflation target is a band of 1 percent to 3 percent.  “You’re always interested in CPI, given that it’s the most
direct impact on central-bank policy,” said Don Mikolich,
executive director of foreign-exchange sales at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, by phone from Toronto. “Certainly a
0.8 or 0.9 is bottom-end and normally the time when banks start
to ease conditions.”  The central bank has held its benchmark overnight  interest-rate  target at 1 percent since 2010 to support the economy.
Poloz’s policy statement last month dropped language about the
need to raise the rate.  ‘Significant Slack’  “The bank judged on Oct. 23 that the substantial monetary
policy stimulus in place remained appropriate and decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 percent,” Poloz
told the Senate banking committee in Ottawa yesterday. “Since
then, while some new data points have been released, our outlook
remains roughly the same.”  He reiterated that “significant slack” remains in the
economy and growth is being held back by sluggish business
investment and exports. Policy makers next meet on Dec. 4.  “In the context of what Poloz is saying about inflation, I
think the Canadian dollar is going to be sensitive to weaker
numbers,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto. “It should be
negative for the Canadian dollar.”  Stronger-than-forecast economic reports are making
investors cautious to wager that policy makers will maintain the
position.  Canada’s two-year government bond yields reached the most
in a month over U.S. peers as data point to accelerating
economic growth, prompting investors to hold off making bearish
bets on Bank of Canada interest rates.  Rate Gap  The Canadian two-year  debt  yielded 85 basis points more
than similar U.S. Treasuries yesterday, the most since Oct. 22,
the day before the central bank’s last statement. The  spread ,
which narrowed to 78 basis points after the decision, has since
widened as data on Canadian employment, economic growth and
housing topped forecasts. The gap was 84 basis points today.  The UBS Growth Surprise Index for Canada rose to a record
195 on Nov. 15 after a report showed Canadian factory sales
advanced to the most in more than a year in September. The
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for Canada is at 55.6, the
highest since June. The Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said this week Canada will probably raise rates
at the end of next year to avoid a buildup of inflation.  The loonie has lost 2.6 percent in 2013 against nine other
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has gained 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  