-- McDonald’s CEO: Company Is ’Nowhere Near’ Saturation
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2013-11-21T21:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/mcdonald-s-ceo-company-is-nowhere-near-saturation.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the largest
restaurant chain in the world by sales, isn’t close to having
too many locations globally, Chief Executive Officer  Don Thompson  said.  “I don’t see in my lifetime when there would be a time of
saturation with McDonald’s,” Thompson, 50, said during an
interview at The Year Ahead: 2014, a two-day conference in
Chicago sponsored by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
 Bloomberg News  and Bloomberg Businessweek. The Big Mac seller is
“nowhere near saturation,” he said.  There’s room for new stores in some of McDonald’s biggest
markets, including the U.S. and France, he said. The company is
planning to open 1,500 new locations worldwide this year and as
many as 1,600 in 2014.  Thompson, who took over as CEO last year, has struggled to
attract American diners amid falling  consumer confidence  and
fierce  competition  from rivals introducing new fare. This year,
the restaurant chain introduced too many items too quickly,
bogging down the kitchen and slowing store service, Jeff Stratton, McDonald’s USA president, said during an investor
conference last week.  McDonald’s has a 19 percent share of the $191 billion in
U.S. fast-food restaurant sales, according to researcher
IBISWorld Inc. The Oak Brook, Illinois-based company has
reported four straight  quarters  of U.S. same-store sales that
have increased 1 percent or less.  ‘Very Soft’  The U.S. fast-food industry is “very soft” now, Thompson
said today.  McDonald’s is trying a number of tactics to attract
customers such as selling pumpkin-spice lattes and testing a
mobile payment application in some locations. It’s also adding a
third window to its drive thrus to speed up service.  The  shares  rose 0.2 percent to $97.70 at the close in  New
York . They have advanced 11 percent this year, trailing the 25
percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Restaurants Index.  McDonald’s has about 34,900 locations, of which 81 percent
are owned and operated by franchisees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  