-- CFTC’s Chilton Says He Would Vote Against Current Volcker Rule
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/cftc-s-chilton-says-he-d-vote-against-current-volcker-rule-1-.html
The Volcker rule that U.S.
regulators are trying to complete this year doesn’t do enough to
limit banks’ ability to make speculative bets, said  Bart Chilton , a member of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  “There would be no sense even doing a final rule if what
is currently being considered on hedging remains the same,”
said Chilton, referring to the rule banning proprietary trading,
in a telephone interview yesterday. He said he is prepared to
vote against the rule as it’s currently drafted.  “If we voted on it today, I’d oppose it,” he said. “It
opens the door for proprietary speculative bets under the guise
of hedging, exactly what Congress told us to avoid.”  His comments raise questions about whether five U.S.
financial regulators, including the Federal Reserve and
Securities and Exchange Commission, can meet a White House-imposed year-end deadline for completing the Dodd-Frank Act
regulation.  Chilton, one of three Democrats on the CFTC, has said he
intends to step down by the end of the year from the commission,
which is planning to vote on the rule next month. If Chilton
leaves before the commission’s vote, the rule could still be
completed this year if it wins the support of two of the
remaining three members.  Hedging Activity  The rule named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
championed it as an adviser to President  Barack Obama , seeks to
prevent banks with insured deposits from engaging in the kind of
speculative trading that could threaten their stability. The
rule would apply to trading at banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  and Kara Stein, a Democrat on
the SEC, have sought to make it more difficult under the rule
for banks to classify such trading as legitimate hedging
activity, according to three people familiar with the
negotiations.  The Volcker rule draft was distributed to CFTC
commissioners this week. Gensler told reporters yesterday that
“there is still some more work to be done” on the regulation
and that staff members at the five agencies and the Treasury
Department are having conference calls about it almost daily.  “I look forward to getting feedback from my fellow
commissioners,” Gensler said before Chilton spoke.  Gensler will step down at the end of the year when his term
expires. Obama nominated Treasury official Timothy Massad to
replace him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  