-- China Cinda Said to Seek Up to $2.45 Billion in Offering
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-11-21T08:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/china-cinda-said-to-plan-raising-up-to-2-45-billion-in-offering.html
China Cinda Asset Management Co. ,
one of four funds created in 1999 to buy bad debts from the
nation’s banks, plans to raise as much as HK$19 billion ($2.45
billion) in a Hong Kong initial public offering, said people
with knowledge of the matter.  The state-controlled asset manager plans to sell shares at
HK$3 to HK$3.58 apiece, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Cinda’s listing is the latest step in its transformation
from an asset manager established to clean up soured loans from
the 1990s into a financial company with businesses spanning
trusts, real estate and investment banking. The IPO values Cinda
at 1.1 to 1.3 times its estimated year-end book value, IFR Asia
reported earlier.  “That doesn’t sound too expensive but the concern is that
they may be underwriting too much risk,” said Edmond Law, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Investors
may be skeptical on the business model asking how are they going
to ensure profitable returns from the banks’ non-performing
loans.”  The sale of about 5.3 billion new shares will account for
15 percent of Cinda’s enlarged capital, according to a Nov. 12
term sheet. IFR, which reported the price range earlier, said
the number of shares on offer may change.  Cinda’s IPO is the city’s biggest since November 2012, when
People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd. raised $3.6
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies have
raised $11.5 billion in Hong Kong initial sales this year,
exceeding the $8 billion for all of 2012, the data show.  UBS Sale  Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG are among banks
working on Cinda’s share sale, the people said.  China’s Ministry of Finance holds an 83.5 percent stake in
Cinda, while the national pension fund owns 8 percent, according
to a  bond prospectus  published in October last year. Zurich-based UBS holds a 5 percent interest, while Citic Capital
Holdings Ltd. controls 2 percent and Standard Chartered Plc owns
1.5 percent, the document showed.  Cinda raised 10.4 billion  yuan  ($1.7 billion) selling a
16.5 percent stake to the pension fund, UBS, Citic Capital and
Standard Chartered in March 2012, valuing the company at 62.9
billion yuan.  The company has subsidiaries involved in financial leasing,
fund management, insurance and real estate, according to Cinda’s
website. At the end of last year, Cinda held stakes worth at
least 45 billion yuan in 136 state-owned companies, according to
China Chengxin International Credit Ratings Co.  The Chinese government set up Cinda, China Orient Asset
Management Corp., Huarong Asset Management Co. and Great Wall
Asset Management Corp. in 1999 to help rid the banking industry
of 1.4 trillion yuan of non-performing loans. Authorities
initially gave the agencies 10 billion yuan of capital each and
10 years to offload the bad debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  