-- China Needs to Learn How to Spin Better
-- B y   D a m i e n   M a
-- 2013-11-21T21:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/china-needs-to-learn-how-to-spin-better.html
Much can happen in 48 hours, as
Hollywood constantly reminds us. China’s leaders learned that
the hard way last week, at the conclusion of the ponderously
named Third Plenum of the 18th Communist Party Congress.  Put off by an almost comically vague initial communique,
the Beijing confab was quickly derided as a giant
“nothingburger.” Just two days later, however, after Chinese
officials released a more  detailed list  of reforms, opinions
swung wildly. Suddenly the plenum was hailed for producing some
of the most significant proposals in decades -- everything from
relaxing the one-child policy and abolishing labor camps, to
giving farmers more control over their land, migrants more
rights and services, and the market more of a role in
disciplining state enterprises.  This whiplash lurch in opinion holds two lessons for China.
First, major statements such as the plenum communique carry a
global significance perhaps rivaled only by the U.S. State of
the Union address.  Not so long ago, turgid party announcements rarely moved
markets. Now, Chinese leaders are finding out that they must
anticipate and respond to an instant global reaction. Such
pressures most likely encouraged officials to release the more
substantial reform document earlier than planned.  Signaling Left  Second, the vagueness with which Chinese communiques are
written produces confusion. This might seem useful on occasion:
 Deng Xiaoping  pioneered the strategy of “signaling left and
turning right” to throw off potential opponents. But more
often, opacity simply allows anyone and everyone to see what
they want to see -- not what the leadership hopes to signal.  For many years, Chinese leaders could ignore such concerns.
The initial communique issued after the 1993 Third Plenum was
shorter and even more obscure than last week’s yet arguably
about as important. With just a single line -- “alter the
operations of state-owned enterprises and build modern corporate
governance” -- officials introduced some of the most drastic
state-sector changes in China’s modern history.  Deng’s even more momentous post-1978 reforms at the  11th
Third Plenum  were signaled in just four characters: gaige
kaifang (“reform and opening up”). An investor would have had
a hard time trading on that gnomic phrase, let alone imagining
that three decades later, China would have grown into the
world’s second-largest economy, a $9 trillion behemoth.  Bureaucratic culture within the Chinese leadership hasn’t
caught up with that spectacular growth. To party apparatchiks
and those deeply embedded in plenum planning and document
drafting, everything basically operates as it always has. They
are accustomed to communicating in nebulous phrases that only
savvy insiders can understand.  Today the global cognoscenti demand greater specificity.
Time and again in recent years, China has paid a price for
refusing to meet those expectations. Volatile markets have swung
based on speculation and misinterpreted statements. The global
press has obsessed over every retired general huffing and
puffing about teaching Japan a lesson -- while sometimes missing
the broader sweep of China’s evolving reality.  ‘Overly Reactive’  Until now, officials have blamed the outside world for
misinterpreting Chinese statements.  My Chinese interlocutors
would repeatedly complain, when the Western news media leaped at
the latest offhand comment about dumping U.S. Treasuries, “You
Westerners are overly reactive (tai guofeng le)!”  Surely, though, the Chinese government realizes it is
losing control of its messaging -- both with its people and with
those trying to make sense of the country from the outside. A
more skeptical, educated citizenry is no longer willing to
tolerate overt obfuscation. More and more Chinese are relying on
other sources of information. Events such as the plenum and the
political transition last year are now  live-tweeted .  If the reforms announced last week are indeed to lead to a
more market-based economy, China will have to accept greater
market discipline in its messaging as well. The Chinese central
bank learned this the hard way over the summer, when it failed
to clearly explain a rise and fluctuation in interbank rates and
the ensuing liquidity crunch. The central bank was supposedly
trying to rein in banks and institutions that had engaged in
high-risk lending behaviors. The market saw only that liquidity
had dried up, and panicked.  Rather than lamenting the new reality, it’s in Beijing’s
interest to develop a sustained and sophisticated strategy to
telegraph clarity and credibility. This isn’t something that can
be done through Xinhua or  People’s Daily  editorials. In fact,
China can learn much from the U.S. and other Western governments
about controlling its intended message. Call it “propaganda
with Western characteristics.” That might sell in Beijing.  ( Damien Ma  is a fellow at the Paulson Institute and co-author with William Adams of “In Line Behind a Billion People:
How Scarcity Will Define China’s Ascent in the Next Decade.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Damien Ma at  dma@paulsoninstitute.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 