-- China Developers Fall After Property Tax Reports: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-21T04:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/china-developers-fall-after-property-tax-reports-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developers fell by the most
in a week in  Shanghai  trading after the People’s Daily reported
that the government may raise taxes on ownership of properties.  A  gauge  tracking Shanghai-listed developers declined 1.3
percent at the noon break, as Beijing Capital Development Co.
tumbled 1.7 percent to 5.27  yuan .  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest
real estate company listed on mainland exchanges, dropped 3.4
percent to 8.79 yuan in Shenzhen, heading for its biggest drop
since July 19.  China will increase taxes for owning properties, and will
quicken the legislation and reform of a property tax, Finance
Minister  Lou Jiwei  said without elaborating in an interview with
the official People’s Daily published today. The ruling
Communist Party mentioned legislation of the property tax for
the first time this month after trials started in Chongqing and
Shanghai almost three years ago, a move that Ping An Securities
Co. said was negative for developers in the long term.  “The biggest risk is the expansion in the property tax,”
said Luo Yu, a Shanghai-based analyst at advisory firm CEBM
Group. “With  home prices  at such high levels, any news about
that could trigger market worries.”  The government may use a higher  tax rate  as the trials are
expanded to other cities as early as the year end and may
increase the scope of taxable properties, China Securities
Journal reported, without saying where it got the information.
Minister Lou also said the government will cut some levies and
fees on property construction and transactions, according to the
People’s Daily article.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.1 percent,
the most in a week, after a preliminary manufacturing index
trailed economists’ estimates and concerns that the government
may take measures to curb home-price gains.  Three of the nation’s four major cities -- Shenzhen,
Shanghai and Guangzhou -- raised minimum down-payment
requirements for second-home mortgages to 70 percent from 60
percent, after new home prices jumped the most since January
2011 last month. Beijing did so in March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  