-- China Manufacturing Gauge Declines in Growth Headwind
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-21T05:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/china-manufacturing-gauge-drops-to-50-4-in-headwind-to-recovery.html
A Chinese manufacturing gauge
declined for the first time in four months, adding headwinds to
a  recovery  in the world’s second-largest economy as leaders
start to implement the broadest policy reforms since the 1990s.  The preliminary 50.4 reading for the November Purchasing
Managers’  Index (SHCOMP)  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compared with a 50.8 median estimate from analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The final number for October was
50.9, and levels above 50 indicate expansion.  Slower manufacturing gains would add challenges for Premier
 Li Keqiang  in carrying out a reform package that includes
loosening controls on  interest rates  and giving farmers more
land rights. Expansion headwinds may intensify after last
month’s slowdown in credit growth that suggests Li is trying to
contain financial risks.  “The recent growth rebound may have peaked,” said Ding Shuang, senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong.
“Tighter credit conditions and reform measures will continue to
weigh on investment and growth through next year,” and reforms
may be slowed if the risk of expansion slipping below 7 percent
“becomes material.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks fell 1.2
percent at 1:21 p.m. in Shanghai, while the MSCI  Asia  Pacific
 Index (EC11FLAS)  was down 0.6 percent. The Australian dollar declined
against the  U.S. dollar .  The final reading of the HSBC-Markit manufacturing PMI will
be released on Dec. 2. The National Bureau of Statistics
publishes its own PMI survey, with a bigger sample size, on Dec.
1.  Analyst Projections  Estimates for the HSBC-Markit preliminary, or Flash, PMI,
from 18 analysts ranged from 50.4 to 51.7. The gauge is based on
85 percent to 90 percent of responses to surveys sent to more
than 420 manufacturers.  Output expanded at a faster pace while new orders rose at a
slower pace, according to HSBC’s statement. Gauges of new
export orders, employment and output prices showed contraction
while input prices rose at a slower pace.  The Communist Party last week unveiled policy shifts after
a four-day summit known as the third plenum. The dozens of
measures include gradually relaxing the residence-registration
system in mid-sized cities, accelerating convertibility of the
 yuan  and reducing price controls on water, oil, gas and power.  Given today’s figures, “resentment from vested interest
groups resisting reforms will escalate,” said  Steve Wang , Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at Reorient Financial Markets
Ltd.  Reform Pace  Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd., said a growth slowdown this quarter won’t necessarily
slow down reforms. Instead, it will help accelerate changes that
boost domestic demand, including rules on rural property,
residential registration and the one-child policy, while
“leaving other reforms that are negative to growth in a later
stage,” Shen said.  Gross domestic product growth rebounded to 7.8 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, after a 7.5 percent pace
in the previous three months. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 34 economists last month was for fourth-quarter
expansion of 7.6 percent.  October data released earlier this month showed  industrial
production  unexpectedly accelerated, exports rose more than
estimated and inflation stayed below the government’s target. At
the same time,  China ’s broadest measure of new credit was lower
than estimated, suggesting authorities are trying to keep
shadow-banking risks in check.  Home Prices  A separate government report earlier this week showed new
home prices in China’s four major cities rose last month by the
most since January 2011, raising concern that a bubble is
forming as a lack of new nationwide property curbs emboldens
buyers.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc maintained its outlook for
7.7 percent GDP growth this quarter and 8.2 percent in the first
half of 2014. “On balance, the reforms, which received a clear
mandate from last week’s Third Plenum, are more likely to be
positive than negative for growth,”  Louis Kuijs , RBS chief
China economist in Hong Kong, wrote in a note today.  Elsewhere in Asia today, the  Bank of Japan  stuck with a
pledge to expand the monetary base by 60 trillion yen to 70
trillion yen ($700 billion) a year. Singapore raised its growth
forecast for 2013 after the economy unexpectedly expanded last
quarter. Hong Kong will publish inflation figures for October.  Europe will see Markit PMI gauges for November in  France ,
 Germany  and the euro area. In  North America , the U.S. will give
numbers on producer prices for October, while Mexico will report
economic growth from a year earlier slowed in the third quarter,
based on a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  