-- China’s President Will Drive Change, Paulson Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   J o s h   T y r a n g i e l
-- 2013-11-21T17:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/china-s-president-will-drive-change-paulson-says.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping is
“all about driving change” in a country that is trying to
reform its economy and political system, former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  said.  “He understands business, understands the private
sector,” Paulson said today at “The Year Ahead: 2014,” a two-day conference in  Chicago  hosted by Bloomberg LP.  Paulson, who has known Xi for years, called the Chinese
leader “a very good politician” who “understands the people
and relates well.”  China’s leaders are preparing for the broadest policy
changes since the 1990s, which were presented last week after a
four-day policy summit with a target for implementation by 2020.
The moves range from easing the one-child policy to increasing
farmers’ land rights and are aimed at sustaining long-term
 growth  and boosting incomes while maintaining the Communist
Party’s grip on power in the world’s second-largest economy.  “It’s a very, very ambitious set of reforms,” Paulson
said. “That’s the good news. The bad news is there’s a lot of
resistance.”  Change is bound to come slowly, Paulson said, because of
opposition to change, its complexity and the corruption that he
said is endemic to a government-run economy.  ‘Heavy Lift’  “This is a system that is still evolving,” Paulson said.
“I think they’ve got a lot of work to do. I hope they succeed,
and I’m cautiously optimistic because it will be good for  China 
and good for all of us. But this is a heavy lift.”  Even with China’s rapid growth, there are “very few”
companies in the country that are “truly outstanding,” Paulson
said.  China’s powerful state-owned companies “need to be run on
a commercial basis” without the “special subsidies” provided
by the government in Beijing, he said.  China’s leaders are also learning that the pace of economic
growth has been damaged by lax environmental regulation that has
caused major pollution and health problems.  Pollution has become “a big drag on the economy,” costing
as much as 3.5 percentage points to economic growth, Paulson
said.  Dirty Air, Water  “Dirty air and dirty water are killing people,” he said.
“It’s just not acceptable. The challenge is they don’t have the
legal system, they don’t have the regulatory system to operate
the way we do.”  Paulson said China is taking steps such as evaluating civil
servants on their environmental performance, and may take
further measures, such as a cap-and-trade system, before the
U.S. does.  Paulson, 67, a former chief executive officer of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , was secretary of the Treasury from 2006 to
2009 under President  George W. Bush . In 2011, he formed the
Paulson Institute to promote international engagement, with a
special emphasis on relationships between the U.S. and China.  Paulson attended  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , and  Harvard Business School . He was CEO of New York-based Goldman Sachs from 1999 to 2006.  China’s growth in gross domestic product rebounded to 7.8
percent in the third quarter from 7.5 percent in the previous
three months. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34
economists last month was for fourth-quarter expansion of 7.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Josh Tyrangiel in  New York  at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  