-- Most China Stocks Fall on Property Curb, Manufacturing Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-21T07:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/china-s-stocks-fall-before-flash-pmi-as-fed-signals-stimulus-cut.html
Most Chinese  stocks  fell after a
manufacturing gauge declined and on speculation the government
will announce property curbs. A rally for energy shares almost
erased a loss of as much as 1.3 percent for the benchmark index.  China  Vanke Co. and  Poly Real Estate  Group Co., the
nation’s two biggest developers, slid at least 3 percent. New
China Life Insurance Co. dropped the most since September after
Zurich Insurance Group AG sold its entire stake.  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
paced gains for carriers for a second day. PetroChina Co. and
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led a rally for oil and coal companies.  About five stocks fell for every three that rose on the
benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index, which slipped less than 0.1
percent to 2,205.77 at the close. A Chinese manufacturing gauge
known as the flash PMI declined for the first time in four
months. Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  told the People’s Daily that
the government will increase taxes for owning properties.  “There’s concern about more curbs in the  property
market ,” said Tang Yonggang, an analyst at Hongyuan Securities
Co. in Beijing. “With property prices going up and talk of
higher taxes, there are a lot of concerns and uncertainty about
how taxes are going to be implemented. The flash PMI didn’t help
sentiment.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid for the first
time in six days, losing 0.9 percent to 11,337.30 at 3:51 p.m.,
after minutes from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s last meeting
signaled U.S. stimulus may be reduced in coming months. The CSI
300 dropped 0.6 percent to close at 2,409.99.  Manufacturing Report  The Shanghai index had gained 3 percent this month through
yesterday after the government pledged to ease the one-child
policy and boost private investment as part of the biggest
package of economic reforms since the 1990s. The measure trades
at 8.7 times projected profit, compared with the five-year
average multiple of 12.5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its trading volumes were 18 percent above the 30-day
average for this time of day, data showed.  The preliminary 50.4 reading in November for a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, known as the flash PMI, compared with a 50.8 median
estimate from analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The final
number for October was 50.9, and levels above 50 indicate
expansion.  Slower manufacturing gains would add challenges for Premier
 Li Keqiang  in carrying out a reform package that includes
loosening controls on  interest rates  and giving farmers more
land rights. Expansion headwinds may intensify after last
month’s slowdown in credit growth that suggests Li is trying to
contain financial risks as home prices surge.  ‘Taking Profits’  “The market is taking profits after gains from the past
few days on reforms by the government,” said  Zhang Gang ,
strategist at Central China Securities in Shanghai. “There’s
currently a lack of further drive, but it’s only temporary. The
economy is already stable and there will be more news on the
implementation of reforms so further downside is unlikely.”  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 slid 1
percent, the second-most among 10 industry groups. New China
Life, the nation’s third-largest life insurer by premium income
last year, dropped 3.2 percent in Shanghai and 1.3 percent in
 Hong Kong . Zurich Insurance sold its entire stake in New China
Life for $943 million, according to deal terms obtained by
Bloomberg News, with  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  agreeing to buy just over
half of the stock.  China Vanke fell 3 percent to 8.83 yuan while Poly Real
Estate retreated 3 percent to 8.96 yuan. While increasing taxes
for owning properties, the government will cut taxes and fees
for property construction and transactions, Finance Minister Lou
said in the interview with the People’s Daily.  Higher Taxes  China may also use a higher  tax rate  in its property tax
trials and increase “significantly” the scope of residence
properties that must pay the tax, the China Securities Journal
reported today. The cities of Shanghai and Chongqing have
already started experimenting with property taxes.  A measure of energy companies in the CSI 300 rose 1.3
percent, the most among the industry groups. The sub-index’s
price-to-book ratio is at 14.5 times, compared with a five-year
average multiple of 16.5. PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil
company, gained 1.7 percent to 8.03  yuan , while Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. surged 3 percent to 10.17 yuan.  Goldman Upgrade  “The economy is not doing too bad and reforms may be
happening next year so there are not many reasons to keep
selling,” said Xu Shengjun, an analyst at Jianghai Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “The downside is very limited as risks have
been removed. Investors will look at cheap blue chips to buy
such as the coal and energy stocks.”  Air China gained 8.8 percent in Hong Kong and 2.2 percent
in Shanghai amid speculation the nation’s airlines  will benefit
from yuan appreciation and the opening up of airspace that may
ease traffic congestion. The Shanghai Securities News reported
yesterday China may issue airspace management rules as early as
the end of this year. The People’s Bank of China will broaden
the yuan’s daily trading limit, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
this week, without giving a timeframe.  “I think one thing on top of my mind is PBOC’s widening
the band on currency exchange rates, as the RMB appreciates
more, it’s obviously beneficial for airlines,” says Patrick Xu,
Hong Kong-based analyst with Barclays. “There talk about the
reform of airspace. That helps share prices.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded China’s stocks to
overweight and boosted its forecasts for the nation’s economic
growth and the yuan next year. The full document from the top-level Communist Party meeting has “reinvigorated” market
expectations on reform and China’s longer-term growth prospects,
strategists including Timothy Moe wrote in a report.  Goldman Sachs favors reform beneficiaries and recommends
stocks that revolve around the theme of mass-market consumption,
healthcare, brokers and defense. It is also overweight Chinese
banks which are “trading at very low absolute valuations.”  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index slid 0.9 percent in  New
York  yesterday, while the  db X-trackers Harvest CSI 300 China A-Shares Fund  lost 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  