-- Chiquita-SEC, Shell Records, Payday Lenders: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/chiquita-sec-shell-records-payday-lenders-compliance.html
Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) ’s
bid to stop the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from
releasing documents on payments to a Colombian terrorist group
was dismissed by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  rejected the
company’s argument that the damage it would suffer from
disclosure of the records should bar their release to a public
interest group under the Freedom of Information Act.  “Chiquita’s speculation about potential publicity and its
effect on a future jury in the  Florida  litigation does not
satisfy the level of certainty required” to exempt the records
from the law’s requirements, Leon said in a decision yesterday.  Chiquita, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, contended
release of the records could compromise the fairness of trials
in Florida, where families who claim relatives were kidnapped
and murdered after the company made payments to the United Self
Defense Forces of Colombia have filed lawsuits.  The case is Chiquita Brands International Inc. v. U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, 13-cv-00435, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Cash America to Pay $19 Million Over CFPB Debt-Collection Claims  Cash America International Inc. (CSH) , the Texas-based payday
lender and pawn shop operator, will pay $19 million to settle
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau complaints over its
debt-collection practices.  The settlement announced by the consumer bureau in a
statement yesterday ends a probe, which the company disclosed in
an Oct. 28 regulatory filing, that stemmed from alleged robo-signing of documents used in lawsuits filed by Cash America in
 Ohio . The bureau also accused the company of overcharging
members of the military and their families for short-term loans.  DOJ and SEC Have Substantial Pipeline of FCPA Investigations  The government has a substantial pipeline of Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act investigations, including some potentially
major criminal actions involving significant penalties that
might be announced before year’s end, a senior Department of
Justice official said Nov. 19.  Charles Duross, deputy chief of the FCPA unit of the DOJ
Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, observed that 2013 ranks
fifth in terms of the biggest overall FCPA penalties imposed
annually. That ranking “will move up before the end of the
year,” he predicted.  Duross added that DOJ has more than 150 active FCPA
investigations. The Securities and Exchange Commission has about
100 ongoing FCPA investigations, said Kara Brockmeyer, chief of
the SEC Enforcement Division’s FCPA unit. Although the
commission’s FCPA enforcement numbers are down in 2013 compared
with prior years, more cases will be announced in the near
future, she said. Some of those cases are on a parallel track
with the DOJ cases, Brockmeyer said by e-mail yesterday.  Duross and Brockmeyer spoke at the American Conference
Institute’s International FCPA Conference in Washington on Nov.
19.  For more, click here.  Vitol, Shell Ask Judge to Halt Release of CFTC Oil Probe Records  Some of the world’s largest oil traders including Vitol
Group,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are asking a
judge to stop the disclosure of millions of records gathered by
the top U.S. commodity regulator during its nationwide
investigation of the crude markets.  The haul includes e-mails, depositions, trading records and
audio files obtained by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission since its probe of the oil market began in December
2007. The companies are appealing an Oct. 25 order by U.S.
District Judge William H. Pauley that would allow the handover
of the trove to lawyers leading a civil case alleging market
manipulation by firms controlled by Norwegian billionaire John
Fredriksen.  The battle over the records reveals for the first time the
breadth of the CFTC’s investigation. The agency told Pauley in
August that 5.7 million documents and almost 200,000 audio files
had been sent to the defendants in the manipulation case. Many
of the files came from the national probe.  “Society needs more inspection of trading in the crude oil
markets, not less,” said Chris Lovell, an attorney with Lovell
Stewart Halebian Jacobson LLP in New York, who is leading the
case and seeking class-action status on behalf of traders who
claim to have lost money because of alleged manipulation.  Pauley’s Oct. 25 order sharply restricts access to
materials from the CFTC cache that the companies claim are
“highly confidential.” Circulation of the documents will be
limited, and Lovell and other attorneys involved in the civil
case will have to sign declarations promising to comply with the
confidentiality provisions. Use of the files for any other
business purpose, such as trading strategies or unrelated
lawsuits, is forbidden.  The case stems from the CFTC’s 2011 claims against Nick
Wildgoose and James Dyer, traders at Fredriksen affiliates
Parnon Energy Inc. in Houston and Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. in
 London . They are accused of manipulating the oil market in 2008
as prices rocketed toward $147 a barrel. The defendants have
denied the allegations. Some of the companies whose records were
disclosed to Parnon earlier this year weren’t notified until
after the files were sent, court records show.  “We believe the CFTC may have improperly disclosed certain
records,” said Brad Leone, a spokesman for  Plains All American
Pipeline LP (PAA) , one of the companies appealing Pauley’s order.  Shell, Morgan Stanley, Vitol, Plains and Castleton
Commodities International LLC have appealed Pauley’s order.
Spokesmen for Vitol, Shell and Morgan Stanley declined to
comment; an attorney for Castleton didn’t return calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is In Re: Crude Oil Commodity Futures Litigation,
11-cv-03600. The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Parnon Energy Inc., 11-cv-03543, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Parnon Energy Inc.,
13-04206, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Germany Seeks to Probe E-Plus Deal in Tug of War With EU Agency  Germany ’s antitrust regulator sought the right to probe
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s purchase of  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus unit, setting
up a possible tug of war with the European Union over who
reviews the deal.  The Federal Cartel Office yesterday lodged the request at
the Brussels-based European Commission with the backing of the
government, Andreas Mundt, the authority’s president, said in an
e-mailed statement. The EU’s merger review agency now has 35
working days to rule on the bid, he said.  “The merger has effects exclusively on the German mobile-phone market,” said Mundt. “So a referral would be the right
way.”  The 8.55 billion-euro ($11.6 billion) sale, which will
merge the two companies’ German units, is one of two deals that
may transform the country’s telecommunications industry once
dominated by Deutsche Telekom AG. EU regulators have already
given the go ahead to  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s bid for  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said on Sept.
13 the deal should be handled by his unit, not by the Germans.
The Bonn-based Cartel Office is concerned that the transaction
would reduce the number of mobile-phone providers in the country
to three from four.  Antoine Colombani, Almunia’s spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Goldman Seeks to Halt Singapore Tycoon Lawsuit Over Yen-Real Bet  A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  unit asked a court to halt
 Singapore  tycoon Oei Hong Leong’s lawsuit claiming it misled him
into making leveraged trades that the yen would fall against the
Brazilian real.  Goldman Sachs International said in a Nov. 6 filing with
the Singapore High Court that proceedings should be suspended in
favor of private and confidential arbitration. Court papers
detailing reasons aren’t publicly accessible. A closed hearing
is scheduled for Nov. 22.  Oei, who in 2009 settled a claim against Citigroup Inc.
over S$1 billion ($804 million) in trading losses, accused
Goldman Sachs in the lawsuit of making fraudulent
representations that the real was a stable and liquid currency
anchored to the U.S. dollar. He’s seeking $31.7 million in
trading losses, plus interest.  Goldman Sachs will defend Oei’s lawsuit, which is without
merit, Hong Kong-based spokesman Edward Naylor said when asked
for comment on the case.  Oei will challenge Goldman Sachs’s arbitration bid, his
lawyer, Siraj Omar, said.  “Mr. Oei’s position is that the Singapore court is the
proper place to decide the claim, especially since the
misrepresentation that he is complaining about occurred in
Singapore,” Omar said. “He sees no basis for moving this to
confidential arbitration in London.”  Oei, a Goldman Sachs client since 2001, describes himself
as an experienced investor and a “prominent and highly
respected member of the Singapore business community,”
according to his court papers.  “This is not a claim that is being brought because I am
unhappy at the outcome of my investment decision,” Oei said in
court papers. “As a result of this fraud, I have suffered
significant losses.”  The case is Leong v. Goldman Sachs International,
S834/2013, Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  