-- Cliffs Suspends Ontario Ring of Fire Chromite Project
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-11-21T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/cliffs-suspends-ontario-ring-of-fire-chromite-project.html
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)  said
it will suspend its $3.3 billion chromite project in the
mineral-rich Ring of Fire by the year-end because of
uncertainties surrounding the development of infrastructure in
the remote region of Ontario.  All technical work, including a feasibility study and
exploration, will be halted by the year-end and no restart date
is planned, Cleveland-based Cliffs said in a statement late
yesterday. Offices in Thunder Bay, Ontario, and Toronto will
close, it said.  The project was among the most advanced in the Ring of
Fire, an area about 1,200 kilometers (740 miles) north of
 Chicago  that holds deposits of nickel and copper that may be
worth as much as C$50 billion ($48 billion), the Canadian
government said in March. Cliffs’ plans received a setback when
the Mining and Lands Commission of Ontario  ruled  against its
proposal for an all-weather road to transport ore that would
cross claims of another company active in the area.  Cliffs “will not allocate additional capital for the
project given the uncertain timeline and risks associated with
the development of necessary infrastructure,” the company said
in the statement. “Cliffs will continue its work with the
government of Ontario, First Nation communities and other
interested parties to explore potential solutions related to the
critical issue of infrastructure for the Ring of Fire region.”  Noront Project  Canada “remains committed to working with all our partners
for the benefit of sustainable growth in northern Ontario,”
Greg Rickford, the federal minister responsible for the Ring of
Fire and development in northern Ontario, said in a statement.  Cliffs, the biggest U.S. iron-ore producer, had already
suspended an environmental-impact evaluation of the project. On
its website, Cliffs calls the site  North America ’s largest known
deposit of chromite, which is used to produce stainless steel.
The company said in January 2012 the estimated total cost to
develop the project was $3.3 billion, including mine
development, a processing plant and transportation
infrastructure.  Noront Resources Ltd. (NOT)  is studying the Eagle’s Nest nickel,
copper and platinum-group metals project in the Ring of Fire.
Its plans won’t be affected by Cliffs’ suspension and it still
intends to complete an environmental assessment by the year-end,
Toronto-based Noront said in a statement late yesterday.  “Noront’s schedule is based on the Eagle’s Nest project
being the first mine developed in the Ring of Fire,” the
company’s Chief Executive Officer Alan Coutts said in the
statement. “Our projections have not been dependent on the
development plans of other mining companies.”  Cliffs fell 2.9 percent to $26.43 in  New York  while Noront
dropped 9.1 percent to 20 Canadian cents in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  