-- College of Staten Island on NCAA Probation for Violations
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-21T20:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/college-of-staten-island-gets-probation-for-swim-team-violations.html
The  College of Staten Island ’s
athletic department was placed on four years probation after
college sports’ governing body said it lacked institutional
control over its men’s swimming program.  The swim team also received a two-year postseason ban, the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association ’s Division III
Committee on Infractions said in an e-mailed release. Former
swimming coach Oleg Soloviev broke the NCAA’s ethical conduct
rules and provided impermissible benefits to players, according
to the release.  CSI Interim President William J. Fritz said in a statement
that the school itself found and reported many of the
violations. He said there never was any allegation that the
academic integrity of the college was compromised.  “I am extremely proud of our student athletes, who
continually display excellence on the field and in the
classroom,” Fritz said. “I am committed to having an athletics
program of which our students, faculty, staff and Staten Island
community can be equally proud.”  CSI has 13,300 undergraduates and is part of the  City
University of New York  system.  Soloviev arranged reduced-cost lifeguard certification
courses, signed leases and provided cost-free housing for
athletes, according to the release. He also helped five
international prospects in the visa process, and provided false
information regarding his actions to the school and NCAA, the
committee said.  Coach’s Concerns  Robert Prignoli, a Staten Island-based lawyer who
represents Soloviev, said in a telephone interview that his
client believes the decision is “unjust” and intends to
appeal.  “We believe the investigation was corrupted because the
NCAA let the college investigate itself and would not let us
interview witnesses even though the college, which was also
charged and found guilty of violations, was allowed to interview
witnesses,” Prignoli said. “We believe that we did not have a
proper and fair defense.”  The infractions committee said  Staten Island  failed to
oversee recruiting practices, monitor athlete housing
arrangements and provide adequate NCAA rules education. Its
athletic department will be on probation until Nov. 20, 2017.  First Championship  Soloviev, who was born in  Russia , was fired in 2011 after
15 years as the Dolphins swimming coach, according to the Staten
Island Advance. He recruited heavily from overseas and in 2008
coached Russian Pavel Buyanov to an NCAA title in the 100-yard
breaststroke, the school’s first Division III  national champion 
in any sport. Under Soloviev, the Dolphins won seven CUNY
Athletic Conference titles, the newspaper said.  If Soloviev seeks an athletics-related position at an NCAA
member school in the next four years, he and the school must
appear before the Committee on Infractions to determine whether
his sports-related duties should be limited. His conference
Coach of the Year awards from 2007 to 2011 were also vacated by
the school.  -- Editors: Larry Siddons, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  