-- Colorado State Running Out of Money for Hurricane Forecasting
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-21T21:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/colorado-state-running-out-of-money-for-hurricane-forecasting.html
Colorado State University , which
pioneered seasonal hurricane forecasting 30 years ago, may have
issued its last prediction.  The school’s Tropical Meteorological Project needs $150,000
or it will end in February, said  Phil Klotzbach , lead author of
the forecast.  William Gray , professor emeritus of atmospheric
science, was the first to predict how many storms would form in
the Atlantic during the ocean’s six-month hurricane season.  “Over the years, Dr. Gray has actually put in about
$500,000 of his own money to keep the forecast going,”
Klotzbach said by telephone from  Fort Collins ,  Colorado . “Right
now, he is supporting our project.”  The Colorado State forecast is watched closely by the
energy, commodity and insurance industries because of the impact
hurricanes have on property and markets in the U.S., Mexico and
the Caribbean.  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the
Energy Department. In 2001, Gulf waters accounted for 24 percent
of U.S. marketed gas production.  Florida, which has been struck by more tropical systems
than any other state, is the second-largest producer of oranges
behind Brazil.  Grant Money  In the past, the Colorado State group received grants from
the  National Science Foundation  and the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration. Those sources have dried up, Klotzbach
said. There has been a struggle to keep private funding as well.  Klotzbach said the hunt for funds hasn’t been helped by
this year’s missed forecast. He and Gray called for 18 storms
with winds of at least 39 miles (63 kilometers) per hour, eight
of which were expected to become hurricanes, three of those
major systems.  So far this year, 13 storms have formed, two of which were
hurricanes. None grew into a Category 3 or high major storm.  “It’s hard to ask for money when you have had your worst
forecast,” Klotzbach said. “It is like batting .180 and then
going into free agency.”  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  also
predicted an active season, as did AccuWeather Inc.  Gray’s criticism of  climate-change  science may also have
shut off some sources of funding, Klotzbach said. Gray has
repeatedly said he believes many researchers are wrong about
climate change and the problem isn’t severe.  Klotzbach said he has cut back to three-quarters time at
the university and is taking on other work to make ends meet.  “I’d like to keep working at CSU,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  