-- Consumers’ Outlook for U.S. Economy Improves After Two-Year Low
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-21T14:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/consumers-outlook-for-u-s-economy-improves-after-two-year-low.html
American consumers became less
pessimistic in November about the  economic outlook  as the effect
of last month’s partial government shutdown dissipated.  The gap between positive and negative expectations for the
economy shrank to minus 14 from a two-year low of minus 31 in
October, according to data from the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index released today. The weekly measure of sentiment fell to
minus 34.6 in the period ended Nov. 17 from minus 33.9.  Increased wealth from higher stock and home prices, cheaper
gasoline and more employment opportunities are providing
households with the means to boost purchases. A pickup in wage
growth would provide an additional spark for spending, which
accounts for almost 70 percent of the U.S. economy.  “Consumer sentiment has essentially reset compared to
where it was prior to the government shutdown, which should
assuage fears of a complete disaster during the holiday shopping
season,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist for
Bloomberg LP in New York. Without bigger gains in wages, “it
will be difficult for consumers to support spending beyond the
modest levels observed in the third quarter.”  The monthly expectations survey showed 23 percent of
respondents said the economy was getting better, compared with
16 percent, the fewest in two years, who said so a month
earlier. The share of those who said it’s getting worse declined
by 10 percentage points to 37 percent.  Two of the Bloomberg weekly gauge’s three components
weakened. The index of  personal finances  decreased to minus 2.1,
the fifth negative reading in six weeks, from zero the prior
week.  Current Conditions  A gauge of Americans’ view of current  economic conditions 
fell to minus 63.7 from minus 62.5 the week before.  The  buying-climate  barometer rose to a five-week high of
minus 38.2, as more households indicated that now is the time to
make purchases. The gain may have reflected cheaper prices at
the pump. A gallon of regular gasoline dropped to $3.18 on Nov.
11, the lowest level since February 2011, according to AAA, the
biggest U.S. auto group.  Sales growth in categories like flooring and kitchens
“reflects an emerging willingness among consumers to finally
replace items that are worn or outdated, or to make significant
enhancements to their homes,” Lowe’s Cos. Chief Executive
Officer Robert Niblock said on an earnings call yesterday.  Retail sales  climbed in October by the most in three
months, a report yesterday showed. The 0.4 percent increase
exceeded the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Retail Discounts  To build on the October gains, some retailers such as Best
Buy Co. said they will have to rely on discounting to lure
customers. Best Buy will face an “increasingly promotional
environment” in the fourth quarter as it plans to match rivals’
online prices this holiday-shopping season, Chief Financial
Officer Sharon McCollam said Nov. 19.  Today’s figures continued to show a divergence in attitudes
between the highest- and lowest-earning groups. The sentiment
reading for those making $100,000 or more a year increased to
17.3, while it was minus 51.4 for those with incomes less than
$50,000.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the U.S. economy,
personal finances and buying climate. The margin of error for
the headline figure is 3 percentage points.  The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  