-- Credit Suisse to Fence Off Swiss Operations in Extra Unit
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-11-21T17:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/credit-suisse-to-change-legal-structure-to-improve-resolution.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, plans to fence off its Swiss
operations in a separate unit to make it easier to salvage them
in a crisis without a taxpayer bailout.  Credit Suisse will divide its remaining businesses between
subsidiaries in the U.K. and U.S., and create a unit housing
shared services, to address potential rules for too-big-to-fail
banks, the Zurich-based company said in a statement today. The
plan, to be implemented starting in mid-2015, needs the approval
of the Swiss regulator.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, and Credit Suisse can
lower their Swiss capital requirements by ensuring they are able
to keep providing functions that are systemically important for
the country during a crisis. UBS, which needed a government
bailout in 2008, said earlier this month it plans to set up a
Swiss banking unit because regulations may demand changes to the
company’s legal structure.  “We applaud Credit Suisse’s plan,” Panagiotis Spiliopoulos, a Vontobel Holding AG analyst with a hold rating
on the stock, said in a note to clients. “While there’s no
immediate impact, the group will face slightly lower  capital
requirements  once fully implemented as the Swiss subsidiary will
only contain non-investment bank businesses.”  Credit Suisse fell 0.3 percent to 26.11 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading, for a gain this year of 20 percent. UBS rose 0.1
percent to 16.59 francs.  Swiss Subsidiary  Credit Suisse said the moves are in response to evolving
rules in Switzerland, the U.S. and Britain. National regulators
are imposing rules to protect their own country’s interests,
undercutting efforts to develop common global regulations.  The plan addresses the U.S. Federal Reserve’s proposed
requirements for foreign banks, Credit Suisse said. The Fed may
require the creation of holding companies to house all U.S.
assets for foreign banks, while applying to them U.S. rules on
capital, leverage and liquidity. In the U.K., the plan addresses
developing rules for recovery and resolution, the bank said. The
program has been approved by Credit Suisse’s board.  Switzerland has imposed stricter capital and liquidity
rules on its largest banks to protect the country from another
crisis. The combined assets of UBS and Credit Suisse peaked at
more than seven times Swiss gross domestic product in 2006,
before the financial crisis led to billions of francs in
writedowns and losses.  Credit Suisse’s assets fell to 895.2 billion francs ($978.3
billion) at the end of September from 1.36 trillion francs at
the end of 2007, using U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles.  UBS’s assets  shrank to 1.05 trillion francs from
2.27 trillion francs over the same period, under International
Financial Reporting Standards.  ‘Future Requirements’  The unit in Switzerland would encompass Credit Suisse’s
wealth and asset management, retail and corporate and
institutional clients businesses. The company last year merged
asset management with the private bank and moved its Swiss
trading business into the division. This will allow the bank to
provide all client services during a crisis.  Two units in the U.K. will be merged into one and form the
hub of the company’s European investment-banking operations. The
broker-dealer subsidiary in the U.S. will hold U.S.-based
operating businesses and, subject to regulatory approval, the
U.S. derivatives activities, which are currently booked in
 London , the bank said. The operating subsidiaries in the three
countries will be capitalized locally.  “These changes are designed to both meet future
requirements for global recovery and resolution planning and
result in a substantially less complex and more efficient
operating infrastructure for the bank,” Credit Suisse said.  Shared Services  The current structure consists of a global branch network,
mainly for the private-banking business, and three main
subsidiaries, used for the investment bank. The new structure
will more closely align the booking of investment-banking
business to the region where it originated.  The firm had 528.8 billion francs of assets at the
investment-banking division at the end of September, compared
with 275.4 billion francs at the private banking and wealth
management division, which includes all other businesses.  The bank also plans to create a separately capitalized unit
in  Switzerland , and a unit of the U.S. subsidiary, which will
house shared services, including back-office employees for the
group, to make sure the company has staff to manage an orderly
resolution should a unit run into trouble.  Selling Bonds  Once the legal framework is agreed upon, the holding
company of Credit Suisse plans to issue debt, which could be
converted into equity in a crisis. This will allow for a
resolution supervised by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority.  Finma said in a position paper in August that it favors
resolution of big banks led by the home regulator, which under
its preferred scenario would see creditors participate in
losses, allowing the lender to be recapitalized and meet the
needs of all units in Switzerland and abroad.  “Credit Suisse’s announcement raises the bar for other
large, complex banking groups looking to restructure in the
coming years,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today. “We
expect several other large European banking groups to make
changes to their structures because of various legal and
regulatory requirements to strengthen capitalization and improve
their resolvability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  