-- Crescendo Urges Aeropostale Board to Consider Sale
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-21T15:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/crescendo-urges-aeropostale-board-to-consider-sale.html
Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , the operator of
more than 1,000 teen and children’s apparel stores in  North
America , should consider selling itself, activist investment
firm Crescendo Partners said.  In a letter to the company’s board, Crescendo said that
although New York-based Aeropostale is trying to improve sales
and close underperforming stores, the turnaround effort would be
more effective as a private company.  “We think there will be very substantial support among
shareholders,” Crescendo Chief Executive Officer Eric Rosenfeld
said in telephone interview. “It could be a strategic sale or a
sale to a a private entity. We’re urging them to start the
process immediately.”  Crescendo said it sees a sale price of $14 to $16 a share
and that it “believes that numerous potential buyers will be
interested in acquiring Aeropostale because of its strong brand
name and its compelling valuation.”  Aeropostale Chief Executive Officer  Tom Johnson  is trying
to turn the struggling retailer around with updated fashions and
a plan to close as many as 40 underperforming stores this year.  Aeropostale will probably see sales decline in the year
ending in January, analysts estimate, as cash-strapped teens
shun logos and the mall for Internet and boutique shopping.
Aeropostale will announce a loss of 25 cents a share for the
third quarter, according to the average of 26 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Aeropostale will report third-quarter earnings Dec. 4.  Rosenfeld declined to disclose the size of the stake
Crescendo and its affiliates own. The company typically holds
stock for more than three years, he said.  Shares Rise  The shares  advanced  4 percent to $10.44 at 9:37 a.m. in New
York. They have declined 23 percent this year through the close
of regular trading yesterday, compared with a 25 percent gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Rosenfeld said the firm will nominate new directors by
early next year. In 2013, Aeropostale held its annual
shareholder meeting in June.  Private-equity firm Sycamore Partners took an 8 percent
stake in the company through its Hummingbird LLC unit in
September. In June, Sycamore purchased teen retailer Hot Topic
for about $533.5 million and also was in talks to buy Billabong
International Ltd. before talks ended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  