-- Cruz Rejects Washington Outsider Demand for 2016 Nominee
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-11-21T22:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/cruz-rejects-washington-outsider-demand-for-2016-nominee.html
Senator  Ted Cruz ’s description of
the ideal 2016 Republican presidential candidate sounds a lot
like himself.  The first-termer from  Texas  broke with fellow Republicans
calling for the next nominee for the White House to come from
outside Washington, arguing that the party simply needs the
right person -- a fiscal conservative willing to defy party
elders and defend the U.S. Constitution.  “What I think the next president should be is someone
who’s leading the fight for free-market principles and the
Constitution, and someone who’s listening to the American people
-- not listening to the established politicians,” Cruz, 42, who
is seen as a prospective 2016 presidential contender, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Republican Governors  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  and  Bobby Jindal  of  Louisiana , who are also potential 2016 candidates,
have recently called for a Washington outsider to be the party’s
next standard bearer. Praising Walker, Cruz said that isn’t the
most important criterion.  “What I think matters is, are they fighting to bring back
economic growth, to restore free-market principles, to bring
back jobs, to bring back the Constitution, and are they
listening to the American people,” Cruz said.  Christie’s Style  The Texan didn’t rule out mounting his own 2016 run -- “My
focus is on the Senate,” he said during the interview -- and
added that he wouldn’t criticize other Republicans who might be
interested. Yet he pointedly declined to call New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  a conservative.  “I like Chris Christie, I’m glad he was re-elected,” Cruz
said. “I think his blunt, brash style is refreshing.”  Cruz indicated he will redouble his efforts to undo
President  Barack Obama ’s signature domestic achievement, the
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act offering health
care for the uninsured, early next year -- raising the prospect
of yet another government shutdown fight in January.  “What we need to do is repeal it in its entirety,” Cruz
said of the health-care law. Asked whether he could accomplish
that in January, when Congress must vote on whether to continue
funding the government, Cruz said: “I don’t know. I hope so.”  Fighting Obamacare  Cruz drew national attention in September for his 21-hour
Senate talkathon criticizing the health-care law and caused a
furor within his party with his insistence that repealing it
must be a precondition for continued government funding. The
stance, backed by Tea Party-aligned  House Republicans , fueled a
stalemate with Obama and congressional Democrats that led to a
16-day partial government shutdown, dragging Republicans’
approval ratings to historic lows.  Cruz argued that the environment for his repeal effort has
improved since then because of the botched rollout of the
statute, featuring a glitch-plagued website, insurance plan
cancellations and premium increases.  “The difference now is, we’ve seen the disaster,” Cruz
said. “The sentiment for just starting over -- for saying as a
pragmatic matter, this thing isn’t working, let’s start over --
I think that sentiment grows.”  Cruz also said he wouldn’t support a “clean” debt-ceiling
increase without spending preconditions, something Obama has
repeatedly insisted on.  “I certainly hope that Congress uses the debt ceiling to
insist upon real reforms to stop the out-of-control spending,”
Cruz said.  Republican Alternative?  As for what he would put in Obamacare’s place if it were
repealed, he offered no new specifics on how to cover
individuals with pre-existing medical conditions, instead
calling for legislation to allow individuals to buy insurance
across state lines and keep coverage when they switch jobs.  “If your health insurance could be like your car
insurance, if it could be portable, it could go with you from
job to job, that solves an enormous amount of the problem with
pre-existing conditions and you can solve the rest of it with
high-risk pools, which Obamacare is eliminating,” Cruz said.  Many states already have high-risk pools as a last-ditch
option for those who otherwise couldn’t obtain insurance, and
they offer limited relief, often capping enrollment, covering
few benefits and charging exorbitant premiums. Administration
officials argue they wouldn’t come close to protecting those
with pre-existing conditions, who are guaranteed coverage under
the Affordable Care Act.  Iran Sanctions  On foreign policy, Cruz criticized Obama for seeking a
nuclear weapons deal with  Iran  in exchange for an end to U.S.
sanctions without insisting on preconditions, such as a
commitment that the Iranians dismantle nuclear centrifuges,
calling it “a mistake.”  “This administration’s weakness on this policy is having
the effect of encouraging Iran to move faster towards acquiring
nukes,” Cruz said.  He said Obama wouldn’t need to seek congressional
authorization to strike Iran to prevent the regime from gaining
such capabilities, and doing so could deprive Obama of “the
element of surprise” if he decided to take military action.  “There is overwhelming support in Congress,” for such a
move, Cruz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  