-- Czech Social Democrats Get Cabinet Go-Ahead as Tax Clash Lingers
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-11-21T17:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/czech-social-democrats-get-cabinet-go-ahead-as-tax-clash-lingers.html
The Czech  Social Democrats  received
a green light from President Milos Zeman to form the country’s
ninth government in a decade as they struggle to iron out
differences over  tax policy  with their potential partners.  Zeman, who irked political parties in June by hand-picking
a technocrat administration without parliamentary backing after
the previous government collapsed in June, asked Social Democrat
leader Bohuslav Sobotka today to lead cabinet talks. His party
won an Oct. 25-26 election. Zeman, who holds the right to choose
the prime minister, hasn’t said whom he’ll name.  “There is a realistic option of forming a majority
coalition government,” Sobotka said in a televised news
conference after meeting Zeman. “If everything goes well, it is
a realistic ambition to submit a proposal to the president for a
new government by the end of the year.”  The ex-communist European Union member is struggling to end
the political gridlock that ensued after Premier Petr Necas’s
cabinet collapsed in an illegal spying and corruption scandal.
The Social Democrats are seeking a way to rule with the ANO
party, backed by billionaire businessman Andrej Babis, and the
 Christian Democrats . Both parties have rejected proposals to
raise taxes to finance more state  spending .  The Social Democrats, who emerged from the election with a
record-low winning tally, and the runner-up ANO have agreed to
keep the fiscal  deficit  below the EU’s limit of 3 percent of
economic  output . They differ on how to finance state spending
aimed at re-igniting economic growth following the country’s
longest-ever recession.  Tax Talk  After ANO proposed this week to freeze taxes for two years
and seek savings in the state’s operations, Sobotka asked the
party for its calculations on how it could finance the Social
Democrat’s priorities of raising spending on pensions and
education and scrapping doctor fees.  “We have talked a lot about taxes, which is certainly an
important issue, but we need to continue discussing other themes
that will determine the future government’s policy as well,”
Sobotka said. “The key priority is a new economic policy that
will restart growth and support employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  