-- Denmark Cracks Down on Mortgage Banks as New Bill Not Enough
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-11-22T09:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/denmark-cracks-down-on-mortgage-banks-as-intervention-not-enough.html
Banks operating in the world’s
biggest mortgage-bond market per capita will be required to cut
sales of short-term bonds as Danish lawmakers say a proposal
unveiled this month to curb risks doesn’t go far enough.  Denmark wants banks in the nation’s $530 billion mortgage
bond market to cut issuance of short-term bonds even after
legislation addressing refinancing risks is pushed through,
according to Benny Engelbrecht, spokesman for the ruling  Social
Democrats  on the parliamentary committee overseeing banks.  “The mortgage industry shouldn’t use the new draft
legislation as an excuse to continue issuing as many one-year
bonds as they want,” Engelbrecht said yesterday in an interview
in Copenhagen. “The level must come down.”  Investors and issuers are still reeling after the
government unveiled a proposal this month that the mortgage
industry says is unprecedented in the market’s two-century
history. One-year bonds, criticized by rating companies and the
central bank for being too short to finance mortgages as long as
30 years, would be extended by 12 months at a time if an auction
fails, or if interest rates rise by at least 5 percentage
points. The notes finance about 40 percent of Danish home loans.  Investor Premium  Pension funds including PFA, which manages about $67
billion in assets, have warned they’ll demand a premium to hold
the new bonds as compensation for the risk of not being repaid
when the notes fall due.Alan Boyce, chief executive officer of
a joint venture backed by billionaire investor  George Soros , is
urging the government to exercise caution in “messing with” a
model he says has functioned well so far.  The industry has already taken steps to curb issuance of
the short-term bonds, and says there are limits to how much it
can do. One-year mortgage financing peaked in September 2012,
when it reached 1.3 trillion kroner ($228 billion) and accounted
for 52 percent of the total. Issuance dropped to 47 percent a
year later.  “We’ve started different initiatives to switch borrowers
into other loans,”Karsten Beltoft, director of the Danish
Mortgage Bankers’ Federation, said by phone. “But we can’t take
away mortgages from people who want them. We can’t force
borrowers to tap into other loan types. They have to choose
themselves.”  Yield Effect  Shrinking supply of short-term mortgage notes is also
contributing to lower yields. The home-loan unit of  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest bank, yesterday sold one-year bonds at an
effective yield of 0.14 percent, the lowest on record, according
to spokeswoman Hella Gebhardt Roennebaek.  Borrowers have flocked to the bonds after benefiting from
lower  interest rates . Denmark, whose modest public debt load
supports a stable AAA rating, has cut interest rates to record
lows to defend the krone’s peg to the euro. The nation’s
benchmark deposit rate has been  below zero  since July last year.
That’s driven down  mortgage rates  as Danes every year refinance
more than half the nation’s gross domestic product.  Lawmakers in the $340 billion economy argue Denmark needs
to respond to criticism from rating companies and to new stable
funding rules designed to ensure banks can withstand a 12-month
funding freeze.  Acknowledging Risks  Even bankers groups acknowledge there are risks.  “The need to protect the system against refinancing risks
warrants that issuance of bonds with short-term refinancing must
come down,” Beltoft said.  Though Denmark’s mortgage-bond market weathered the worst
of the global financial crisis, homeowners refinancing their
mortgages suffered a sudden surge in borrowing costs in 2008
after the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a
liquidity squeeze and sent Danish rates to an eight-year high.
Back then, the government adjusted pension laws to allow the
nation’s biggest investors to continue to hold mortgage bonds,
which suffered from a market-wide sell-off, propping up the
industry through swift intervention.  Adjustable-rate mortgage bonds, which can have maturities
of one, three or five years, were first introduced in 1996. That
started a shift away from the traditional fixed-rate, 30-year
bonds that have underpinned stability in the mortgage system
since its creation in 1797. Risks born of new mortgage products
now need to be stemmed, Engelbrecht said.  New Regulations  “New regulations will require banks to tailor mortgage
financing more closely to individual borrower profiles,” he
said. “That in itself should also contribute to cutting
issuance of short-term bonds.”  Engelbrecht also warned mortgage banks against assuming
that refinancing risks are the only area lawmakers are watching.
 Standard & Poor’s  and the central bank have cautioned against an
over-reliance on interest-only loans following their
introduction a decade ago. Since then, Danes’ reluctance to
amortize has bloated private debt levels and households in the
Scandinavian nation now owe their creditors 321 percent of
disposable incomes, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. That’s a world record.  “Just because lawmakers are now addressing the refinancing
doesn’t mean the industry can lean back and ignore other
potential risks,” Engelbrecht said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  