-- Deutsche Telekom Agrees to Sell Scout24 to Hellman & Friedman
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-11-21T15:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/deutsche-telekom-agrees-to-sell-scout24-to-hellman-friedman.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  agreed to sell a
70 percent stake in its Scout24 Holding digital-classifieds
business to Hellman & Friedman LLC for about 1.5 billion euros
($2 billion) in cash.  The purchase values the business at 2 billion euros
including debt, Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom said in a statement
today. The deal, subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to
be completed in the first quarter of 2014.  Scout24, Germany’s largest real-estate and dating  portal ,
has 14 million monthly users and operates in 22 countries, also
providing online classifieds for cars, jobs and travel. Deutsche
Telekom this year sought a partner to help expand the business
and to generate cash to invest in landline and mobile-phone
networks in  Europe .  Profitability at Deutsche Telekom’s digital business unit,
which includes the Scout group, declined last year, with
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of 137 million euros, or 16 percent of the division’s 868
million euros in revenue. That compares with a 20 percent margin
in 2011.  Europe’s phone companies are looking to offload Internet
and content businesses as they seek to raise money for building
high-speed mobile networks. Telecom Italia SpA this month put
its TI Media Broadcasting unit up for sale.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  of
 Spain  last year sold its stake in online travel agency Rumbo.  GTS Takeover  Germany’s biggest phone company this month agreed to buy
Warsaw-based GTS  Central Europe  for about $730 million, adding
landline networks in eastern European countries where the
carrier’s services are predominantly wireless. Deutsche Telekom
is turning its focus back to Europe after merging its T-Mobile
US unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc. six months ago.  Hellman & Friedman, a private-equity firm, was founded by
the late F. Warren Hellman, a one-time president of  Lehman
Brothers Inc ., and Tully Friedman in 1984.  Other bidders for Scout24 include EQT Partners AB and
Silver Lake Management LLC. Axel Springer AG, Germany’s biggest
newspaper publisher, said in September it was no longer
interested in the asset after having considered a bid.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jefferies advised Deutsche
Telekom on the transaction and Hengeler Mueller was legal
adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  