-- Dolphins Bullying Case Underscores Wider Sports Issue, Poll Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/dolphins-bullying-case-underscores-wider-sports-issue-poll-says.html
The Miami Dolphins bullying case
underscores a practice that exists throughout sports, according
to people questioned in a poll by Seton Hall University.  In the poll, 53 percent of respondents said bullying was
widespread in sports, while 25 percent said it was not. It also
showed that 37 percent said bullying was part of a broader
National Football League issue, while 13 percent said it was
isolated to the Dolphins and 17 percent said it wasn’t a problem
at all.  Jonathan Martin, a 24-year-old Dolphins offensive lineman,
left the team Oct. 28 after enduring harassment “far beyond the
traditional locker room hazing” for the entire 1 1/2 seasons he
spent with the team, David Cornwell, his lawyer at the firm
Gordon and Rees LLP in Atlanta, said on Nov. 6.  The Dolphins indefinitely suspended offensive lineman
Richie Incognito a week later for conduct detrimental to the
team after an expletive-filled voice message he sent to Martin
became public. The NFL is investigating the case at the
Dolphins’ request. Incognito has filed a grievance against the
team over the length of his suspension.  Of those surveyed, 46 percent agreed with Incognito’s
suspension, with 22 percent opposing it.  While the majority of respondents said bullying was a
broader issue throughout sports, 43 percent said the attention
the Martin-Incognito case has received would have no effect to
help eliminate bullying, with 32 percent saying it would help.  The NFL investigation comes as the team is challenging for
a playoff berth. With a 5-5 record after a 20-16 win against the
San Diego Chargers four days ago, Miami is among nine teams
within 1 1/2 games of the final playoff spot in the American
Football Conference. The Dolphins next play Nov. 24 against the
Carolina Panthers.  The Seton Hall telephone survey was based on responses from
808 people in U.S. between Nov. 18 and 20. It has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 1/2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  