-- Draghi Says ECB Aware of Concern Low Rates Risk to Stability
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-21T14:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/draghi-says-ecb-aware-of-concern-that-low-rates-risk-stability.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said keeping interest rates low for an extended
period carries risks that policy makers weighed carefully before
they reduced the benchmark rate to a record low.  “I am of course aware that our rate cut raised some
concerns,” Draghi said in a speech in Berlin today. “A
protracted period of time of low rates creates the scene for
risks in financial stability.”  The ECB reduced its main refinancing rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 0.25 percent on Nov. 7, while keeping the
overnight deposit rate for lenders who park excess cash at the
central bank at zero. Policy makers are considering a smaller-than-normal cut in the deposit rate to minus 0.1 percent if more
stimulus is needed to ward off deflation, according to two
central-bank officials with knowledge of the debate.  “Don’t try to infer anything from what I say, anything
about the possibility of negative rates,” Draghi said. “This
was discussed in the last monetary-policy meeting and there’s no
more news since then. Let me make this clear.”  The ECB president told reporters after the Nov. 7 meeting
that a deposit rate below zero is a policy option for which the
bank is “technically ready.” The ECB’s Governing Council
gathered in  Frankfurt  this week for its mid-month meeting and
the next interest-rate decision, which will be delivered with
new economic forecasts, will be announced on Dec. 5.  Euro Rebound  The euro rose as much as 0.3 percent after Draghi’s remarks
today and traded at $1.346 at 3:42 p.m. in Frankfurt. The
currency fell 0.7 percent yesterday after the report that the
central bank is considering a deposit rate of minus 0.1 percent.  “The speech looks like an effort to try and heal the
divisions in the Governing council and between countries by
playing the German line on the need for sound macro polices and
structural adjustment, but making the case for persistently
accommodative policy,” said Dominic Bryant, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “There is a significant risk of
unconventional measures at some point, but wide divisions on the
council would have to be overcome, or at least accepted.”  Governing Council member Jens Weidmann, the head of the
Bundesbank, said in an interview with Die Zeit published today
that it is not “sensible” to consider further monetary
loosening as it would distract from the roots of the financial
crisis. The German central bank said on Nov. 14 that it doesn’t
see an imminent threat for financial stability in the form of a
housing bubble, even though higher demand has boosted prices.  Macroprudential Policy  Draghi said that broad-based risks from low  interest rates 
haven’t materialized across the 17-nation euro region so far.  “We may at most see local risks, but local risks in
certain specified sectors have to be addressed by local tools,
local means,” he  said . “Namely, what we call macroprudential
instruments.”  The ECB cut rates this month “not because we see deflation
risks materializing,” Draghi said. “With the recovery taking
hold, we still expect inflation to return very gradually to
levels below but close to 2 percent. Rather, we acted to restore
an appropriate safety margin from zero as prescribed by our
price-stability objective.”  Euro-area inflation slowed to 0.7 percent in October, the
lowest level in four years and less than half the ECB’s target
of just under 2 percent. While economic growth is again taking
hold, it remains “weak, fragile, uneven, and we see the risks
all on the downside,” Draghi said.  “We have been witnessing a disinflation ‘in slow motion’
for several months now,” he said. “Combined with still weak
economic and monetary dynamics, the latest data suggest that we
may experience a prolonged period of low inflation going
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  