-- Dubai’s Shuaa Capital Weighs Partner or Debt in Quest for Growth
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-21T06:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/dubai-s-shuaa-capital-weighs-partner-or-debt-in-quest-for-growth.html
Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  may seek a joint-venture partner or raise debt to boost growth at its lending
unit as the investment bank controlled by Dubai’s ruler rebuilds
the business after five years of losses.  The company , which this year reported two straight quarters
of profit for the first time since the financial crisis, is
seeking to almost double the loan book at its Gulf Finance Corp.
unit, Chairman Sheikh Maktoum Hasher  Al Maktoum  said in an
interview in Dubai yesterday. The bank is seeking to boost
lending to about 1.4 billion dirhams ($381 million), from about
800 million dirhams, according to a company presentation.  Options for growth are “either a partnership, or a partial
sale, or a bond,” Al Maktoum said. “We would like cheap
funding, we would like more deal flow and there are many routes
to get to those things” which Shuaa is now exploring, he said.  Shuaa is focusing on so-called recurring revenue, such as
from lending and asset management, as it strives for consistent
profit, Al Maktoum said. The U.A.E. economy is accelerating,
helped by a rebound in tourism and real estate, which has made
Dubai and  Abu Dhabi ’s stock indexes among the best performing
globally this year.  The bank reported annual losses since 2008 as the financial
crisis hurt share trading volume and battered property prices in
the  United Arab Emirates , the second-biggest Arab economy.
Earlier this year, Shuaa, which unlike traditional retail banks
doesn’t have access to cheap customer deposits, completed a
restructuring program to reduce non-core assets and cut jobs.  Dubai Holding  Shuaa, 48.4 percent owned by a unit of Dubai Holding LLC,
reported a third quarter profit of 3.62 million dirhams ($1
million), compared with a loss of 13.9 million dirhams a year
earlier, helped by an increase in lending and gains at its asset
management unit. Three quarters of revenue derived from
recurring sources such as interest and fees, while profit at its
asset management unit almost doubled.  The bank’s businesses include  capital markets , investment
banking and brokerage for institutions. The company, which had
four chief executive officers in the three years until 2012,
withdrew from retail brokerage last year as volume declined.  Shuaa has the option of either attracting a partner for the
parent company or one for it’s Gulf Finance Corp. subsidiary to
gain resources, Al Maktoum said. It also has the option to raise
debt by borrowing from banks, or from a sale of bonds or use a
combination of these options, he said.  Takeover Interest  Shuaa’s lending business may be the subject of potential
takeover interest from local banks following the recent buyout
by Abu Dhabi-based  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  of credit-card company
Dubai First and lender Aseel  Islamic Finance ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
said in a report Nov. 6. HSBC rated Shuaa ‘underweight,’
equivalent to a sell, with a target price off 80 fils.  Shuaa’s  shares  were unchanged yesterday, having gained 64
percent this year. Dubai’s  benchmark index  has added 78 percent.  Gulf Finance Corp. boosted lending 64 percent in the year
to September to 814 million dirhams, helped by borrowings by
small and medium-sized companies in the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia .  Shuaa is one of many regional investment banks that have
struggled since the crisis as share sales and merger and
acquisition deals dried up. EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,  Egypt ’s
largest investment bank, said in May it will sell assets and cut
costs by 35 percent after an agreement to create a joint venture
with Qatar’s QInvest LLC collapsed because of regulatory delays.  Shuaa has directed its investment banking team to focus on
small- and medium-sized companies for M&A, advisory and fund-raising work, “so we are working on smaller deals but more of
them,” Al Maktoum said. It is also likely to raise 200 million
dirhams from banks or “other structures” next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  