-- Health Care, Education Ripe for Disruption: Groupon CEO
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-11-21T17:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/health-care-education-ripe-for-disruption-groupon-ceo.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  Chief Executive Officer
Eric Lefkofsky said two industries that are ripe for disruption
are health care and education.  In a wide-ranging discussion about innovation at The Year
Ahead: 2014, a two-day conference in  Chicago  hosted by Bloomberg
LP, Lefkofsky and other panelists said technology --
particularly mobile software and devices -- will play an
important role in changing how health care and education are
delivered.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  CEO Paul Jacobs, who also spoke at the panel,
said his San Diego-based company is working on technology
initiatives that will pre-emptively inform a consumer about
their health. Qualcomm is working on tiny sensors that will go
into someone’s bloodstream and can alert them two weeks before a
heart attack might happen, he said.  Technology also should help improve the way people consume
entertainment in their homes, Jacobs said during the event.
Smart televisions are making media and content more interactive
with consumers, he said.  Bloomberg is looking for new ways to distribute its video
content as it grapples with an entrenched cable industry that
makes it difficult to get Bloomberg TV on desirable channels,
said Daniel Doctoroff, CEO of Bloomberg.  There is an “opportunity for us to deliver content across
multiple platforms in different forms, not just linear TV,” he
said  Doctoroff added that innovation and disruption are topics
that all companies are discussing.  “Literally every institution is talking about how do we
break out of silos,” he said.  Lefkofsky said innovation in the next few years will
increasingly focus on software. Much of the technology battle
recently has centered on mobile device makers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and Samsung Electronics Co., with the next six to seven years
set to be the “dawn of software” as a means of differentiating
the gadgets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  