-- ECB’s Asmussen Says German Export Criticism ‘Simplistic’
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ecb-s-asmussen-says-german-export-criticism-simplistic-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said that  Germany ’s export muscle is
beneficial rather than harmful for the European and the global
economy.  “Germany’s export performance supports both upstream
producers and downstream producers in the rest of Europe,”
Asmussen said at a speech in New York today. “Germany is at the
center of the European value chain and is a gateway to global
value chains. So it is simplistic to assume that Germany
becoming less competitive would automatically help others –- it
may indeed harm them.”  European regulators this month began a probe of trade
surpluses in countries like Germany, the region’s largest
economy, and the Netherlands, saying it could hamper a still
nascent recovery in the 17-nation euro-area economy. The probe
adds to criticism from the International Monetary Fund and a
U.S. Treasury report that rebuked the surpluses as a drain on
European and global growth.  Observers should understand that the process of
restructuring and reform “has certain economic consequences –-
namely a period of current account surpluses,” Asmussen said.
“I see this as part of a healthy adjustment that will help the
euro area to play a constructive role in global demand in the
future.”  Germany’s  trade surplus  widened to 20.4 billion euros
($27.5 billion) in September from 13.3 billion euros the month
before. The nation’s current-account surplus, a measure of all
trade including services, climbed to 19.7 billion euros from
10.1 billion euros in August.  Asmussen, a German national, has been on the ECB’s
executive board since January 2012. He previously was Germany’s
deputy finance minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  