-- Indian Editor Faces Probe Over Sexual Assault on Journalist
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-11-22T11:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/editor-of-indian-investigative-magazine-accused-of-sexual-attack.html
Tarun Tejpal, the editor of one of
 India ’s best-known investigative magazines, is facing a police
investigation over allegations that he sexually assaulted a
female journalist at a beach resort in Goa.  Police formally opened an investigation into whether Tejpal
is guilty of rape and outraging the modesty of a woman, Kishan
Kumar, Goa’s director general of police, said by phone today.
Tejpal could face a maximum sentence of life in prison if
convicted of offenses including rape by a person in position of
trust and authority.  The journalist at New Delhi-based Tehelka magazine was
assigned to escort Robert de Niro at a festival hosted by
Tejpal, The Telegraph based in Kolkata  reported , citing the
victim’s e-mailed account of the incident. The first of two
separate assaults occurred in an elevator after they accompanied
the actor back to his room, the report said.  “I was devastated by her account but another version of
the events exists,” Shoma Chaudhury, the managing editor of the
magazine who was named one of “150 Women Who Shake the World”
by  Newsweek Magazine  in 2011, said today in an interview with
CNN-IBN. She attacked the Indian media, saying it is “wonderful
at jumping to conclusions.”  The allegation of the attack occurs amid a bout of national
soul-searching caused by the gang rape and murder of a student
in New Delhi in December 2012 that triggered weeks of protests.
Even after the enactment of new laws imposing stricter penalties
for men who assault women and the setting up of fast-track
courts, India is struggling to tame the male attitudes that
leave ordinary women vulnerable to attack.  ‘Honorable Thing’  Tejpal said today in a  statement  to CNN-IBN that he would
cooperate with police. “Unfortunately as sometimes happens in
life, the complete truth and the need to do the honorable thing
can come into conflict,” he said. “In this case the anguish
was accentuated by the fact that very many intimate people,
professional and personal, were involved.”  While Tejpal plans to step aside from his job for six
months over the incident, social activists and journalist
associations called for tougher action against one of the
weekly’s founders. Chaudhury said the magazine has created a
formal complaints committee to look into the allegations.  “There ought not to be any attempt to cover up or play
down this extremely serious incident,” the Editors Guild of
India said in a statement. Mamata Sharma, chairwoman of the
National Commission of Women, said Tejpal “is not God to decide
his own course of punishment.” The main opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party  has also demanded Tejpal’s arrest.  Magazine ‘Ruckus’  Tehelka, an English-language publication whose title means
“ruckus” in Hindi, is best known for investigations exposing
political corruption. In 2001, when it was operating as a
website, Tehelka released videotapes showing senior defense
officials and politicians accepting bribes. That led to the
resignation of the then-defense minister.  Tejpal accepted the “misconduct” and said “a bad lapse
of judgment and an awful misreading of the situation, have led
to an unfortunate incident to the concerned journalist,” the
 Press Trust of India  cited him as saying in a letter to
Chaudhury. “Because it involves Tehelka, and a sterling shared
legacy, I feel atonement cannot be just words.”  Tejpal did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Niveditha Ravi at 
 nravi2@bloomberg.net  