-- Telefonica Braces for More Currency Swings in Latin America
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-22T08:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/telefonica-braces-for-further-currency-swings-in-latin-america.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s biggest
investor in Latin American telecommunications, forecast currency
swings will further weigh on earnings from the region and has
boosted capital spending in Venezuela to forestall a possible
depreciation.  “We expect the negative impact from currencies to continue,
especially in Brazil, which recently had an overshooting,” 
Finance Chief Angel Vila said in an interview yesterday. In 
Venezuela, where Telefonica was last able to repatriate cash 
two years ago, “we are prepared for a potential devaluation.”  Once the growth  driver  for Madrid-based Telefonica, Latin
America has become a less reliable contributor, with the
depreciation of the bolivar and declines in the Argentine peso
and Brazilian reais helping to shave 7 percentage points off
revenue growth in the first nine months. The carrier is hedging
to cover two times its so-called free  cash flow  generated from
the region, Vila said in Barcelona, were he is attending an
investor conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  Latin America  accounts for half of Telefonica’s sales, with
Brazil its single largest market after Spain. Telefonica this
year shelved a plan to hold an initial public offering for all
of its Latin American business, focusing instead on M&A deals in
Europe, selling assets in Ireland and the Czech Republic and
acquiring control of  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s German mobile-phone unit.  Venezuela Cash  Telefonica wants to spend as much as possible of an
estimated $3 billion that it can’t take out of Venezuela amid
speculation of a devaluation of the bolivar, a person familiar
with the matter told  Bloomberg News  in June. The nation devalued
the bolivar from 4.3 per dollar to 6.3 on Feb. 8.  In Brazil,  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4)  is the largest wireless
operator, competing with  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s  Tim Participacoes
SA (TIMP3) ,  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB and  Oi SA. (OIBR4)  Telefonica, as Telecom Italia’s
largest shareholder, favors a sale or a breakup of Tim, people
familiar with the matter have said.  “We continue to believe in growth potential in the
market,” Vila told investors. “We are proponents and
practitioners of in-market consolidation as proven in Germany,
Ireland and Czech Republic. These types of deals make a lot of
sense, and a deal would make sense in Brazil, but the timing
needs to be right for all players.”  Debt Focus  Telefonica shares rose 0.3 percent to 12.16 euros at 9:13
a.m. in Madrid, taking their gains this year to 20 percent.
 Spain ’s biggest phone company has a market value of 55.4 billion
euros.  Next year, Telefonica plans to reduce its debt further, and
while it will keep “optimizing our allocation of assets,”
Telefonica doesn’t contemplate any major disposal yet, Vila
said. Telefonica reported net debt of 46.1 billion euros ($62
billion) at the end of September, reaching its year-end target
of less than 47 billion euros three months earlier.  As Spain exits a two-year recession, Telefonica executives
at the conference said they’re optimistic of a recovery in its
home market, where the company is offering bundled voice, data
and pay-television services to slow customer defections to
discounters.  The level of reforms Spain has done is “amazingly
ambitious,” Chief Operating Officer Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete
said in an interview. “This is starting to flow into the
economy. Trends are very promising.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  