-- Emaar Chairman Says Now Is Good Time to Weigh Retail Spinoff
-- B y   H u s s e i n   S l i m   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-11-21T10:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/emaar-says-now-is-good-time-to-mull-spinning-off-retail-business.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  said the
“current environment” makes it a good time for the Dubai
 property developer  to consider spinning off its retail business
into a separate company to increase investor returns.  “These units are doing extremely well. We probably in the
future will have to look at it again and see if we should
entertain that and what that would bring in value to our
shareholders,” Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. “I haven’t taken any decision
yet.”  Emaar, owner of the world’s biggest shopping mall by floor
space, relied on revenue from its malls and hotels for growth
when the 2008 collapse of Dubai’s property market caused demand
for homes and offices to evaporate. The developer’s third-quarter profit surged 50 percent amid a recovery in Dubai that
followed gains in hotel visitors and shopping tourists.  Emaar, the  United Arab Emirates ’ largest publicly traded
developer, has considered spinning off the retail businesses
before, Alabbar said in the interview. He didn’t elaborate.  ‘Crown Jewel’  “The retail business is the  crown jewel  of Emaar’s
recurring portfolio,” said Taher Safieddine, an analyst at
Shuaa Capital PSC with a buy rating on the stock. “It’s a high-margin business and a cash cow.”  Emaar’s retail business, which includes large malls and
community shopping centers, is expected to generate 3.2 billion
dirhams ($871 million) in  revenue  by the end of the year,
Safieddine said. The business accounted for 32 percent of
Emaar’s third-quarter revenue, he said.  A 50-50 split between recurring revenue and so-called
property sales and trading would be a “good number,” Alabbar
said. “I hope in the coming, maybe three years, we can achieve
that,” he said.  The value of Emaar’s property sales are expected to exceed
$2.5 billion this year and remain at a similar level in 2014,
Alabbar said.  Recurring revenue from malls, hotels and leisure accounted
for 44 percent of Emaar’s total income of 3.3 billion dirhams in
the first nine months of this year.  ‘Valuation Boost’  “The value of the retail business remains subdued when
mixed with property sales and the hospitality businesses,”
Shuaa’s Safieddine said. A spin-off of the retail unit would
increase the business’s  valuation , he said. Retail stocks are
less volatile and therefore more attractive to investors in the
region than other types of shares.  Property sales in Dubai are recovering after almost five
years of stagnant values following a property crash that saw
prices drop by about two-thirds.  Home prices  surged at the
highest pace in the world in the second quarter, prompting
Dubai’s government to double property-transfer fees and the
central bank to impose limits on mortgage lending.  “Prices are reasonable” and supply and demand will
balance out “no doubt,” Emaar’s chairman said. Dubai’s
government may apply more regulations “to minimize the pain in
case of a crisis,” he said.  Emaar doesn’t need to raise any new funding now, Alabbar
said. The developer “stretched” some of its loans over a
longer period of time and doesn’t have any need to restructure
any debt at this time, the chairman said.  The developer has 9.11 billion dirhams of  debt , with 1.84
billion dirhams coming due in 2015, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hussein Slim in Dubai at 
 hslim3@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  