-- Emerging Nations Seek to Streamline Climate Compensation Demands
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-21T15:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/emerging-nations-seek-to-streamline-climate-compensation-demands.html
Emerging nations from  India  to  China 
and  South Africa  are pushing to make it easier to get
compensation for climate-related damage as envoys struggle to
make progress at United Nations negotiations in Warsaw.  India wants the Green Climate Fund, set up by UN to channel
money to emerging countries, to include a “window” to handle
reparations, while the Group of 77 developing nations and China
are seeking a loss-and-damage regulator. Claims discussed at the
UN talks include help to cut emissions, protection from extreme
weather events and support for government departments.  “Certainly there is potential for streamlining,” Alf Wills, deputy director-general of environmental affairs at South
Africa’s environment ministry, said yesterday in an interview in
Warsaw, where representatives from almost 200 countries are
gathered.  Since the talks began last week, developed and developing
nations have argued over the responsibility for global warming
and who should bear the cost. Poorer nations need about $531
billion a year of additional investment in energy technologies
to keep the global temperature from rising more than 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels, the UN
said in a Nov. 1  report .  The difference between what the developing nations want and
the details provided by donor nations led by the U.S.,  Japan  and
European Union has become a source of friction in the UN talks.
A three-year program of funding from developed nations finished
in 2012 with $10 billion a year of payments. There’s no clear
plan for how much more money will flow, and when.  Africa Aid  The African Group of nations is seeking more than $60
billion in climate-related aid in 2016, Wills said. He sees the
Green Climate Fund playing a role in distributing compensation
on top of its emissions cutting and climate adaptation
responsibilities.  The EU is opposed to “automatic compensation” for severe
weather events, and nations should be careful about creating
“permanent institutions” to unlock loss and damage funds, EU
Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  told reporters in Warsaw
yesterday.  The Green Climate Fund was set up by the UN to channel a
portion of an annual $100 billion in climate aid that developed
nations have pledged for developing ones by 2020.  “There should be a window in the Green Climate Fund” to
handle loss and damage payments, India’s Environment Minister
Jayanthi Natarajan, said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.  “Too much has been given to mitigation and hardly anything
at all for adaptation,” Natarajan said. The fund’s loss and
damage payment architecture “would need to be worked out.”  Initial Fundraising  The prospect of additional compensation payments by
developed nations may in the future curb their willingness to
pay into the Green Climate Fund, Manfred Konukiewitz, co-chairman of the fund, said in a Nov. 19 interview. The fund,
governed by a board of rich-and-poor-nation representatives, is
planning its initial fundraising next year and  Germany  signaled
support for it yesterday.  “I see that there is a possible linkage, but it’s nothing
that concerns us at the moment because I don’t see the loss and
damage issue politically developed well enough so that we can
have any decisions soon,” Konukiewitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in Warsaw at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  