-- Envoys Seek Iran Deal as U.S. Vows Sanctions Enforcement
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-11-21T00:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/envoys-seek-iran-deal-as-u-s-vows-sanctions-enforcement.html
World powers resume negotiations
today toward an interim accord to limit  Iran’s nuclear program 
in the face of Israeli objections, as the U.S. vowed to stand
firm on oil and banking sanctions and punish violators.  U.S. and Iranian negotiators are set to have direct talks
in Geneva this morning, according to the U.S. delegation. Wider
meetings are to follow among  Iran  and six countries
participating in the negotiations, with the sides exchanging
draft language for a first-step deal to limit Iran’s nuclear
activities in exchange for the easing of U.S. bans on some
aspects of trade with Iran for six months.  Foreign ministers from the U.K. and  Germany  said they were
optimistic that an accord may be reached this week. U.S.
diplomats said disagreements persist and it’s not certain they
can finish a deal that soon.  “The differences that remain between the parties are
narrow and I believe they can be bridged with political will and
commitment,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
yesterday, citing “an historic opportunity to build agreement
on how to curb nuclear proliferation.”  The Geneva talks resumed yesterday following a 10-day break
since the last negotiations failed to seal an accord and
diplomats returned to their capitals to consult leaders.
Lawmakers in both the U.S. and Iran have criticized the proposed
deal, urging a tougher stand and fewer concessions by their
side.  ‘Intrusive Monitoring’  Vice President Joe Biden yesterday hosted a dozen
Democratic senators at the White House for two hours, telling
them that the current proposal would roll back Iran’s nuclear
progress and “provide us with intrusive monitoring of its
nuclear program,” the White House said in a statement.  Biden told lawmakers the draft accord “would prevent Iran
from using the cover of negotiations to continue advancing its
nuclear program as we negotiate a long-term, comprehensive
solution,” according to the statement.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday in  Washington 
that “we will not allow this agreement, should it be reached --
and I say should it be reached -- to buy time” for Iran to grow
its program “or to allow for the acceptance of an agreement
that does not properly address our core, fundamental concerns.”  A U.S. official involved in the talks dismissed concerns
expressed by Israeli leaders and some American lawmakers that
the sanctions regime weakening Iran’s economy will collapse if
any trade bans are lifted now as part of a first-stage deal.  Oil Sanctions  The official, who asked not to be named because of the
sensitivity of talks, said the U.S. will continue to vigorously
enforce penalties for violating sanctions, almost all of which
would remain in place during an initial deal. Restrictions on
Iran’s oil exports and banking transactions won’t be eased, the
official said.  The Obama administration doesn’t expect companies to rush
back into Iran because of concerns about the array of
restrictions and difficulty of doing business there, the
official said. Long-term economic benefits will come only from a
comprehensive deal that ensures that Iran’s nuclear program is
peaceful, allowing all nuclear sanctions to be removed, the
official said.  The U.S. and the European Union have imposed dozens of
sanctions on Iranian trade and financial transactions in the
past few years, including on energy, ports, insurance, shipping,
automotive, gold and other industries.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week said Iran needs
to “tackle high inflation and restore economic growth.” The
IMF  projects  42.3 percent consumer price inflation in Iran this
year, up from 30.5 percent in 2012.  ‘Right Deal’  The accord under consideration would deliver Iran limited
sanctions relief from trade in gold, autos, petrochemicals and
civilian aircraft parts in exchange for a verified halt to some
elements of its nuclear work, according to diplomats familiar
with the talks.  The initial deal would last six months, during which
negotiations would continue over a comprehensive accord intended
to ensure that Iran won’t make a nuclear weapon. The Islamic
republic denies it wants one.  Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif and European
Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  met privately
yesterday in Geneva, before wider talks. Diplomats from Iran and
members of the  United Nations Security Council  -- the U.S.,
U.K.,  France ,  China  and  Russia  -- plus Germany, are expected to
run at least through Nov. 22, organizers said.  “The last round of nuclear talks with Iran showed that a
diplomatic resolution is possible,” German Foreign Minister
 Guido Westerwelle  said in a statement from Berlin. “We can
succeed at the Geneva talks beginning today to take important
first steps.”  ‘Peaceful Solution’  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , a critic of the
proposed agreement, flew to Moscow yesterday for a meeting with
Russian President  Vladimir Putin . The Jewish state has said it
may consider a preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities if
diplomacy fails to ensure Iran can’t make nuclear weapons.  “I want to clear up any doubts -- we want a peaceful
solution, a diplomatic solution,” Netanyahu told reporters
after his meeting. “ Israel  has a lot to lose from not reaching
a solution. But it has to be a real solution.”  Israel believes “a better agreement” is possible than the
offer proposed by the six powers in Geneva, Netanyahu said.  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , in a speech
to the Basij militia yesterday in Tehran, denied that Iran is a
global threat and accused Israel of being “a rabid dog”
spreading lies about the Islamic Republic. He also said his
country wants normal relationships with other countries.  ‘No Enmity’  “We want to have friendly relations with all nations, even
the U.S.,” Khamenei said on state-run television. “We have no
enmity with any country.”  UN monitors verified last week that Iran had halted
expansion of its most sensitive nuclear work on a planned heavy-water reactor and new-generation centrifuges for  uranium
enrichment   after Hassan Rouhani became president in August.
Iran’s declared nuclear facilities are monitored by the UN’s
International Atomic Energy Agency to ensure that materials
aren’t diverted to weapons use.  While French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius helped delay
an accord at the last meeting by insisting that there be a pause
in construction of the light-water reactor at Arak, IAEA
monitors reported Nov. 14 that Iran had already stopped building
key elements at the facility.  “No major components, such as the control-room equipment,
the refueling machine and reactor cooling pumps had been
installed,” the IAEA said. Iran and the IAEA signed their first
deal in six years on Nov. 11 that gives investigators wider
access to Iranian facilities.  Enrichment Right  Iran also has offered to compromise over demands for
recognition of its right to enrich nuclear material. There’s
“no necessity for its recognition as a right,” because it’s
self-evident in the international nonproliferation treaty, Zarif
said on Nov. 17, according to Iran’s state-owned Iranian
Students’ News Agency. Article 4 of the treaty says countries
have an “inalienable right” to nuclear technology.  The Obama administration says the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty gives no explicit right to enrichment, though officials
have said it would be possible to navigate terms for Iran to
maintain a domestic program, as long as it is verifiably for
peaceful purposes only.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  