-- Tepco Seeks 2 Trillion Yen Loan for Investments, Asahi Reports
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-11-21T06:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/tepco-seeks-2-trillion-yen-loan-for-investments-asahi-reports.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  wants to
borrow 2 trillion yen ($20 billion) for new  power plants  and
overseas operations as it maps a return to profitability after
the Fukushima nuclear disaster, the Asahi newspaper reported.  The request to banks including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and the government-owned  Development Bank 
of  Japan  Inc. is in addition to 500 billion yen already being
sought from the creditors, the Asahi reported, without saying
where it got the information.  The loan is being sought as the nation’s biggest utility,
known as Tepco, devises a business plan that will probably call
for greater reliance on thermal fuels due to its dwindling
nuclear fleet. A further 2 trillion yen in borrowing would be
almost double the money the government injected into Tepco last
year to cover costs from the March 2011 nuclear disaster.  Tepco and its majority owner, the publicly funded Nuclear
Damage Liability Facilitation Fund, plan to use the additional
credit to replace aging thermal plants and expand overseas
electricity operations, the Asahi reported.  Two people at two banks involved in the discussions who
asked not to be identified confirmed that their companies had
been contacted about the additional loan. One of the people said
his bank was told the total size of the loan being sought may be
about 2 trillion yen.  Tepco’s Intentions  Tepco spokeswoman Mayumi Yoshida declined to comment.
Taishi Kono, a spokesman for the liability fund, didn’t
immediately return a call.  The details shine some light on Tepco’s intentions as it
revises the business plan under which it has operated since May
2012, when it received a government bailout after the temblor
and tsunami 14 months earlier crippled reactors at the utility’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant northeast of  Tokyo .  The request is separate from a 1.07 trillion yen finance
plan agreed to during the bailout. Under that pact, the utility
is also seeking to secure 300 billion yen in new loans and 200
billion yen to refinance existing debt by year-end.  New thermal plants will be needed as some of Tepco’s
existing gas-, coal-, and oil-burning generators become too old
to use, Hiroshi Takahashi, a research fellow at the Fujitsu
Research Institute, said today by phone. The utility’s need for
thermal capacity has also been intensified by the idling of its
nuclear fleet, he said.  Nuclear Reactors  Tepco is considering a government request to decommission
the two reactors at the Dai-Ichi plant yet to be written off,
along with the four reactors at its Fukushima Dai-Ni plant. It
has applied for safety checks for two reactors of the seven at
its remaining Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant in Niigata prefecture.  “It is highly unlikely that all of those seven reactors
will be in operation in the near future,” Takahashi said.
“They need a certain volume of capacity at thermal power
stations.”  Tepco was seeking funds to invest in overseas electricity
generation because it identified the sector as a growth area,
the Asahi reported. Takahashi said he was skeptical the utility
would be able to spend much money abroad, given domestic needs.  “That’s an important strategy so they include that
strategy in their plan, but they won’t be able to spend so much
money on foreign business development,” he said. “They have
many problems in Japan.”  Bonds Outstanding  The utility has the equivalent of 4.2 trillion yen in  bonds
outstanding , including 659 billion yen in securities maturing
next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tepco last sold bonds publicly in September 2010 in a 30
billion yen offering paying an interest rate of 1.155 percent.
The bonds, maturing in 2020, have lost 16 percent since issue
and traded at 83.87 on Nov. 20. The yield premium investors
demand to hold the notes has risen to 353 basis points over
government debt from 7 at the time of sale.  The  cost to insure   Tokyo Electric ’s debt has fallen 84
basis points this year to 363.4 basis points as of Nov. 20, and
is down from a high of 1,762.2 in October 2011, according to CMA
data. The latest price is signaling a 25 percent chance of
default by December 2018, according to Bloomberg-compiled data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  