-- Merkel Says Restraining Germany’s Export Power Would Be Absurd
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-11-21T13:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/merkel-says-restraining-germany-s-export-power-would-be-absurd.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  rebuffed
international criticism of Germany’s trade surplus as an
“absurd” position based on “fairy tale” assumptions.  “We can’t and won’t let anyone artificially reduce
Germany’s competitiveness,” Merkel said to applause at a
conference in Berlin today. “This can’t be what a successful
Europe is about.”  The chancellor was responding to a probe of Germany’s
current-account surplus by European Union regulators, who said
it may cause the euro to appreciate and urged the country to
boost  consumer spending . Merkel said Germany’s “meager growth”
is driven “almost exclusively” by domestic demand.  Merkel has faced down calls by the International Monetary
Fund, the U.S. Treasury and the Social Democratic Party, her
prospective coalition partner, to shift her focus from debt
reduction and balancing the budget toward easing the EU’s
economic imbalances. Even so, the SPD and Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc agree in rejecting perceived pressure from the
U.S. and European partners to restrain German exports.  “I think it would be absurd if we were to try make German
companies reduce production or cut back on quality,” Merkel
said today. “It’s also a fairy tale that workers in German
export industries are badly paid.”  Most of  Germany ’s trade surplus is based on exports to
emerging economies, she said. “So it’s questionable whether we
can exert much influence of our own over the situation.”  While signaling she’s ready to drop her opposition to the
SPD’s demand for a nationwide hourly minimum wage of 8.50 euros
($11.45), Merkel again rejected tax increases sought by the
Social Democrats, saying they would threaten consumer spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  