-- Merkel Signals She’ll Back Minimum Wage as Coalition Nears
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-11-21T16:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/merkel-signals-minimum-wage-concession-as-coalition-draws-closer.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel signaled
that she was prepared to accept a national minimum wage in
 Germany  as the price of securing her third-term government with
the Social Democrats.  Merkel’s concession to the party she defeated in Sept. 22
elections removes one of the biggest stumbling blocks to the
formation of a so-called grand coalition of her Christian
Democratic bloc and the SPD led by Sigmar Gabriel. Top
negotiators held a seventh round of talks today and said they
made progress on forging a shared government program by Nov. 27.  “I will have to agree to things that I described as the
wrong approach in my campaign platform,” Merkel said in a
speech today before the talks. “A realistic view of the
situation leads very quickly to the conclusion that the Social
Democrats won’t conclude these negotiations without” a national
minimum wage, she said.  Merkel and Gabriel are both confronting frustration within
their ranks over concessions made as the talks enter their
decisive phase. While Bild newspaper calculated that Merkel’s
bloc has bowed to SPD demands in 10 of 12 main policy areas, the
Social Democrats are bridling at the CDU’s refusal to free up
funds as it holds fast to a commitment not to raise taxes.  Spending priorities for Merkel’s next four-year term aren’t
agree yet and “this isn’t going to be easy at all,” Andrea
Nahles, the SPD’s general secretary, told reporters after the
negotiations. “Things are coming to a head.” While the talks
could collapse, “I’m very optimistic that it can work,” Nahles
said.  Nov. 26 Showdown  “It’s hard work, but one does have the sense that with
hard work, it will lead to a good result,” Hermann Groehe, her
CDU counterpart, said at a joint news conference. Negotiators
will meet to try and overcome their remaining differences on
Nov. 26, he said.  The chancellor’s goal to have a new government sworn in by
Christmas faces a further hurdle as a result of the SPD
leadership’s pledge to put whatever accord is reached to a
ballot of its members. The result will be announced on Dec. 14,
Deutsche Presse-Agentur reported today.  The SPD set a minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.50) an hour
across Germany as its main condition for entering into
coalition. Merkel’s bloc campaigned for wages to be set by
industry and labor, with a lower threshold imposed in some
industries.  Speaking yesterday, Merkel called the labor-market debate
“among the more difficult issues” in the talks. Progress on
minimum wages would join agreements reached on matters including
energy, quotas for women on company boards, a planned financial-transaction tax and rent controls. The CDU has won the SPD over
to its refusal to support euro-area bond issuance.  “I believe that forming a government is the responsible
thing to do for Germany,” Merkel said today. “It hasn’t
exactly been a hasty process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  