-- Merkel’s Business Wing Sees Chancellor in Hollande’s Footsteps
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-11-21T14:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/merkel-s-business-wing-sees-chancellor-in-hollande-s-footsteps.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  is making
 Germany  more like  France  by bowing to Social Democratic demands
on economic policy to secure her third term, her party’s main
spokesman for business said.  Merkel, who won elections on Sept. 22, is risking jobs and
jeopardizing gains in German competitiveness begun under  Gerhard Schroeder , her Social Democrat predecessor, Kurt Lauk, the head
of the business wing of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union ,
said in an interview.  “In some ways, we’re going the French way now, probably
with similar ‘success,’” Lauk said. “The CDU is helping the
SPD roll back its own Agenda 2010 reforms” that overhauled
Germany’s labor market and welfare programs under Schroeder.  Merkel signaled today that she will accept the SPD’s demand
for a national  minimum wage . She may also back curbing
companies’ hiring flexibility and cutting the  retirement age  to
63 for some workers, reversing a remedy she tried to administer
on troubled euro-area countries.  German  unemployment  near a two-decade low contrasts with
France, the euro region’s second-biggest economy, where
joblessness is at a 14-year high and  Francois Hollande  has the
lowest approval rating for a French president since 1958.  Hollande has failed to carry out the “essential reforms”
that led to improvements in other European countries and may
miss his pledge to stem the rise in French unemployment by the
end of the year, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report this week.  In Germany, Merkel’s readiness to compromise with the SPD
risks reversing policies that made  Europe ’s biggest economy
stronger, the government’s Council of Economic Experts said in a
Nov. 13 report.  “A minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.50) will hurt
employment especially in eastern Germany,” Achim Dercks, deputy
managing director of the DIHK chambers of industry and trade,
which represent 3.6 million companies, said in an interview
yesterday. “A quarter of the workers there earn less than that
amount, so many jobs are at risk.”  Merkel, who has led two coalition governments since 2005,
said deal-making is required to secure her third.  “The voters have neither given an absolute majority to the
business wing of the CDU, nor to the left wing of the SPD,” she
said in a speech to a conference in Berlin today. “To those who
think that the outcome won’t be so good, I say: from the point
of view of businesses the outcome would be much worse in other
constellations.”  The proposed nationwide minimum hourly wage may destroy as
many as 1 million jobs, Hans-Werner Sinn, president of Munich’s
Ifo economic institute,  told  Focus magazine this week. Ifo’s
business confidence gauge fell for the first time in six months
in October.  “Companies will have no choice but to shift production to
other countries step by step if they lose the urgently needed
flexibility in the labor market that allows them to adjust to
fluctuations,” Lauk said yesterday.  Of the more than 2 million jobs in the car industry, as
many as 200,000 are work contracts, a form of employment the
prospective coalition may restrict, he said.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes cars, “must think about
moving production to other sites,” Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper in an
interview published Nov. 17, citing plans to better protect
temporary workers and leased workers and to curb work contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  