-- EU Denies Seeking to Hide Emissions Levels, Envoy Lefevere Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-21T11:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/eu-denies-seeking-to-hide-emissions-levels-envoy-lefevere-says.html
The European Union’s request for
more time to count and review greenhouse-gas levels is due to an
unrealistic deadline and not an effort to hide emissions,
according to Juergen Lefevere, a climate envoy for the bloc.  The EU wants to delay a compliance report for the 1997
 Kyoto Protocol  until after 2015 because the review of nations’
emissions, which won’t be drafted until April, will take more
than a year to complete, Lefevere said by phone yesterday from
United Nations climate talks in Warsaw.  “It has nothing to do
with transparency,” he said.  Alf Wills, deputy director-general of environmental affairs
at  South Africa ’s environment ministry, said yesterday the EU’s
request meant some developed nations won’t have reported on
emissions for the five years through 2012 before setting targets
for a 2020 climate deal. That represented “backtracking” on
commitments, Wills told reporters in Warsaw.  Climate talks aren’t moving fast enough and richer nations,
instead of boosting goals, are stepping back, said Wills. After
almost two weeks of negotiations in the Polish capital,
countries still haven’t agreed on the legal form, content and
timetables needed to establish a deal for 2020,  Su Wei ,  China ’s
negotiator, told reporters yesterday.  The UN conference, slated to finish tomorrow, aims to put
in place a treaty by 2015 that could replace the Kyoto Protocol,
the only international pact limiting fossil-fuel emissions. The
new deal would come into force in 2020.  Forcing the EU to undertake their emissions review within a
year may “automatically” put the bloc out of compliance with
Kyoto rules, which also require a three-month period where
nations buy and sell emission credits to match their greenhouse-gas commitments, the EU’s Lefevre said.  Negotiators are still setting rules for Kyoto’s second
commitment period, which runs for eight years through 2020 and
may cover more than 30 industrialized nations with about 15
percent of global emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  