-- EU Praises Nuclear-Talk Substance as Iran Sees Possible Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-11-21T16:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/eu-praises-nuclear-talk-substance-with-iran-seeing-possible-deal.html
A “substantive” round of talks
between  Iran  and world powers opened the possibility that chief
diplomats may unexpectedly return to Geneva to sign an interim
nuclear deal.  Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif met with
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  for about
four hours in the Swiss city, according to an EU statement.
Ashton is negotiating on behalf of six world powers and will
meet her Iranian counterpart again later today.  Zarif’s deputy, Abbas Araghchi, told reporters the meeting
with Ashton was “positive” and there were “whispers that
foreign ministers are making plans” to travel to Geneva. The
accord’s language must be agreed so that “foreign ministers
won’t be surprised,” he said. Iran’s Mehr news agency quoted
Araghchi as saying a deal tonight is unlikely.  Envoys are trying to strike a first-step accord that would
give negotiators a six-month window in which to win a broader
agreement over Iran’s nuclear work.  Israel  and the U.S. have
said they don’t rule out a military strike on Iran, which
controls the world’s No. 4 proven oil reserves, to prevent it
from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The Persian Gulf nation of 80
million people denies it’s seeking a nuclear bomb and wants
trade sanctions lifted.  It was a “very substantial and detailed start of
negotiations,” EU spokesman  Michael Mann  said in a statement.
Ashton and Zarif are “getting down to detailed work.”  Six Powers United  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who drew rebukes
from negotiators at the previous round of talks after he raised
last-minute objections, today told France24 radio that there are
no differences between  France  and its allies this time.  “For the moment, the Iranians don’t think they need to
accept the position of the six,” Fabius said. “I hope they
will accept. The text is supported by all six.” Iran is
negotiating with six nations in Geneva: China, France,  Germany ,
Russia, the U.K. and the U.S.  The accord under consideration would give Iran limited
sanctions relief from trade in gold, autos, petrochemicals and
civilian aircraft parts in exchange for a verified halt to some
elements of its nuclear activities, according to diplomats.  Foreign ministers from the U.K. and Germany said they were
optimistic that a deal may be reached this week. Differences
“are narrow and I believe they can be bridged with political
will and commitment,” the U.K.’s  William Hague  said yesterday.
U.S. diplomats said disagreements persist and it’s not certain
they can agree to a pact that soon.  Kerry, Lavrov  During the last round of talks in Geneva, U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov ,
along with their French, German and British counterparts,
interrupted their schedules to join the meeting.  Today’s session between Ashton and Zarif was described by
the Iranian delegation as a decisive point in negotiations.  “All will depend on the Ashton talks with Zarif,” saidAraghchi. The six world powers Iran is negotiating with need a
common stance at this “critical juncture,” he said.  The Geneva talks resumed yesterday following a 10-day
break. The last round of negotiations failed to seal an accord
and diplomats returned to their capitals to consult leaders.
Lawmakers in both the U.S. and Iran have criticized the proposed
deal, urging a tougher stand and fewer concessions.  ‘Options Open’  In  Washington , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said that,
while he supports the negotiations in Geneva, the Senate will be
prepared to push for tougher sanctions when lawmakers return in
December from a Thanksgiving holiday break. The Obama
administration has been pushing lawmakers to hold off action to
tighten sanctions to give diplomacy a chance to succeed.  “I will support a bill that would broaden the scope of our
current petroleum sanctions, place limitations on trade with
strategic sectors of the Iranian economy that support its
nuclear ambitions, as well as pursue those who divert goods to
Iran,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor today.
“While I support the administration’s diplomatic efforts, I
believe we need to leave our legislative options open to act on
a new, bipartisan sanctions bill in December.”  Sanctions Regime  A U.S. official involved in the talks dismissed concerns
expressed by Israeli leaders and some American lawmakers that
the sanctions regime weakening Iran’s economy will collapse if
any trade bans are lifted now as part of an interim deal.  United Nations monitors verified last week that Iran had
halted expansion of its most sensitive nuclear work on a planned
heavy-water reactor and new-generation centrifuges for  uranium
enrichment  after Hassan Rouhani became president in August.  Iran’s declared nuclear facilities are monitored by the
UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency to ensure that materials
aren’t diverted to weapons use.  A deal in Geneva “would enable us to test the prospects of
a peaceful resolution, which is what we’ve sought through the
application of very tough sanctions,” National Security Advisor
 Susan Rice  said yesterday in Washington. “Without this interim
agreement, there will be no brake on Iran continuing full steam
ahead with its nuclear program while it talks and perhaps drags
out talks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in Geneva at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  