-- EU Reaches Breakthrough on Restraining Dark Pools, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-11-21T17:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/eu-reaches-breakthrough-on-restraining-dark-pools-lawmaker-says.html
European Union negotiators reached a
breakthrough on how much equity trading can occur on private
platforms known as dark pools, as talks advanced toward
overhauling the bloc’s financial market rulebook.  EU lawmakers and diplomats brokered a tentative deal to
curb a waiver that traders use to conceal some details of their
activities,  Markus Ferber , a German member of the European
Parliament, said in a phone interview. They also agreed on rules
for a new type of trading platform, known as an organized
trading facility, he said.  “We agreed on limitation mechanisms for dark trading,”
said Ferber, who’s leading the assembly’s negotiations with
 Lithuania , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU. “A
lot of further discussions have to follow at a technical level
to make this functional,” he said.  The measures are part of an overhaul of the EU’s financial
market rules, known as Mifid, that  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, has said is needed to rein in
“speculative trading activities” and implement agreements
reached by the Group of 20 nations.  Global regulators in the International Organization of
Securities Commissions have also called on regulators to “take
steps to support the use of transparent orders rather than dark
orders.”  Price Waiver  Negotiators at today’s meeting in Strasbourg,  France ,
agreed on measures to scale back provisions in current EU
legislation that allow some equity trades to escape normal EU
transparency rules.  Specifically, lawmakers and officials agreed to limit use
of an exemption from pre-trade transparency known as a reference
price waiver.  The waiver allows trading venues to avoid disclosing
details of some transactions before they are completed, and was
intended to encourage traders to use regulated platforms rather
then resort to over-the-counter trading.  Under the agreed plan, which only concerns equities
trading, the use of the waiver for a particular stock will be
limited by two caps, one set as a percentage of trading of that
stock on an individual venue, the other set as a percentage of
overall trading of that stock in the EU, Ferber said.  Further work will be needed to determine the thresholds at
which these caps should be set, Ferber said.  Dark Platforms  The European Commission has said that the creation of
organized trading facilities, or OTFs, would capture some
trading that currently takes place outside the scope of
regulatory oversight, while curtailing pre-trade transparency
waivers will also make it harder for traders to escape scrutiny.  OTFs are part of its strategy for meeting a G-20 commitment
to push trading in standardized forms of derivatives onto
regulated markets.  The creation of the OTF category of trading venue in the EU
law is intended to capture dark platforms “which are currently
not regulated but are playing an increasingly important role”
and to subject them to “the same core requirements for the
operation of a trading venue as other existing platforms,” the
commission has said.  Among the tentative compromises brokered today are an
agreement that only assets other than stocks, such as
derivatives and bonds, will trade on the OTFs, Ferber said.  EU parliament lawmakers and some national governments have
called for such a limitation in a bid to prevent an unintended
shift in trading away from more regulated platforms such as
multilateral trading facilities, or MTFs.  Proprietary Trading  Negotiators also agreed that proprietary trading by
financial firms running OTFs will only be allowed for illiquid
sovereign debt, Ferber said.  So-called matched-principle trading, a practice in which
the OTF manager facilitates a trade between two different
counterparties, will be allowed, subject to “very restrictive
rules,” Ferber said.  The EU plans must be agreed on by the parliament and by the
 Council of Ministers , an EU institution representing national
governments, before they can take effect.  Negotiators are racing to reach a political deal by the end
of the year, so that the legislation can be adopted before
parliament goes into recess for elections in May.  “We have these cornerstones, now we have to finalize the
legal work,” Ferber said.  More meetings will be needed to secure a full deal on the
legislation, Ferber said. Outstanding issues include how far the
EU should go in seeking to boost competition in central clearing
of derivatives trades, and what steps it should take to curb
speculation with commodity derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  