-- EU Says Portugal Court Rulings May Complicate Return to Market
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-11-21T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/eu-says-portugal-court-rulings-may-complicate-return-to-market.html
The European Commission said new
rulings by  Portugal ’s  Constitutional Court  blocking government
measures may make it tougher for the country to regain full
access to the  bond market .  “Risks from further negative rulings by the Constitutional
Court cannot be discarded and could make the government’s plans
to fully access the  debt market  from mid-2014 on significantly
more challenging,” the Brussels-based commission said today in
a report on the eighth and ninth reviews of the aid program for
Portugal.  While the economy may pick up next year, Prime Minister
 Pedro Passos Coelho  still has to trim spending by about 3.2
billion euros ($4.3 billion) in 2014 after relying mainly on tax
increases this year to meet targets set in the rescue program
from the euro area and the  International Monetary Fund . Portugal
is trying to regain full access to debt markets, with the end of
its 78 billion-euro rescue plan approaching in June.  The 2014  budget  is due to be approved in parliament on Nov.
26 and includes 1.3 billion euros of cuts to personnel costs.
Constitutional Court judges already blocked austerity measures,
including pay cuts for state workers, on three occasions this
year.  “In the event that some of the measures were to be found
unconstitutional, the government would need to reformulate the
draft budget in order to meet the agreed deficit target,” the
EU said. “In view of the rapidly shrinking room of manoeuvre in
identifying appropriate consolidation measures, this would imply
increasing risks to growth and employment and reduce the
prospects for a sustained return to financial markets.”  Financing Needs  The government targets a budget deficit of 5.5 percent of
gross domestic product for this year and 4 percent for 2014. It
forecasts the shortfall will fall below the EU’s 3 percent limit
in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. Portugal’s  debt  is
forecast to peak at 127.8 percent of GDP this year.  The IMF on Nov. 13 said that Portugal’s ability to regain
full  market access  after its aid plan ends is limited and
support from European partners will remain important to assure
medium-term financing needs.  The country’s net financing needs in 2014 will be 11.7
billion euros, Secretary of State for Treasury Isabel Castelo Branco said on Oct. 15. The government plans gross bond issuance
of 10.5 billion euros next year, when financing from the euro
area and IMF will be 7.9 billion euros, she said.  The commission said today there are “early signs of a
recovery in economic activity” in Portugal. The  economy 
expanded for a second quarter in the three months through
September. The government on Oct. 3 raised its 2014 growth
forecast to 0.8 percent and expects the economy will shrink 1.8
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  