-- EU Says Gensler Swaps Rule Clashes With Trans-Atlantic Pact
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-11-21T14:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/eu-says-gensler-swaps-rule-clashes-with-trans-atlantic-pact.html
European Union regulators accused
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission of reneging on a
trans-Atlantic pact on swaps regulation, saying new curbs on EU-based units of U.S. banks clash with efforts to align rules.  The European Commission is urging the CFTC to reconsider
the measure that Chairman  Gary Gensler  argued is vital to
prevent U.S. companies from evading regulations by booking
transactions through affiliates based in other countries.  “We were very surprised by the latest CFTC rules which
seem to us to go against both the letter and spirit of the path
forward agreement,”  Chantal Hughes , spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said in reference to
an accord struck between EU and U.S. swaps regulators in July.
The rules “are another step away from the kind of inter-operable global system that we want to build.”  The EU and U.S. have repeatedly clashed over the global
reach of U.S. swaps rules, amid European Commission warnings
that the extra-territorial reach of CFTC requirements leaves
European banks facing overlapping demands and extra costs. The
EU authority and the CFTC sought to ease tensions with the July
agreement, which sets out a series of understandings and plans
for further work.  The CFTC didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the EU criticisms.  The two-page CFTC guidance, published on Nov. 14, tells
traders that if they are based in the U.S. and arrange,
negotiate or execute a deal -- even on behalf of an overseas
unit -- they must comply with U.S. regulations.  Market Fragmentation  “We are starting to see the impact of the lack of
alignment between EU and U.S. rules on derivatives, in terms of
higher costs of transactions and fragmentation of markets,”
Hughes said in an interview, without specifying what the
commission’s response will be.  Of the dozens of derivative rules being completed by the
CFTC, the most contentious have involved how to oversee swaps
traded across borders. The biggest banks sometimes trade half
their swaps with overseas clients.  Gensler has sought to extend U.S. authority to those
transactions, arguing that the global nature of the 2008 credit
crisis proved that American taxpayers could be at risk when
banks book them in foreign units.  Lawyers have said the new policy gives the CFTC a greater
reach to police the swaps market and makes it harder for banks
to keep trades away from regulations passed in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFTC rules “are yet another example” of why financial
regulation should be included in discussions on a planned EU-U.S. free trade agreement, Hughes said. This would provide “a
more formal dispute resolution mechanism for constructively
addressing these kinds of issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  