-- EU Seeks Timeline for Global Climate Deal, Irish Minister Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-11-21T13:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/eu-seeks-timeline-for-global-climate-deal-irish-minister-says.html
Phil Hogan, Ireland’s environment
minister, comments in an interview on the progress of talks over
a 2015 global climate agreement. Envoys from more than 190
countries are meeting in Warsaw through tomorrow at an annual UN
summit.  On a timetable for talks until 2015:  “We need a process, we need a road-map and we need to see
enhanced measures being proposed. Some countries that agreed
these options in Durban are trying to roll back a little bit,
especially the  developing countries .”  “At the end of the day there was quite a robust exchange
of views inside in the plenary session by the European Union and
the  United States  which hopefully will concentrate the minds of
people in the developing countries that’ve been trying to
unravel some of the work that was already agreed in Durban.”  “In the nature of these negotiations people don’t
compromise and they don’t reach an agreement until the 11th
hour.”  “Warsaw has been always perceived as a staging post
towards Paris and there’s a significant heads of governments
meeting arranged by Ban Ki-moon for next September. So all of
those are staging posts on the way towards reaching an agreement
in Paris.”  “The timelines and milestones between now and Paris,
that’s the objective.”  On discussions over loss and damage for climate impacts:  “I hope that we will develop a process whereby the further
meetings in 2014 will make progress. But I don’t see a lot of
ambition here in terms of getting an outcome on loss and
damage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in Warsaw at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  