-- Euro-Area Factory Production Accelerates as China Cools
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-21T12:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/euro-area-manufacturing-expands-for-a-fifth-month-led-by-germany.html
Euro-area manufacturing  expanded for
a fifth month in November, as  Germany  continued to drive the 17-nation currency bloc’s gradual recovery from a  record-long
recession .  A factory index rose to 51.5 from 51.3 in October, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s in line with the
median forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 37 economists. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion. Markit’s services gauge
 unexpectedly fell  to 50.9 from 51.6, while a separate Chinese
manufacturing index declined for the first time in four months.  Euro-region economic growth cooled in the third quarter and
the  European Central Bank   cut its main refinancing rate  to a
 record-low  0.25 percent on Nov. 7, based in part on its forecast
for “continued, albeit modest, growth in the second half of the
year.” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said a “gradual
strengthening of demand for exports” should contribute to
growth.  “Some encouragement must be gleaned from the PMI signaling
expansion of the euro-zone economy for a fifth successive month
in November, but the average reading over the fourth quarter so
far is signaling a very modest 0.2 percent expansion,” said
 Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit. “And it looks like
momentum is being lost again.”  Export Growth  The euro-area economy grew  0.1 percent  in the three months
through September after expanding 0.3 percent in the previous
three months. Economists in a separate Bloomberg survey see
gross domestic product rising 0.2 percent this quarter and 0.3
percent in the first three months of 2014.  Exports  increased 1
percent in September to 158.5 billion euros ($214 billion) after
a 0.4 percent gain in August.  Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, drove the euro-area
expansion in November, with Markit’s manufacturing gauge rising
to a 29-month high of 52.5 and the services index at 54.5, the
highest in nine months, according to a  separate report  today.  At the other end of the scale,  France , the euro area’s
second-largest economy, saw  manufacturing output  slip to a six-month low.  France “showed further signs of being the ‘sick man of
Europe’ with output showing a renewed decline and raising the
risk that GDP could fall again in the fourth quarter,
constituting a renewed recession,” Williamson said.  U.K. ‘Booming’  A U.K. report today showed  manufacturing orders  rose at the
fastest pace in almost two decades in November. The
Confederation of British Industry’s orders index increased to
11, the highest since March 1995, from minus 4 in October. That
exceeded economists’ forecast for a reading of 1. An index of
output expectations rose to 24 from 9.  “This strong reading fits in with other surveys which
suggest that the U.K. economy is booming,” said  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “We expect
real GDP growth of 3 percent for 2014, but this and other
surveys suggest that risks lie to the upside.”  In  China , a manufacturing gauge declined for the first time
in four months, adding headwinds to a recovery in the world’s
second-largest economy as leaders start to implement the
broadest policy reforms since the 1990s.  Slower manufacturing gains would add challenges for Premier
 Li Keqiang  in carrying out a reform package that includes
loosening controls on  interest rates  and giving farmers more
land rights. Expansion headwinds may intensify after last
month’s slowdown in credit growth that suggests Li is trying to
contain financial risks.  Markit releases its initial November report on  U.S.
manufacturing (ECONMUS)  at 2 p.m. in London.  Auto Sales  The encouraging news in Europe was reflected in the long-suffering automotive industry, as new car sales rose in October
for a second month for the first time since 2011. Registrations
increased 4.6 percent from a year earlier to 1.04 million autos.  European sales at Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen AG,
the region’s biggest carmaker, rose 5.7 percent in October,
propelled by jumps of 24 percent at the Skoda brand and 15
percent at the Seat nameplate, while registrations gained 1.4
percent at the namesake VW marque.  Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
posted a 16 percent European sales gain at the entry-level Dacia
brand, which has revised the Sandero hatchback and Logan sedan.
Registrations at the main Renault marque rose 13 percent.  Still, the euro area continues to struggle with the legacy
of a debt crisis now in its fifth year, with  unemployment  at a
record 12.2 percent.  Industrial production  slipped 0.5 percent
in September. Annual inflation slowed to 0.7 percent in October,
the lowest level in nearly four years.  “Europe is at risk of having a similar situation as  Japan 
had in the 1990s: very slow growth -- economic stagnation -- and
deflationary pressure,”  Joachim Fels , co-chief global economist
at Morgan Stanley, said on Nov. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  