-- Mexico GDP Rose More Than Forecast Amid Rate Reductions
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-11-21T16:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/mexico-s-economy-grows-more-than-forecast-as-borrowing-costs-cut.html
Mexico’s gross domestic product
expanded more than analysts forecast in the third quarter as
manufacturing rebounded, supporting the central bank’s view that
the economy can recover without additional  interest-rate  cuts.  GDP rose 1.3 percent from the year earlier, the national
statistics institute said on its website today. The median
estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth
of 1 percent.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy grew 0.8
percent from the previous quarter, or an annualized 3.4 percent.  While policy makers cut the key interest rate three times
this year to a record-low 3.5 percent on Oct. 25, they signaled
that the final cut would be the last for the foreseeable future.
They said the economy showed signs of recovery in the third
quarter after a 0.6 percent contraction in the April to June
period, and most agreed that downside risks to growth have
eased. A rebound in public spending, spurred by the fiscal
stimulus approved by Congress, should help spur an economic
recovery, they said.  “The economy seems to have stabilized during the third
quarter and initiated a gradual recovery, anchored by the
recovery of manufacturing production,”  Alberto Ramos , the chief
Latin America economist for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New
York , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “There is no
need to add more monetary stimulus to the economy in the short
run.”  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 13.0811 at of 9:44 a.m. in
Mexico City.  Manufacturing Expansion  Manufacturing expanded 2.9 percent in the quarter from a
year earlier, helping offset a 6.9 percent drop in construction
and a 0.6 percent decline in industrial activity. Agricultural
activity increased 1 percent, and service industry activity grew
2.3 percent.  Mexico’s finance ministry today cut its forecast for growth
this year to 1.3 percent from a 1.7 percent outlook in
September, saying the projection incorporates an expectation the
economy will grow 1.7 percent in the fourth quarter. The
reduction is the fourth for the ministry this year after it
began the year forecasting 3.5 percent growth.  “This rate, while it reflects less force, continues to
reflect positive growth and favorable expectations for the final
quarter of the year,” Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Aportela
told reporters at a news conference.  Mexico ’s economic activity in September, as measured by the
IGAE indicator, increased 0.79 percent from a year earlier,
more than the 0.3 percent median estimate of 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth will accelerate in the first half
of next year as spending picks up and the U.S. recovery
strengthens, central bank policy makers said last month.  Spending Increase  The bank also lowered its 2013 growth estimate to between
0.9 percent and 1.4 percent on Nov. 6 from the 2 percent to 3
percent projected in August. It reduced its forecast for 2014 to
3 percent to 4 percent from a previous estimate of 3.2 percent
to 4.2 percent.  Mexico’s Congress last week authorized the widest  budget
deficit  in four years as President Enrique Pena Nieto seeks to
boost growth. The 2014 budget calls for 4.47 trillion pesos
($344 billion) in outlays and forecasts a deficit of 1.5 percent
of gross domestic product, compared with a 0.4 percent deficit
planned by the government for this year.  Pena Nieto, who took office on Dec. 1, has spent his first
year pushing an agenda to  spur growth, including opening the
state-controlled  energy industry  to more private investment.  The economic changes could boost Mexico’s potential annual
growth to more than 5 percent within two or three years, central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in an Aug. 23 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  