-- Hezbollah Suffers Syria Blowback in Beirut Bombings
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-11-21T02:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/hezbollah-suffers-syria-blowback-in-beirut-bombings.html
Hassan Nasrallah , the dreadful
Shiite cleric who commands the Lebanon-based Hezbollah movement,
couldn’t get what he wanted.  He had plunged his militia into the war in Syria, he had
helped turn the tide of war in favor of the  Bashar al-Assad 
regime, and he had bragged about the prowess of his fighters.
Yet he had asked that the fight for Syria be waged only on
Syrian soil.  The two  bombings  that hit the Iranian embassy in a
Hezbollah neighborhood of Beirut on Tuesday should have
delivered to Nasrallah a truth known to all protagonists in this
fight. There are no easy victories, no way that the fire could
rage in Syria while life went on as usual in Beirut.  It was Nasrallah -- and by extension his Iranian paymasters
-- who wrote the grim new rules of the Syrian war. Assad hadn’t
been able to prevail against the Sunni rebellion. The Russian
weapons and Iranian money, deployed on his behalf, hadn’t
sufficed.  The Iranian desire for a measure of deniability had come up
against the incompetence of Assad’s armed forces: The dictator’s
supporters were barbarians, but defections from the ranks, and
the flagrant sectarian base of his regime, had forced the
Iranians into the open. This is when Iran decreed the entry of
Hezbollah into the fight.  Dual Allegiance  It didn’t matter whether Nasrallah and his lieutenants were
enthusiastic about this new mission beyond Lebanon’s borders.
The Hezbollah leaders are at once players in the Lebanese
political game and self-professed soldiers in Iran’s
revolutionary brigades. The effective leader of Hezbollah isn’t
Nasrallah in his bunker, but Iran’s supreme leader,  Ali Khamenei , in Tehran. Iran’s power and money and protection
raised Nasrallah, a child of Beirut’s most wretched slum, to his
position as mightiest warlord in Lebanon.  Iran may have been pressed for money at home, hobbled by
sanctions, but the money kept coming to Beirut. There was money
for Hezbollah’s gunmen, there was a television station, Al
Manar, that spread Iran’s message. A vast relief network enabled
Nasrallah to pose as a benefactor of impoverished Shiites and to
ask his followers for ever greater sacrifices. Nasrallah’s
mission was clear: He and his fighters were to make Iran a power
of the Mediterranean and, by way of Lebanon, a veritable
neighbor of Israel.  Once Iran had committed itself to Assad’s survival,
Hezbollah forces were on their way to Syria. This war kept no
secrets. At first, Hezbollah fighters who fell in battle were
given quiet burials. Their death notices were ambiguous -- they
died while performing “jihadi duty.”  A vicious battle last May for Qusayr, a town near the
Lebanese border, shattered the ambiguity. Hezbollah fighters
prevailed at a price. Their triumphalism was abhorrent. They
defied the sensibilities of Sunnis everywhere. They raised
Shiite banners atop a Sunni mosque. There had been an unwritten
pact that all parties to the sectarian feuds of Lebanon would
keep a distance from Syria’s struggle, lest the divisions tear
Lebanon apart.  For the Sunnis of Lebanon, once masters of the coastal
cities of Beirut, Sidon and Tripoli, Qusayr was a summons to
battle. They had watched Hezbollah gunmen overrun their beloved
West Beirut; they had seen Shiite squatters from the southern
hinterland and Bekaa Valley swamp Beirut and alter its
demography. They had bristled at the emergence of Iran and its
embassy and its agents as a power in their midst.  The two suicide bombers who struck the Iranian embassy, one
on a motorcycle and the other behind the wheel of a car loaded
with more than 100 pounds of explosives, were Lebanese members
of al-Qaeda, “two heroes of the Sunnis of Beirut,” according
to a statement on Twitter.  Double Game  The Sunni jihad in Syria had come to Beirut, and Nasrallah
and his Iranian masters have to accept that this was the war
they made. Iran plays a double game. It feigns respectability in
regional affairs; it even wants a role in the negotiations over
Syria, if and when these negotiations materialize. Iran’s
president,  Hassan Rouhani , described Syria in an article under
his name in the Washington Post as a “civilizational jewel,”
even as Iran’s Revolutionary Guard and Hezbollah fighters have
heaped grief and loss on Syrian civilians.  But the attack in Beirut is a stark confirmation that Iran
has run out of deniability for its deeds in Syria.  ( Fouad Ajami  is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian Rebellion.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 