-- Fed’s Bullard Says Near-Zero Main Rate Brought Unknown Results
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-21T17:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/fed-s-bullard-says-near-zero-main-rate-brought-unknown-results.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , a voter on policy this year who has
backed record stimulus, said the Fed’s cut in the main  interest
rate  close to zero in 2008 didn’t fully consider  Japan ’s slump
and yielded unknown results for the  U.S. economy .  “The debate over the wisdom of locking in  near-zero rates 
did not take sufficient account of the experience in Japan,”
Bullard said today in a speech in Rogers,  Arkansas .  “The December 2008 FOMC decision unwittingly committed the
U.S. to an extremely long period at the zero lower bound similar
to the situation in Japan, with unknown consequences for the
macroeconomy,” he said, referring to the  Federal Open Market
Committee .  The committee signaled it may begin to dial down
unprecedented accommodation by tapering $85 billion in monthly
bond buying “in coming months” based on expected improvement
in the labor market, according to the minutes of its meeting
last month released yesterday.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  in the week ended
Nov. 16 declined more than forecast to the lowest level in
almost two months, the Labor Department said today. Retail sales
rose more than forecast last month, a sign consumer spending was
resilient even during a shutdown of the federal government.  The St. Louis Fed chief said some analysis suggests that
the sooner policy makers set the policy rate to zero, the sooner
the economy will recover and interest rates can be returned to
normal.  “I have seen no evidence that this is true during the last
five years,” Bullard said. He didn’t discuss the outlook for
the economy or policy in his prepared markets.  Bullard also cited mixed results from the Fed’s bailout of
Bear Stearns Cos. The rescue gave investors the indication the
central bank was prepared to help other firms, he said.  “In the absence of any formal policy announcement, it was
unclear whether the Fed had the intention or the wherewithal to
offer insurance to such a large group of firms,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  