-- Fed QE Taper Likely in Coming Months on Data, Minutes Say
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-21T08:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/fed-qe-taper-likely-in-coming-months-on-better-data-minutes-say.html
Federal Reserve officials signaled
they may taper their $85 billion in monthly bond buying “in
coming months” if the economy improves as anticipated.  Policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the committee’s outlook for ongoing
improvement in labor market conditions and would thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 29-30
gathering, released yesterday in  Washington .  Stocks and bonds fell at the prospect the FOMC may reduce
asset purchases sooner than expected. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,781.37, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury climbed 0.09 percentage point to 2.8 percent in
New York trading yesterday, the highest since Sept. 17.  “It sounds like they’re moving closer to tapering” bond
buying, said Sam Coffin, an economist at UBS Securities LLC in
New York. “There’s a lot more focus on their forward guidance
and a lot of that is because if they’re moving closer to
tapering they want to signal they’ll stay easy after the
tapering has begun.”  The FOMC minutes show extensive discussion on how to
increase the clarity of their plans to hold  interest rates  near
zero. They made no decisions on those plans.  “There’s still a ton of ideas but it doesn’t seem like the
committee is coalescing around a single path of action just
yet,” said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and a former Richmond
Fed researcher.  Scaling Back  As the Fed moves closer to scaling back stimulus, central
bankers in  Japan  and Europe are under pressure to combat
deflationary risks.  The Bank of Japan will probably have to postpone its
original 2015 timeframe for achieving 2 percent inflation,
according to 22 of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
BOJ today stuck with a pledge to expand the monetary base by
60 trillion yen ($595 billion) to 70 trillion yen a year.  In Europe, where policy makers are confronted with a Japan-like threat of deflation, officials are considering a new tool -
- a negative interest rate for commercial lenders who park
excess cash at the European Central Bank. The ECB is discussing
a cut of less than the typical quarter percentage point
magnitude, two people with knowledge of the debate say.  Yields Capped  Pacific Investment Management Co. predicts 10-year Treasury
yields will be capped near 3 percent into 2015 even with the Fed
beginning to trim asset purchases as early as January, Executive
Vice President Tony Crescenzi said in an interview in Sydney.  The Fed minutes show policy makers discussed whether to cut
the interest rate the Fed pays on excess reserves, currently
0.25 percent. Janet Yellen, the vice chairman and the nominee to
replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, whose term expires in January,
told lawmakers last week doing so “certainly is a possibility”
even as some Fed officials have been concerned that lowering the
rate would damage the functioning of the money market.  Most participants said lowering the rate “could be worth
considering at some stage, although the benefits of such a step
were generally seen as likely to be small except possibly as a
signal of policy intentions,” according to the minutes.  Officials debated how to clarify or strengthen their
communication about the economic thresholds guiding how long
interest rates will stay low. The committee has said it will
hold rates near zero at least as long as  unemployment  remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation is subdued.  Reducing Threshold  A couple of FOMC members supported reducing the threshold
below its current level of 6.5 percent, while others said such a
move may raise concerns about the Fed’s commitment to the
thresholds. Several said it “could be more helpful” to better
explain their intentions for the federal funds rate after the
jobless rate falls to 6.5 percent, the minutes said.  Bernanke said Nov. 19 that the Fed will probably hold down
its main interest rate long after ending its bond buying, and
possibly after unemployment falls below 6.5 percent.  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard has proposed adding
an “inflation floor” as part of policy guidance, specifying
that the Fed would not raise interest rates with inflation below
1.5 percent.  “You have to take the inflation target seriously, defend
the target from the low level,” Bullard said in an interview
yesterday in  Chicago . “I continue to be concerned about this
issue.”  Uncertain Benefits  The minutes said “in general” the benefits of that
proposal were viewed as “uncertain and likely to be rather
modest.”  The indecisive discussion leaves the Fed’s strategy
unclear, said Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $236 billion as
chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in
Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin .  “These minutes actually somewhat muddy the outlook for
their eventual exit because they’re publishing almost every
possible permutation they could engage in,” he said.  The FOMC has pledged to press on with so-called
quantitative easing until seeing substantial improvement in the
outlook for the labor market. Employers added 204,000 workers to
payrolls in October, more than forecast by economists, and the
unemployment rate has fallen to 7.3 percent from the 8.1 percent
rate the month before the central bank began a third round of
bond buying in September 2012.  Labor Market  Bernanke said in his Nov. 19 speech that the labor market
improvement since September 2012 is “meaningful.”  Policy makers said they still expect a pick-up in the pace
of economic activity even as reports suggest growth in the
second half of this year may prove to be “somewhat weaker than
many of them had previously anticipated,” the minutes said.
While they saw less risk for the economy, they also said
“several significant risks remained,” specifically citing
fiscal drag and budget standoffs.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said yesterday faster economic growth is needed to
generate the lasting job gains that would prompt him to back a
reduction in stimulus.  “The missing ingredient” is that “we haven’t actually
seen an acceleration in the growth rate that will actually
sustain the improvement in the labor market,” Dudley said in
New York. The economy will probably grow 2.5 percent to 3
percent next year, with growth “a little bit stronger” in
2015, said Dudley, who is also FOMC vice chairman. The committee
next plans to meet Dec. 17-18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  