-- FHFA Faces Pushback on Cuts to Fannie Mae Apartment Lending
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-11-21T16:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/fhfa-faces-pushback-on-cuts-to-fannie-mae-apartment-lending-1-.html
The U.S. regulator of  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac is proceeding with plans to scale back their
financing of apartment-building loans next year, shrinking what
opponents call a critical support for rental housing.  The government-owned companies back about 45 percent of the
multifamily market. While the size of the cuts is still
undetermined, they will add to a 10 percent reduction in
apartment financing the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  required
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to make this year as part of a
broader effort to boost private investment in housing finance.  Developers, lenders and affordable-housing advocates are
pushing back, saying the move could deprive rural areas and
smaller cities such as Boise,  Idaho , and Topeka,  Kansas , of
rental housing that private investors may neglect. Dozens
responded to a recent FHFA request for suggestions with the same
message: Don’t do it at all.  “Without Fannie and Freddie our ability to get deals done
in smaller towns would be greatly reduced,” E.J. Burke,
chairman of the  Mortgage Bankers Association  and an executive
vice president at Cleveland-based KeyBank, said in an interview.
“We haven’t seen that impact yet, but down the line I’m very
concerned if the conservator continues to cut their volumes.”  FHFA officials say  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac’s multifamily
footprint is still larger than their 30 percent market share
before the financial crisis. The market absorbed this year’s
cuts “without major disruption,” FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco said in a speech Oct. 24.  Long-Term Plan  The reductions are part of a long-term FHFA plan to create
more room in housing finance for private capital. In the absence
of action from lawmakers to set up a new mortgage finance
system, “we will continue to take gradual steps to reduce the
enterprises’ exposure in this market, while maintaining a market
presence,” DeMarco said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase mortgages and package
them into securities on which they guarantee payments of
principal and interest. They were seized by regulators in 2008
after investments in risky single-family loans pushed them to
the brink of insolvency. They are now owned by the U.S.
government, and their profits go to the Treasury.  Since the financial crisis, the companies’ multifamily
portfolio has provided steady profits. Before taxes this year,
Fannie Mae earned $1.4 billion through Sept. 30 on its apartment
business and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)   earned  $1.8 billion, according to
company filings.  Little Value  In studies they performed this year at the request of FHFA,
both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac concluded that their multifamily
operations would have little value without their existing
government guarantee and that therefore it wouldn’t make sense
to sell them to private interests.  Delinquencies in the multifamily portfolio have stayed
below 1 percent for more than a decade. The apartment-lending
operations are more stable partly because they’re structured
differently than the companies’ single-family loan guarantees.
While Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are in a first-loss position on
their single-family securities, they share risk with private
investors on most of their multifamily deals.  The FHFA’s plans to reduce the companies’ financing for
apartments comes as the demand for rental housing is outpacing
new construction. The industry estimates the market can absorb
about 300,000 to 400,000 new units a year; about 158,000 were
built in 2012.  Luxury Buildings  Some market participants say they fear reducing the
companies’ multifamily operations will squeeze low-income
renters and those outside the largest urban areas. Affordable
housing advocates say they believe Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac ’s
capital has become more concentrated in luxury buildings in big
cities as their national footprint shrinks.  “As the enterprises significantly increased their share of
the higher-end multifamily market over the past four years,
their benefits flowed to ‘country club properties’ for deep-pocketed lenders,” Judy Kennedy, chief executive officer of the
 National Association of Affordable Housing Lenders , said in an
Oct. 8 letter to the FHFA.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should finance more loans on
small buildings that serve lower-income renters and those in
rural areas, Kennedy said.  About 95 percent of units Freddie Mac finances are
affordable to renters with incomes below the area median, David Brickman, head of multifamily operations at Freddie Mac, said in
an e-mail.  ‘Effectively Cross-Subsidizing’  “The small handful of higher-end deals that we finance
help us in our ability to serve that mission by effectively
cross-subsidizing more affordable projects,” Brickman said.  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said in an e-mail: “Fannie Mae remains committed to serving all markets and
regions, including the affordable multifamily sector. We believe
we will meet our 2013 goals for financing affordable multifamily
units.”  In response to the mandate that they reduce their
operations this year, both companies raised the fees they charge
to guarantee multifamily securities. Increases in  interest rates 
added to a slowdown in multifamily lending throughout the year.  The FHFA will release a  plan  by the end of this year with
details of how Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should further shrink
apartment funding, agency officials said.  Curious Focus  “I am curious why the regulator is so focused on reducing
Fannie and Freddie’s multifamily business when legislators,
industry and their own strategic plan all say that they don’t
need to keep shrinking,” said Willy Walker, chief executive
officer of  Walker & Dunlop Inc. (WD) , a Bethesda, Maryland-based real
estate finance company.  The reductions are taking place as Congress is debating a
housing-finance overhaul that could leave Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac’s multifamily operations largely intact or redirect them to
affordable housing.  Eight members of the  House of Representatives  from both the
Republican and Democratic parties wrote a letter to the FHFA in
October urging the agency “to preserve and conserve Fannie and
Freddie’s role in the multifamily housing industry as well as
not take drastic action that erodes their important role in the
industry.”  The FHFA’s actions make sense in the absence of a clear
policy consensus about the government role in the market, said
Clifford Rossi, a finance professor at the  University of
Maryland .  The FHFA’s plan is “one more move toward trying to
dismantle both of these companies in a way that’s methodical and
consistent with what’s in the best interest of the taxpayer,”
Rossi said in an interview. “We have way over-subsidized
housing in this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  