-- Fidelity Divide Shows Energy Future Debt Knot: Corporate Finance
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/fidelity-divide-shows-energy-future-debt-knot-corporate-finance.html
As Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s
board met last month to plan for bankruptcy, representatives of
every influential creditor from Apollo Global Management LLC to
Oaktree Capital Group LLC filed into a  New York  law office,
except one.  Absent was the delegate from  Fidelity Investments ,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions. The
second-biggest mutual-fund manager in the U.S. faced a conflict
because a strategy championed by some of Fidelity’s fellow
senior lenders had the potential to wipe out a $500 million
investment it also had in the junior bonds from one of about a
half-dozen debt-issuing units of the power producer.  Fidelity’s more than $1 billion  stake  in Dallas-based
Energy Future’s debt illustrates why creditors have failed to
agree on a plan to restructure $43.6 billion of bonds and loans
as the target of the largest leveraged buyout in history veers
toward bankruptcy. Any reorganization of the former TXU Corp.
needs to resolve claims on 75 bonds and loans held by at least
600 creditors, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “This capital structure is fraught with problems and
that’s the risk that you have investing in it,” Peter Thornton,
an analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based debt-researcher KDP
Investment Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview. “If
you think you have something that can be challenged later by
someone else in the capital structure, you got yourself a
problem, and if it’s really complex like TXU, you’re not going
to know until it’s all done with.”  Seven Parts  Fidelity owns debt in at least seven parts of Energy
Future, Bloomberg data show. Because varying levels of seniority
in the holdings determine which creditors are paid first, the
Boston-based firm that oversees $1.9 trillion globally has been
left in the position where any reorganization decision would
favor some assets over others.  The debt restructuring talks between the largest
electricity provider in  Texas  and its creditors that would have
avoided $270 million in interest payments to junior bondholders
broke apart hours before the Nov. 1 coupon deadline.  When Energy Future paid the coupons, it benefited investors
that probably won’t be entitled to assets in a Chapter 11
restructuring while reducing the recovery of secured lenders.  ‘Significant Creditor’  “The company thought by keeping everyone negotiating and
having a consensual plan that they could save much more in
value, but they really misjudged how upset the first-lien
lenders would be,” Thornton said.  Talks between the lender committees that were trying to
protect their holdings in a negotiated bankruptcy fell apart
after Fidelity failed to show up at an Oct. 28 meeting at
 Kirkland & Ellis  LLP’s offices on  Manhattan ’s Lexington Avenue,
said the people, who asked not to be identified without
authorization to speak publicly.  Identified in regulatory filings as a “significant
creditor” in the confidential talks, Fidelity was seen by the
debtholders as a party that could help bring the disparate
groups together after eight months of negotiations, one of the
people said. Talks rescheduled for later that week failed to
gain traction.  KKR, Goldman  “We are aware of meetings and conversations going on
amongst various creditor groups, and we have been an active
participant in those discussions,”  Adam Banker , a spokesman for
Fidelity, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Adam McGill, a spokesman for Energy Future, and Rohini
Pragasam at Kirkland & Ellis in New York, the  law firm 
representing the electricity generator in the restructuring,
declined to comment.  KKR & Co., Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and TPG Capital
took Energy Future private in 2007 for $48 billion, an
investment that was predicated on rising natural  gas prices .
Instead, prices fell as the development of hydraulic fracturing
created a surge in U.S. gas supplies, triggering 10 straight
 quarterly losses  at the company since 2011.  The private-equity firms have been seeking to forge a
bankruptcy plan that would keep the power giant together, giving
them a chance to retain an equity stake. A failure to keep the
regulated and deregulated portions of the company intact could
wipe out unsecured classes of investors with a $2 billion tax
bill.  Loans Committee  Apollo, Oaktree and Centerbridge Capital Partners LP were
part of a committee of secured lenders that formed to represent
the interests of loan holders in Energy Future’s deregulated
Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Co. unit, which owns the
power generator Luminant and the retail seller TXU Energy. Those
debt holders would likely receive the majority of equity in a
reorganized company.  Last month, as the deadline for the coupon payment
approached, the group threatened to seek a breakup of the
company if the coupon payments owed to more junior bond
investors were made, according to a Nov. 1 regulatory filing.  Fidelity, the biggest mutual-fund firm in the U.S. after
Vanguard Group Inc., holds at least $275.6 million of $19.5
billion of loans at Texas Competitive, according to Bloomberg
data that tallies the fund manager’s investments through
regulatory filings. Not all of its funds disclose that
information.  Tax Bill  If Texas Competitive were spun off, the transaction would
create a gain because it would be considered an asset sale,
triggering the tax liability, according to an April 15
regulatory filing. The priority of such a tax would be in
dispute, and a bankruptcy judge could be the arbiter of whether
the U.S. Internal Revenue Service can jump in front of
bondholders seizing Energy Future’s assets, according to CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The company’s most senior lenders are poised to cede more
cash as it prepares to make about $390 million in additional
payments to other debtors due through March, Bloomberg data
show, which then may raise doubts among auditors about its
ability to remain a going concern, triggering a default.  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent
unsecured bonds due November 2015, which paid a coupon on Nov.
1, traded yesterday at 7.4 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The same unit’s $3.81 billion first-lien
 term loan  that expires in October 2014 traded at 72.6 cents
yesterday, Bloomberg prices show.  The Energy Future LBO capped a buyout boom from 2005 to
2007 that spawned supersized takeovers in which private-equity
firms combined capital from investors and a larger portion of
borrowed money with the goal of improving cash flows and selling
years later at a profit.  “These leveraged buyouts always have complicated capital
structures because that’s how you get your leverage,”  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the  University of Michigan , said
in a telephone interview. “You’ve got to get a lot of lenders
lined up and they buy different kinds of debt so it’s
complicated and they have conflicts of interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  