-- FIFA Extends Adidas Partnership to 60 Years With New Accord
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-11-21T14:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/fifa-extends-adidas-partnership-to-60-years-with-new-accord.html
Soccer governing body  FIFA  signed a
new accord with  Adidas AG (ADS)  through 2030, extending one of sports’
oldest commercial relationships to 60 years.  FIFA didn’t disclose financial details of the agreement
with the second-biggest sporting goods manufacturer, a sponsor
since the 1970  World Cup . The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company said Nov. 7 it expects the build-up to next year’s World
Cup in  Brazil  to boost revenue in the current quarter.  The quadrennial event is responsible for more than 90
percent of FIFA’s income, which last year topped $1.1 billion,
including about $350 million from World Cup-related sponsorship.  Adidas has been “at the heart of the action at every
tournament since the 1970 FIFA World Cup,” the ruling body’s
marketing director Thierry Weil said in an e-mailed statement.
Adidas will unveil its official match ball ahead of the Dec. 6
draw for the 32-team event.  “We are delighted that this long-term strategic
partnership will continue until at least 2030 and we are looking
forward to writing new chapters of football history together,”
Weil added.  The contract extension comes six months after FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter  said his organization had “emerged from
troubled waters” following a reform program it was forced to
embark on. Corruption allegations against several high-ranking
FIFA officials led to calls for change from stakeholders
including sponsors such as Adidas.  Nike Rivalry  “It was a natural step for us to extend one of the most
successful partnerships in the history of sports marketing,”
Adidas Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said. “This
unique partnership and our extensive presence at all FIFA World
Cups will help us to expand Adidas’s position as the leading
football brand worldwide.”  Adidas has been battling with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the biggest
sporting goods retailer, for supremacy in the soccer market.
Hainer said on a Nov. 7 conference call that soccer sales will
rise to a record 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) next year.  National jerseys including those for  Germany , world
champion Spain and Argentina were released last week and the
company also this month released a “Samba” range of brightly
colored footwear worn by players including Barcelona’s four-time
world player of the year Lionel Messi and Real Madrid’s Gareth Bale, soccer’s most expensive transfer.  The rivalry with Nike
is likely to intensify in the coming days as the Beaverton,
Oregon-based company prepares to unveil its latest version of
the jersey worn by record five-time champion Brazil.  In May, FIFA said its World Cup sponsorship program was
complete after Grupo SBF’s Centauro unit, Latin America’s
largest sporting goods retailer, signed a deal to become the
final national sponsor of the monthlong tournament. Global
sponsorship packages for the 2014 World Cup sold out in July
2011 when FIFA signed  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s biggest
seller of health-care products.  Brazil will open the competition on June 12 in  Sao Paulo .
The final is in  Rio de Janeiro  on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  