-- Finma Forces Basler Kantonalbank to Give Up Profit on Misconduct
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-21T11:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/finma-forces-basler-kantonalbank-to-give-up-profit-on-misconduct.html
The Swiss financial watchdog Finma
has told  Basler Kantonalbank  to give up 2.64 million Francs
($2.88 million) in illegally generated profits after violating
market conduct rules.  The Swiss regional lender “inadmissibly propped up the
market price of its own participation certificates” between
January 2009 and September last year, the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority, or Finma, said today in a  statement . The
bank  said  it’s already started measures to prevent a repeat of
such misconduct.  The Basel, Switzerland-based bank is one of 14 Swiss
financial firms under investigation by the  U.S. Department of
Justice  for allegedly helping Americans avoid taxes by hiding
their assets in secret Swiss bank accounts. Finma ordered  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, to disgorge 59 million francs
in profits in December last year for trying to rig global
 interest rates .  “Basler Kantonalbank tried to halt or at least soften the
decline in prices caused by the U.S. tax dispute from the fall
of 2011,” by buying its own certificates on the stock exchange,
the lender said in a statement. “These supportive purchases
were deemed inadmissible by Finma.”  Basler Kantonalbank shares fell as much as 2.3 percent to
71.10 francs and were trading at 72.35 francs at 12:12 p.m. in
Zurich, giving the bank a market value of 2.27 billion francs.  The lender decided to stop influencing the price of its
certificates in November 2011 and switch to a trading model
based on set parameters instead, it said in the statement. Finma
found the bank hadn’t committed a criminal offense or harmed
investors, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  