-- Foreign Banks’ Commercial Paper in U.S. Rises to Most Since 2001
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-11-21T17:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/foreign-banks-commercial-paper-in-u-s-rises-to-most-since-2001.html
The amount of  short-term IOUs 
offered in dollars by foreign financial firms climbed to the
most in at least 12 years as overseas banks favor debt issuance
in the U.S. after the euro reached an almost two-year high
against the dollar last month.  Commercial paper  sold by non-U.S. financial institutions
rose for a fifth week, increasing about $2.6 billion to $292.6
billion outstanding, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its
website. That’s the highest level since at least January 2001,
according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas financial institutions are accelerating issuance
after the gain in the euro made it cheaper for banks in the
region to borrow in the U.S. The euro rose more than 4 percent
against the dollar in the past six months as the economies of
the common-currency nations are forecast in a Bloomberg survey
to expand 1 percent next year after shrinking 0.4 percent in
2013.  Overseas banks “who lend in U.S. dollars for their global
operations can borrow in low-rate and freely available dollar-denominated CP and eliminate much of this  currency risk ,” with
“no real threat that the dollar will be appreciating against
the euro,”  Howard Simons , a strategist at Bianco Research LLC
in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail.  The total seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial
paper fell for a third week, decreasing $12.8 billion to $1.054
trillion outstanding in the period ended yesterday, the Fed
said. That’s the lowest level since the period ended Oct. 16 and
the longest stretch of declines since the week ended May 8.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  