-- French Farmers Snarl Roads Into Paris in Hollande Tax Protest
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-11-21T08:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/french-farmers-snarl-roads-into-paris-in-hollande-tax-protest.html
French farmers snarled traffic into
Paris as they drove tractors onto highways to protest against
taxes and new regulations.  A total of seven roadblocks were up in the Paris region,
according to the website of DiRiF, which runs the area’s road
network, and which advised commuters to take public rail
transport. Television news channels showed long lines of blocked
traffic under rainy skies and near-freezing temperatures.  “I don’t think this is the right way to express one’s
views,” Agriculture Minister Stephane Le Foll said in an
interview in Le Figaro newspaper. “We are always open to
dialogue.”  The action is the latest in tax revolts in  France , which in
recent weeks has seen horse-riding clubs, truckers and small
retail outlets protesting against increased levies by President
Francois Hollande’s government. Hollande, who’s seeking to
narrow the government’s budget gap, has become the least popular
French leader since 1958.  Today’s protest was called by farming associations in the
Paris region. In addition to nationwide issues such as a
proposed trucking levy and a higher value-added tax on
fertilizer, the farmers are angry about anti-pollution laws that
would limit tractor use on certain days. They’re also opposing
changes to the European Union’s Common Agricultural Policy that
will increase spending on livestock to the detriment of cereal
farms, which predominate in the Paris basin.  Routes to Paris’s two airports were open. The A6 highway
from the south was reduced to one lane in the Paris direction
about 40 kilometers south of the capital. The N12 toward
Normandy was blocked 50 kilometers west of Paris.  Hollande Squeezed  Hollande is squeezed between pressure from the EU to cut
the budget deficit and an electorate facing one of the world’s
highest tax burdens.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault this week said that while
the government won’t back down on the VAT set to take effect in
2014, it will consider overhauling the tax system.  The French government collects 46 percent of gross domestic
product in taxes. Standard & Poor’s estimates that government
revenue amounts to 53 percent of GDP, once fines, dividends and
other income are included -- more than any country outside
 Scandinavia . French state spending totals more than 56 percent
of GDP, the highest in the euro area, it says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  