-- Gap’s Profit Forecast for Holiday Quarter Falls Short
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-22T21:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/gap-s-profit-forecast-for-holiday-quarter-falls-short.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer, maintained an annual profit forecast
range signaling that the crucial holiday-shopping quarter may
fall short of analysts’ estimates.  The company reaffirmed its full-year earnings estimates of
$2.57 to $2.65 a share. That range, excluding results from the
first three quarters, implies fourth-quarter profit of 50 cents
to 58 cents, trailing analysts’ estimates of 69 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  is working to boost
holiday sales with lower-priced and on-trend products as apparel
retailers increase discounts. Consumers also are shifting their
spending to durable goods such as cars and appliances. Sales for
the third quarter rose 2.9 percent to $3.98 billion, meeting
analysts’ average estimate.  “Expectations were so far ahead of what’s possible to
execute against,” said Stephanie Wissink, a Minneapolis-based
analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., in a phone interview yesterday
after the results. “They’re being conservative, because they
should be, but it’s also a mindset of reasonability. The cycle
of beating and raising projections is starting to wane.” She
has a neutral rating on the shares, the equivalent of hold.  Net income for the quarter ended Nov. 2 rose 9.4 percent to
$337 million, or 72 cents per share.  Gap  fell  1.3 percent to $41.31 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 33 percent this year.  Same-Store Sales  Gap said same-store sales rose 1 percent in the third
quarter, compared with a 6 percent gain a year earlier. Murphy
said on a conference call that Gap’s product assortment wasn’t
as strong in the third quarter as last year’s colored denim
trend that drove sales.  Sales at Banana Republic stores open at least a year fell 1
percent in the third quarter, while the Gap brand gained 1
percent and Old Navy sales were flat.  Murphy said he expects retailers will continue to discount
heavily through the holiday season.  “There’s a little bit of fatigue out there when it comes
to consumers,” Murphy said on the earnings call. “So the
question is are we disappointed in consumer sentiment, or have
we as an industry not been that innovative to give the consumer
product that doesn’t look like wallpaper day in and day out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  