-- Gaw Capital Buys Waterside House in London for Korean Investors
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-11-21T03:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/gaw-capital-buys-waterside-house-in-london-for-korean-investors.html
Gaw  Capital Partners , a Hong Kong-based private equity real estate company, has bought the
Waterside House in  London  for a group of South Korean investors,
as interest in overseas properties from  Asia  grows.  Gaw Capital is a co-investor and will manage the property
being used by Marks & Spencer Group Plc as its headquarters, the
company said in an e-mailed press release today. The statement
didn’t identify the other investors and the amount paid for the
building. Reuters reported the buyers paid about $321 million,
citing a person with direct knowledge of the transaction.  Asian investors in countries from  China  to South Korea are
increasing their investments in overseas real estate for higher
yields amid slowing growth in the region. Korean Teacher’s
Credit Union, with about $20 billion in assets, is boosting
 alternative investments  including property abroad to a record
this year, Chief Executive Officer Kim Junggi said in March.  The purchase by Gaw is adding to a wave of recent Asian
investment in London.  Hong Kong ’s banking regulator bought 50
percent of a project in London’s luxury-shopping district for
more than 100 million pounds ($161 million) this month.  Oxley
Holdings Ltd. (OHL) , a Singapore-based property developer, agreed
earlier this month to buy an east London site where it plans to
build 3,400 homes.  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest manager of
alternative assets such as property, is in talks to sell a west
London office development to China Investment Corp., the
country’s sovereign-wealth fund, a person with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  Commercial Property  U.K. commercial real estate values rose for the sixth
straight month in October as an economic recovery gained pace,
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said Nov. 14.  The purchase is the fourth acquisition in London arranged
by Gaw Capital for its clients, according to the release today.
The company in July helped  Ping An Insurance (2318)  (Group) Co.,
China’s second-largest insurer, buy the Lloyd’s of London
Building from a German fund, it said.  The company is raising as much as $500 million for its
first fund focusing on investing in the U.S. property market,
co-founder Goodwin Gaw said in an interview in Hong Kong last
month. The fund will target mainly Asian investors, he said.  Luxury homes in central London have been the best
performers in the U.K. since at least 2009, rising more than 60
percent from their low that year, according to broker Knight
Frank LLP.  Home prices  in central London’s most expensive
neighborhoods rose 6.8 percent in October from a year earlier,
the slowest pace since December 2009, as asking prices deterred
buyers, according to an index compiled by  Knight Frank .  Housing prices in Central London are estimated to climb 25
percent in the next five years, Tom Eshelby, residential
director at Land Securities Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest real
estate investment trust, said in a Nov. 18 interview. About two-thirds of all new London homes sold before completion are being
bought by Southeast Asian buyers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  