-- German Stocks Drop on Fed Taper Concerns; Allianz Slips
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-11-21T08:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/german-stocks-drop-on-fed-taper-concerns-allianz-slips.html
German stocks  dropped to a one-week
low as minutes from the Federal Reserve’s last meeting signaled
the central bank is moving closer to reducing the pace of its
monetary stimulus.  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  slid 1.7 percent as MainFirst Bank AG advised
investors to sell shares in the steelmaker. BASF SE and
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  slipped as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
ratings on the chemicals and industrial-goods industries.
Allianz SE fell 2.3 percent as Citigroup Inc. downgraded its
recommendation on the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.8 percent to 9,133.38 at 9:43 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The benchmark measure has surged 20 percent in 2013
as central banks around the world pledged to leave interest
rates low for a prolonged period. The broader HDAX Index also
declined 0.8 percent.  Fed policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the committee’s outlook for ongoing
improvement in labor market conditions and would thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 29-30
gathering, released yesterday in Washington.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  will speak on
the economy and monetary policy from 11:50 a.m. in Rogers,
Arkansas, while Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  is
scheduled to speak in Asheboro, North Carolina from 12:30 p.m.
local time.  In China, a gauge of  manufacturing activity  slipped for the
first time in four months. The preliminary 50.4 reading for the
November Purchasing Managers’ Index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics trailed  a 50.8 median
estimate from analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Levels above
50 indicate expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  