-- European Government Bonds Decline on Fed QE Tapering Outlook
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-21T16:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/germany-s-government-bonds-decline-on-fed-qe-tapering-outlook.html
European  government bonds  fell as
minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s October policy meeting showed
the central bank may taper its $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases “in coming months” if the  U.S. economy  improves.  Benchmark German bund yields climbed to the highest level
in more than a week as a report showed manufacturing and
services output in the euro area expanded for a fifth month in
November. Spanish and Italian bonds pared their declines amid
speculation the  European Central Bank , which this month cut its
key  interest rate , will add stimulus to support the recovery.  “The Fed was, of course, the big catalyst” for rising
bund yields, said Jan von Gerich, a fixed-income strategist at
Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki. “U.S. yields will continue to move
and European yields will follow, but not to the same extent
because in  Europe  we have a central bank that’s clearly tilted
toward further easing measures.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield climbed three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.74 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time
after rising to 1.78 percent, the most since Nov. 13. The 2
percent bond due in August 2023 fell 0.265, or 2.65 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,347) face amount, to 102.27.  U.S. policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the committee’s outlook for ongoing
improvement in labor market conditions and would thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the record of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30
gathering, released yesterday in  Washington . The FOMC next meets
on Dec. 17-18.  Spanish Sale  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose two basis points to 4.11
percent after climbing to 4.16 percent, the most since Nov. 7.
The rate on similar-maturity Italian debt increased one basis
points to 4.10 percent.  Spain auctioned 3.5 billion euros of notes due in 2017 at
an average yield of 2.101 percent today. The nation has covered
99.4 percent of its planned issuance for this year, and may use
funds raised at subsequent auctions this year to redeem some
bills and lengthen its average debt maturity, the Spanish
Economy Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  The extra yield, or  spread , investors demand to hold
 Spain ’s 10-year bonds instead of five-year notes widened six
basis points to 150 basis points, the most since Sept. 7, 2012.  ECB officials are weighing further tools to secure the
economic recovery and reduce the risk of deflation after they
cut the main refinancing rate to a record-low 0.25 percent on
Nov. 7.  Deposit Rate  The ECB is considering a smaller-than-normal reduction in
the deposit rate if officials decide to take it negative,
according to two people with knowledge of the debate. Policy
makers would cut the rate for commercial lenders who park excess
cash at the ECB to minus 0.1 percent from zero, said the people
who asked not to be identified because the talks aren’t public.  Central bank President  Mario Draghi  said in a speech in
Berlin today that policy makers haven’t changed their mind on a
negative deposit rate since their previous meeting.  Eonia forward contracts expiring on ECB meeting days aren’t
pricing in negative  interest rates , Commerzbank AG strategists
Alexander Aldinger and  Michael Leister  wrote in a note today.
The yield on the rolling six-month forward contract was 0.075
percent today, up from as low as minus 0.03 percent in December.  The German 10-year yield will probably drop to 1.70 percent
by the end of the year even if it rises before then, Nordea
Bank’s von Gerich said. The median of economists’ and
strategists’ predictions compiled by Bloomberg is for the rate
to end 2013 at 1.75 percent and rise to 2.10 percent in June.  Output Expands  A  composite gauge  of euro-region manufacturing and services
output, based on a survey of  purchasing managers , was 51.5 this
month from 51.9 in October, London-based Markit Economics said
today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Belgium and Germany,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Austrian 10-year bond yields rose two basis points to 2.10
percent.  German government bonds lost 1.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
returned 11 percent and Italy’s earned 7.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  