-- Glorious Property Gets $589 Million Buyout Bid From Zhang
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-22T08:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/glorious-property-gets-589-million-buyout-bid-from-zhang.html
 Chinese billionaire Zhang Zhirong
offered as much as HK$4.57 billion ($589 million) to take
 Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845)  private after the developer’s
shares fell on slumping sales and amid financial woes at another
company he controls.  Zhang will pay HK$1.80 a share, 45 percent more than the
last traded price of HK$1.24, for all outstanding stock,
Glorious Property said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing
yesterday. Zhang, who has a 68.4 percent stake in Glorious
Property, intends to finance the purchase by using an external
loan facility, according to the filing. Shares soared by a
record in Hong Kong after resuming trading.  Glorious Property’s sales have slumped this year and its
shares have tracked the decline in  China Rongsheng Heavy
Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  after the shipyard co-founded by
Zhang sought a government bailout amid slumping global demand
for vessels. The developer’s shares were trading at less than
half their net asset value before the buyout offer.  “Investors are losing confidence because of sluggish
property sales of Glorious and increasing difficulty for it to
get financing, while Glorious’s stock valuation is very low and
the company still has some valuable assets,” said Hugo Hou, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Haitong International
Securities Co. “A privatization plan sounds reasonable in this
case.”  Stock Jumps  The developer with residential, office and retail projects
in 12 Chinese cities, including Beijing, Shanghai and Nanjing,
has failed to meet its annual sales target every year since
2010, when the government started introducing property curbs as
price gains accelerated, Hou wrote in a September report. The
company’s reluctance to sell quality projects and unproductive
construction progress also lead to weak sales, according to Hou.  Glorious Property surged as much as 40 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since the shares debuted in October 2009, and
closed 33 percent higher at HK$1.65 in  Hong Kong . The stock had
been suspended since Oct. 18, when it jumped 6.9 percent to
HK$1.24.  Rongsheng, the biggest private Chinese shipbuilder, is
seeking a government bailout after accumulating 25 billion yuan
($4.1 billion) in unpaid loans as of June. Some customers sought
to postpone delivery of vessels amid a sluggish global shipping
market that has delayed collection of receivables, Rongsheng
said in a statement in August.  “The money Zhang will use to privatize Glorious will be
just a drop in the bucket for Rongsheng, which is expected to
record big losses this year,” said Lawrence Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB Kay-Hian Holdings Ltd. “Zhang doesn’t have
to take such risks with Rongsheng. He made the right choice by
choosing Glorious.”  Reputation Impact  Zhang quit as chairman of both Glorious Property and
Rongsheng in November last year. Rongsheng shares dropped 4.4
percent to HK$1.08 in Hong Kong trading today.  Zhang isn’t happy about Glorious Property trading at a
discount to its asset value, according to the filing.  “The offeror considers that the depressed price of the
shares has had an adverse impact on the company’s reputation
with customers, and therefore on its business and employee
morale,” Glorious Property said. Zhang plans to delist the
company after completing the buyout, it said.  Glorious Property’s 13.25 bonds due 2018, which were
downgraded to CCC+ by  Standard & Poor’s  in September, were
quoted at 84 cents on the dollar in Hong Kong yesterday,
Bloomberg prices show. The notes priced at par in February, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Falling Sales  “The offering price is reasonable, and it shouldn’t have a
big problem to get approved by shareholders,”said Chen Duo, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, in a
phone interview today. “If the plan is not approved, share
prices will drop even lower and it will be harder for any
additional plan to come out.”  Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd., Zhang’s financial
adviser on the deal, “is satisfied that sufficient financial
resources are available to the offeror” to pay for the deal,
Glorious Property said in the same statement.  The developer sold 4.96 billion  yuan  of properties in the
first nine months of the year, compared with 8.9 billion yuan in
the same period a year earlier.  Sales at Rongsheng plunged 71 percent in the first half of
the year and the shipping company’s cash and cash equivalents
decreased by 1.27 billion yuan to 871 million yuan as of the end
of June, the company said in August.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  