-- Goldman Says Currency Unit Didn’t Post Third-Quarter Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-21T21:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/goldman-sachs-says-currency-unit-didn-t-post-third-quarter-loss.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Wall
Street firm with the biggest revenue decline last quarter, said
its currency trading business didn’t incur a loss in the period
as the bank sought to clarify a figure in a regulatory filing.  “Goldman Sachs did not suffer a loss in our currencies
business in the third quarter,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman
for the New York-based bank, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Gains or losses in one product type frequently
offset gains or losses in other product types.”  Reuters reported earlier today that the bank posted more
than $1 billion in market-making losses on currency products in
the third quarter, citing U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and Federal Reserve filings. Goldman Sachs said in
its quarterly SEC  filing  on Nov. 7 that the figure isn’t 
representative of how it manages the business.  The filing discloses market-making revenue from different
products. Each product’s revenue can include gains or losses
that are booked in another business, such as a commodity deal
that’s hedged with currency swaps. The figure also excludes
trading commissions and net interest income.  Mortgages, Commodities  Earlier this year, the SEC asked Goldman Sachs to disclose
how much products such as mortgages and commodities contribute
to its trading revenue to give investors more clarity on how the
firm makes most of its money. The SEC completed its review after
the firm responded that it would give more “qualitative
disclosure” and already had provided the market-making figures
by product.  Those figures often provide investors with information that
conflicts with the performance of the bank’s units. The first
quarter of this year included a $1.14 billion loss in interest-rate products, according to the filing, while the company said
its rates business had a positive quarter reflecting “higher
activity levels.”  In the third quarter of 2010, the disclosure showed
currency products produced a loss of $4.59 billion, swinging
from positive revenue of $3.6 billion the previous quarter.
Then-Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said the firm’s
currency business produced higher revenue in the third quarter
than in the second.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that revenue
in Goldman Sachs’s currency-trading unit slumped during the
third quarter after a wrong-way bet on a structured options
trade tied to the  U.S. dollar  and Japanese yen. DuVally declined
to comment on that report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net  