-- Goldman’s Currency-Trading Revenue Fell on Options Bet, WSJ Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-21T03:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/goldman-s-currency-trading-revenue-fell-on-options-bet-wsj-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s revenue
from its currency-trading unit slumped during the third quarter
after a wrong-way bet in the foreign-exchange market, the Wall
Street Journal reported.  A structured options trade tied to the  U.S. dollar  and
Japanese yen exacerbated the drop in the three-month period from
the second quarter, the Journal said today, citing people it
didn’t identify. The bank’s foreign exchange options desk posted
a net loss, the newspaper said. It isn’t clear how large the
trade was or how long it was in place, according to the report.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-based bank,
declined to comment. The company, which had the steepest drop in
trading revenue among Wall Street’s largest banks, posted
trading losses on 15 days during the third quarter, the most
since 2011.  The bank posted more than $1 billion in market-making
losses on currency products in the third quarter,  Reuters
reported , citing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
Federal Reserve filings.  Goldman Sachs said in its quarterly filing to the SEC that
the disclosure isn’t representative of how it manages its
trading business, and that some losses or gains on one product
may be booked in other units.  “A significant portion of the firm’s cash instruments and
derivatives has exposure to foreign currencies and may be
economically hedged with foreign currency contracts,” the
company said in the filing.  Positions in  emerging markets  caused the losses following
the Fed’s decision to continue its bond-buying program, Reuters
said, citing two people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  