-- Google’s Schmidt Says Data Can Change Insurance, Health Care
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2013-11-21T19:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/google-s-schmidt-says-big-data-can-change-insurance-health-care.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said new technologies that help companies analyze vast
amounts of digital information have the power to bring change to
the insurance, health-care and energy industries.  “Insurance is the most obvious” industry “about to
explode” with uses for big data, said Schmidt, who spoke today
at The Year Ahead: 2014, a conference in Chicago hosted by
Bloomberg LP. Better cost controls and more efficient delivery
of services are two ways data can transform industries, he said.  Schmidt and  Dan Wagner , who led the analytics team for
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 run for re-election, discussed
ways companies and government regulators can use algorithms --
similar to those applied to voter-registration data in the
campaign -- to sort through the available troves of information
about people and markets to help them boost productivity.  Health-care providers and hospitals could use data to
target services to those most at risk, which could help lower
the cost of care, Schmidt said. In the disparate energy markets,
flows could be more accurately modeled, revealing patterns of
overuse or underuse, he said.  Wagner is now chief executive officer of Civis Analytics, a
consulting firm he founded with Schmidt’s backing.  “This is the future of almost everything that we’re
doing,” Schmidt said. “The state of the art is that you apply
something called machine intelligence, where you use artificial-intelligence techniques to go through all this data and look for
interesting patterns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Trish Regan  in  New York  at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  