-- Google’s Schmidt Sees Encryption Killing Censorship
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-11-21T00:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/google-s-schmidt-sees-encryption-killing-censorship.html
Protecting  Internet traffic  with
hard-to-crack code may prevent governments from censoring their
populations’ communications within a decade,  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said.  Schmidt described the coming of a “network age” in which
 Internet users  communicate and organize socially through private
channels shielded by encryption, which scrambles data with a
mathematical formula that can be decoded only with a special
digital key.  “We can end government censorship in a decade,” Schmidt
said during a speech in  Washington . “The solution to government
surveillance is to encrypt everything.”  Google and other Internet companies, including  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , have announced steps to better secure
their networks and the communications of their users in response
to revelations about National Security Agency spying programs.
The companies are protecting user e-mail and social-media posts
with strengthened encryption that the U.S. government says won’t
be easily broken until 2030.  The NSA has tapped fiber-optic cables abroad to siphon data
from Google and Yahoo, circumvented or cracked encryption, and
covertly introduced weaknesses into coding, according to reports
in the Washington Post, the  New York  Times and the U.K.’s
Guardian newspaper based on documents leaked by former NSA
contractor Edward Snowden.  “We have strengthened our systems remarkably as a result
of the most recent events,” Schmidt said in his speech, hosted
by the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International
Studies. “It’s reasonable to expect that the industry as a
whole will continue to strengthen these systems.”  Power Shift  Google is working on technology to enable users to securely
communicate and defend their computers from hacking attacks,
Schmidt said.  “First they try to block you, then they try to infiltrate
you, then you win,” he said. “The power is shifting.”  Governments will try to conduct surveillance on their
populations and there is evidence that some encryption standards
in use today have been broken by the NSA and other countries,
Schmidt said.  “It’s always a cat-and-mouse game,” he said. “In that
race, I think the censors will lose and I think the people will
be empowered.”  Schmidt recalled meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping
and Premier  Li Keqiang  two weeks ago, when the leaders’ aides
described using social media to monitor the activities of
citizens.  He said he thinks there will be movements from Chinese
citizens using technology that country’s leaders won’t be able
to control or stop, such as the campaigns in favor of gay rights
and same-sex marriage that developed within the U.S.  “You cannot stop it if it’s a good idea broadly held,”
Schmidt said. “That’s how China will change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  