-- IMF Sees Enough Greek Liquidity Buffers in Coming Months
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-21T16:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/greece-s-liquidity-buffers-sufficient-in-coming-months-imf-says.html
Greece  doesn’t have pressing
financing needs as its creditors leave the country without an
agreement enabling a disbursement under a rescue package, an
International Monetary Fund spokesman said.  “The timing of the disbursement really depends on how the
discussions evolve,” Gerry Rice, the IMF’s communications
director, told reporters today in Washington. “We believe that
Greece’s financing needs in the coming months can be met from
existing liquidity buffers.”  The  Greek (GKGNGDPY)  government and officials from the IMF, the
 European Central Bank  and the European Commission have been
locked in talks since September, with the two sides disagreeing
over fiscal measures needed for the country to achieve its 2014
budget projections. The so-called troika mission chiefs will
leave  Athens  today and return early next month, according to a
statement.  “Greece has been facing a crisis for quite some time,
there are very difficult issues to be addressed in a range of
areas,” Rice said. “I don’t think it’s surprising that it
would take a while to work these through.”  He said the IMF expects Greece to post a  budget surplus 
excluding interest payments in 2013, a year earlier than
expected.  “As demonstrated in this year’s experience, the Greek
authorities have a strong track record on meeting their fiscal
targets and are fully committed to those for next year,” Rice
said.  Asked about  Bitcoin , a virtual currency that prompted a
U.S. Senate committee hearing this week and has since reached
record highs, Rice said the fund is following the issue as it
raises concern on issues including consumer protection and
regulation.  “For the time being, it’s too limited a phenomenon to have
any macroeconomic significance for financial stability,” Rice
said. “It’s something to watch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  