-- Guggenheim’s Minella Said to Run $10 Billion for Insurer
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-21T20:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/guggenheim-s-minella-said-to-run-10-billion-for-insurer.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC, the  money
manager  that has been expanding in insurance, named Tony Minella
to oversee a $10 billion portfolio at a life unit, according to
a person familiar with the assignment.  Minella, formerly co-head of corporate credit at
Guggenheim, is chief investment officer at the Security Benefit
affiliate, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the details are private. Security Benefit previously
outsourced general account management to Guggenheim when the
portfolio was smaller, and now requires an in-house person given
its size, the person said. Minella switched roles in September.  Guggenheim, which has more than $190 billion in assets
under management, acquired Security Benefit in August 2010,
along with a group of investors, and indirectly controls the
insurer, according to its website. Security Benefit ranked
second among sellers of fixed annuities in the first nine months
of this year, according to  data  compiled by trade group Limra.
That compares with 19th for the  full year  of 2011.  Guggenheim won approval in July for a deal to buy a U.S.
annuities business from  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  after agreeing
to policyholder protections sought by a  New York  regulator.
Insurance deals increase assets managed by Guggenheim, which is
based in New York and  Chicago . Minella declined to comment on
his new role in an e-mail as did Terry Fahn, a spokesman for
Guggenheim at Sitrick and Co.  The money manager also is expanding into businesses
including merger advisory, digital media and hedge funds. Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Walter  and Guggenheim Baseball Management
led the purchase of the  Los Angeles Dodgers , announced in 2012.
Guggenheim’s insurance arms invested about $100 million in the
Dodgers deal, a person close to the company has said, asking not
to be identified because of Major League Baseball
confidentiality rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  