-- IFC Seeks Ghana Adviser for Cedi Debt on Africa Bond Plan
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-11-21T12:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ifc-seeks-ghana-adviser-for-cedi-debt-on-africa-bond-plan.html
The International Finance Corp. is
seeking advisers for the sale of local-currency bonds in  Ghana ,
expanding an African debt program that started with an issue in
Zambia that attracted demand five times the amount offered.  The World Bank unit, which received approval from Ghana
regulators in August to sell 2 billion cedis ($880 million)
under its Pan- Africa  Domestic Medium-Term Note Programme, is
studying proposals from local and international lenders, Andrew Cross, the IFC’s manager of Treasury Client Solutions for
Africa, said by phone from Washington on Nov. 18.  “We’re currently looking through a list of banks that are
interested in playing a financial advisory role,” he said,
without naming the lenders. “We’re in touch with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the  Ghana Stock Exchange (GGSECI)  and the  Bank
of Ghana  to give us their support once we settle on the
advisers.”  The IFC is in talks with the governments of  Botswana ,
Kenya,  Namibia ,  Rwanda ,  South Africa , and  Uganda  about taking
part in the program as it seeks to tap economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa that the International Monetary Fund estimates
will reach 5 percent this year, compared with 2.9 percent
globally. Africa may become the IFC’s biggest portfolio over the
next three years, Chief Risk Officer Saadia Khairi said in an
interview in  Frankfurt  on Nov. 19.  Yields Fall  The IFC’s plans to issue cedi debt comes as  yields  on
Ghana’s benchmark 91-day Treasury bills drop to the lowest since
June 2012, falling 410 basis points, or 4.1 percentage points,
to 19 percent from this year’s peak reached in February. In
June, the IFC said Ghana’s high borrowing costs made it
difficult for bond sales to begin. Cross declined to comment on
whether yields were now low enough.  Ghana’s  inflation  rate, which rose to highest level this
year of 13.1 percent in October, and a  budget deficit  forecast
by the  Finance Ministry  to reach 10.2 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, may weigh on yields if it prompts a central
bank rate increase, said Angus Downie, London-based head of
economic research at Ecobank Transnational Inc.  “Higher inflation makes it more likely that we’ll have the
Bank of Ghana decide to raise the monetary policy rate,” he
said by phone yesterday. “That higher policy interest rate
feeding into the rest of the economy will have some impact on
the 91-day Treasury-bill rate.”  Inflation accelerated as the cedi plummeted 15 percent
against the dollar this year, the worst performer in West
Africa. It strengthened 0.9 percent to 2.2439 per dollar by
12:40 p.m. in Accra.  African Markets  The IFC announced its pan-African debt plans in May last
year and debuted the program with the sale of 150 million
Zambian kwacha ($27 million) of four-year Zambezi notes in
September in an offer that was 4.8 times oversubscribed.
Standard Bank Group Ltd. and Stockbrokers Zambia Ltd. arranged
the sale, the IFC said in a Sept. 19  statement .  The IFC will issue three-year to 10-year bonds in Ghana
with proceeds used to support companies in agriculture,
manufacturing and infrastructure, Cross said.  “The medium-term note program is in part meant to support
the development of the  capital markets  in African countries,”
he said.  The lender’s investments in Africa include power projects
in Burundi and Ivory Coast, a trade-finance facility for a
Ghanaian bank and the arranging of debt for a Togo container
terminal.  Nigerian Projects  Funds raised from African bonds will be used for projects
in the local countries, according to the IFC. The lender has
issued bonds in 13 local currencies globally, including 10
billion Indian rupees ($160 million) of three-year notes on Nov.
20, it said in a statement.  In  Nigeria , the IFC is  working with regulators  to issue a
series of local-currency bonds totaling $1 billion to finance
private-industry projects in power and housing as well as
support the development of small- and medium-term enterprises,
said Cross, who declined to say when sales will start.  “We believe that increasing access to local-currency
finance by key sectors in the region will, in the long run,
create growth and reduce poverty,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  