-- Life Insurance Unit Sales Threaten Credit Ratings, Moody’s Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-11-21T19:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/life-insurance-unit-sales-threaten-credit-ratings-moody-s-says.html
Sales of U.S. units by insurers such
as  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and Sun Life Financial Inc. may pressure the credit
ratings of subsidiaries that could be divested by other
companies, Moody’s Investors Service said today in a report.  Moody’s often gives subsidiaries higher ratings than they
would merit on their own, based on the strength of parent
companies, the ratings firm said. The divestitures of units once
seen as important calls into question whether the extra benefit
is merited, Moody’s said.  “This trend challenges the notion of ‘strategic
subsidiary’ and the extent of rating uplift from implicit
parental support,” according to a report from Moody’s analysts
led by Ann Perry. “The strategic importance of subsidiaries can
lack permanence.”  Moody’s has downgraded subsidiaries following divestitures
by five insurers over the past year, according to the report.
 Sun Life (SLF) ’s former U.S. unit saw its financial-strength rating
cut by two levels after the Toronto-based company announced a
deal to sell the business to investors tied to Guggenheim
Partners LLC. An insurer owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was
lowered one grade as the bank divested about 80 percent.  “Some companies that historically provided implicit and
explicit support to strategically significant subsidiaries are
divesting these operations,” Moody’s said. Divestitures have
been fueled by “chronic underperformance, shifts over time in
enterprise priorities/strategies, and rationalization of legal
entities.”  Aviva, Axa  Other former subsidiaries that saw downgrades include units
of Paris-based  Axa SA (CS) ,  London ’s Aviva, and  Allstate Corp. (ALL) 
Discretion Winter, a spokeswoman for Axa’s U.S. unit, declined
to comment on the Moody’s report. Axa reached a deal this year
to sell some obligations tied to policies issued in past years.
The deal with Protective Life Corp. helped free up capital, the
French company has said.  U.S. life insurance sales are “absolutely core to our U.S.
business strategy,” Winter said.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) ,  Prudential Plc (PRU) ,
Manulife Financial Corp. and  Allianz SE (ALV)  are among insurers with
subsidiaries that benefit from parental support, Moody’s said.
Tom Hambrick, a spokesman for Hartford, which is based in the
Connecticut city of the same name, had no immediate comment.  Allianz is committed to bolstering operations in the U.S.,
Gary Bhojwani, the management board member responsible for the
Munich-based company’s U.S. insurance business, said in an
interview this month.  Tidjane Thiam, the chief executive officer of London-based
Prudential, said this month that the Jackson National Life U.S.
unit has a “great future” with the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net  