-- Illegal NYC Homes Thrive as De Blasio Tackles Housing
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/illegal-nyc-homes-thrive-as-de-blasio-tackles-housing.html
Around the side or back doors and
down 10 steps of the single-family homes in Ozone Park, Queens,
lies a netherworld of illegal basement dwellings -- a byproduct
of  New York ’s chronic housing shortage.  “Some are even better than those that are above,” said
Seema Agnani, an urban planner pushing for a law to add the
units to New York’s legally protected housing stock.  To Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio, the subterranean apartments
in neighborhoods mostly outside  Manhattan  symbolize government’s
failure to provide affordable housing for residents of the
biggest U.S. city. He takes office Jan. 1 having pledged to
build or preserve 200,000 low- and middle-income units in the
next decade.  De Blasio, a 52-year-old Democrat, won election this month
by the biggest margin by a non-incumbent in city history on a
platform vowing to close the growing gap between rich and poor.
Unless something is done, he said near the start of his
campaign, New York is in danger of becoming a place only for the
rich, “where mixed-income neighborhoods will be a thing of the
past.”  More  New Yorkers  are spending higher shares of their
paychecks on housing than ever before, with a third paying at
least half of their income on rent, according to the city’s  Rent
Guidelines Board . Having vexed mayors for decades, the housing
emergency may only grow worse as city officials project the
population to swell about 10 percent to  9.1 million  by 2030. For
de Blasio to meet his goal, he’ll have to contend with the
city’s real estate industry, limited resources and geography.  Building ‘Smarter’  “Most cities sprawl their way out of their housing crises
-- they build wide -- but New York is a series of islands, so we
can’t build out; we have to build denser and smarter and up,”
said Benjamin Dulchin, executive director of the Association for
Neighborhood and Housing Development, a coalition of nonprofits.
“What you generally see built here over the last 20 years is
market-rate or luxury housing, which doesn’t help the great
majority of New Yorkers.”  Affordable-housing advocates including Dulchin are quick to
laud the success of outgoing Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who’s on
track to build or preserve 165,000 units by next year. Even so,
they see in de Blasio an ally more willing to embrace what they
call a fairer mix of government incentives to spur private
development of homes that teachers, firefighters and retail
workers can afford.  Koch’s Legacy  The benchmark de Blasio has set for himself over the next
10 years -- two more than the maximum he’s allowed to serve --
would eclipse that of his recent predecessors. The subsidized
housing plan of the late Edward Koch, a Democrat who led New
York for three terms in 1970s and 1980s, produced more than
156,000 new and renovated units.  Rudolph Giuliani , a Republican
who served two terms through 2001, added 44,000 to Koch’s
program.  De Blasio’s plan calls for the construction of 50,000
affordable units through a policy called mandatory inclusionary
zoning. It would build on a similar, voluntary program
instituted by Bloomberg, the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Under de Blasio’s proposal, real estate developers would be
required to create permanently affordable and rent-regulated
housing for low- and middle-income families in order to build in
neighborhoods rezoned for higher density. Similar policies are
in place in  San Francisco ,  Chicago  and  Boston .  Not Enough  Backers of the program, including Dulchin and Democratic
Councilman Brad Lander, say it would encourage more developers
to build in more neighborhoods, be a better use of public
subsidies and would help preserve rent-regulated apartments in
rezoned areas. They criticize the voluntary program for not
producing enough housing that people can afford. Since the
policy was instituted in 2005, only 1.7 percent of all
residential units included in building permits -- about 2,700
apartments -- were classified as affordable, according to an
August  report  from Lander’s office.  Developers won’t build anything unprofitable without
government assistance, said Mary Ann Tighe, New York regional
chief executive officer at property brokerage CBRE Group Inc.
and the former chairwoman of the Real Estate Board of New York,
a trade group.  “There’s been an ongoing desire by some to make affordable
housing part of sort of a social engineering project,” she said
in an interview. “There is no commanding the development
community: ’You must do this.’ There’s no waving a mayor’s magic
wand.”  Budget Gap  Finding more public funding for housing may not be easy. De
Blasio faces a deficit in the next fiscal year of as much as $2
billion as he attempts to produce a balanced budget of about $70
billion.  Howard Husock, who studies housing policy at the Manhattan
Institute, which advocates less  government regulation , said New
York’s high rents and low vacancies are caused by too much
subsidized housing, not too little. De Blasio’s zoning plan
could widen the income divide of residents in the same building
by forcing developers to increase the prices of market-rate
apartments to make up for the revenue lost on below-market
units, Husock said.  De Blasio also wants to direct $1 billion of the $144
billion in city pension assets toward preserving 11,000 units.
That would compare with the majority of the city’s $2 billion
Economically Targeted Investments program invested in affordable
housing since the 1980s, according to Comptroller  John Liu ’s
office. Other solutions include closing a tax loophole that
encourages real estate owners to wait to develop vacant land
until prices rise.  Housing Emergency  New York has faced a “housing emergency” -- defined as
having a rental vacancy rate below 5 percent -- since surveys
began in 1965, city statistics  show . The rate was 3.1 percent in
2011, the latest year for which data are available; for units
with monthly rents of $800 or less, it was 1.1 percent.  There were  3.35 million  housing units, according to the
city’s Housing Preservation and Development Department, the most
since it began counting in 1965. Just 38 percent New York City
renters live in unregulated, market-rate apartments, according
to New York University’s Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban
Policy.  Tenants lack bargaining power in such a tight market, says
housing advocate Dulchin. The shortage also contributes to
economic instability and homelessness, he said. More than  51,000 
people sleep in city shelters each night, an almost 70 percent
increase since 2002, according to the  Coalition for the
Homeless .  Catching Up  New York has long played a game of catch-up on affordable
housing. From 1994 to 2011, the regulated housing stock added
about 137,000 units while losing about 240,000 for reasons such
as rent decontrol, subsidy expiration and co-op and condo
conversion, according to the  Rent Guidelines Board . More than
45,000 units will expire from rent restrictions and require new
subsidies during de Blasio’s first term, according to the Furman
Center.  In New York, the mayor isn’t in completely in charge of
city housing. The state legislature in  Albany  oversees rent
regulations, and the federal government helps out with funding
subsidies. Unless Congress reverses the sequestration cuts that
took effect March 1, as many as 185,000 low-income households
could lose their housing vouchers, including as many as 19,000
in New York, the second-largest total of any state after
 California . That’s according to a report this month from the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington-based
research institute that examines the effects of fiscal policies
on low- and moderate-income Americans.  No Windows  City law  forbids  homeowners from renting units that are
more than one-half their height below curb level. In practice,
it’s flouted so frequently that some residents are hard-pressed
to identify homes on their blocks without a basement apartment.
In interviews last week, homeowners recounted how the units,
which they rent for about $900 a month, are routinely built by
construction companies and marketed by real estate agents off
the books.  Some are firetraps lacking windows or quick exits. Others,
with full kitchens, bathrooms and bedrooms, are distinguishable
from legal units only by their lower ceilings and minimal amount
of sunlight, which peeks in from windows big enough for only the
slimmest of residents to slide through.  Most of the thousands of illegal basement apartments are in
Queens, according to an estimate by Chhaya Community Development
Corp., which works with South Asians in the borough. One survey
by the organization found that least 35 percent could be
potentially legalized to provide adequate air, light and safety.  Pilot Program  In his  housing plan , De Blasio pledges to “end the
practice of pretending these homes and their families don’t
exist.” That would be done through legislation creating an
“accessory dwelling unit” pilot program to begin bringing the
illegal units out of the shadows. Chhaya is part of a coalition
working with city council members to introduce such a bill next
year.  Legalization could provide protections and proof of
residency for tenants, while eliminating homeowners’ risk of
losing income and getting fined, said Agnani, Chhaya’s executive
director. The city could better account for neighborhood
populations and plan for expenses such as schools and
sanitation, she said.  The idea has won an unlikely ally in the  Manhattan
Institute ’s Husock.  “Anything that increases supply is really good and
anything that allows homeowners to make better use of the
housing that they own themselves, for which they find willing
tenants, as long as it’s safe, really should be encouraged,” he
said. 