-- Imax CEO Plans to Double Theaters in China in Five Years
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-21T16:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/imax-ceo-plans-to-double-theaters-in-china-in-five-years.html
Imax Corp. Chief Executive Richard Gelfond said he plans to more than double the big-screen theater
company’s count in  China  over the next five years as it expands
in the fastest-growing film market in the world.  Imax will boost its theaters, which present films in both
two-dimensional and three-dimensional formats on large screens
with specialized sound systems, to 400 in China from 150 today,
Gelfond said.  “I feel like I’ve got the wind at my back,” he said,
speaking today at The Year Ahead: 2014, a two-day summit hosted
by Bloomberg LP in  Chicago . “I’m a huge China bull.”  China passed  Japan  to become the world’s second-largest
film market last year, according to the  Motion Picture
Association  of America. Box office sales reached $3 billion
through Nov. 19, a 43 percent increase from 2012, according to
Rentrak Corp.  Imax, which opened its first theater in China in 2001,
signed an agreement with its largest partner there, Wanda Cinema
Line Corp., in July to open as many as 120 theaters. The total
number of theater screens in China has tripled since 2008, to
13,118 last year, according to EntGroup, a Beijing-based
research firm.  China’s leaders have a long-term view and outsiders need to
work with them on those goals, Gelfond said. Imax, based in
Mississauga, Ontario, has begun distributing Chinese-language
movies in the country and exporting them to other countries, he
said. That illustrates that “we have a stake not just in our
small venture but in their broader agenda.”  The Chinese government’s recent decision to let families
have more than one child signals future growth as does a recent
crackdown on corruption, Gelfond said.  Strong Brand  Having a strong brand is the best way to protect
intellectual property in the country, Gelfond said. Consumers,
he said, “want to be seen with their Coach bag, not a roach
bag. That’s how you protect yourself.” Chinese courts are also
recognizing those property rights, as the company successfully
sued a competitor that called itself Dmax for trademark
infringement, Gelfond said.  U.S. companies looking to do business in China need to
treat the country differently than others, Gelfond said. “They
consider themselves our equal,” Gelfond said. “The CEO or
someone very senior has to establish the relationship. You can’t
open a Chinese office and send your head of China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  