-- Khan Vows to Block NATO Pakistan Supply Route Over Drones
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-11-22T17:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/imran-khan-vows-to-block-nato-pakistan-supply-route-over-drones.html
Former Pakistani cricketer  Imran Khan  vowed to permanently block a supply route to U.S. forces in
Afghanistan starting tomorrow as he seeks an end to drone
strikes in the country’s northwest, where his party holds power.  A U.S. drone attack yesterday killed six people at an
Islamic seminary in the Tal area of Hangu district in Pakistan’s
northwestern Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province near Afghanistan,
Deputy Commissioner Ahmed Jan said by telephone. All those
killed were Afghans, he said.  U.S. drones have usually targeted the lawless tribal belt
closer to the Afghan border, making the latest attack unusual.
The strike inflamed Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, which
announced the plan to shut a key supply route for foreign troops
in  Afghanistan  earlier this month after a drone strike killed
the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, disrupting peace talks.  “We will announce at the protest on Saturday that we will
permanently block the supply route until they stop drone
attacks,” Khan said yesterday in a televised press conference.
“If it’s in our hands, we will block it today. Our powers are
that we can tell them that NATO supplies can’t pass through our
province.”  Pakistan’s government “strongly condemns” yesterday’s
drone strike as a violation of the nation’s sovereignty and
territorial integrity, the  foreign ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement from Islamabad. “There is an across the board
consensus in Pakistan that these drone strikes must end.”  Sharif Clash  Khan’s protest sets up a clash with Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s six-month-old government, according to Hasan Askari
Rizvi, a Lahore-based independent security analyst who formerly
taught at  Columbia University  in  New York .  “This is going to be the first time that any provincial
government is going to openly challenge the policy of the
central government,” he said. “It will create more chaos in
domestic politics and isolate Pakistan at the international
level.”  The latest attack has made tomorrow’s protest “even more
imperative,” said Shireen Mazari, central information secretary
of Khan’s PTI, which emerged as the third-largest political
party in this year’s general elections, which won by Sharif’s
party. Pakistan’s constitution gives the central government
authority over provincial administrations in defense and foreign
policy.  ‘Declared War’  “The attack in Hangu means that the Americans have
declared war against all of  Pakistan ,” Mazari said. “We want
to ask whether our government and military were sleeping while
Pakistan was attacked or are they complicit in these attacks?”  Pakistan agreed to open supply routes for the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization last year after closing them in
2011 following a U.S. military strike that killed 24 Pakistani
troops. The accord permits U.S.-led forces to ship non-lethal
supplies to Afghanistan until 2015 through two routes: One in
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and the other in the southwestern province of
Baluchistan.  Any prolonged disruption of the key route in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa could inhibit the U.S.’s ability to remove troops,
weapons and equipment as part of the plan to withdraw most of
its forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  “Current reports state, that this protest will be largely
symbolic and likely not last more than one day,” the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force joint command said in an
e-mailed message yesterday. “It should have minimal to no
impact on ISAF’s supply mission.”  Mehsud  The latest drone strike risks further inflaming anti-U.S.
public sentiment in Pakistan, where such attacks are seen as a
violation of the country’s sovereignty and have strained ties
between the government and the Obama administration.  After a Nov. 1 drone attack that killed Hakimullah Mehsud,
the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, the Pakistan government
said it would review “every aspect” of cooperation with the
Obama administration.  While the U.S. trumpeted the death of Mehsud, indicted in
the U.S. three years ago for his alleged role in a suicide
bombing that killed seven CIA employees in Afghanistan in 2009,
Pakistan said it scuttled efforts to bring militants to the
negotiating table to end more than a decade of violence.  The U.S. conveyed to Pakistan after Mehsud’s death that
there would be no drone attacks on Taliban militants while they
were talking to the Pakistan government, Sartaj Aziz, Sharif’s
adviser on security and foreign affairs, was quoted as telling a
parliamentary panel on Nov. 20,  the News reported yesterday.   Yesterday’s drone strike killed several people including
children, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement today.
Pakistan has conveyed its concern to the U.S. Ambassador,
“adding that this has deeply disturbed the people of
Pakistan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  