-- India Rejects U.S. Plan to Use Ozone Treaty to Cut HFCs
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-21T13:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/india-rejects-u-s-plan-to-use-ozone-treaty-to-cut-hfcs.html
India  opposed using the Montreal
Protocol ozone-protection treaty to restrict powerful  greenhouse
gases  called hydrofluorocarbons, pouring cold water on efforts
by the U.S. and the European Union.  “It’s honestly beyond me how a non-ozone depleting
substance like HFCs can be taken into the Montreal Protocol,
which deals only with ozone-depleting substances,” Indian
Environment Minister Jayanthi Natarajan told envoys at United
Nations climate talks in Warsaw today. “We are unable to fathom
what prevents addressing this issue” under the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change.  U.S. and EU envoys have suggested using the ozone treaty to
pare back the gases. That would bypass slow-moving  UN climate
talks , which often deadlock on unrelated issues. The gases are
made by companies including Honeywell International Inc. and
DuPont Co. in a $4 billion global refrigerant industry.  Tackling HFCs is important because the gases are up to
11,700 more powerful agents of global warming than carbon
dioxide, according to the UN. Phasing them down has the
potential to slash 90 billion tons of greenhouse gases through
2050, said Todd Stern, the U.S. special envoy on  climate change .
That’s almost two years of greenhouse-gas output at current
levels.  “The Montreal Protocol is made for this kind of task,”
Stern said today. “It’s what it does, It phases down industrial
chemicals. Let’s start making progress here instead of making
excuses.”  Environmental Success  The Montreal Protocol, touted as the most successful
environmental treaty, was rolled out in 1987 to eliminate the
use of CFCs, once a mainstay of air conditioners, refrigerants
and aerosols. Ratified by all nations, it has cut CFCs and other
regulated chemicals by 98 percent, replacing them with HFCs.  India also blocked discussions on the proposed transfer of
responsibility at talks of the Montreal Protocol last month. The
opposition contradicts a Sept. 6 declaration in  St. Petersburg 
by G-20 members, including India, supporting use of the Montreal
Protocol to curb the gases. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Indian Premier  Manmohan Singh  issued a statement later that
month agreeing to discuss using the treaty.  “The transfer of mandate of phasedown of HFCs is simply
not possible unless we have complete clarity on identified
substitutes, costs, safety and economic feasibility,” Natarajan
said. “It will very adversely impact our people and our
countries.”  While HFCs don’t deplete ozone, they’re substitutes for the
chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, which the Montreal Protocol has
been successful in curtailing. The EU estimates that while HFCs
make up about 1 percent of greenhouse gases now, they may
account for more than 20 percent by 2050, and the 28-nation bloc
is also pushing to regulate them under the ozone deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  