-- Indian Bonds Decline on Concern Fed Taper May Worsen Outflows
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-11-21T04:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/indian-bonds-decline-on-concern-fed-taper-may-worsen-outflows.html
India ’s 10-year government bonds
fell, sending the yield to a three-month high, after Federal
Reserve officials indicated they will reduce monetary stimulus
that’s buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  The Fed may cut its $85 billion monthly bond-buying program
“in coming months” as the  U.S. economy  improves, minutes of
their October meeting released yesterday showed. Overseas funds
pared holdings of rupee-denominated debt by more than $14
billion from an  all-time high  of $38.5 billion in mid-May.  The yield on the 7.16 percent notes due May 2023 jumped six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 9.10 percent as of
9:21 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from the central bank’s
trading system. That’s the highest since closing at 9.23 percent
on Aug. 19.  The Federal Open Market Committee’s minutes “revived fears
that the U.S. quantitative easing taper is still on the cards,”
DBS Bank Ltd. economists, including Singapore-based Radhika Rao,
wrote in a research note. “A persistent climb” in India’s
wholesale and consumer-price inflation “in the months ahead
will underscore the need for further rate hikes,” they wrote.  The RBI will auction new 10-year securities tomorrow.  Wholesale prices  rose 7 percent in October from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since February, while  consumer-price
inflation  accelerated to 10.1 percent, separate reports showed
last week. The  Reserve Bank  of India will study data before
deciding whether to raise the benchmark rate for a third
straight meeting, Governor  Raghuram Rajan  said Nov. 13. He
boosted the key  repurchase rate  by 25 basis points to 7.75
percent on Oct. 29, the second consecutive increase.  U.S. policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the FOMC’s outlook for ongoing improvement
in labor market conditions and would thus warrant trimming the
pace of purchases in coming months,” according to the record of
the Oct. 29-30 gathering, released yesterday in  Washington .  India’s one-year  interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three
basis points to 8.65 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  