-- Indonesia May Raise Palm Export Tax to 14-Month High on Rally
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-11-21T05:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/indonesia-may-raise-palm-export-tax-to-14-month-high-on-rally.html
Indonesia  may increase the export
tax on crude palm oil to the highest level in 14 months after
prices entered a bull market on concern that output in the
world’s largest producer may trail estimates. Futures jumped.  The tariff may be raised to 12 percent in December from 9
percent this month, Faiz Achmad, director of food and fishery at
the Industry Ministry, said in a text message today. That would
be the highest since 13.5 percent in October 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government normally announces
the tax by the 25th of every month.  Indonesia will join Malaysia in increasing taxes as futures
are headed for a second month of gains after rallying 11.8
percent in October, the most since 2010, on concern that
production in the top growers may fall short of analysts’
estimates. Yields may drop 15 percent to 20 percent this year on
bad weather, the Indonesian Palm Oil Association estimates.  The contract for delivery in February rallied as much as
2.6 percent to 2,648 ringgit ($826) a ton on Bursa  Malaysia 
Derivatives today, the highest level for the most-active futures
since September 2012. Malaysia raised the levy on exports of
crude palm oil to 5 percent for December after keeping it
unchanged at 4.5 percent since March.  “Exporters will probably boost sales before the new tax,”
Hariyanto Wijaya, an analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, said by
phone from Jakarta. “We would be further less competitive
against Malaysia, but an increase in domestic consumption,
especially with the boost in biodiesel use, will help
producers.”  Indonesia raised the blending rate for biodiesel in
subsidized fuel to 10 percent in September from 7.5 percent and
the mandate will be expanded to non-subsidized fuel and for
industrial users next year.  Indonesian plantations are on the cusp of a low-yield cycle
and the country could produce less than 27 million tons this
year, falling short of the 30 million tons to 31 million tons
estimated initially, Standard Chartered Bank said in a note Nov.
13, citing industry reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  