-- Indonesia Halts Intelligence Exchange With Australia
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-11-21T09:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/indonesia-halts-intelligence-exchange-with-australia.html
Protesters in Jakarta burned
Australian flags and called for a break in diplomatic ties as
tensions between the two countries escalated to their highest
level in 14 years over claims the phones of  Indonesia ’s leaders
were tapped.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has called a halt to
cooperation with Australia on asylum seekers, military
operations and intelligence sharing. As the dispute escalated, a
person claiming to be from the Anonymous Indonesia group said it
carried out a cyber attack on Australia’s central bank.  Several hundred people gathered outside the Australian
embassy in Jakarta today, burning that country’s flag, police
said. Indonesians were demanding an apology from Australia, said
protester Donny Manurung, from a local youth group, and more
rallies were planned.  Prime Minister Tony Abbott has ruled out an apology over
the tapping claims, which potentially complicate his bid for a
free-trade pact with Indonesia after two-way trade reached
A$14.6 billion ($13.6 billion) last year. Abbott, who told
voters before the Sept. 7 election his diplomatic focus was on
“Jakarta, not Geneva,” is seeking Yudhoyono’s help to prevent
asylum seekers reaching  Australia  by boat.  Abbott’s “early statement that’s downplaying as though
spying on your friends and neighbors, including on the
president’s wife, is normal,” made things worse, said Dewi Fortuna Anwar, deputy secretary for political affairs to Vice
President Boediono and a political analyst at the Indonesian
Institute of Sciences.  Swiftly, Courteously  “If he had quickly expressed regret and given assurances
that it won’t happen again, it would have toned down,” Anwar
said by phone. “I think the one that will be most hurt is
Australia. Australia is in a position where it needs Indonesia
more than Indonesia needs Australia.”  In remarks today to parliament in Canberra, Abbott said he
had received a letter from Yudhoyono and would reply “swiftly,
fully and courteously.” He said he would do everything he
“reasonably” could to strengthen ties between the nations.  Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  warned Indonesia may suspend
talks with Australia on a free-trade accord.  “We must guarantee that we are comfortable in our
communications” with Australia, he said yesterday on the
sidelines of a forum in Jakarta, the Jakarta Post reported.
Indonesia doesn’t plan for now to halt cattle imports as the
government is concerned about domestic supplies, the paper said.  ‘A Friend’  Yudhoyono on Nov. 18 recalled his envoy to Jakarta and said
yesterday any tapping was a breach of Indonesian law. “Now is
not the Cold War era,” he told reporters. “Australia and
Indonesia are not against each other, let alone in animosity.
Why must there be tapping on a partner, a friend?”  The Reserve Bank of Australia said its website was subject
to a denial-of-service attack late on Nov. 19. The Australian
Federal Police also said its website was hacked.  Anonymous Indonesia said earlier this month on its Twitter
page that it infiltrated more than 100 Australian sites in
response to reports of spying by Australia. A person claiming to
be a member of the hacker group today posted links to the
affected websites and added: “I’m Ready For This War!”  Australia has pledged to not hack the phones of senior
officials, Marciano Norman, head of Indonesia’s National
Intelligence Agency, told reporters in Jakarta yesterday, adding
the violations occurred in 2007 and 2009. “I was told by the
Australian intelligence side that now, as well as in the future,
there won’t be any” tapping.  Timor Tensions  Indonesia’s communications ministry today ordered
telecommunications companies to check their security systems and
look for any evidence of tapping. Companies must report back
within seven days, minister Tifatul Sembiring told reporters in
Jakarta.  Tensions may be further strained after Twitter posts late
yesterday attributed to Mark Textor, the managing director of a
 consultancy  that provides strategic and polling advice to
Abbott’s Liberal Party, disparaged Yudhoyono and Indonesian
Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa, according to the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. The posts are no longer available on his
Twitter feed, where Textor has issued an apology.  Ties between the two nations soured during President
Sukarno’s rule in the 1960s, and when Australian journalists
were killed in the 1970s in what is now East Timor. Indonesia
reacted angrily in 1999 when Australia led international
military support to restore order in East Timor after it voted
to become independent from Indonesia. Relations improved under
Yudhoyono, who can’t stand again in elections due next year.  People Smugglers  While Abbott made a visit to Jakarta in his first
international engagement as leader, his meetings with Yudhoyono
failed to secure detailed agreements on how to curb the
smuggling of people from war-torn nations such as  Afghanistan .  His stance could see him backed into a corner that hurts
the national interest, whether it’s economic ties or the asylum-seeker issue, said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at
Griffith University in Brisbane. “Australia doesn’t want to
gain an attitude in Asia of being insensitive and
untrustworthy.”  Yudhoyono’s response in turn is largely resonating with the
Indonesian public, said Natalie Sambhi, an analyst with the
Australian Strategic Policy Institute in Canberra. “In the past
he has been seen by some as a lame-duck president, and I think
that some of his actions can be seen in part as an attempt to
improve popular support,” she said by phone.  Indonesia Election  It’s too soon to say if the spat will affect the 2014
presidential vote, as Yudhoyono’s party has not been polling
well, Sambhi said. “I’m not sure whether his attempt to garner
popular support will extend necessarily to his party.”  The ABC said Nov. 18 that the mobile-phone activity of
Yudhoyono was tracked for 15 days in August 2009, citing
documents leaked by U.S. whistle blower Edward Snowden. The
phones of his wife and senior advisers were also monitored, the
ABC said.  The Sydney Morning Herald reported Oct. 31 that Australian
embassies are helping intercept phone calls and data across Asia
as part of a U.S.-led global spying network, citing information
from Snowden and a former Australian intelligence officer.  “It would be silly to sacrifice elements of the
relationship over something that, at least in outline, everyone
knew was going on from many years back,” said Keith Loveard,
head of risk analysis at Jakarta-based Concord Consulting.  “Petty reactions, such as penalizing Australian business
in some way, would damage a relationship that has taken years to
develop to its current stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  