-- Indonesia Pain Threshold Looms on Rate Increases: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   A n d r e w   J a n e s
-- 2013-11-22T06:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/indonesia-pain-threshold-looms-on-rate-increases-southeast-asia.html
Indonesia’s most aggressive rate-tightening in eight years has barely dented a current-account
deficit, prompting calls for more increases and other measures
before the Federal Reserve cuts stimulus.  Bank Indonesia  has raised  borrowing costs  by 1.75
percentage points to 7.5 percent since early June, the quickest
since 2005. Following data last week showing the country
recorded its second-highest current-account shortfall on record
in the three months through September, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Standard Chartered Plc now see a further 50 basis points of
increases in the first half of next year.  Foreign funds pulled $3.8 billion from Indonesian stocks
and local-currency  bonds  in June after the Fed said it could cut
stimulus, and a lack of progress on improving the current
account before the U.S. does eventually taper leaves the country
vulnerable to another sudden outflow. The government said this
week it will raise  import taxes  for  consumer goods , showing
policy makers are looking for other bullets to slay the deficit.  “I’m afraid that when we really need to raise the
 reference rate , Bank Indonesia will have no ammunition left,”
said  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank Danamon Indonesia
in Jakarta, who is forecasting another 25 basis-point increase
next quarter. “There was no urgent need to raise the rate last
week.”  The rate rise on Nov. 12 came after a pause in October and
was forecast by just one of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A
day later, the government reported a  current-account deficit  of
$8.4 billion in the third quarter, compared with a record $9.9
billion in the previous three months.  Low Reserves  The  trade gap  and prospect of reduced U.S. stimulus have
fueled a near-18 percent drop in the rupiah this year, making it
the second worst-performer among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Foreign funds have pulled $1.4 billion
from  Indonesia  stocks so far this year.  The central bank’s foreign-currency reserves have fallen by
14 percent this year to October, according to Bank Indonesia
data, giving it reduced ammunition to intervene to defend the
currency. The rupiah will weaken to 12,000 per dollar in three
months due to the deficit, relatively low level of reserves and
risk around tapering, Barclays Plc said in a report on Nov. 14.  Bank Indonesia sees the current rupiah level as
appropriate, with its weakness temporary and due to global
factors, Governor Agus Martowardojo told reporters today. The
central bank will manage the current-account deficit to a
sustainable level that it sees as being less than 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product, he said.  Bank Indonesia is likely to face further capital flight and
severe rupiah depreciation when the U.S. does reduce stimulus,
pressuring it to raise rates again next year, said Toru
Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . Yet, lifting borrowing costs will shrink the economy
and is not good from a long-term viewpoint, he said.  More Pain  The country’s GDP increased 5.6 percent in the three months
through September, the weakest since the global recession, as
investment slowed with the higher rates.  “Fifty to 75 basis points should be fine, but more than
that, the pain will be more than the gain,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, an economist at  Standard Chartered  in Jakarta.
“Instead of just relying on the Bank Indonesia rate, I would
suggest they would try to use other measures such as increasing
bank minimum  reserve requirements .”  Martowardojo told bankers on Nov. 14 that the central bank
is considering raising reserve requirements for shariah lenders.
The country has to accept an economic correction, and needs
deeper markets and policy responses to guard economic stability,
he said. The government has said it is planning more economic
measures in November.  Fed officials said they might reduce their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases “in coming months” as the  U.S. economy 
improves, minutes of their last meeting showed.  Build Refineries  Monetary policy  alone will not solve the persistent
imbalances in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, said David Sumual, economist at PT Bank Central Asia in Jakarta. The
country’s expanding middle class is importing more goods while
demand for commodity exports has weakened.  Fundamental concerns such as dependence on oil imports will
instead need to be addressed by the government, by building
refineries and infrastructure, liberalizing investment and
increasing tariffs for some products, Sumual said.  “Bank Indonesia’s recent policy in raising the policy rate
signals the government’s inability to handle the current-account
deficit,” Sumual said, adding it still had room to raise it to
around 8.5 percent. “More than that level, it might only
trigger recession in the country as it would affect the
consumption sector, the only engine of growth left.”  Still Spending  Economic indicators show that Indonesians are still
spending even as the central bank and government attempt to slow
the economy to tackle the trade and current-account shortfalls.  Bank Indonesia’s  consumer confidence  index rose to a four-month high in October, while motorcycle sales climbed 5.7
percent from the previous month. Private consumption increased
2.9 percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
when it climbed 1.5 percent, official data showed.  “When private consumption is growing much faster than the
second quarter, that actually signals the slowdown isn’t enough
to curb this current-account deficit,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Singapore . People are
borrowing now “because they believe the interest-rate
environment is bound for higher ground,” he said.  Five Years  Bank Indonesia may have to introduce more macroprudential
and administrative tightening measures, including increasing
primary and secondary reserve requirements for lenders, as well
as possibly levying a capital gains tax on second or third
properties, said Tanuwidjaja, who is forecasting two 25 basis-point rate increases in the first quarter.  Monetary tightening has failed to cool the  property market ,
with the Indonesian Real Estate Association predicting housing
sales will climb more than 50 percent this year.  Along with 50 basis points of rate increases through June
2014, restrictions on real-estate sector credit could be imposed
to slow construction activity, Sin Beng Ong, an economist at
JPMorgan in Singapore, wrote in a Nov. 15 research note.  To tackle the structural problems with the current account,
the government needs to provide incentives for investors
producing capital goods and manufacturing for overseas markets,
Standard Chartered’s Sugandi said.  “In order to have the current-account return to surplus,
it may take at least three to five years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Janes in Jakarta at 
 ajanes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  