-- Mine-Spending Reductions Seen Limiting Global Surplus of Metals
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/mine-spending-reductions-seen-limiting-global-surplus-of-metals.html
Supply gluts in metals including
copper and nickel may be limited as mining companies trim
investments in production expansion after prices declined this
year, according to Standard Life Investments Ltd.  “Quite a few of the miners have cut back sharply on
 capital spending , and that should bring things more into
balance,” said  Frances Hudson , who helps oversee about $290.8
billion as the Edinburgh-based strategist at Standard Life.
Gains in Chinese and U.S. demand may also help soak up excess
supplies, she said.  The world’s top four mining companies will reduce capital
spending by 10 percent this year, Bloomberg Industries analyst
Barbara Pomfret said in a Nov. 14 report. The London Metal
Exchange Index of six industrial materials slumped 12 percent in
2013 on signs of ample supplies.  Global production will top demand for aluminum, nickel and
zinc this year, Barclays Plc forecast in a report Oct. 31.
Annual spending by the top 20 miners including BHP Billiton Ltd.
will drop by about a third to $66 billion in 2015 from 2012
levels, according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg World Mining  index  jumped 14 percent from a
four-year low in July as signs of sustained global growth eased
supply concerns. The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares
climbed 11 percent in the same time, while the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities declined 3.3 percent.  Glencore Xstrata Plc Chief Executive Officer Ivan
Glasenberg said in August that mining peers responded to his
call six months earlier to curb spending and shelve expansions
to buoy resource prices and returns for investors. “CEOs are
now under pressure from shareholders and they are doing the
right thing,” he said.  A dearth of new mining projects may help spur a rebound for
metals including zinc, Victor Wyprysky, the chief executive
officer of Chieftain Metals Corp, said this week.  “Increasingly, the experts seem to think zinc has
potential for a strong growth in prices,” Wyprysky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  