-- Insurers Instructed to Tell Consumers of Obamacare Option
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-21T22:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/insurers-instructed-to-tell-consumers-of-obamacare-option.html
Health insurers that want to offer
plans next year that don’t meet the stricter standards of
Obamacare are being instructed by the U.S. government to
explicitly inform customers that there may be better options.  The  guidance  today from the  Department of Health  and Human
Services requires insurers to tell customers that if the
substandard plans are extended, they “will NOT provide all the
rights and protections of the health-care law.” Insurers also
must inform people they “have new options” through government-run marketplaces and may be eligible for tax credits.  President  Barack Obama  is trying to resolve the political
thicket that arose after insurers began canceling policies in
the individual market and telling customers that new plans
complying with the health law would cost more. The decision
clashed with Obama’s repeated promise that people who liked
their health coverage would be able to keep it. The president on
Nov. 14 offered a compromise allowing insurers to extend
substandard policies in force in 2013 for as long as a year.  “This effort is a direct response to the president’s
concerns that the small percentage of Americans receiving
confusing letters from their insurance companies need clearer
information about how to keep an existing plan, or how to choose
a new plan with new protections available in the health
insurance marketplace,” Chris Jennings, the White House’s
coordinator for the health-care overhaul, said in a  blog post .  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010
mandated an end to discrimination against people with pre-existing health conditions and required all policies next year
to meet minimum coverage rules in return for an obligation that
Americans obtain insurance or pay a fine.  Opting Out  At least 12 states have said they will enact Obama’s
transitional policy for health plans that don’t meet the new
standards, according to  America’s Health Insurance Plans , a
 Washington  lobby group for the industry. Four other states
allowed extensions before Obama’s policy.  Washington,  Minnesota ,  New York , Vermont,  Massachusetts ,
 Rhode Island  and  California  have said they won’t allow
extensions, according to AHIP.  About 1 million to 5 million policyholders may be affected
by Obama’s proposal, according to an estimate from Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst. Almost three-quarters of
the 15.2 million Americans who now buy their own health
insurance have incomes low enough to make them eligible next
year for subsidized private plans or the joint state-federal
Medicaid program for the poor, the consumer advocacy group
Families USA said today in a  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  