-- Intel Expanding Use of Factories for Other Chipmakers
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/intel-expanding-use-of-factories-for-other-chipmakers.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  is providing increased
access to its manufacturing plants for other chipmakers, taking
advantage of advanced production capabilities and seeking to
boost its revenue sources as it faces greater competition.  The world’s largest maker of semiconductors, which has
traditionally only made its own chips, is expanding its foundry
business, or manufacturing chips to order for other companies,
Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich said yesterday at an
investor meeting in Santa Clara,  California .  Intel, which said at the meeting that sales next year will
be little changed from 2013 levels, will focus more on providing
what customers want rather than trying to push its own designs,
said Krzanich, who became the company’s sixth CEO in May when he
succeeded Paul Otellini. Krzanich, 53, is a former factory
manager who ran part of a network of plants that Intel says are
the most advanced in the semiconductor industry.  “We’d become insular,” Krzanich said. “We’d become
focused on what was our best product rather than where the
market was moving.”  Otellini had said Intel’s plants were closed to
competitors. Earlier this year, Krzanich said he would consider
changing that stance, and yesterday he confirmed the company’s
willingness to make chips for companies that are beating Intel
in mobile phones.  “We’re needing some kind of signal or sign that mobile is
happening and they’re getting some kind of presence there,”
said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in San
Francisco. She has the equivalent of a hold rating on the stock.
“The mobile business is an ugly business. It’s very tough.”  Financial Outlook  Intel said revenue will be approximately the same in 2014.
Analysts were  projecting  on average sales of $53.7 billion next
year, up from $52.6 billion in 2013, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Gross margin, the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the production costs, will be in the
middle of its target range of between 55 percent and 65 percent,
in line with analysts’ estimates, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said.  Intel predicts the PC market, measured by units, to be down
in the ‘low single-digit’ percent, Smith said. While spending on
new plants and equipment in 2014 will be little changed from
2013 at around $11 billion, investments aimed at enabling
customers to convert to Intel chips in tablets will hurt total
profitability, he said.  ‘Ultra Fast’  Intel Vice President Hermann Eul, who heads the company’s
mobile division, said Intel will focus on developing parts for a
smaller number of phonemakers with large sales volumes. The
company isn’t giving up on mobile, he said.  “Of course, we would like to do better,” Eul said at the
meeting. “This market is going ultra fast, and the competition
is not standing still while we catch up.”  The smartphone market will pass  1 billion  units this year,
growing 40 percent from 2012, according to researcher IDC.
Personal-computer shipments are projected to drop  9.7 percent 
worldwide this year, IDC said in August.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, has yet to garner 1 percent of
the handset processor market. Krzanich has said the company
needs to speed up the delivery of new products for mobile
devices. He addressed the tablet market and said the company
plans to have chips in sub-$100 devices next year and ship more
than 40 million tablet chips.  The PC decline has led some analysts to question Intel’s
 plan  to spend $10.8 billion on new plants and equipment this
year, calling for a reduction in next year’s budget.  The semiconductor maker expects the rate of decline in PC
shipments to slow as demand improves at corporations and in some
developed markets, said Kirk Skaugen, the general manager of
Intel’s PC business.  Intel  shares  rose 2.7 percent to $25.23 at yesterday’s
close in New York, leaving them up 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  