-- Intermediate Capital and Nomura Set Up Japanese Mezzanine Fund
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-21T09:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/intermediate-capital-and-nomura-set-up-japanese-mezzanine-fund.html
Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP)  and
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  agreed to set up a mezzanine debt fund in
 Japan , citing increased demand as the world’s third-largest
economy recovers.  Intermediate Capital, a London-based provider of financing
for private-equity firms, and Nomura will allocate 10 billion
yen ($99.3 million) apiece to the fund,  the Japanese bank  said
in a statement today.  Mezzanine financing is a hybrid of debt and equity
financing that generally gives a lender the right to convert to
an ownership or equity interest in the company if the loan isn’t
paid back in time and in full. It’s typically subordinated to
debt provided by senior lenders such as banks.  “As the market in Japan benefits from the current
government’s economic initiatives, the demand for mezzanine is
anticipated to rise,”  Intermediate Capital  said in a separate
statement. “Offering mezzanine investment within a fund
structure opens up new investment opportunities to institutional
investors.”  Intermediate Capital also said the U.S. market for
collateralized loan obligations has “seen significant volume”
for new issuance. In Europe, the firm was able to issue a 400
million-euro ($537 million) CLO fund amid a “nascent return”
in the market, it said.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and returns.  Intermediate Capital also reported first-half pretax profit
rose to 155.3 million pounds ($250 million) from 39.6 million
pounds in the same period a year earlier. The company’s assets
under management shrank 6 percent to 12.1 billion euros.  Intermediate Capital shares  fell 18.5 pence, or 4 percent,
to 442.1 pence at 8:44 a.m. in  London  trading, cutting their
gain this year to 40 percent. The shares were cut to hold from
add today at Numis Securities, which said the earnings and funds
under management missed its estimates.  -- Editors:  Keith Campbell , Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  