-- Investec First-Half Profit Falls as South African Rand Drops
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-11-21T16:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/investec-s-first-half-profit-declines-on-south-african-rand-drop.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , which owns a bank and
money manager in South Africa and the U.K., said first-half
profit declined 1.6 percent after the rand weakened and it
closed businesses in  Australia .  Net income fell to 164.3 million pounds ($264 million) in
the six months ended Sept. 30 from 166.9 million pounds a year
earlier, the London- and Johannesburg-based lender said in a
statement today. Earnings per share excluding one-time items
dropped 1.3 percent to 15.6 pence.  South Africa’s rand has depreciated 16 percent against the
pound and 17 percent versus the dollar this year, making it the
worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Without that decline, earnings would have increased 13 percent,
Investec said. The company cut 80 jobs in Australia after
shutting its securities and structured finance units.  “The trading update from Investec was a little
disappointing with a combination of a weak rand, Australian
restructuring and continued subdued customer activity impacting
the first half,” Numis Securities analyst  James Hamilton  said
in a note to clients today. “Most of the problems appear to be
short term but we have been having short-term problems for quite
a while now.”  Investec shares fell 0.8 percent to 423.3 pence at the
close of trading in  London . The company left its dividend
unchanged at 8 pence a share.  Rand Weakness  Since the end of September the rand has depreciated 1.4
percent against the dollar and its continued weakness will
affect Investec’s second-half results, Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Koseff said in a conference call with reporters.  “The challenge for the group remains to ensure its
specialist banking businesses are in the best possible shape to
take advantage of the upturn in markets and generate the
appropriate shareholder returns,” said Investec, which started
in  South Africa  in 1974. “While economic conditions remain
mixed, the overall group is improving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  