-- Italy Plans to Sell 3% of Eni as Letta Seeks to Reduce Debt
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-11-21T17:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/italy-plans-to-sell-3-of-eni-as-letta-seeks-to-reduce-debt.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
plans to sell 3 percent of  Eni SpA (ENI)  as part of a program to raise
as much as 12 billion euros ($16 billion) by disposing of state
assets to reduce Europe’s second-biggest public debt.  Italy ’s 30 percent stake in the oil company, which is split
between the Treasury and state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti,
won’t fall below that level because of an Eni buyback that will
reduce the shares outstanding, Letta said at a press conference
in Rome after a cabinet meeting. Italy also plans to sell stakes
in  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Grandi Stazioni SpA, Fincantieri
Cantieri Navali Italiani SpA and Sace SpA.  Letta, 47, is divesting assets to comply with European
Union debt-reduction targets. Italy’s 2.1 trillion-euro debt is
second to  Germany  and, at 133 percent of gross domestic product,
behind only  Greece  in Europe.  “It’s a choice we’re making to free up other resources,”
Letta said. Italy expects to get “greater flexibility for
productive investment” from the EU thanks to the asset sales
and other budget moves, he said.  Eni fell 0.4 percent to 17.96 euros in Milan, while Geneva-based STMicro declined 1.3 percent to 5.81 euros. Eni has
shareholders’ approval to buy back as much as 10 percent of its
own capital.  Buyback Plan  Italy’s stake in Eni won’t be sold until the  oil company 
completes its stock repurchase plan and then cancels the shares,
the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. The buyback
would leave Italy with about 33 percent of Eni, allowing the
government to then sell 3 percent without dropping below 30
percent, the ministry said.  The 3 percent Eni stake is valued at about 2 billion euros
at current market prices, which give the full company a value of
about 65 billion euros. Italy’s STMicro investment is indirect,
owned through a 50 percent holding of STMicroelectronics
Holding, the company’s biggest shareholder with a 28 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About half of the proceeds of the disposals, which Letta
estimated at a minimum of 10 billion euros, will go toward
public debt reduction next year, the premier said. The other
half will remain with CDP, he said. The sales should be
completed by the end of 2014.  The government will consider further asset sales in coming
months, Letta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  