-- Lithuania Banking on Budget to Seal Second Bid for Euro
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-11-21T13:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/lithuania-banking-on-budget-to-seal-second-bid-for-euro.html
Lithuania, which in 2006 became the
only candidate to be rejected from adopting the euro, stands a
better chance this time round as the outlook for its public
finances improves, according to President Dalia Grybauskaite.  The Baltic country, which wants to make the currency switch
in 2015, will narrow its fiscal shortfall in the next two years,
bolstering the chance it will meet Maastricht criteria on
sustainability, Grybauskaite said yesterday in an interview.  “Both our forecasts and European Commission estimates show
sustainable growth and sustainability in budget-deficit
reduction in 2014 through 2015,” Grybauskaite said in the
capital, Vilnius. “It’s highly likely” the nation of 3 million
people will become the 19th euro-area member in 2015, she said.  Lithuania, which wants to follow Latvia and  Estonia  into
the euro, missed out on adopting the common currency seven years
ago because consumer-price growth was too fast. As well as
inflation, candidates must meet targets for budget deficits,
debt, long-term  interest rates , exchange-rate stability and
sustainability, which ensures nations comply with convergence
limits in the years after euro adoption.  Lithuania’s budget gap will narrow to 2.5 percent of
 economic output  next year and 1.9 percent in 2015, European
Commission estimates show. This year’s budget gap is forecast at
3 percent, the highest allowed for euro adoption.  Estonia joined the currency bloc in 2011, while Latvia is
set to become its 18th member on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  