-- J&J Hip-Implant Judge Warns of ‘Rogue’ Websites on Accord
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-11-22T00:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/j-j-hip-implant-judge-warns-of-rogue-websites-on-accord.html
A New Jersey judge warned of several
“rogue websites” by lawyers seeking to take advantage of
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s agreement to pay at least $2.47 billion to
settle thousands of lawsuits over its recalled hip implants.  Superior Court Judge Brian Martinotti heard a summary in
Hackensack today of the settlement from lawyers who negotiated
an accord designed to resolve about 8,000 U.S. suits against
J&J’s DePuy unit. DePuy recalled 93,000 of its ASR hips
worldwide in 2010 as the device’s failure rate began to climb.  Lawyers for J&J, the world’s  biggest seller  of health-care
products, and patients revealed the accord on Nov. 19 in federal
court in Toledo, Ohio. Martinotti, who oversees about 600 cases
in New Jersey, praised the pact as a “creative and a unique”
resolution. He said  www.usasrhipsettlement.com  is the only
reliable website outlining terms of the pact.  “There are several rogue websites out there,” Martinotti
said. “Please be wary of other websites.”  Martinotti’s call came as J&J, based in New Brunswick, New
Jersey, and plaintiffs’ lawyers seek to persuade patients to
elect the accord’s payouts. If 94 percent of eligible clients
don’t agree by April 1, J&J has the right to walk away from the
deal by June 1. Some lawyers have said they will counsel their
clients to reject the terms and hold out for more money.  To be eligible, patients must have had an ASR implanted in
the U.S. or a U.S. military hospital, had it removed for reasons
related to the recall by Aug. 31 and had it in place for at
least 180 days. It doesn’t cover patients who had their hips
removed after Aug. 31 in surgeries known as revisions.  Base Award   Those getting awards will be in two  groups . The larger
group will get a base award of $250,000 that can be reduced for
such reasons as a patient’s age, weight, smoking history, and
the length of time before the ASR was removed.  Another group will be eligible for additional money if they
had surgeries on both hips, needed multiple revisions, or had
such extraordinary medical events as a heart attack, stroke,
pulmonary embolism or deep-vein thrombosis.  All patients must register their claims by Jan. 6 and
decide whether to enroll by April 1. The accord’s specific terms
can be found on the official settlement website, said Steven
Skikos, co-leader of a group of plaintiffs’ lawyers overseeing
hip cases consolidated before a federal judge in Toledo.  ‘Accurate Information’  “It is important that accurate information regarding this
settlement is presented to the individual lawyers and their
clients who have patiently awaited this day,” Skikos said in an
e-mailed statement.  Martinotti and other judges overseeing J&J’s offer to
settle hips cases are concerned that some lawyers’ web sites
aren’t providing accurate information about the accord’s terms,
Skikos added.  Lorie Gawreluk , a J&J spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment on the
websites.  J&J officials agreed to pay the $2.47 billion in hopes of
resolving about 8,000 suits by patients who’ve already had
defective hips removed. The company still faces another 4,000
suits from patients who haven’t yet had their implants removed.  The accord, which ultimately could be worth more than $4
billion, doesn’t bar patients whose hips fail in the future from
seeking compensation from the company.  The consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopaedics
Inc., ASR Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Ohio  (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  