-- Jefferson County Plan Support ‘Overwhelming,’ Judge Told
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-21T17:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/jefferson-county-plan-support-overwhelming-judge-told.html
Jefferson County, Alabama’s plan to
exit bankruptcy has “overwhelming support” from  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and other creditors that would make more than
$1.4 billion in concessions, a lawyer for the county said.  The only objections left are based on “hyperbolic”
arguments, attorney David Stern said today at a court hearing in
Birmingham, the county seat. The final major opposition comes
from two sets of lawyers who want to sue JPMorgan and others
over more than $3 billion in debt that was tainted by a bribery
scandal.  “You can’t please all the people all the time,” Stern
told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett.  Bennett’s decision on whether to approve the plan may come
as soon as today. After battling in court for about 20 months,
creditors owed $2.7 billion, including New York-based JPMorgan,
settled with the county in June by agreeing to accept less. A
rise in interest rates forced more concessions, which were
announced last month.  The plan also imposes several years’ worth of rate
increases on sewer users. County officials want Bennett to
approve the plan by tomorrow so they can close on $1.84 billion
in new financing on Dec. 3. Bennett has said he plans to deliver
an oral ruling on the plan from the bench, followed by a written
order.  “Let’s put the last nail in the coffin and bury it,”
County Commissioner Jimmie Stephens said yesterday at a county
commission meeting. “Let’s restore accountability.”  Legal Risk  The deal with creditors would lock in more than
$1.4 billion in concessions without the risk of suing JPMorgan,
Eric Rothstein, a county utility rate consultant, said in court
yesterday. Those savings are a safer proposition than the
$1.6 billion that could be won in a lawsuit that opponents of
the county’s bankruptcy exit plan want to pursue, he said.  “That $1.4 billion writedown is a certainty,” Rothstein
told Bennett. “The $1.6 billion number is speculative, and I
believe must be discounted.”  The $4.2 billion bankruptcy, filed Nov. 11, 2011, was the
largest by a U.S. city or county until it was overtaken in July
by  Detroit ’s $18 billion case.  This week’s hearing is a chance for the last plan opponents
to persuade Bennett to reject it.  Two sets of lawyers fighting to save suits they filed on
behalf of sewer ratepayers and other plaintiffs have asked
Bennett to reject the plan, saying the rate increases are too
high for residents to afford. Should Bennett agree with them,
the lawsuits, which are now on hold, could resume.  ‘Back Here’  “Following a 10-year period, or shortly thereafter, we’ll
be back here in bankruptcy,” Steven W. Couch, an attorney for
sewer customers opposed to the plan, told Bennett today.  Rejecting the plan would blow up the settlement because the
county agreed to halt the lawsuits in return for a reduction in
principal on the $3 billion in sewer debt. Under the settlement,
the sewer debt will drop to $1.98 billion with plan approval.  Attorney Calvin B. Grigsby said the plan imposes the burden
on Jefferson County’s poorest residents, who may not be able to
afford the higher rates needed to pay off the debt.  Bennett allowed five members of the public to speak at the
hearing. Four, including two elected officials, opposed the
plan, saying the rate increases would harm the poor.  Warrants Sold  The county sold all of the new warrants needed to raise
$1.84 billion to refinance about $3 billion in sewer debt, the
county’s lead bankruptcy lawyer, Kenneth Klee of Klee Tuchin
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in Los Angeles, said in court yesterday.
The plan calls for selling $500 million in senior bonds and
$1.2 billion in subordinated debt.  “When the credit rating of Jefferson County improves, the
county will be able to go back into the market and refinance and
get a lower rate,” he said.  The case can be traced to an aging sewage system that
federal regulators ordered fixed in the 1990s. To pay for the
repairs, Jefferson County began borrowing money and refinancing
old debt, issuing more than $3 billion in warrants and  interest-rate swaps  by 2003.  Local elected officials accepted bribes from construction
contractors and financial advisers seeking business with the
county. By 2010, 21 people, including four county commissioners,
had been convicted or pleaded guilty to corruption-related
charges, according to Peggy Sanford, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Birmingham.  JPMorgan Settlement  In 2009, JPMorgan signed a $722 million  settlement  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for its role in helping
arrange the sewer debt.  As part of the June deal, JPMorgan agreed to forgive about
$842 million of the $1.22 billion the county owes it. After
interest rates rose, JPMorgan agreed to forgive about
$100 million more in debt and to provide the county with a
letter of credit for about $180 million.  Other creditors, including bond insurers and a group of
hedge funds, also agreed to take less than they were owed.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in bankruptcy court in Birmingham, Alabama, at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  