-- Jefferson County Debt Deal May Let Bankruptcy Case Return
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-23T17:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/jefferson-county-judge-says-he-will-approve-bankruptcy-plan.html
(Corrects new debt number in second, 16th and 25th
paragraphs of story published Nov. 22.)  To shed more than $1.4 billion in
debt, Jefferson County, Alabama agreed to give up some of its
power to set future sewer rates, a compromise that means the
second-biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy might be brought back
to life decades from now.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett yesterday approved the
county’s debt-adjustment plan, which was built on a settlement
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other creditors. That deal
requires the bankruptcy court to retain authority over the
county until almost $1.8 billion in new sewer debt is paid off
in 40 years.  “Obviously, Judge Bennett’s not going to be around for 40
years,” R. Dale Ginter, a bankruptcy lawyer at Downey Brand LLP
in  Sacramento ,  California , said in an interview. “Somebody that
is in high school today, in 25 years may be ruling on the
case.”  The unusual agreement will allow a trustee for warrant
holders to seek authority, after the bankruptcy case becomes
inactive, to force any sewer rate increases that may be needed
to pay the debt.  In his ruling yesterday, Bennett, 64, found that was
unlikely to occur within 10 years. After that, sewer rates may
not raise enough money to fully fund all of the needed sewage
system upgrades, he said.  After the judge’s ruling yesterday, the county’s 5.25
percent warrants that mature in 2048 rose 2.7 percent to 99.5
cents on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taking Power  “The concern raised by any long-term, ongoing involvement
by the bankruptcy court, is that it continues taking away local
government power from local officials,” said attorney Sharon Levine of Lowenstein Sandler PC, who represents one of the
biggest unions in the bankruptcy case of  Detroit .  Municipal debt experts are split over whether Jefferson
County’s success will encourage other cities or counties to cut
debt using the U.S. Bankruptcy Code’s Chapter 9, which covers
municipalities.  “It’s costly for everybody,” said Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal Research in New York. “Creditors
have to actively pursue better solutions before it gets that
far.”  As creditors understand they face writedowns and municipal
officials weigh the costs and burdens, they’ll work harder to
strike deals out of court.  ‘Unrealistic Burden’  When there isn’t enough money, bankruptcy may become an
option, said  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at Oak
Brook, Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management, which
oversees about $8 billion of municipal bonds.  “Jefferson County and Detroit could make it possible to
see more of these situations occur, especially where there’s an
unrealistic burden of liabilities and a contracted economic
base,” Ciccarone said.  Ginter said politics may push elected officials to choose
bankruptcy.  “Politicians would rather have cities and counties go into
bankruptcy than make hard decisions and then face voters,” he
said.  Jefferson County reached a settlement with JPMorgan and
other creditors after battling in court for 20 months. The
creditors agreed to take less than about $3 billion they were
owed. A rise in interest rates forced more concessions, which
were announced last month. The plan also imposes several years’
worth of rate increases on sewer users.  New Financing  After Bennett issues a written ruling, the county can close
on about $1.8 billion in new financing on Dec. 3 that will be
used to pay creditors. With the closing, the active part of the
case will end, leaving only minor legal issues to be addressed,
Patrick Darby, an attorney for the county, said in an interview.  Within minutes of Bennett’s decision, protesters opposed to
the sewer rate increases were outside the courtroom heckling
County Commission President David Carrington, who led the voting
bloc that backed the bankruptcy.  “You’re a crook,” Charles Hicks, a Birmingham resident,
said to Carrington during a brief shouting match.  The case can be traced to an aging sewage system that
federal regulators ordered fixed in the 1990s. To pay for the
repairs, Jefferson County began borrowing money and refinancing
old debt, issuing more than $3 billion in warrants and  interest-rate swaps  by 2003.  Corruption Charges  Local elected officials accepted bribes from construction
contractors and financial advisers seeking business with the
county. By 2010, 21 people, including four county commissioners,
had been convicted of corruption-related charges, according to
Peggy Sanford, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Birmingham.  In 2009, JPMorgan signed a $722 million settlement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for its role in helping
arrange the sewer debt.  Since filing the $4.2 billion case in November 2011, the
county has spent more than $24 million on attorneys and other
advisers. Bennett yesterday called the tally “reasonable”
considering the litigation involved.  The judge rejected final arguments against the exit plan,
which is built on the June settlement with JPMorgan and other
creditors. After that agreement was arranged, the only organized
opposition came from two sets of lawyers fighting to save the
lawsuits they filed against the New York-based bank on behalf of
sewer ratepayers.  Rate Increases  They told the judge that the rate increases needed to
implement the settlement were too high for residents to afford.
With plan approval, their lawsuits, which are now on hold, will
end.  Rejecting the plan would have blown up the settlement with
creditors, because the county had agreed to halt the lawsuits in
return for a reduction in principal on the $3 billion in sewer
debt. Under the settlement, the sewer debt will drop to $1.79
billion, according to court documents.  Calvin B. Grigsby, one of the attorneys suing JPMorgan,
said he plans to appeal Bennett’s decision.  Grigsby said he spent “a couple hundred thousand” dollars
fighting the bankruptcy. One of his supporters, Birmingham City
Councilwoman Sheila Tyson, said she would try to persuade the
city to help fund Grigsby’s planned appeal.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in federal bankruptcy court in Birmingham,
Alabama, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  