-- JPMorgan Deal Offers Turning Point for Eric Holder
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-21T21:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/jpmorgan-deal-offers-turning-point-for-attorney-general-holder.html
The  Justice Department ’s $13 billion
mortgage securities settlement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is a
record and also a rarity -- Attorney General Eric Holder’s first
big win against a bank at the heart of 2008’s financial crisis.  For Holder, the part of the deal announced this week that
requires the bank to pay $9 billion to resolve allegations it
knowingly sold bad mortgage securities is a potential  turning
point  after a tenure studded with controversy.   Several more announcements are on the way to bring
financial institutions to account, Holder has said.  “You have to wait until we are finished with all the work
that we will do,” Holder said in an interview. “When we get to
that point you will see that we have taken the mandate that we
were given seriously, that we held people accountable, that we
held institutions accountable.”  The JPMorgan deal has its critics. Some say it’s too tough
on the bank after the government called it in to take over Bear
Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Bank when they failed. Others
say Holder hasn’t gone far enough, because he hasn’t brought
criminal charges against bankers. Several lawmakers and others
have faulted the deal for leaving open the possibility that the
bank could write off a portion of the penalties, essentially
passing some of the burden to taxpayers.  McCain’s Concern  “I remain concerned that individuals at the bank who may
have committed a crime may never be held responsible,”  Arizona 
Republican Senator John McCain said yesterday, adding that he
continued to seek clarification from Holder over the tax issue.
The Justice Department has said that $2 billion of the overall
settlement won’t be tax deductible.  Still, Holder is being praised for taking a personal hand
in talks that yielded the government’s biggest penalty against a
single entity, leaving the door open for later criminal
prosecutions against JPMorgan or its employees and laying the
groundwork for resolving probes of other banks.  “The JPM settlement should be considered a significant
accomplishment for the Holder Justice Department,” said  Robert Shapiro , a political science professor at  Columbia University 
who specializes in partisan conflict, public opinion and
polling.  That marks a sharp shift in momentum from just three months
ago, when Holder, embattled after 4 1/2 years as the nation’s
top lawyer, had had a talk with President  Barack Obama  about how
long he’d stay in the job.  Sept. 11 Plot  While Holder’s department had logged several successes, his
plan to try accused 9/11 plotter Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in a
civilian court had been defeated by Congress. He was the first
sitting cabinet member to be held in contempt by lawmakers when
 House Republicans  accused him of refusing to turn over
information on his department’s botched Fast and Furious probe.
He angered Democrats and Republicans alike over his department’s
secret subpoena of Associated Press phone records in an
investigation of leaks.  By the time Holder traveled to  Martha’s Vineyard  in August
for a vacation alongside Obama, his staff had stopped putting
anything on his calendar beyond December, said two people close
to him who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the matter.  When the topic of tenure came up, the president, who met
Holder at a dinner party nine years ago, encouraged him to
remain into 2014, the two people said. The additional time, they
said, will let Holder see through initiatives begun on his
watch.  Presidential Priority  Holder, who was deputy attorney general in the Clinton
administration, has said the issue that currently stands to
shape his legacy -- the push to hold banks accountable for
events leading to the financial crisis -- is one of the
president’s priorities.  Other initiatives include re-examining the severity of
punishments for nonviolent crimes, and defending against voter
identification laws that Holder argues are meant to keep
minorities from polling places. Holder, America’s first black
attorney general, has said such concerns are an outgrowth of his
experience coming of age in the 1960s and serving as a Superior
Court judge in Washington, starting in the late 1980s.  Holder, 62, grew up in Queens, New York, and graduated from
Columbia University before spending three of his almost four
decades as a lawyer working for the federal government. He
joined the Justice Department in 1976 as a prosecutor in the
Public Integrity Section, which was started in the wake of the
Watergate scandal to combat political corruption.  Swimming Pool  He traveled the country prosecuting government officials.
He secured the conviction of Robert Hurwitch, the former U.S.
ambassador to the Dominican Republic in 1979, for using $17,000
in embassy supplies and labor to build a swimming pool at his
home outside Santo Domingo.  After Holder was confirmed as attorney general in 2009, one
of his first tasks was dealing with the fallout from his old
integrity section’s handling of a corruption case brought
against  Ted Stevens , an Alaska Republican senator for 40 years.
A review of the case showed the prosecution team had withheld
evidence from the lawmaker’s defense.  The day after the Stevens case was dismissed, Holder
visited the Washington court where the trial had been held.
Speaking at a swearing-in ceremony for federal prosecutors, he
told them their job wouldn’t be to convict people or to win
cases. “Your job is to do justice. Your job is in every case,
every decision that you make, to do the right thing,” Holder
told the new prosecutors, according to the AP.  Ted Stevens  Stevens’s lawyer, Brendan Sullivan Jr. of Williams &
Connolly LLP, said it was the most powerful statement he’s heard
a law-enforcement officer make about how things should be done.
“It set a tone,” Sullivan said in an interview.  Holder was quickly tested by the lingering issue of where
to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, or KSM, who was being held in
Guantanamo Bay with others accused of being involved in the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, since his capture in Pakistan six years
earlier.  For months, Holder presided over weekly meetings with
department and military officials in which he sought “granular
side-by-side comparisons of the pros and cons” of trying the
case in a federal court as opposed to a military tribunal, said
 Neil MacBride , the former U.S. attorney in Alexandria, Virginia.
He said Holder was seeking the venue where he could make the
strongest case.  “It was not based on some ‘Let’s win the hearts and minds
of people around the world,’” MacBride said. “It was a
thousand-yard, clear-minded assessment of where can the best
case be presented.”  Terrorism Trials  Holder wanted to have the trials in federal court in
Manhattan, where most of the victims had been. Republican
lawmakers criticized Holder for giving foreign-born terrorists
U.S. rights in a courtroom. Democratic lawmakers claimed the
trials would be too dangerous. The White House withdrew its
support.  “The attorney general is in the center of most
controversial decisions. You’re going to be in the hot seat,”
said former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, who resigned
during the George W. Bush administration over a political
scandal involving the firing of U.S. attorneys. “You need to
have a tough skin.”  Despite the controversies, Holder’s Justice Department
secured  BP Plc (BP/) ’s agreement to pay $4.5 billion to end criminal
charges and resolve securities claims related to the worst U.S.
offshore oil spill. This month,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to pay
more than $2.2 billion to resolve criminal and civil probes into
the marketing of Risperdal, an antipsychotic drug, and other
medicines.  Financial Crisis  Holder’s department came under particular pressure from
Democrats and Republicans in Congress for a lack of significant
prosecutions relating to the financial crisis. The Justice
Department lost its 2009 criminal case against two Bear Stearns
hedge-fund managers accused of misleading investors about the
health of their funds.  In probes against former American International Group Inc.
executive  Joseph Cassano  and  Angelo Mozilo , former chief
executive officer of mortgage lender Countrywide Financial
Corp., prosecutors concluded there wasn’t enough evidence to
bring charges, people familiar with the matter have said.  In the absence of criminal cases against individuals, the
department looked to take civil action against institutions, in
part after Obama promised in his 2012  State of the Union  address
to take a tougher line on banks.  Mortgage Probe  This spring, Holder became personally involved in a group
created by the president to look at mortgage-backed securities -
- ordering prosecutors to put together a set of cases that could
be brought to court quickly.  “The attorney general has been absolutely clear these are
high-priority cases for him and he wants us to make sure that
they are not shortchanged in any way,” Associate Attorney
General  Tony West  said in an interview last month.  From that effort sprung the Nov. 19 JPMorgan settlement.
About eight other banks, including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of
America  Corp., are among those being investigated over mortgage
bond sales, people familiar with the matters have said.  “I do think this case sets the parameters for what will be
expected in terms of the breadth -- if not the dollars -- in
other settlements,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former Securities and
Exchange Commission lawyer who is now a partner at Shulman
Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac, Maryland.  Holder’s Legacy  The prospect of high-dollar settlements hasn’t silenced
critics. Holder wants “a big settlement that you can brag about
and prove your critics wrong,” said Dennis Kelleher, president
of Washington-based advocacy group Better Markets. “Just
because it’s a big number doesn’t mean it’s fair, adequate and
reasonable,” Kelleher said.  Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat who had sponsored
legislation that gave law enforcement agencies $30 million to
investigate the financial crisis, said the settlement would
bolster Holder’s legacy, with a caveat.  “You just have to ask why’s it taken five years before we
get to this case and still nobody’s gone to jail,” Kaufman
said. “How can you have a $13 billion settlement and nobody
that committed fraud?”  Holder defends his department’s approach as a way to
appropriately penalize those institutions.  “You can’t put a corporation in jail,” Holder said in the
interview, in October. “The way you punish a corporation and
deter conduct like that in the future is to extract from that
institution monetary funds -- sums of money.”  Showed Restraint  Those who have worked with Holder say he has shown
restraint by not attempting to deliver the scalp of a banker in
the absence of a solid case just to appease public sentiment.
MacBride, the former U.S. attorney, said the JPMorgan settlement
showed that Holder worked in a “thoughtful, intentional way
that took the long view.  ‘‘On a lot of levels, it vindicates the AG,’’ MacBride
said.  Some of Holder’s biggest critics gave the deal a
conditional nod.  ‘‘When you do your job and do what you’re supposed to do, I
think that’s a good thing,” said Representative Ted Yoho, a
Florida Republican who this month called for Holder’s
impeachment. “That’s what he’s paid for, so we expect that out
of him.”  White House Counsel  Kathryn Ruemmler , who works closely
with Holder on national security and other priorities, said he
isn’t looking to end on a high note as much as he is to finish
what he started.  “Eric has been in enough difficult jobs at this point,
including this one, where he understands that the highs and the
lows of what this town thinks -- who is up and who is down -- is
completely irrelevant,” Ruemmler said. “That’s what he’s
saying when he says history will judge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  