-- Billionaire Alwaleed Weighs IPOs for Four Seasons
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2013-11-21T11:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/kingdom-s-alwaleed-considering-sale-of-four-seasons-fairmont.html
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , the Saudi
billionaire with stakes in companies including Citigroup Inc.,
is weighing options including an initial public offering for
Four Seasons Holdings Inc. and Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc.  The founder and Chairman of  Saudi Arabia ’s  Kingdom Holding
Co. (KINGDOM) , who took a 95 percent stake in the Four Seasons chain with
 Bill Gates , said in an interview with Bloomberg TV’s Erik
Schatzker in Chicago yesterday he’s considering strategic
options for the two companies including an IPO or merger.  “Our objective right now is to grow both companies and
have a monetization process,” Alwaleed said at a conference
hosted by Bloomberg LP. “The hotel industry is facing major
upside right now. This may go on another three or four years. So
there is a zone of opportunity for us right now.”  Hotel chains in the U.S. have benefited from demand in the
lodging industry, with shares of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  reaching multi-year highs in May. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc., owned by
Blackstone Group LP, this month filed to raise $1.25 billion in
an initial public offering.  Alwaleed and Gates took Toronto-based luxury-hotel chain
Four Seasons private in 2007 in a deal valued at $3.8 billion.
The Saudi businessman led a group of investors, including  Colony
Capital LLC , in a $3.24 billion takeover of Fairmont in 2006.  Clear Views  Alwaleed currently has a 35 percent stake in Fairmont after
cutting his holdings from 58 percent two years ago to bring in
new investment from Voyager Partners Ltd. and pave the way for
an IPO, Alwaleed said at the time.  Fairmont has more than 60 properties globally, including
The Plaza in New York and Makkah Clock Royal Tower in Saudi
Arabia.  Four Seasons has 91 properties in 38 countries, including
the Four Seasons Hotel New York in Manhattan and Four Seasons
Hotel George V in Paris. The hotelier hired Allen Smith, the
head of Prudential Real Estate Investors, as chief executive
officer in August after a five-month search.  “Clearly we’ll defer to management but they have my views
very clear,” Alwaleed said in the interview, adding that he had
met executives at the two companies in Toronto in recent days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  