-- Korea Bond Yield Rises to 2-Month High on Fed Concern; Won Drops
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-21T06:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/korea-bond-yield-touches-2-month-high-on-fed-concern-won-drops.html
South  Korea ’s bonds fell, pushing
the three-year yield to the highest level in more than two
months, after minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s meeting indicated
stimulus may be cut “in coming months.” The won weakened.  The U.S. central bank’s $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases might be reduced as the world’s largest economy
improves, minutes of the policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee’s Oct. 29-30 meeting showed yesterday. South Korea’s
department store sales dropped 2.2 percent last month from a
year earlier, the Trade Ministry reported today. The won
declined for a second day as overseas investors  sold  $222
million more local stocks than they bought, exchange data show.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due June 2016
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.99
percent in Seoul, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.
That’s the highest level since Sept. 6.  “The Fed minutes showed that officials think the  U.S.
economy  is growing in line with its projections,” Park Dongjin,
a fixed-income analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul, wrote
in a research note today. It remains to be seen how  Janet
Yellen , nominee to replace  Ben S. Bernanke  as Fed Chairman, will
“work on the stimulus exit strategy with hawkish officials,”
he said.  Yellen said last week that the U.S. economy and job market
are performing “far short of their potential,” and the Fed
will ensure measures aren’t removed too soon.  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley said this week that while he’s
becoming “more hopeful” the economy is rebounding, monetary
policy will remain accommodative for a period of time.  Four of five investors expect the Fed to delay a decision
to begin reducing its bond buying until March 2014 or later,
with just 5 percent looking for a move next month, according to
the latest Bloomberg Global Poll.  Household Debt  South Korea’s  household debt  rose to record 991.7 trillion
won ($932.9 billion) at end-September from three months earlier,
the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement today.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy faces challenges to its
decades-long growth model based on manufacturing due to the rise
of China and other emerging industrial economies, and as the
country’s major industries reach full maturity, Finance Minister
Hyun Oh Seok said today in a speech prepared for a forum in
Seoul, delivered by vice finance minister Choo Kyung Ho.  The won fell 0.5 percent to 1,062.97 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility in the won, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose 23 basis points to
6.24 percent.  The won gained 2 percent against the Japanese yen this
month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. South Korea’s currency
will find it hard to rise given concerns within the Bank of
Korea about its strength as the yen has weakened past 100 per
dollar, Credit Agricole CIB strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk, wrote
in a research note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  