-- KPN Sees America Movil Keeping Stake as Takeover Snubbed
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-22T08:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/kpn-sees-america-movil-sticking-with-stake-after-takeover-snub.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , whose talks with
 Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB over its 7.2 billion-euro ($9.7
billion) takeover offer broke down last month, sees the Mexican
carrier holding on to its stake in the Dutch company.  “Looking at where the share price is today, looking at our
expectations of the financial performance of KPN, taking into
account the average price they have for their current 29.7
percent stake, I think they will keep their stake,” KPN Chief
Executive Officer Eelco Blok said at an investor conference in
 Barcelona  yesterday. “That’s my analysis of the situation.”  Slim’s proposal to boost its KPN holding to majority failed
primarily because of price, Blok said. While the two companies
still had disagreements about governance and other non-financial
commitments, KPN refused to negotiate further after  America
Movil  wouldn’t raise its offer, he said.  America Movil had proposed to pay 2.40 euros per share for
KPN before withdrawing its offer in October. KPN traded at 2.45
euros at 9:24 a.m. in Amsterdam. Before backing out of the bid,
Slim had helped KPN negotiate a better price from Telefonica SA
for its German unit E-Plus. Blok said he sees regulators
approving the deal by mid next year.  “We are confident the regulator will be positive about the
deal,” Blok said. “Of course there will be some remedies as
part of the approval process, but I’m not going to speculate on
that.”  A press official at Mexico City-based America Movil
declined to comment yesterday.  Synergies, Dividends  KPN will probably hang on to the 20.5 percent of Telefonica
Deutschland that it will get as part of the E-Plus sale, though
no final decision has been made, Blok said.  “It could be very attractive for KPN shareholders given
the synergy potential and  dividend  potential to keep the
stake,” he said. “My current view given my current
understanding of the German market is it is a valuable part of
the portfolio of KPN.”  After the German transaction, KPN is considering options
for the 5 billion euros it will receive in cash, such as share
buybacks, ways to compensate the reduction in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, improve the
business profile, or acquisitions.  “Of course share buybacks are on the list, but I can
assure you it’s on the back half of my list,” Blok said. “We
want to have financial flexibility in the  balance sheet  because
we believe there are still small opportunities for in-market
consolidation in the Netherlands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  