-- Natural Gas Rises to 4-Week High on Above-Forecast Supply Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-11-21T20:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/natural-gas-rises-to-1-month-high-on-above-forecast-supply-drop.html
Natural gas futures climbed to a
four-week high in  New York  after a government report showed that
U.S. stockpiles fell by more than forecast last week.  Gas advanced 0.8 percent after the Energy Information
Administration said inventories slid 45 billion cubic feet in
the week ended Nov. 15 to 3.789 trillion. Analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg showed a withdrawal of 38 billion cubic
feet while a survey of Bloomberg users predicted a decrease of
40 billion.  “This was a pretty impressive withdrawal,” said Aaron Calder, an analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston. “The U.S.
weather models are going to get colder and colder as we move
forward into the winter.”  Natural gas for December delivery rose 2.8 cents to $3.702
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Oct. 25. Volume was 14
percent above the 100-day average at 2:45 p.m. The futures have
climbed 10 percent this year.  The discount of December to January futures eased 0.1 cent
to 3.8 cents. March gas traded 1.3 cents  above  the April
contract, compared with 1.6 cents yesterday.  January $4.60 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were down 0.1 cent at 0.4 cent per
million Btu on volume of 625 at 3:09 p.m. Calls accounted for 54
percent of trading volume.  Supply Report  The stockpile decrease was bigger than the five-year
average decline for the week of 2 billion cubic feet, department
data show. A  surplus  to the five-year average narrowed to 0.4
percent from 1.5 percent the previous week. Supplies were 2.3
percent below year-earlier inventories, compared with 2 percent
in last week’s report.  “Production is on the rise, but demand is also ramping up
quickly as we head deeper into the winter heating season,” Mike Tran, an analyst at CIBC World Markets Inc. in New York, said in
a note to clients today.   Natural gas production from the Marcellus shale formation
in the U.S. Northeast may increase 3.3 percent in December to
12.9 billion cubic feet a day from an estimated 12.5 billion in
November, the EIA said Nov. 12 in its monthly  Drilling
Productivity Report .  MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted
colder-than-normal weather in the eastern two-thirds of the U.S.
through Dec. 5.  Cold Weather  The low in New York on Nov. 27 may be 26 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus 3 Celsius), 12 less than average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in
 Chicago  may also be 26 degrees, 3 lower than normal.  About 49 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The U.S. may have 1.3 percent more heating-degree days, a
measure of weather-driven energy demand, from November to March
compared with the same period last year, Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland, said in an Oct. 15 seasonal outlook.  “There’s going to be increasing demand for natural gas
down the road,” said  Phil Flynn , a senior market analyst at
Price Futures Group in Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  