-- Negotiators Adjourn Talks on Farm Bill Until After Recess
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-11-21T21:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/negotiators-adjourn-talks-on-farm-bill-until-after-recess.html
House and Senate negotiators
adjourned talks on a new agricultural bill until after a
congressional recess, increasing the chances of a lapse in
programs that could double the price of milk next year.  “I’m disappointed we don’t have an agreement yet,” Senate
Agriculture Chairman  Debbie Stabenow  said after closed-door
meetings between her, her Republican Senate counterpart and the
chairman and top Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee
concluded. “We’ve had a number of occasions where we thought we
were close, and then things changed.”  Conferees met for about 90 minutes yesterday evening in a
House office building, and again for an hour this morning. An
unadvertised meeting in a small underground room in the Capitol
broke up without a deal.  Cuts to food stamps, as well as changes to crop insurance
and other farm aid, have proven difficult to reach agreement on
as lawmakers seek to resolve differences in Senate and House
versions of a five-year reauthorization of all U.S. agricultural
programs.  The farm bill has emerged as a partisan flashpoint as  House
Republicans  have targeted food stamps for cuts. The bill also
benefits crop processors including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  by
subsidizing raw-materials costs and insurance companies such as
Wells Fargo & Co. along with grocers including  SuperValu Inc. (SVA)   Year’s End  Lawmakers have until the end of this year to agree on a
bill in order to prevent U.S. dairy law from reverting to an
anachronistic 1949 law that could double the wholesale price of
milk. That deadline, known as the “dairy cliff,” may not be
firm as  U.S. Department of Agriculture  hasn’t yet said it would
be able to immediately implement the law requiring the
government to bulk-buy milk at more than double its present
wholesale market price.  While several parts of the mammoth multi-year authorization
are “close” to being agreed upon, Stabenow said, conferees
haven’t reached a deal on cuts to nutrition aid, including  food
stamps , or how to craft an insurance-based federal crop safety
net to replace direct payments to farmers, which they’ve agreed
should end.  With the Senate leaving for a two-week congressional recess
covering the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday and the House out next
week, conferees are now almost certain to miss a self-imposed
deadline for a deal they said earlier was essential in order to
pass a farm bill by year’s end.  To have adequate time to get the conference version of the
bill drafted, reviewed by USDA and scored by the  Congressional
Budget Office  in time for a vote in both chambers years end, a
framework had to be agreed on by the end of this week, House
Agriculture Chairman  Frank Lucas  said in an interview this week.  “I don’t know what this means for getting things done,”
Stabenow said, adding staff-level discussions will continue.  The bill is H.R. 2642.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net  