-- New Jersey Towns Face Tax Vacuum Minus Drugmakers: Muni Credit
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-21T17:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/new-jersey-towns-face-tax-vacuum-minus-drugmakers-muni-credit.html
Four northern New Jersey towns face
the loss of $29 million of combined revenue as some of the
world’s largest pharmaceutical companies depart, complicating
Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s drive to boost business and
cut the highest U.S. property taxes.  Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker by sales, is
shutting its headquarters in Readington and a complex in Summit
as part of a 16,000-job reduction.  Roche Holding AG , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, by year-end is closing its campus
spanning the municipalities of Nutley and Clifton. The latter
has seen the extra yield investors demand on some of its debt
almost double in the past six weeks.  Nearly half of New Jersey’s life-sciences jobs are in its
northern region. Summit and Readington, which are 16 miles (26
kilometers) and 50 miles, respectively, west of New York, both
count Merck as their largest taxpayer. Roche is the biggest in
Nutley, 8 miles from  Manhattan . The closings are a credit
negative for the localities, with pressure on taxes and
revenues, Moody’s Investors Service said in an Oct. 10 report.  “ New Jersey  generally has not been attracting a lot of
growth in the employment area, and this is not helping,” said
Howard Cure, director of municipal research in New York at
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees about $4.7
billion. Residents “may be asked or may be required to pay more
to balance budgets.”  Medicine Chest  The state bills itself as “ the medicine chest of the
world ,” as it is home to 17 of the 20 largest pharmaceutical
companies, according to New Jersey’s website. The industry has
cut jobs by 23 percent since 2006, according to Moody’s.  While the industry accounts for about 3.8 percent of New
Jersey’s non-government jobs, double the national average, the
companies’ moves are more damaging for localities than at the
state level, according to Moody’s.  “Site closures are more credit negative for New Jersey
municipalities than layoffs because property taxes are the main
revenue source for local governments,” Michelle Choi, an
analyst for New York-based Moody’s, said in the report.  Even with the companies’ job reductions, New Jersey debt is
beating the $3.7 trillion local-debt market, earning 3 percent
in the past three months, compared with 2.5 percent for the
entire municipal universe,  Standard & Poor’s  data show.  Tax Breaks  Christie, a 51-year-old Republican who won a second term on
Nov. 5, has touted the addition of 142,400 jobs in New Jersey
since he took office four years ago. That tally, though, is only
59 percent of the amount lost during the recession that began in
December 2007. Neighboring New York has regained more than it
lost.  Under Christie, the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.4 percent
in October, the lowest since 2009, from 9.7 percent in February
2010. The level still eclipsed the 7.3 percent U.S. average for
August, and tied for the seventh-highest among the 50 states.
New York’s August rate was 7.6 percent and  Pennsylvania ’s was
7.7 percent.  Christie has awarded at least $2.1 billion in tax breaks to
keep or lure businesses, including  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Revel
Entertainment Group LLC. During his first term, the state’s
Business Employment Incentive Program gave at least $10 million
in grants to drugmakers, including Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC in
 East Hanover , Kashiv Pharma LLC in Piscataway and Ferring
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in Parsippany-Troy Hills, according to
state records.  Funding Veto  In June, the governor vetoed legislation to give funding to
towns that lose drugmakers and other companies whose departures
may stress the tax base. Colin Reed, a spokesman for Christie,
declined to comment and referred to the governor’s veto message,
in which he lumped the measure with others that he said should
have been part of annual budget negotiations.  Merck is seeking a buyer for its 88 acres (36 hectares) in
Summit, which has Moody’s highest Aaa rating. Residents there
paid an average property-tax bill of $16,051 in 2012, more than
twice the statewide figure.  “We’re mildly concerned at this point,” said Mayor Ellen
Dickson, 61, a Republican. “They are 7.2 percent of our tax
base. They pay $9 million a year in real-estate taxes. They’re
committed to paying the taxes through 2014, but of course
they’ll be doing a tax appeal effective 2015.”  Kelley Dougherty, a spokeswoman for Merck, declined to
comment on the company’s plans for the sites. She referred to an
Oct. 1 news release that said the closures were part of
worldwide cost reductions.  Cut Caution  Roche, which is firing 1,000 employees by the end of 2013,
plans to pay Clifton and Nutley property taxes totaling $14.5
million annually through mid-2014, according to Darien Wilson, a
company spokeswoman. It wants to sell the site, zoned for office
and manufacturing, within two years, she said.  Nutley is rated Aa2, Moody’s third-highest level. In an
August report, the company said the township could have its
rating lowered if it’s unable to make up the revenue losses
caused by Roche’s exit.  “These towns are left high and dry,” said Assemblyman
Ralph Caputo, 73, a Democrat from Nutley.  “Now they’re going
to have to cut police, fire, school funding.”  Clifton sold bonds last month to finance road improvements
and sewer upgrades, according to bond documents.  General obligations maturing in October 2023 and rated
three steps below AAA traded Nov. 5 with an average yield of
2.96 percent, or 0.51 percentage point above benchmark munis,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That difference is almost
double the 0.28 percentage point spread on Oct. 1, when the
bonds first started trading.  Budget Context  A Democratic-sponsored bill to give $13.5 million in aid to
towns hit by corporate departures was met with Christie’s veto
on June 28, the same day he signed the $32.9 billion state
budget. The measure was among eight he rejected because they
would increase spending above the amount he negotiated with the
Democratic-controlled legislature.  “While each bill may have merit, consideration of that
merit is better accomplished in the context of a balanced
budget,” he said in a veto  message .  “This is something the state has to think about, in terms
of these drastic moves of large companies,” said Caputo, a
sponsor of the bill. “How are we going to deal with these large
spikes?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  