-- New England, U.S. South May Be Warmer This Winter
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-21T17:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/new-england-u-s-south-may-be-warmer-this-winter.html
New England, much of the southern
U.S. and coastal  Alaska  will probably have warmer-than-normal
temperatures through the next three months, according to the
national  Climate Prediction Center .  North Dakota, parts of  Montana , South Dakota and  Minnesota 
have higher chances to be cooler than normal, the center in Camp
Springs, Maryland, said in its seasonal outlook today.
Forecasters aren’t able to predict what may be in store for much
of the rest of the country because there is no clear signal,
said Mike Halpert, acting center director.  “Seasonal climate forecasting is a young science, and
despite recent advances, this year’s outlook continues to be
challenging,” Halpert said in a conference call with reporters.  Below-normal temperatures, especially in Eastern and
Midwestern cities, tend to increase energy consumption as more
people heat homes and businesses. Power generation accounts for
32 percent of U.S. gas use, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm. About
49 percent of all homes use the fuel for heating.  Maine  and northern New Hampshire, as well as most of Texas
and Louisiana, have odds greater than 40 percent of above-normal
temperatures through February, according to the center, a unit
of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration. Most of
the rest of New England, including Boston, and a large part of
the southern U.S. from  Arizona  to  Alabama  have a 33 percent
chance.  Cold Odds  North Dakota has a greater-than-40-percent chance of being
cooler, with parts of its neighboring states at 33 percent odds.  Halpert said  water temperatures  in the central Pacific
Ocean are playing havoc with forecasters’ ability to make
predictions.  If sea surface temperatures were above normal, an  El Nino 
pattern would be under way, and if cooler, then a  La Nina  would
have formed. Without a clear indication one way or another,
seasonal forecasting becomes more difficult, he said.  The center’s outlook also said drought is expected to
develop in the Southeast and expand in the Northeast, Texas,
Arizona and New Mexico.  Dry conditions are also expected to persist in almost all
of California, Nevada, western Nebraska and Kansas, as well as
parts of the Midwest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  