-- News Corp. Reporter Pushed for Cash Payments to Avoid Jail Risk
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   R i c h a r d   A l l e y n e
-- 2013-11-21T13:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/news-corp-reporter-pushed-for-cash-payments-to-avoid-jail-risk.html
A  News Corp. (NWSA)  reporter warned the
News of the World’s managing editor that cash payments had to be
made to people in “uniform” or they would all “end up in
jail.”  Clive Goodman , the U.K. tabloid’s royal reporter, told
Managing Editor Stuart Kuttner in July 2005 that the payments
should be “untraceable,” a lawyer for a former editor of the
tabloid,  Andy Coulson , told a London court today.  “There are only three people I ever pay cash,” Goodman
said in the e-mail shown to the jury by Coulson’s lawyer,
Timothy Langdale, today. “Two are in uniform -– all of them,
you me, the editor, would all end up in jail if anyone traced
their payments.”  The evidence is some of the first at the trial, which is
nearing the end of its fourth week, on bribes to public
officials after most of the prosecution case focused on
interception of voice-mail messages. Coulson, Goodman and
Kuttner are among eight people on trial over wrongdoing at News
Corp. tabloids.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the
World in 2011 in an attempt to contain a scandal over
revelations that the tabloid had hacked the phone of a missing
teenager.  Goodman is charged with conspiring to commit misconduct in
a public office for bribing officers to obtain a book containing
phone numbers of the royal family.  Yesterday, jurors were shown an e-mail that indicated
Coulson was told by Ian Edmondson, a News of the World news
editor who is also charged with phone hacking, that payments to
a private investigator who has pleaded guilty to the crime “had
to stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  