-- Nokia Should Face Antitrust Probe, Sierra Wireless Urges EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-11-21T15:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/nokia-should-face-antitrust-probe-sierra-wireless-urges-eu.html
Sierra Wireless Inc. (SW) , a Canadian
maker of communications equipment, complained to European Union
antitrust regulators over  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s royalty rates for key
patents.  Sierra Wireless, based in Richmond, British Columbia,
alleges that Nokia charges widely different royalty rates to
license so-called standard-essential patents used for mobile
phones, imposed “unfavorable and unreasonable” royalty terms,
and has refused to license key patents for 3G technology,
according to a statement. It also asked the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission to investigate Nokia.  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility unit, Microsoft Corp., Apple Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics (005930)  Co., trade victories in divergent court rulings
across the world on intellectual property. The EU’s antitrust
chief  Joaquin Almunia  has said he’s targeting “rules of the
game” to prevent companies from unfairly leveraging their
inventions to thwart rivals.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based EU
watchdog, said the commission has received the complaint and is
looking at it.  “Nokia regrets that Sierra Wireless is wasting the time of
the European Commission” and other agencies with “its
frivolous complaints, rather than honoring its agreement with
Nokia,” said Mark Durrant, a spokesman for the company.
“Sierra Wireless has been in breach of Nokia’s existing license
terms for several years” and has failed to pay Nokia the
royalty fees it owes, he said.  EU Probes  The EU has opened probes into the possible misuse of patent
injunctions by Motorola Mobility and Samsung, which is seeking
to settle a case triggered by a dispute with Apple. It has also
received complaints from Huawei Technologies Co. against
 InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  and Google against Nokia and Microsoft.  Nokia, which is selling its handset unit to Microsoft
Corp., is seeking to boost licensing of its patents, chief
financial officer Timo Ihamuotila said this week. The Espoo,
Finland-based company is retaining patents to generate licensing
income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  