-- Numericable’s Lemaitre Says SFR Merger Makes Strategic Sense
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-22T08:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/numericable-cfo-lemaitre-says-sfr-merger-makes-strategic-sense.html
Numericable SAS (NUM) , France’s largest
cable operator, said a combination with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR mobile-phone unit makes sense and it’s an option the newly listed
company might pursue again.  “We still believe the rationale is there,” Numericable
Chief Financial Officer Thierry Lemaitre said at an investor
conference in  Barcelona  yesterday.  The company last year approached Vivendi about a potential
merger with SFR, although concerns over valuation and deal
structure stood in the way of a tie-up, people familiar with the
matter told  Bloomberg News  at the time. Numericable has moved on
and this month raised about 652 million euros ($879 million) in
an initial public offering, allowing Carlyle Group LP and Cinven
Group Ltd. to pare their holdings.  Numericable will have to reassess the price and potential
synergies if it were to make another approach, Lemaitre said at
Morgan Stanley’s annual Technology, Media and Telecoms
conference. SFR had revenue of 11.3 billion euros last year,
compared with Numericable’s 1.3 billion euros.  Numericable hasn’t held discussions “with SFR or anybody
else” in the past six months, while it was preoccupied with
preparations for an IPO, he said.  Regulatory Concern   While Numericable hasn’t talked with regulators about a
combination with a mobile-phone company, it understands the
government would only object to a merger that reduces the number
of carriers from four to three, Lemaitre said. Numericable
doesn’t own mobile assets, so that won’t be an obstacle, he
said.  “Clearly the goal is to be listed on a separate basis, to
have a strong internal growth story,” Lemaitre said.  The  shares  rose 0.9 percent to 28.20 euros at 9:19 a.m. in
Paris. They have gained 14 percent since the IPO.  Vivendi, the owner of  Universal Music Group  and pay-TV
company  Canal Plus , climbed 1.3 percent to 18.78 euros.  Numericable, which competes with Orange SA in selling TV,
phone and faster Internet packages, plans to invest in high-speed fixed networks to tap into rising demand for speedier
Internet connections. The cable company is also betting
consumers will pay more for their monthly fixed-line
subscriptions if their set-top boxes include extra services such
as YouTube and Twitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  