-- NYC’s  Balanced Budget Is Mixed Blessing for De Blasio
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-11-22T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/nyc-closes-projected-2-billion-budget-deficit-bloomberg-says.html
New York  Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio
faced calls from unions for new contracts and retroactive pay
after Mayor Michael Bloomberg handed him a balanced budget.  Bloomberg yesterday announced a $72.7 billion spending plan
for the year starting July 1 after closing a $2 billion hole
through reduced spending, increased real estate sales, bond
refinancing and unexpected revenue. It marked the first time
since at least 1975 that an incoming chief executive won’t have
to deal with a deficit, Bloomberg said.  For De Blasio, a 52-year-old Democrat who takes office Jan.
1, elimination of the budget gap means he won’t be able to use
it as a reason for denying raises or back pay. Bloomberg and
mayoral predecessors including  Rudolph Giuliani , David Dinkins
and Edward Koch pointed to predicted deficits as reasons for
rejecting or limiting city workers’ raises.  Harry Nespoli, chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee
and president of the city sanitation-workers union, said
Bloomberg’s announcement is “great news if it’s true,” and
would be a reason to insist upon a 5 percent raise, consistent
with inflation, to compensate for years without a contract.  “For the past three years, the mayor’s been talking about
a deficit, and there’s been a surplus there,” Nespoli said.
“He’s the only mayor who departed from  City Hall  leaving all
100 unions without contracts.”  Reducing Pain  To offer raises to the city’s 300,000 employees, de Blasio
will have to raise revenue or find even more savings. Some
unions seek back pay for years of working under expired pacts,
an expense that could cost as much as $4.5 billion, according to
the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan fiscal monitor.  After the announcement, a spokesman for de Blasio, Lis Smith, said the mayor-elect remains concerned about the impact
of  federal budget  cuts, uncertainty around the flow of U.S. aid
for  Hurricane Sandy  rebuilding and liabilities from the labor
contracts.  “It doesn’t make the next mayor’s job easy, but it reduces
the pain and it means one less thing that he has to worry
about,” Bloomberg said yesterday at a City Hall news briefing.  Should unions insist on raises without agreeing to
productivity increases and contributions to health and pension
plans, the next mayor would have to raise taxes to pay for them,
Bloomberg said. About one-third of the city’s workers have
continued to get annual raises under provisions in old contracts
that remain in force, he said.  9/11 Impact  In a 2007 radio appearance, the mayor said he wouldn’t
leave his successor with a challenge similar to the one he faced
in 2002, when a recession and the aftermath of the Sept. 11
attacks on the World Trade Center the previous year forced him
to deal with a $4.8 billion gap in a $42.3 billion budget
planned by Giuliani.  This year, unanticipated revenue topped $520 million over
what had been forecast in June, driven by taxes on personal
income and real estate transfers, and sales of new taxi
medallions are expected to bring $145 million over the next 18
months, Bloomberg said.  The administration saved $364 million in August when New
York-based health-care provider EmblemHealth Inc. said it
wouldn’t raise its premium for the first time in 15 years. The
city should reap more than $200 million through the sale of two
buildings in lower  Manhattan , the mayor said.  Debt Costs  A legal settlement over a contract dispute with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  produced $60 million, and higher-than-expected investment returns on pension assets enabled the city
to reduce its contribution to those funds by about $86 million.  Refinancing bonds cut debt service by $400 million in the
current and next fiscal years, the mayor said.  Investors are demanding less additional yield to buy New
York City debt rather than top-rated securities. New York City
general obligations rated two steps below AAA and maturing
August 2026 traded yesterday with an average yield of 3.27
percent, the lowest since Nov. 4, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That  interest rate  is 0.95 percentage point above
benchmark munis with similar maturity, the least extra yield
since May.  The mayor, a political independent, is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  