-- Loan Sales Top $581.5 Billion in U.S., Exceeding 2007 Record
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-11-21T21:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/loan-sales-top-581-5-billion-in-u-s-exceeding-2007-record-1-.html
Junk-loan borrowings in the U.S.
have exceeded the record set before the financial crisis amid
unprecedented demand for the floating-rate debt.  Non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan obligations,
mutual funds and hedge funds bought $581.6 billion of the loans
this year, surpassing the 2007 peak of $581.5 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Federal Reserve’s (FDTR)  policy to keep interest rates near
zero for a fifth year is spurring investors to buy riskier
assets in order to boost returns. About 79 percent of so-called
institutional loans have been used to extend maturities and
reduce interest costs, Bloomberg data show.  “The loan market’s been a very popular asset class this
year,” Michael Anderson, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Supply totals can quickly
accumulate given the demand for loans and the ability for
issuers to refinance at any time.”  Chicago-based publisher Tribune Co. got a $3.8 billion term
loan this week to support its acquisition of television stations
and to refinance debt, while Hilton Worldwide Finance LLC, the
biggest hotel chain in the world, obtained a $7.6 billion term
piece last month to support a refinancing, Bloomberg data show.  Clear Channel Communications Inc., the radio and outdoor
advertising company bought by Bain Capital Partners LLC and
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP in a 2008 leveraged buyout, received a
$5 billion credit in May to refinance some of its $21 billion of
debt.  Loan Prices  Loan prices  rose to 98.21 cents on the dollar today, from
96.35 cents on Jan. 2, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA
U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index. The measure reached 98.88 cents
on May 8, the highest since July 2007.  There have been $895 billion of leveraged loans, including
debt sold to banks and revolving credit lines, made in the U.S.
this year, compared with $899 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data
show.  Leveraged loans are those rated below BBB- by S&P and less
than Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service.  “If times remain good and appetite strong, you may see
other sorts of deals, whether it be loans to take out bonds or
some M&A or LBOs,” Anderson said. “Supply tends to find
demand.”  The Fed has said it will hold its target interest rate for
the federal funds rate at 0 to 0.25 percent at least as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation is no more than 2.5 percent. Four of five investors
expect a cut to the Fed’s bond buying program will be delayed
until March or later, according to a Nov. 19 Bloomberg Global
Poll.  “The possibility of the Fed moving sooner than markets
expect represents a key risk to the short-term outlook” for
fixed income, Jeffrey Rosenberg, chief investment strategist at
BlackRock Inc., wrote in a report this month. There’s greater
downside to risky segments of fixed income, including high-yield
bonds and bank loans, Rosenberg wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  