-- Obamacare’s New Blank Check for Insurers
-- B y   L a n h e e   C h e n
-- 2013-11-21T20:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/obamacare-s-new-blank-check-for-insurers.html
President Barack Obama tried to
 salvage  his health-care law last week, in the face of his broken
promise that people who like their health-care plans can keep
them. But in so doing, he may have made things worse.  Obama’s executive action allowed insurers to reinstate, for
one year, plans that don’t comply with some of the Affordable
Care Act’s requirements, including benefits mandated by the law
and the maximum cost-sharing permitted under it. Unfortunately
for the Obama administration, many Americans still won’t be able
to re-enroll in their insurance plans.  Worse yet for the president, his fix may undo the very law
he’s defended and fought for since its passage more than three
years ago. At the very least, it significantly weakens his and
his allies’ defense of that law.  Obama’s edict puts him in the awkward position of endorsing
an open-ended, taxpayer-funded bailout of the same insurance
companies that he and his congressional allies have been
demonizing.  Obamacare includes three mechanisms to help insurers with
the costs created by the law’s blanket prohibition on excluding
people with pre-existing conditions or charging higher premiums
based on health status or gender. Those mechanisms are
important, because without them an insurer that takes on a
disproportionately high number of costly patients could find
itself bankrupt.  Those safeguards are a risk adjustment program, which
shifts money among insurance plans based on the relative health
of their enrollees; a reinsurance program, which provides
additional funds to health plans that enroll individuals with
very high medical spending; and a three-year “risk corridor”
program designed to compensate insurers that misprice their
premiums.  Taxpayers’ Cost  The risk adjustment and reinsurance programs rely on funds
from insurers themselves -- the reinsurance program, for
example, is financed by assessments collected from pretty much
all insurers. So regardless of how well those programs work,
taxpayers aren’t on the hook.  That’s not the case for the risk corridors. The health-care
law establishes a benchmark amount that each insurer is expected
to spend on medical expenses each year. If those costs deviate
from this amount by 3 percent or more, the insurer either pays
into the risk corridor program (if its expenses fall below the
benchmark) or receives a payment (if its expenses are above the
benchmark).  In theory, insurer payments to and from the program should
cancel each other out, with no need for payments from the
federal treasury. That’s what the Congressional Budget Office
assumed when it scored the provision as revenue neutral back in
2010. And Obama recently  told  insurers that the government’s
financial support has limits.  But the text of the law is clear, and it places no limits
on how much this program may pay insurers. It gives, in essence,
a blank check to the secretary of health and human services to
make payments to insurers to cover their losses.  Insurers may very well need it. They stand to suffer major
financial losses, because Obama’s action incentivizes healthy
individuals to stick with “grandfathered” plans that offer
fewer benefits and higher out-of-pocket costs, while pushing
sick individuals into the mandate-laden health insurance
policies being offered on Obamacare’s exchanges. But the Obama
administration has already hinted that it will use the risk
corridors program to “ provide additional assistance ” to
insurance companies looking for a bailout. Senator Marco Rubio
of Florida and Representative Tim Griffin of Arkansas, both
Republicans, are out with legislation this week to repeal the
risk corridor program -- undoubtedly a populist stroke that will
win plaudits in many circles.  Untenable Finances  A bailout of health insurers is also likely because of the
enrollment trends we’re seeing in the federal health insurance
exchange. Older enrollees are the ones buying coverage, rather
than the “young invincibles” Obamacare needs to work. This
puts insurance companies in an untenable financial position,
which will only be made worse by Obama’s recent gambit.  Obama also undercut the actions states have already taken
to implement the law. The reality is that nothing in Obama’s
order from last week requires states to do anything. It merely
encourages them to follow. But big states such as California
have been operating under the assumption that the number of
grandfathered plans would fade away over time, not increase.
They have engaged in negotiations with insurers, built
infrastructure and anticipated the presence of marketplaces
under this assumption.  That’s probably why some of the most liberal state
insurance regulators have said they’ll ignore the president’s
order and move full-speed ahead with the law -- dropped coverage
and all. And the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners, which represents state-level insurance
regulators,  complained  the day after Obama’s action that “it is
unclear how, as a practical matter,” it can be put into effect.
The Obama administration has not only managed to offend the
millions of Americans who have lost their existing coverage but
also miffed the very regulators it needs to do its bidding at
the state level.  Perhaps most concerning for the law’s supporters, Obama’s
executive action portends further changes to the law. First he
delayed enforcement of the law’s employer mandate by a year.
Then he delayed the limit on out-of-pocket costs for some plans.
Now he’s said that insurers can still offer plans that Obama
himself has called substandard.  What might be next? Will Obama delay enforcement of the
individual mandate, or extend the open enrollment period under
the law, or consider delays of other troublesome parts of the
law?  With public support for Obamacare at or near all-time lows,
it’s not hard to understand why the White House is grasping for
fixes to improve the law’s image -- and its own. But its latest
effort to satisfy the oft-repeated promise that “if you like
your plan you can keep it” may prove to be the undoing of the
very law that Obama and his allies have fought so hard to
protect.  (Lanhee Chen is a Bloomberg View columnist and a research
fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. He was
the policy director of Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential
campaign.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lanhee Chen at  lchen301@bloomberg.net  or @lanheechen on Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Christopher Flavelle at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net . 