-- OGX Offshore Units Left Out of Bankruptcy Case by Brazil Judge
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-11-21T22:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ogx-offshore-units-left-out-of-bankruptcy-case-by-brazil-judge.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA (OGXP3) ’s request to include offshore units in  Brazil ’s biggest
bankruptcy case was rejected by a Rio de Janeiro court.  Judge Gilberto Matos agreed to begin bankruptcy protection
proceedings for  Eike Batista ’s oil company while refusing to
include the Vienna-based unit that sold $3.6 billion of dollar-denominated bonds, according to a decision published today on
the Rio State Tribunal’s website. OGX will appeal the foreign
units’s exclusion, the company said in a statement.  Matos recommended OGX International GmbH and OGX  Austria 
Gmb file for  Chapter 15  under U.S. bankruptcy code that promotes
cooperation with appointed representatives and foreign
tribunals. OGX is studying seeking protection in the U.S. or
Austria, Fabiano Robalinho Cavalcanti, a partner at law firm
Sergio Bermudes that represents OGX, said by telephone from Rio.  “For bondholders you’d much rather be dealing with a
Chapter 15 in the U.S. if that’s an option,”  Gianna Bern ,
president of the risk-management firm Brookshire Advisory and
Research, said by phone from  Chicago . “It will be a road that
is familiar to all the legal participants”  OGX became the first Brazilian oil producer to seek
protection from creditors last month when it filed in a Rio
state court for a so-called judicial recovery, declaring total
debts of 11.4 billion reais ($5 billion). The company, which
expects to run out of cash in the last week of December, needs
about $250 million to sustain operations through April, it said
in an Oct. 23 presentation to Rothschild, the adviser hired by
its bondholders.  Bond Rout  Shares in the company were unchanged at 14 centavos at the
close in  Sao Paulo  today after  falling  97 percent in the last 12
months. The company’s $2.56 billion in bonds due in 2018 traded
at 8.5 cents on the dollar.  OGX’s initial success finding oil in shallow waters off the
coast of Rio sparked a stock market rally that made it more
valuable than other established producers, including Repsol SA.
The company’s cash fell to about $82 million at the end of
September, it said in a separate document dated Oct. 7 and
released after talks with bondholders collapsed.  Batista founded OGX in 2007 and it became the pillar of his
group of commodities and logistics companies, transforming him
into Brazil’s richest man. When OGX moved from exploration to
production it encountered more complicated and compartmentalized
geology than expected and started abandoning projects it had
previously declared commercial.  “The decision respects the sovereignty of foreign
countries and the interests of foreign creditors,” Leonardo
Theon de Moraes, a bankruptcy lawyer at Sao Paulo-based Mussi,
Sandri & Pimenta Advogados, said by telephone. “It was a clever
ruling.”  The case number 0377620-56.2013.8.19.0001  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  