-- Hologic Adopts Rights Plan as Icahn Reports 13% Stake
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-21T21:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/hologic-adopts-shareholder-rights-plan-as-icahn-reports-stake.html
Hologic Inc. (HOLX) , a maker of cervical
cancer and breast biopsy tools, adopted a shareholder’s rights
plan after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  reported a 13 percent
stake in the company and said he may seek board seats.  The rights plan is designed to make sure all shareholders
are “appropriately compensated” and the board has time to make
“informed judgements” in case a person or group tries to gain
control of the company, Hologic said in a statement today. The
move is unlikely to affect Icahn, said Vijay Kumar, an analyst
with International Strategy & Investment Group in  New York .  “I don’t even see what’s the point of having this now,”
Kumar said in a telephone interview. The management team “has
lost street credibility” and will probably be replaced
following a March 5 board meeting, he said.  Icahn, who has taken stakes and agitated for changes at
companies from Dell Inc. to Apple Inc., disclosed a 12.63
percent holding in Hologic, which has forecast declining sales.
He may seek representation on the Bedford, Massachusetts-based
company’s board, according to a separate regulatory filing
today.  “Icahn’s involvement could accelerate management’s
existing efforts to sell assets and/or businesses and possibly
lead to more dramatic moves such as a sale of the entire
company,” Mike Matson, a New York-based analyst at Needham &
Co., said in a note today. He said Hologic stock is undervalued.  Hologic  rose  1.9 percent to $22.71 at the close in New
York, giving the company a market value of $6.14 billion. The
shares had gained 13 percent this year through today, trailing
benchmark indexes.  Revenue Estimates  “We expect investors to react very favorably to activist
involvement in HOLX shares, as the management team has been
often criticized for destroying  shareholder value  through
overpaying for large, transformative acquisitions such as Cytyc
in 2007 and, to a lesser extent, Gen-Probe in 2012,”  Glenn Novarro , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, wrote in
a note to clients today.  The deadline to nominate directors is Dec. 5, Kumar said.  Hologic’s revenue increased 24 percent to $2.49 billion for
the 12 months ended Sept. 28 from a year earlier, led by a 14
percent gain in sales at its diagnostics business, the company
said Nov. 11. Fiscal fourth-quarter earnings were hurt by a $1.1
billion charge related to goodwill impairment.  Hologic estimated then that revenue for fiscal 2014 will
drop 1 percent to 3 percent to a range of $2.43 billion to $2.48
billion. That was below analysts’ expectations of $2.59 billion
at the time.  Share Rights  The company expects a decline in sales of ThinPrep pap
tests, blood screening assays and its NovaSure surgical device
that lightens a woman’s heavy periods, according to the
statement earlier this month.  Under the rights plan, stockholders at the close of
business on Dec. 2 will receive one right for each share of
Hologic common stock held. The rights entitle investors to buy
one ten-thousandth of a share of a new series of participating
preferred stock at $107 per right if someone attempts to acquire
at least 10 percent of Hologic’s common stock, the company said.
The plan expires Nov. 20, 2014.  Icahn, 77, is ranked 32nd on the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index of the world’s richest people with a personal wealth of
$22.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  