-- Honda Revamps Civic Again to Sustain U.S. Compact Car Leadership
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-21T00:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/honda-revamps-civic-again-to-sustain-u-s-compact-car-leadership.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , headed for record
U.S. sales and seeking to maintain them in 2014, is modifying
its top-selling Civic small car just a year after revamping it
to address initial shortcomings.  The 2014 Civic gets a continuously variable transmission
that boosts horsepower and  fuel efficiency  to 33 miles per
gallon in combined city and highway driving. Interior changes
include a bigger touch-sensitive navigation screen that responds
like a smartphone as well as a camera, called LaneWatch, that’s
integrated into the right passenger-side mirror to show objects
and vehicles in the car’s blind spot, Honda said.  “For the third straight year we’re bringing to market an
even better Civic,” Mike Accavitti, Honda’s senior vice
president for U.S. auto operations, said today at the Los
Angeles Auto Show. The successive changes for Civic “reflects
our determination to create something new and then immediately
set about to make it better.”  Honda, Japan’s third-largest automaker, stumbled with the
Civic in 2011 when it was redesigned as a 2012 model. Consumer
Reports magazine, typically approving of many Honda and Acura
models, gave the Civic a scathing review that cited low-quality
interior materials and ride and shortcomings in handling.  Market Leader  Changes to the Civic by the Tokyo-based company addressed
several of those issues last year. The latest emphasize Honda’s
desire to stay ahead of competitors including  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s new Corolla and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra, said
Jessica Caldwell, an analyst for Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,
 California .  “They owned that space for a long time, and it looks like
they are going back to their market-leading position,” Caldwell
said in an interview at the Los Angeles show. “Corolla is
probably part of the reason for the changes, but Honda knows it
stumbled and wants to move beyond that.”  Civic is the best-selling small car in the U.S. this year,
posting a 10 percent increase through October to 280,889
vehicles. Toyota’s Corolla, revamped this year, follows at
257,184.  Honda’s American depositary receipts rose 0.5 percent to
$41.19 at the close in New York. Honda’s U.S. sales unit is
based in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  