-- London Tube Trains to Run Overnight on Weekends Starting in 2015
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-11-21T11:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/london-tube-trains-to-run-overnight-at-weekends-starting-in-2015.html
London ’s Tube will introduce 24-hour
running on its busiest lines from 2015 as part of an upgrade of
the 150-year-old subway that will include additional daytime
frequencies and improved Wi-Fi connectivity.  The “Night Tube” services will operate on Fridays and
Saturdays on the Piccadilly, Victoria, Central and Jubilee lines
and on parts of the Northern line, the subway’s busiest route,
Transport for London said today in a statement.  Opening hours on the London Underground’s other lines will
be extended in following years as TfL grapples with the
transport needs of a population forecast to grow to about 10
million by 2030 from 8.4 million today. Higher frequencies will
boost Northern Line capacity by 20 percent from next year, with
more trains also set to run on the Jubilee and Victoria lines.  “It is time to take the Tube to the next level,” London
Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in the statement. “This will not just
boost jobs and our vibrant night-time economy, it will further
cement London’s reputation as the best big city on the planet.”  TfL, which reports to Johnson, said more employees will be
based on concourses and platforms rather than ticket booths,
without revealing whether over-the-counter sales outlets will
close. Today’s statement said that all stations will be manned
while trains are running, though they’ll be reclassified as
Gateway, Destination, Metro or Local to reflect staffing needs.  The  subway system  will begin accepting contactless bank-card payments starting next year, and Wi-Fi services will be
extended to almost all station. Some 27 stops will be made step-free, adding to the current 66 staircase-free facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  