-- Honeywell CEO Raises Investment to Meet Demand for New Chemicals
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-21T19:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/honeywell-ceo-raises-investment-to-meet-demand-for-new-chemicals.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , a
maker of aerospace parts and solvents, is increasing its
investment rate to meet higher demand for newly developed
chemical products, Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote said.  For the last 12 years, Honeywell has kept its  capital
spending  at about 1.1 times the rate at which assets depreciate,
and now it’s accelerating, Cote said. The investment will be
driven primarily by expansion of two plants in Alabama and
 Louisiana  for the company’s Performance Materials and
Technologies unit, he said.  “You’ll see our reinvestment rate was higher than that
this year and will be higher than that again next year,” Cote
said today in a telephone interview.  U.S. manufacturers’ backlog of  unfilled orders  reached a
record in September and new orders are above the 2008 peak,
signs that companies are beginning to spend more on capital
goods.  Demand is strong for new refrigerants, solvents and
catalysts that  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell
designed to lower their impact on the environment. That prompted
the production increase, Cote said.  “It’s for inventions that we’ve made that we need to
support with production,” said Cote, who was selected this week
as one of the 2014 winners of the Horatio Alger Award. “These
plants are already full the day we build them, so we’ve got to
get them built.”  Still, companies aren’t going to open the floodgates to
their cash holdings and begin a surge of capital spending, Cote
said. Slow global economic growth has crimped sales at
industrial companies, forcing many to focus on cost reductions
and efficiencies to post higher earnings. In October, Honeywell
lowered its forecast for 2013 sales to as much as $39 billion
from $39.3 billion.  “We’re likely to be at a 2 to 2.5 percent economy for the
next three or four years, and that’s the way we need to think
about it,” he said. “I don’t think you’re running into a
wholesale, ‘Man, the good times are coming and we’ve got to get
ahead of it and invest.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  