-- Hong Kong H-Shares Decline From 8-Month High on China PMI
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-11-21T08:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/hong-kong-stocks-fall-from-nine-month-high-on-fed-concern.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with an index
of Chinese companies sliding from an eight-month high, after a
private gauge of mainland factory activity declined for the
first time in four months and minutes from the Federal Reserve
signaled it may cut stimulus sooner than expected.  Prince Frog International Holdings Ltd. (1259) , a maker of baby-care products suspended after its accounting came under scrutiny
by a short-seller, tumbled 22 percent as it resumed trading.
Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s largest producer of the precious
metal, dropped 2.2 percent amid concern tapering of bond
purchases will erode demand for haven assets. Air China Ltd. led
carriers higher amid optimism a stronger  yuan  and reforms
opening up airspace will benefit the sector.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share index, lost 0.9 percent to 11,333.14 at the close in Hong
Kong after yesterday erasing this year’s losses. The  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  slid 0.5 percent to 23,580.29, with about twice as many
stocks falling for as rising on the 50-member gauge.  “The market has gained too much recently and China’s PMI
gave a good excuse to take profit as people want to lock in
gains toward the end of the year,” said Louis Tse, a Hong Kong-based director at VC Brokerage Ltd. “Last night’s message is
clear that the Fed is most likely going to taper in the next
couple rounds of meetings.”  China PMI  A preliminary Purchasing Managers’ Index of  China ’s factory
activity in November from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
fell to 50.4 from 50.9 the previous month. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had expected a reading of 50.8, with 50 the dividing
line between growth and contraction.  The H-share index climbed 28 percent from this year’s low
on June 25 as data signaled China’s economy is strengthening and
policy makers unveiled the biggest package of reforms since the
1990s. The Hang Seng Index is up 19 percent from its June low,
and  traded  at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with 16.1
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday.  Prince Frog slumped 22 percent to HK$3.63. The shares
started trading for the first time since allegations from
Glaucus Research Group caused the shares to plummet last month.
Prince Frog’s reported sales figures didn’t match independent
data available from Nielsen, the short-seller said in its Oct.
16 report. Prince Frog said the report was without merit.  “It took Prince Frog over one month to respond to the most
basic questions about its business,” Glaucus said on its
Twitter feed today.  Stimulus Outlook  Futures on the S&P 500 slid 0.1 percent. The gauge
yesterday dropped 0.4 percent after minutes from the central
bank signaled stimulus may be reduced sooner than expected. The
labor market is expected to show improvement and “thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
records of the Oct. 29-30 gathering. Fed St. Louis President
James Bullard said tapering is “on the table” for the next
meeting in December.  Zijin Mining fell 2.2 percent to HK$1.80 and  Zhaojin Mining
Industry Co. (1818) , China’s second-largest gold producer listed in the
city, dropped 1.7 percent to HK$5.32. The shares dropped after
prices for the precious metal declined to a four-month low.  As of Nov. 20, four of five investors expected the Fed to
delay a decision to begin trimming $85 billion in monthly
stimulus until March 2014 or later, with just 5 percent looking
for a move next month, according to the latest Bloomberg Global
Poll.  New China Life Insurance Co. (1336) , the nation’s third-largest
life insurer by premium income last year, fell 1.1 percent to
HK$26.80 after Zurich Insurance Group AG sold its stake in the
company for $943 million.  Property Companies  A measure of developers  led declines  on the Hang Seng
Index. China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest
mainland developer listed in Hong Kong by market value, dropped
2.7 percent to HK$23.85. Shimao Property Holdings Ltd.,
controlled by billionaire Hui Wing Mau, slumped 3 percent to
HK$18.86.  China will increase taxes for owning properties, and will
quicken the legislation and reform of a property tax, Finance
Minister  Lou Jiwei  said without elaborating in an interview with
the official People’s Daily published today.  Among stocks that rose, Air China surged 9.7 percent to
HK$6.09. Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the city’s biggest
carrier, gained 3.2 percent to HK$16.08 to lead gains on the
Hang Seng Index. China Southern Airlines Co., the country’s
biggest domestic carrier, and  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  each
jumped at least 9.2 percent. Airlines may benefit from a
stronger yuan as many of them have debt in U.S. currency from
aircraft purchases, said Linus Yip, a strategist at First
Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong.  Airlines Advance  The nation’s opening up of airspace may also benefit the
shares as it brings market focus to the industry, Yip said. The
Shanghai Securities News reported yesterday China may issue
airspace management rules as early as the end of this year.
Airline shares climbed yesterday after China’s central bank
elaborated on plans to free up foreign-exchange controls.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index slumped 0.7 percent to
23,590. The Hang Seng Volatility Index rose 0.5 percent to
17.10, indicating traders expect the benchmark equity index to
swing 4.9 percent in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  