-- OSX Plans to Miss Interest Payment on Dollar Bond Next Month
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-11-21T22:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/osx-doesn-t-plan-to-pay-interest-on-500-million-bond-next-month.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder of
former billionaire  Eike Batista , doesn’t plan to make next
month’s interest payment on $500 million of ship-backed bonds.  OSX notified bond trustee Norsk Tillitsmann AS of its
intentions in a  letter  released today. The $11.56 million
payment is due Dec. 20 on the bonds maturing 2015. OSX is
seeking to defer the payment to March, according to an Oct. 21
 summary  of talks between OSX, the trustee, bondholders and their
advisers that was provided by Norsk Tillitsmann.  While OSX declared bankruptcy this month, the leasing unit
through which the company owns the ship securing the debt wasn’t
part of the judicial recovery petition filed in a Rio de Janeiro
court. The notes are backed by an $800 million production,
storage and offloading vessel, known as OSX-3, that was intended
to be leased to bankrupt sister company OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA to pump offshore oil.  OSX is seeking to remain in business after OGX missed debt
payments earlier this year. Batista was  Brazil ’s richest man,
with personal wealth that exceeded $34 billion, before his
commodity empire crumbled.  OSX’s press office didn’t respond to calls seeking comment.  “We expect to maintain our good faith discussions in order
to reach a mutually acceptable standstill and a comprehensive
solution for all issues under the bond agreement,” OSX’s
advisers said in the letter to the trustee.  The bonds were little changed at 80 cents on the dollar
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OSX bondholders have already hired law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP to help them navigate the process of taking
control of their collateral, two people briefed on the
arrangements who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak publicly said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  