-- Toyota Hasn’t Decided to End Camry Assembly at U.S. Subaru Plant
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-21T03:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/toyota-hasn-t-decided-to-end-camry-assembly-at-u-s-subaru-plant.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s top North
American executive said the carmaker hasn’t decided to end a
production deal that supplies it with 100,000 Camry sedans
annually from Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.’s U.S. Subaru plant.  The contract-assembly arrangement at Subaru’s Lafayette,
Indiana, plant between the carmakers could end after 2016, Tom Easterday, the factory’s executive vice president told
television station WLFI and the Journal and Courier newspaper
Nov. 13. The plant has made Camrys since 2007 for Toyota, which
owns 16.6 percent of Fuji Heavy, and has the option to continue,
said  Jim Lentz , head of Toyota’s North American operations.  “I’ve been involved in the discussions going on within
Toyota, and then with Toyota and Subaru, and it has not been
decided,” he said in an interview at the Los Angeles Auto Show
yesterday. “There’s still within the contract a certain period
of time within which we have to renew. I think that window of
time is just opening.”  Any production change for Camry, the top-selling U.S. car
for more than a decade, is taken with great care as the Toyota
City, Japan-based company seeks to sustain the model’s
leadership. Camry led  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Accord, its closest
challenger, by more than 40,000 sales through October and  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s new Fusion sedan by 100,000.  Ford Challenge  Ford is boosting Fusion production by building it at a
second plant as the Dearborn, Michigan-based company works to
pare Camry’s lead in 2014.  It’s hard to see Toyota cutting its output, when there’s so
much demand for the model from loyal, repeat buyers, said
Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,
 California .  “Losing capacity on that vehicle hadn’t been the direction
they were going at all,” she said.  Toyota should sell about 415,000 Camrys this year,  Bob Carter , Toyota’s U.S. senior vice president, said in a separate
interview in Los Angeles. Going forward, the goal is to maintain
Camry sales in the U.S. at the 400,000-unit level, he said.  Were Toyota to stop getting Camrys from the Subaru plant,
it’s unlikely that volume would shift to its Georgetown,
Kentucky, factory, the main builder of the model, Lentz said.  “There’s some period of time for both sides to evaluate
what we do with production at that facility,” Lentz said.
“There are a lot of different alternatives for us to look at,”
he said, without elaborating.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based Torrance, California. The
company’s American depositary receipts fell 0.2 percent to
$126.05 yesterday in  New York . They’ve risen 35 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  