-- Pandora Posts Third-Quarter Loss as Marketing Costs Rise
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/pandora-posts-third-quarter-loss-as-costs-increase.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest U.S.
online radio service, reported a third-quarter loss after
spending more on development, marketing and overhead as it
defends its turf against new competition.  The net loss was $1.7 million, or 1 cent a share, compared
with profit of $2.05 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier, the
Oakland, California-based company said in a statement yesterday.
Excluding items, profit of 6 cents matched the average of 22
analysts’  estimates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pandora reported a drop in active users last month and
continues to increase spending on marketing and sales staff to
attract more listeners and advertisers. It has also released new
programs for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices and new applications for Google
Inc.’s Android and Chromecast as total costs in the quarter
jumped 53 percent to $181.9 million from a year earlier.  “We are investing aggressively in product development,”
Mike Herring, chief financial officer, said in an interview.
“We also continue to invest heavily in sales and marketing to
drive market share and top-line growth.”  The company is facing new competition including from
Apple’s iTunes Radio. The Cupertino, California-based company
has said its advertising-supported service drew 11 million users
in the days after becoming available on Sept. 18.  Topping Estimates  Pandora slipped 1.3 percent to $29.29 in extended trading
yesterday after the company announced its results. The stock
gained 4.4 percent to $29.68 at the close in New York and has
more than  tripled  this year.  Sales in the three months ended in October climbed 50
percent to $180.4 million from a year earlier, topping the
$178.3 million average of analysts’ estimates.  The company will report on a calendar year starting with
the fourth quarter, which will cover the two months through
December. For the period covered by the fiscal fourth quarter,
ending in January, Pandora forecast revenue of $185 million to
$190 million and adjusted earnings per share of 2 cents to 4
cents. Analysts on average estimate earnings of 3.8 cents a
share on sales of $186 million.  For the two-month period ending Dec. 31, Pandora said it
expects $132 million to $136 million in revenue and adjusted
earnings of 5 cents to 7 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  