-- Paris Shootings Suspect Arrested After Two-Day Manhunt
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-11-21T11:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/paris-shootings-suspect-arrested-by-police-after-two-day-manhunt.html
French police arrested a man
suspected of shootings in Paris that left a newspaper
photographer seriously wounded and instigated a two-day
nationwide manhunt.  Interior Minister  Manuel Valls  identified the suspect as
Abdelhakim Dekhar, who was convicted in 1998 for participating
in a 1994 robbery and car chase that left three police officers
and a  taxi driver  dead. Dekhar served four years in prison in
what was known as the Rey-Maupin affair.  “All evidence points to his implication in the
shootings,” Valls said last night, alluding to DNA tests.
“There will now be a careful investigation to understand his
exact motives.”  The shootings that shook the French capital began on the
morning of Nov. 18 when a man entered the headquarters of the
Liberation newspaper, firing shots that seriously wounded a 23-year-old assistant photographer. Two hours later, he was seen
running from the La Defense business district after firing three
shots at  Societe Generale ’s tower. He then coerced a man into
giving him a ride to the  Champs Elysees , where he melted into
the crowds.  Last week, he targeted the offices of BFM Television,
threatening people in the media outlet’s lobby.  Suicide Attempt  Dekhar was found in a parked car on the outskirts of Paris,
after the man he had been staying with contacted police,
prosecutor  Francois Molins  said today at a press conference in
Paris.  He had taken a lot of sedatives, leaving him semi-conscious
and preventing police from charging him immediately, Molins
said. Dekhar had written “confused” letters over his reasons
for the shootings and suggesting he intended to commit suicide,
the prosecutor added.  “It was very confused reasoning relating to fascism and
its relation to media and banks,” Molins said.  The man who revealed Dekhar’s location to the police has
known him for 13 years, after they met in  London  where he was
working in catering. Dekhar has stayed regularly for short
periods with the man over the years, Molins said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  