-- Pimco Sees Treasury 10-Year Yield Capped Around 3% as Taper Near
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-11-21T06:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/pimco-sees-treasury-10-year-yield-capped-around-3-as-taper-near.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
predicts Treasury 10-year yields will be capped near 3 percent
into 2015 even with the  Federal Reserve  beginning to trim asset
purchases as early as January.  The manager of the world’s biggest bond fund expects the
Fed to reduce its stimulus program in either January or March
and depend on tools including forward guidance to keep interest-rate volatility low, said  Tony Crescenzi , executive vice
president at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco. Benchmark
10-year yields were at 2.80 percent as of 2 p.m. in  Tokyo  and
earlier touched 2.81 percent, the  most  since Sept. 18.  The  gap  between 10-year yields and the Fed’s benchmark rate
hasn’t widened beyond 4 percentage points over the past half
century and the relationship is probably around 3 percentage
points now, given the central bank’s policies, Crescenzi said in
an interview in Sydney. That will remain true until the Fed
funds rate is close to being raised toward the end of 2015 or
early 2016, he said.  “The Federal Reserve’s activism equals roughly a
percentage point in yield suppression to the 10-year,”
Crescenzi said. “We would expect interest-rate volatility to be
lower in the next move higher in yield than the last one,
because markets have become more comfortable with the notion
that tapering is not tightening. And because the Fed has
successfully turned attentions to the policy rate.”  The 10-year yield will probably be at 2.75 percent by the
end of this year and 3.40 percent by the end of 2014, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The Fed’s
target rate will be at zero to 0.25 percent through till the end
of 2014, the data show.  Limited Distance  “We would expect there to be a limited distance that the
10-year will trade over the Fed funds rate than is normally the
case so long as the projection for the policy rate to rise is
out in the distant future,” Crescenzi said. “At least through
2015, because the policy rate won’t be raised until late 2015 at
the earliest, more likely 2016.”  The central bank has indicated it sees tightened financial
conditions with the 10-year yield at 3 percent and comfort as it
falls closer to 2.5 percent, he said.  Fed officials signaled they may taper their $85 billion in
monthly bond buying “in coming months” if the economy improves
as anticipated, according to the record of the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30 gathering, released yesterday. The
minutes show extensive discussion on how to increase the clarity
of their plans to hold  interest rates  near zero. They made no
decisions on those plans.  Low Odds  “The December tapering looks like low odds,” Crescenzi
said. “We would lean toward one or the other; January or March.
It’s very data dependent.”  Officials will pare asset purchases to $70 billion a month
at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the median economist
estimate in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8.  Pimco recommends investors avoid longer-dated Treasuries
and instead invest in short-term and intermediate maturities
that are less affected by rising yields and provide
“substantial roll-down,” said Crescenzi.  As a bond nears maturity or rolls down the yield curve, it
is valued at successively lower yields and higher prices.  As the Fed’s communication strategy evolves, the success of
forward guidance will depend on the decline in the  unemployment
rate , said Crescenzi.  “To the extent that it falls quicker than markets expect,
then the Fed will slowly lose control of the term premium and
the ability to suppress longer-term  interest rates ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  