-- Prince Frog Plummets on Short Seller’s Report: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-21T09:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/prince-frog-says-short-seller-glaucus-report-was-without-merit-.html
Prince Frog International Holdings
Ltd. (1259)  plunged 22 percent as it traded in Hong Kong for the first
time since allegations from short-seller Glaucus Research Group
dropped the stock by a record last month.  The  shares  of the Chinese maker of children’s care products
such as bath soap and lotion fell HK$1 to HK$3.63, the  lowest  in
eight months.  Some Chinese businesses that have drawn attention from
short sellers have seen their market value eroded. In October,
 Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters Research LLC drove down the stock of
 NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , saying it inflated sales. Glaucus on Oct. 16
initiated coverage of Prince Frog at a strong sell, saying tax
records indicate the company’s net income was less than
reported.  “It took Prince Frog over one month to respond to the most
basic questions about its business,” Glaucus said on its
Twitter feed today.  Prince Frog has started buying back  shares , Chairman Li
Zhenhui said in an investor conference call today, adding he
will also repurchase some shares. The stock had slumped 26
percent on Oct. 16, the biggest decline since its listing in
July 2011, before being halted.  “It would take time to re-establish investors’
confidence,” Howard Wong, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sunwah
Kingsway, wrote in a note to clients today. The stock “may
continue to suffer some short-term selling pressure,” he said.  Nielsen Data  Prince Frog’s reported  sales  figures didn’t match
independent data available from Nielsen, Glaucus said in its
Oct. 16 report. The total retail sales of Prince Frog’s
children’s moisturizing lotion products in 2012 was 135 million
 yuan  according to Nielsen, or less than 25 percent of reported
figures, the short seller said in its report.  “The company believes that the claims made in the report
to be without merit and not supported by evidence,”  said  Prince
Frog, which is based in Zhangzhou, a city in the southern
Chinese province of Fujian. An  audit committee  “unanimously
agreed that the allegations are misconstrued, erroneous and
inappropriate,” it said.  Nielsen hasn’t authorized Glaucus to use its data, the
market research firm said in an e-mail today, responding to
questions on the short-seller’s report.  Glaucus also said the Chinese government’s tax records
indicate Prince Frog’s net income is “a fraction of reported
figures.”  Prince Frog today said its rapid sales growth was “highly
plausible and achievable” based on “solid”  fundamentals .  Soren Aandahl, Director of Research at Glaucus, referred
queries to the company’s Twitter feed.  Celebrity  Glaucus, which has an office in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
was founded by Matthew Wiechert, who has a background in
 investment banking , to probe companies that appear “too good to
be true,” according to its  website .  Prince Frog reported a 31 percent rise in profit to 241.1
million yuan ($40 million) last year. Marketing investments and
advertising with popular Hong Kong singer Kelly Chen boosted
awareness of its brand, it said in the annual report. It also
cited sales gains from selling on Chinese e-commerce sites such
as T-Mall and expanding in outlets such as those operated by
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Carrefour SA.  Separately, NQ Mobile, a Chinese mobile-services provider
with headquarters in Beijing and  Dallas , has battled the fraud
allegations from  Muddy Waters . It held a conference call to
rebut the criticism within a day and transferred about $103
million in cash to an account at Standard Chartered Bank to
demonstrate its reserves.  NQ Mobile dropped 47 percent on Oct. 24, the day Muddy
Waters initiated coverage, and the stock’s last  price  of $13.92
is 39 percent lower than the Oct. 23 closing price.  Vegetable processor China Minzhong Food Corp. tumbled 48
percent, the most on record, in less than two hours on Aug. 26
after Glaucus questioned the company’s accounts in a report.
Minzhong said it “strongly” denied the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  