-- Production Confidence Rises With Supplier Sales: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/production-confidence-rises-with-supplier-sales-ecopulse.html
Sales at W.W.  Grainger (GWW)  Inc. and
Fastenal Co. are confirming recent reports of improvements in
U.S. manufacturing.  These distributors supply products to construction,
industrial and commercial customers, making them “excellent
proxies” of economic activity, said Steven Roukis, managing
director at Matrix Asset Advisors Inc. in New York. U.S. sales
at Grainger, in Lake Forest,  Illinois , rose 10 percent in
October, the biggest increase since February 2012. Winona,
Minnesota-based Fastenal’s daily net sales grew 5.3 percent last
month at stores more than five years old, the fastest in eight
months.  The companies’ results are useful for corroborating the
pace of factory output -- or “inflection points” -- that
signal production is starting to accelerate in what’s proven to
be a “slow and steady” economy, Roukis said. Their monthly
sales track  shipments  of durable goods, excluding transportation
products, which rose a seasonally adjusted 3 percent in
September from a year ago, the most since July 2012, according
to Census Bureau data. October figures are scheduled to be
released Nov. 27.  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , a maker of gears, pumps and valves,
is another “great tell on general industrial-business
activity” and helps inform investors about the pace of economic
expansion, said Chris Bertelsen, who oversees more than $2
billion in assets as chief investment officer of Global
Financial Private Capital in Sarasota,  Florida .  Rising Orders  Its North American industrial orders rose 3 percent in its
fiscal first-quarter, the first increase in five quarters, the
Cleveland-based company said Oct. 18. Census figures show U.S.
orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and parts
 grew  8.7 percent in September from a year earlier, following the
biggest rise in more than a year for August.  The company data suggest “trends are stabilizing and
aren’t getting any worse,” said Brent Rakers, an analyst with
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . Sales growth
for Grainger and  Fastenal (FAST)  is starting to return to “normal
sequential patterns,” while also getting a boost from some
“positive momentum in demand” and is lapping easier
comparisons from a year ago, he said.  Grainger forecast a range for 2014 earnings of $12.25 to
$13.00 a share on Nov. 13, below the $13.22 consensus of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Rakers said this
reflects “more of a margin concern” about the ability to raise
prices than weakening demand.  Buy Recommendations  He maintains buy recommendations on Grainger and Fastenal
because he’s looking ahead to an economic recovery that could
begin in the second half of next year and continue into 2015, he
said. “These companies perform very well in a normalized
environment,” when they’re able to boost prices.  U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.6 percent in 2014
and 3 percent in 2015, up from 1.7 percent this year, according
to the median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Grainger and Fastenal also express some optimism.  “Sales growth to date for November is trending in line
with October after normalizing for acquisitions in 2013 and the
hurricane in 2012,” Casey Darby, senior manager of Grainger
investor relations, said on a Nov. 12 conference call.
Similarly, Fastenal’s “sales growth came in about where we
thought it would be for the quarter” ended Sept. 30, Chief
Executive Officer Will Oberton said on an Oct. 9 conference
call.  ‘Certainly Attractive’  As investors try to make sense of U.S. expansion that’s
“better than a snail” though not yet robust, manufacturing is
“certainly attractive” for investment, Bertelsen said. He’s
held Parker Hannifin for two years, Fastenal is on his “buy
list” now and he says Grainger could be in the future. “Owning
stocks in this part of the industry is important for gauging the
strength of the economy.”  Even so, production activity remains uneven. Recent sales
advances -- particularly for Grainger -- could be driven more by
market-share gains than a rebound in demand, Roukis said, adding
that this could be misinterpreted as overall strength in the
industry.  In addition, Fastenal experienced a “soft industrial
market” in its most recent quarter, which hasn’t changed a lot,
Oberton said on the call. “We don’t believe it’s getting any
worse. We don’t see signs that it’s improving.”  Performing Lower  While sales are climbing at both companies, they’re still
“performing lower” than one of the benchmarks for the
industry, Rakers said. The Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing index rose to  56.4 (NAPMPMI)  in October, the highest since
April 2011 and fifth consecutive month of increases. The boost
has been driven partly by gains in light manufacturing, which
isn’t as representative of Grainger’s and Fastenal’s customers,
he said. November figures are scheduled to be released Dec. 2.  Other industry measures that better reflect their buyers --
who tend to make heavy-duty equipment -- are showing more modest
increases, Rakers said. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s global
manufacturing purchasing-managers’ index rose to 52.1 in October
from 51.8 the prior month and still is more than 5 points below
a 2011 peak.  Even so, Roukis said he isn’t worried a slowdown is afoot
unless Fastenal, Grainger and Parker Hannifin report a
contraction in sales or broader output measures weaken. He
tracks these companies’ sales growth -- even though he doesn’t
currently hold them -- and recent gains suggest manufacturing
activity is improving or is poised to do so, he said.  “If sales from these companies are negative, there’s
definitely a pause or a downswing in the economy,” Roukis said.
“If their numbers are getting better, you know things are
easing or even accelerating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  