-- Put Less Corn in Our Gasoline, Please
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-21T21:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/put-less-corn-in-our-gasoline-please.html
Big Oil has squared off against Big
Agriculture in the dispute over the federal mandate to mix corn-based ethanol into the nation’s fuel supply. Both sides are
powerful and self-interested, but Big Oil has the edge in this
case for being right.  The ethanol mandate should be cut because it is a misguided
policy. It forces the public to use and subsidize a product that
is both uneconomical and environmentally destructive, given the
land, fuel and fertilizer needed to grow, harvest and transport
all the corn.  So it was good news last week when the Environmental
Protection Agency for the first time  proposed  to trim the
ethanol mandate.  Congress should go further and revise the law that requires
increasing amounts of ethanol in gasoline -- a law conceived
during the post-Sept. 11 attacks anxiety over the nation’s then-growing reliance on Middle Eastern crude oil and before the
consequences of mass ethanol production were well understood.
Better yet, it should eliminate the law altogether.  The reduction the EPA has proposed is modest: U.S. fuel
companies would be allowed to use about 6 percent less ethanol
in 2014 than this year. The rationale is that U.S. gasoline use
is falling, mainly because cars are becoming more fuel-efficient.  Without such a change, fuel companies might have to break
through the so-called blend wall, producing gasoline with more
than 10 percent ethanol -- even though many U.S. cars and trucks
aren’t designed to run on mixes with higher amounts of ethanol.
The alternative would be to buy credits granting exemptions from
adding ethanol. A bidding war for these credits earlier this
year helped drive up the  price of gas  to almost $4 a gallon.  By now it should be clear that ethanol, which was pitched
to the public as a renewable and environmentally friendly energy
source, hasn’t lived up to its billing. By some calculations,
producing ethanol is a net consumer of energy and generator of
 greenhouse gases .  Ethanol has also pushed demand for corn to the breaking
point. As much as 40 percent of the nation’s corn crop goes to
ethanol production, for which farmers have plowed up millions of
additional acres, much of it environmentally sensitive
grasslands or wetlands. The mandate not only raises the price of
farmland but also forces Americans to pay as much as $40 billion
a year more for food, from soft drinks to beef, according to
 estimates  by Texas A&M University researchers. There are even
signs that the mandate has played a part in the rise in  global
food prices .  The oil industry has asked the EPA for a partial or total
waiver of the mandate for next year. But don’t expect Big Ag to
go without a fight. Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack , a former
governor of Iowa, has said the Barack Obama administration
supports the mandate, and he has powerful allies in  Charles Grassley  in the Senate and  Steve King  in the House, both also
from Iowa, the country’s  biggest corn producer .  Ethanol’s defenders, of course, say the oil industry simply
wants to recapture market share lost to ethanol. That sounds
right. But at least the demand for oil will persist without
federal mandates.  Yes, there is a place for ethanol in the nation’s fuel mix.
In small quantities, it helps gasoline burn more efficiently in
car and truck engines. But let the market dictate how much
ethanol gasoline buyers use.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 