-- Qatar Says Europe Resolution on Migrant Workers Premature
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-11-21T10:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/qatar-says-europe-resolution-on-migrant-workers-premature.html
Qatar’s Foreign Ministry said a
European Parliament debate today on the rights of migrant
workers in the emirate is “premature” following allegations of
abuse at  World Cup  construction sites.  European lawmakers are scheduled to vote on a resolution
today, according to the  European Parliament website . Qatar said
it hired the law firm  DLA Piper  last month to investigate
alleged mistreatment of workers as it prepares to host the 2022
World Cup of soccer. The  Guardian newspaper  has reported that 44
Nepalese workers died between June 4 and Aug. 8 amid “appalling
labor abuses.”  “Qatar recognizes the interest of the European Parliament
in these matters and is happy to engage in dialogue,” a foreign
ministry official, who wasn’t identified, said in an e-mailed
statement. “While DLA Piper’s investigation is on-going, the
resolution itself is premature.”  The human rights group  Amnesty International  released a
report Nov. 18 saying Qatar needs to better enforce labor
regulations amid “widespread and routine abuse” of migrant
workers.  “Qatar takes the allegations that have been made
concerning the construction sector extremely seriously and has
therefore already put an independent review into those
allegations in place, to be conducted as a matter of the utmost
urgency,” the foreign ministry said.  In its report, Amnesty said some workers in Qatar weren’t
paid wages, were subject to “harsh and dangerous” working
conditions and “shocking standards of accommodation.” The
group documented the cases of dozens of workers who were
prevented from leaving for “many months” by their employers.  “Qatar will deal severely with any abuses on the part of
companies operating in its construction sector, particularly
relating to its migrant  labor force ,” the foreign ministry
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  