-- Indian Banks’ Rising Bad Debt Is ‘Major Challenge,’ RBI Says
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-11-22T05:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/reserve-bank-of-india-says-rising-sour-debt-is-major-challenge-.html
Rising bad loans at Indian lenders
remain “a major challenge” amid a slowdown in  Asia ’s third-largest economy, the nation’s central bank said.  Nonperforming loans rose to 986 billion rupees ($15.7
billion) at the end of March from 652 billion rupees a year
earlier, the  Reserve Bank  of  India  said in a report yesterday on
the country’s banking industry. The ratio of sour debt to total
lending swelled to 3.6 percent from 3.1 percent.  More debtors are finding it harder to pay off loans in a
$1.8 trillion economy that is projected to grow in the year
ending March 2014 at the weakest pace in more than a decade.
Rising bad loans contributed to a 35 percent slump in  State Bank
of India (SBIN) ’s net income for the quarter ended Sept. 30.  “Macro stress tests indicate that if the current
macroeconomic conditions persist, the credit quality of
commercial banks could deteriorate further,” the Mumbai-based
RBI said. “In the short term, the stress on banks’ asset
quality remains a major challenge.”  The increase in bad loans underscores the challenge the
government of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  faces in expanding
the banking industry’s reach to encompass the 65 percent of
Indians who don’t have accounts. The RBI introduced rules on
Nov. 6 removing branch restrictions on overseas lenders that
form local units. New banking licenses will be granted in
January, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Nov. 15.  Biggest Lender  State Bank  of India shares fell less than 0.1 percent to
1,762 rupees as of 10:53 a.m. in Mumbai. The  stock  slumped 26
percent this year, more than the S&P BSE India Bankex index’s 14
percent drop.  SBI, the nation’s largest bank by assets, had the highest
nonperforming loan ratio of the 11 lenders tracked by Bloomberg
Industries. Its gross ratio of sour debt to total lending
widened to 5.64 percent in the three months to Sept. 30 from
5.15 percent a year earlier, the Mumbai-based bank said in a
filing on Nov. 13.  Provisions for defaults rose 44 percent in the period, the
filing showed. The lender’s more than 15,000 branches control
16.8 percent of the nation’s 73 trillion rupees of deposits,
according to central bank  data .  SBI will continue in coming months its “war on bad
loans,” which will fall sustainably only when economic growth
picks up, Chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya said Oct. 8.  India’s economy  may grow 4.8 percent in the year through
March 2014, based on a compilation of forecasts from other
organizations, the RBI said in an Oct. 28  report . That would be
the slowest pace since 2003, and compares with a July projection
of a 5.7 percent expansion.  Moody’s Outlook  The central bank yesterday reiterated the need to ease in a
“calibrated way” a rule requiring banks to invest in
 government bonds  to enable them to extend more loans to
productive sectors of the economy. Banks currently have to
invest 23 percent of their deposits in government bonds.  Moody’s Investors Service reiterated its negative outlook
for the Indian banking system in a Nov. 18 report, a view that
the ratings company has held since November 2011.  “The negative outlook reflects our views that economic
growth will be weak,” Moody’s said in the report. “Banks’
asset quality will deteriorate and profitability will decline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  