-- Richter Drops Most in Year as FDA Rejects Drug: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-21T10:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/richter-drops-most-in-year-as-fda-rejects-drug-budapest-mover.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt .,  Hungary ’s
biggest drugmaker, headed for the steepest drop in almost a year
after a U.S. regulator denied approval to a drug that lies at
the heart of the company’s growth plans.  The shares fell 2.8 percent to 4,237 forint by 11:18 a.m.
in Budapest, the most since Nov. 27, 2012 on a closing basis.
Volume of trading was 91 percent of the stock’s three-month
daily average. Richter led the benchmark BUX stock  index , in
which it has a 24 percent weighting, lower by 0.7 percent.  The  Food and Drug Administration  issued a “complete
response letter” stating that while Cariprazine “clearly
demonstrated effectiveness” it requires more work, a statement
from Richter and partner Forest Laboratories Inc. cited the FDA
as saying. The authorization for the drug, used to treat
schizophrenia and mania associated with bipolar disorder, may be
delayed by more than a year, Barclays Plc analysts wrote in an
e-mailed report.  “We would rather envisage the need for additional
trials,” Barclays analysts including Simon Mather in  London 
wrote in the report. “Given today’s news, we expect the
associated sentiment-hit to add pressure to the share price.”  Richter plans to rely on Cariprazine and Esmya, a
gynecological drug, to boost revenue by the end of the decade,
Chief Executive Officer Erik Bogsch said in an interview on
Sept. 27.  “We are committed to pursuing novel treatment options like
cariprazine to address patient needs,” the companies said in
their statement today. “Forest and Richter plan to meet with
the FDA in the very near future to discuss the complete response
letter and define a path forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  