-- Ringgit Drops Most in Two Weeks on Fed Taper Outlook; Bonds Fall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-11-21T02:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ringgit-drops-most-in-two-weeks-on-fed-taper-outlook-bonds-fall.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit fell by the most
in almost two weeks after minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s last
meeting renewed speculation it will trim monetary stimulus, a
policy that’s driven inflows to emerging-market assets.  Fed officials said they might reduce their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases “in coming months” as the economy
improves, according to minutes of the Oct. 29-30 gathering
released late yesterday in  Washington . Moody’s Investors Service
raised the outlook for Malaysia’s credit rating to positive from
stable yesterday, citing improved prospects for the government’s
finances. Ten-year sovereign bonds dropped.  “It’s more of a strong dollar story because of heightened
tapering expectations,” said Sim Moh Siong, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “Otherwise, the ringgit
would have stayed stable or even appreciated slightly because of
the Moody’s upgrade.”  The ringgit weakened 0.6 percent to 3.1990 per dollar as of
10:10 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, the biggest drop since Nov. 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency declined
1.4 percent in November, trimming this quarter’s gain to 1.9
percent, the best performance in  Asia .  While U.S. employers added 204,000 workers to payrolls last
month, more than the 120,000 estimate, the central bank probably
won’t taper its debt purchases until March, according to the
median of 32 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
conducted Nov. 8. The next meeting is Dec. 17-18.  Bonds Fall  A pick up in employment could increase the chance of a
reduction in bond purchases next month, Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , a voter on policy this year who has
backed record stimulus, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday.  Moody’s cited improved prospects for fiscal consolidation
in Malaysia, economic reforms and macroeconomic stability for
its decision to raise the outlook on the nation’s A3 rating, the
fourth-lowest investment grade.  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 8.34 percent.  Malaysia will sell 4 billion ringgit ($1.3 billion) of 2024
bonds today, according to its debt sale calendar. The yield on
the government’s existing 3.48 percent notes due in March 2023
climbed two basis points to 3.98 percent, the highest level
since Sept. 4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  