-- Rostelecom CEO Says Tele2 Russia Deal Will Create Value
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-11-22T13:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/rostelecom-ceo-says-tele2-russia-deal-will-create-value.html
OAO  Rostelecom (RTKM)  Chief Executive
Officer Sergey Kalugin made his case for the planned combination
of the state-run phone company’s mobile assets with Tele2
Russia, saying the deal will boost their competitiveness.  “Combining our mobile assets with Tele2 Russia, we will
increase their value,” Kalugin said yesterday in an interview
at Rostelecom’s headquarters in Moscow. “The combined business
will grow faster under Tele2 management, which has proved its
ability to develop regional mobile networks efficiently.”  Rostelecom is working with Tele2 Russia owners including
state-run  VTB Group (VTBR)  to combine the two wireless operations, with
Rostelecom owning 45 percent of the venture and Tele2 Russia the
rest, Kalugin said. The merged carrier -- set to be worth about
$7 billion, according to Otkritie Capital -- will be a stronger
rival to  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
as the market benefits from rising mobile Web-browsing.  The deal also lets Rostelecom focus on building its fixed-line operations into a phone, Internet and television service
resembling  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , he said. A more focused fixed-line
provider is better equipped to take advantage of rising online
video demand.  Rostelecom seeks to split off its wireless business to a
separate entity by the end of the year, a major step toward the
tie-up, Kalugin said. The combined carrier may have an initial
public offering in a few years -- in which case Rostelecom would
have the right to boost its ownership to a controlling stake,
said Kalugin, 47.  Raising Concerns  “As the government convened a shareholder meeting to split
off mobile assets -- a step toward a merger with Tele2  Russia ,
it’s highly probable the merger will be approved by year-end,”
Kalugin said. “That’s my opinion as a CEO, while the government
will have to decide.”  The Russian government raised concerns that Rostelecom may
lose control of its mobile business after the Tele2 Russia
combination, Kommersant reported this week, citing Federal
Property Management Agency documents.  Rostelecom  rose  1.2 percent to 112.12 rubles at 5:19 p.m.
in Moscow. The stock has lost about 7 percent this year, valuing
the company at almost 300 billion rubles ($9 billion). Tele2
Russia is closely held by lender VTB, which bought the Russian
unit of  Sweden ’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  for $2.4 billion this year, and
investors including President  Vladimir Putin ’s billionaire ally
Yury Kovalchuk.  Removing Risks  “Merging the wireless business with Tele2 Russia makes
sense as Rostelecom has been less efficient in rolling out
mobile networks,” said Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at
Otkritie. “By relying on the Tele2 team in mobile expansion
Rostelecom removes risks, while remaining open to an upside.”  Tele2 Russia and Rostelecom together have more than 37
million mobile customers, trailing the 58 million to 73 million
users at the larger competitors, according to AC&M Consulting.  In contrast to Western Europe, the Russian wireless market
is expanding as more consumers browse the Web on smartphones and
tablets. Russia’s mobile revenue climbed 9 percent last year, as
data revenue surged 33 percent, according to AC&M.  Excluding its mobile unit, Rostelecom plans to boost  sales 
2 percent to 3 percent a year on average through 2018, though
next year the increase may be higher than that, Kalugin said.  Fixed Growth  The company plans to upgrade the so-called last mile, or
the part of its network connecting households to its core
infrastructure, to fiber-optic technology. That will provide as
many as 20 million households broadband access at speeds of 1
gigabit a second in two years, Kalugin said.  Rostelecom is set to offer so-called triple-play services,
combining phone, TV and Internet, in the second half of 2014,
Kalugin said. The company is working with content providers to
offer exclusive high-quality content to attract users. It
already agreed to provide programming from Stockholm-based
 Modern Times Group AB (MTGB) ’s Viasat and local Gazprom-Media.  A focus on broadband should boost the multiples Rostelecom
is trading at, Kalugin said. Comcast’s enterprise value is about
7.7 times its earnings, while for Rostelecom that number is 4.3,
according to the Russian company. Comcast, the largest U.S.
cable company, has boosted its market value by about a quarter
 this year  to $123 billion amid broadband-user gains.  Investor Buyout  Last week, a Rostelecom unit acquired 7.5 percent of the
company’s shares from investor Konstantin Malofeev at a premium,
prompting criticism from the investor community and sending its
stock lower.  Kalugin said Malofeev, who was a backer of Kalugin’s
predecessor, was a “controversial shareholder.” It’s “common
practice” to pay a premium to buy out large shareholders, and
the premium Rostelecom paid was less than another investor was
offering Malofeev earlier this year, Kalugin said. Julia Emm, a
spokeswoman for Malofeev in Moscow, declined to comment.  Kalugin joined Rostelecom in March after Russia’s
government urged it to replace CEO Alexander Provotorov, who
previously worked for Malofeev’s Marshall Capital.  Kalugin was previously CEO of cable provider National
Telecommunications, which Kovalchuk sold to Rostelecom in 2011.
Prior to Rostelecom, Kalugin co-owned Web-movie service Zoomby.  As a result of the Malofeev buyout and previous purchases,
Rostelecom has about 17 percent of its stock on its  balance
sheet  as so-called treasury shares.  Rostelecom is proposing to sell treasury shares next year,
Kalugin told reporters in Moscow this week. The sale may take
place in a secondary public offering and will include stock
bought from Malofeev, Kalugin said.  “We as management are proposing to sell treasury shares in
an SPO next year in Moscow or  London , depending on market
conditions,” Kalugin said yesterday. “The government has to
make a final decision on this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in Helsinki at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  