-- SABMiller Earnings Growth Tops Estimates on Emerging Markets
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-11-21T09:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sabmiller-earnings-growth-tops-estimates-on-latin-america-gains.html
SABMiller Plc, (SAB)  the world’s second-biggest brewer, reported first-half earnings that exceeded
estimates on gains in Latin America and Africa, and said
developing markets will continue to drive growth.  So-called organic earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization rose 7 percent in the six months through September,
the London-based company said today. The median estimate of nine
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 6 percent increase.  Total Ebita gained 4 percent to $3.27 billion, beating the
$3.2 billion median estimate. Growth was crimped by the weakness
of currencies including the South African rand and Australian
dollar.  SABMiller said it expects business conditions to remain
“broadly unchanged,” adding that it will focus on selectively
increasing prices and steering consumers toward more profitable
brands. The brewer generates most of its profit from countries
in Latin America, Africa and Asia, giving it a greater exposure
to faster-growing  emerging markets  than competitors.  “It is encouraging to see the margin expansion and pricing
trends in the company’s key growth markets,”  Pablo Zuanic , an
analyst at Liberum, wrote in a note today. “Earnings trends
should help support the stock.”  SABMiller fell 0.1 percent to 3,232 pence at 9:35 a.m. in
London trading.  Growth Economies       Organic profit in Latin America, the brewer’s largest
region, rose 10 percent as cost-cutting and price increases
combated economic turmoil in Colombia and tax increases in  Peru .
Earnings climbed 16 percent in Africa aided by sales of premium
brand Castle Lite and savings from increased procurement of
local ingredients to make beer.  “We believe the big growth economies of the 21st century
will be found in Latin America, Africa and Asia,” Chief
Executive Officer Alan Clark said today on a call with
reporters. The company has “not seen the specific effect of any
slowdown” in markets such as  China  or in Africa, he said. “The
underlying fundamentals of our key developing markets remain
intact.”  European profit fell 8 percent as the company sold less
beer in  Poland  and the Czech Republic, which represent about 70
percent of profit in the region, according to the company.  Tough Europe  Europe is proving tough for all the big brewers. Heineken
NV last month cut its profit forecast amid weak consumption by
beer drinkers in central and eastern Europe. Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV, the world’s biggest brewer, said profit in the region
fell 38 percent as beer volume tumbled 26 percent in Ukraine.  SABMiller’s Asia-Pacific earnings rose 12 percent as it cut
costs and sold more expensive brands of beer such as Snow in
China. Foster’s Group Ltd., acquired in 2011 for A$10.5 billion
($9.8 billion), progressed “ahead of schedule in synergy
delivery” and focused on premium beer sales.  Organic profit in South  Africa , where SABMiller was
founded, increased by 8 percent in the half-year.  Currency shifts will “adversely impact reported results in
the current financial year,” the brewer said. The South African
rand fell about 8 percent in the six months through Sept. 30
against the dollar, and the Australian dollar declined 10
percent.  SABMiller cut expenses by $225 million in the six months
through more effective purchasing. Raw material costs this year
will rise at a low- to mid-single-digit percentage pace, it said
today.  Clark said today he doesn’t think the era of acquisitions
in the brewing industry is over, and that the company will keep
reviewing assets. Still, “the story of growth for ourselves is
clearly organic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  