-- Sales of Callable Stock-Tied Notes Soar on Markets as Risks Loom
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-11-21T18:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sales-of-callable-stock-tied-notes-soar-on-markets-as-risks-loom.html
U.S. investors are buying the most
equity-tied structured notes that may be redeemed early, betting
that stock values at an all-time high will keep rising.  Banks sold $8.62 billion of callable U.S. securities tied
to stocks this year, 39 percent more than a year earlier and the
most since at least January 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They issued a record $1.09 billion of the notes last
month.  While the securities advertise coupons that can be more
than four times higher than similar-maturity  Treasuries (USGG10YR) ,
investors face the risk of early redemptions if the stock
performs well, or steep losses if it does poorly. The callable
notes, some of which don’t mature for 20 years, may not pay any
coupons over that time if shares drop too much, Bloomberg data
show.  “The callables are able to provide headline yield by
lowering the probability of actually attaining that yield
through the maturity date of the note,” Joseph Halpern, chief
executive officer of Exceed Investments LLC, which structures
exchange-traded funds, said in a telephone interview from his
office in New York.  Issuance of callable equity-linked notes, including so-called reverse convertibles, has more than doubled since 2010,
when investors bought $4.4 billion of the securities, Bloomberg
data show. Certain notes can be called at the discretion of the
issuers, while others known as “auto-callables” have a pre-determined threshold that triggers an automatic redemption.  Early Redemptions  Banks have redeemed $3.46 billion, or more than 20 percent,
of the securities that have been issued since January 2012,
Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold the largest such offering last
year on Jan. 4, $97.1 million of two-year notes tied to the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  The securities were called in
January this year, Bloomberg data show. The notes paid 10
percent, though could have returned 32.5 percent or more at
maturity as long as the benchmark didn’t fall 10 percent from
its initial value, according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Callable securities give a “huge advantage to the customer
on day one, but they get a limited return,” said Halpern, who
used to trade structured notes at banks including ING Groep NV
and Toronto-Dominion Bank. “If it doesn’t get called, all of a
sudden, it flips and becomes a huge advantage to the bank.”  No Coupons  UBS AG (UBSN)  sold $2.75 million of five-year notes tied to the
shares of Barrick Gold Corp. on July 19, 2012, that haven’t paid
a monthly coupon since March, according to a prospectus filed
the SEC and Bloomberg data. The company has tumbled 50 percent
to $17.40 since the issuance date, making it less likely the
securities will be called and boosting the chances that holders
won’t get 9.5 percent in contingent yearly coupons and may lose
at least 40 percent of their principal.  With callable notes, investors also face the possibility of
losing attractive terms once the security is redeemed, known as
reinvestment risk, said Tim Husson, a senior financial economist
at Securities Litigation & Consulting Group.  A rising stock market has reduced the risk that investors
will lose money. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the most
popular underlying stock index for structured notes, reached an
all-time  intraday high  of 1,802.33 on Nov. 18. The  S&P 500  has
gained 25 percent this year, making it an attractive investment
compared with alternatives such as 10-year Treasury bonds, whose
yields touched a low in 2013 of 1.63 percent on May 2.  JPMorgan No. 1  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  leads issuers with $1.5 billion in
sales of callable stock-tied notes in the U.S. this year,
Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America  sold $229.8 million of
auto-callable securities tied to the Euro Stoxx 50 Index on Oct.
24, the largest offering in 2013.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and Megan Stinson,
of UBS, declined to comment on the notes. Susan McCabe, of Bank
of America, didn’t return e-mails asking about their securities.  Bloomberg started to collect comprehensive data on
structured notes in 2010. Banks create the products by packaging
debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to retail
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts with values derived from stocks, bonds, commodities
and currencies, or events such as changes in  interest rates  or
the weather.  Reverse convertibles, which typically mature in a year or
less, pay a relatively high coupon, though investors can lose
all of their principal if the company’s value falls to zero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  