-- Samsung, Zynga, LG, Givaudan: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/samsung-zynga-lg-givaudan-intellectual-property.html
Largan Precision Co. (3008) , a Taiwanese
smartphone camera lens maker, sued Samsung Electronics Co. for
infringing six of its imaging lens patents in Samsung’s Galaxy
Note and S series smartphones.  The Nov. 14 complaint filed in federal court in  San Diego 
seeks a court order barring unauthorized use of its patented
technology, together with money damages, litigation costs and
attorney fees. Claiming that the infringement is intentional,
Largan asked the court to triple the damages award.  Largan, the world’s biggest designer and manufacturer of
imaging lens products used in mobile devices, according to its
lawsuit, has also sued Taiwan-listed competitors including
 Genius Electronic Optical Co. (3406)  and  Ability Opto-Electronics
Technology Co. (3362)  this year over patent infringement. Taichung
City, Taiwan-based Largan may sue other companies, investor
relations employee Amanda Chiu said.  “We are carefully reviewing this matter and not able to
provide any details at this moment,” Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung said in a statement.  Largan also asked the U.S. court to halt imports of Samsung
products that infringe its patents. Chiu declined to say whether
Samsung is or has been a client.  SinoPac Securities Corp. wrote in a note that Largan’s
lawsuit signals confidence in its patents. The camera lens maker
is consolidating its market leader position by defending its
patents, according to a research note from Jih Sun Securities
Investment Consulting Co.  The case is Largan Precision Co. v.  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , 13-cv-02740, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego).  Zynga Defeats Personalized Media Communications’ Patent Claims  Zynga Inc., the San Francisco-based maker of games for
social media, defeated infringement claims by a  Sugar Land ,
Texas-based patent owner.  Personalized Media Communications LLC  sued Zynga in federal
court in Marshall,  Texas , in February 2012, alleging that the
games company infringed patents related to the delivery and
presentation of enhanced media content. According to the
complaint, Personalized Media owns more than 50 patents.  John C.
Harvey , founder and chairman, is the primary inventor of the
technology on which the patents are based.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  DirecTV (DTV) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the Weather
Channel are among companies that have taken  licenses  to
Personalized Media’s patents.  On Nov. 7, Zynga and Personalized Media agreed to dismiss
infringement claims related to two patents and some of Zynga’s
products. A jury then found on Nov. 19 that Zynga didn’t
infringe any of the claims of remaining patents.  The case is Personalized Media Communications LLC v.  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA) , 2:12-cv-00068, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  LG Files Application for ‘Glasstic’ Trademark for ‘Spectacles’  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , which released its smartphone in
August, may be planning to bring out a competitor to  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Google Glass  wearable head-mounted computer, if a recent
trademark filing is any indication.  The Seoul-based company filed an application Nov. 14 to
register “Glasstic” as a U.S. trademark, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  LG said it plans to use the mark with mobile phones and
spectacles, as well as clocks.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyrights  ‘Bang!’ Publisher Sues Chinese Game Creator for Infringement  The Italian publisher of the “Bang!” role-playing card
game sued a Chinese games company and its U.S. distributor for
copyright infringement.  The lawsuit is related to the role-playing game “Legends
of the Three Kingdoms,” also known as “ Sanguosha .” The
Chinese game, allegedly based on events during China’s Ming
Dynasty, is a blatant copy of “Bang!,” according to the
complaint filed Nov. 19 in federal court in Houston.  DaVinci Editrice Srl  of Perugia, Italy, says in its
complaint that while the Chinese game is set in ancient China,
instead of the Wild West as in “Bang!,” “that thin veneer
does little to mask the striking similarities between the
games.”  “Bang!” was first published in 2002, and is sold in the
U.S. through major retailers including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Target
Corp. and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the company says. DaVinci says it
has sold more than 670,000 copies of the game.  The “Legends”  product description  on Amazon.com Inc.’s
website says that the Chinese game “shares many rules with
Bang!,” according to the complaint.  A course based on “Legends”  is offered  at the  University
of California  at Berkeley. The faculty sponsor is  Professor
Robert C. Berring Jr. , who teaches courses in Chinese law at
Berkeley Law.  He said in an e-mail that he had been contacted by the
Italian publisher about possible similarities between the two
games. “When I asked the students they all seemed to be well
aware that the game was based on Bang! That was one reason they
wanted to play it,” he said.  Defendants in the case are  Ziko Games  of Missouri City,
Texas, and Beijing-based  Yoka Games . Neither company responded
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the suit.  Included in the court filings is a letter from Ziko to the
Italian company. Ziko said that it is only a third-party
distributor and as far as it is aware, Yoka is the creator of
“Legends.”  DaVinci told the court that the enforcement of foreign
judgments in China “has been notoriously difficult in recent
years” and asked for an order barring the sale and distribution
of “Legends.” DaVinci also requested money damages.  The case is DaVinci Editrice Srl v. Ziko Games LLC, 4:13-cv-03415, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Givaudan’s Trade Secrets Claims Lack Specificity, Court Says  Givaudan SA (GIVN) ’s Givaudan Fragrances unit’s trade secrets case
against one of its former employees was narrowed by a federal
court in New Jersey.  The Swiss company sued a perfumer who went to work for Mane
USA Inc., a New Jersey-based competitor. In its 2008 complaint,
Givaudan said the ex-employee printed out formulas for 616
fragrances and took them with him to his new job.  The court in Trenton said that Givaudan didn’t provide Mane
with enough details about 582 formulas.  “The name of the formula is not the protected secret and
it conveys nothing to Mane with respect to the subject matter
that Givaudan is claiming that it owns or that Mane has
allegedly misappropriated,” the court ruled.  Givaudan did provide enough information about 24 other
formulas for those claims to go forward, according to the
ruling. The company filed a notice Nov. 8 that it will appeal
the court’s ruling.  The case is Givaudan Fragrances Corp. v. Krivda, 3:08-cv-04409, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  