-- Santos Says He’ll Run for Re-Election to End Colombia Conflict
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-11-21T00:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/santos-says-he-ll-run-for-re-election-to-end-colombia-conflict.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said he’ll run for re-election next year to ensure talks
continue to end a guerrilla conflict that has left 220,000 dead.  “I’m convinced that we have advanced enough and that it is
finally possible to reach that future of prosperity and peace
that all Colombians deserve,” Santos said in a televised speech
from the presidential palace. “When you see the light at the
end of the tunnel, you don’t step back. We can’t stop half way.
We have to finish this task.”  Santos began talks in  Havana  last November with the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, a Marxist group
that uses extortion and cocaine money to fund its war against
the state and multinationals. Santos’ strongest opponent, Oscar Ivan Zuluaga from former President Alvaro Uribe’s Democratic
Center Movement, has vowed to end the talks if he is elected.  The 62-year-old incumbent would get 27 percent of votes in
the first round, compared to 14.9 percent for Zuluaga and 12
percent for ex-guerrilla leader Antonio Navarro Wolff, according
to a Gallup poll published Nov. 12. Elections will be held in
May.  Zuluaga, a former finance minister who accuses Santos of
squandering security gains made under Uribe, would lose to
Santos in a second round of voting, the poll found.  Poll Ratings   The number of Colombians with a favorable image of Santos
rose to 29 percent in October, from a record low 21 percent in
August, when farmers and truck drivers staged nationwide
protests amid discontent with the economy.  The peso has rallied 44 percent over the last decade, the
biggest gain of 24 major emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, hurting coffee, flower and banana growers even as oil
and mining boomed.  Gross domestic product  growth averaged 5.4 percent during
Santos’s first two full years in office, compared with an
average of 3.4 percent over the previous two decades. The
increase was boosted by record foreign investment and a surge in
production of oil, coal and gold.  Since taking office in August 2010, Santos has cut taxes on
foreign bond holders and implemented free-trade deals with the
U.S. and others.  Oil exports rose to $31.6 billion last year, from $16.5
billion in 2010, accounting for 52 percent of the Andean
nation’s exports.  Havana Talks           In Havana, government and FARC negotiators have so far
reached agreements on land reform and on the rebels’
participation in politics, the first two points of a six-point
agenda.  The FARC continues to control swathes of  Colombia ’s
mountains and jungles, and launch attacks on army patrols and
the oil industry, even after Santos’s government tracked down
and killed the group’s two top leaders. Santos rejected the
guerrillas’ offer of a cease-fire during the talks, to prevent
them from regrouping.  The Ministry of Defense reported 147 attacks on oil
pipelines in the first nine months of this year, up 18 percent
from the same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  