-- Scotiabank Hires Malhotra for Financial Coverage
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-21T19:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/scotiabank-hires-malhotra-for-financial-coverage.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-biggest lender, hired Sumit Malhotra from  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) 
to cover financial firms for its investment-banking unit.  Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie’s Canadian unit since
2009, will join on Jan. 6 and cover Canadian banks, life
insurance companies and brokerages, the Toronto-based lender
said today in an internal memo. Kevin Choquette, who covered
financial services for Scotiabank for 15 years, has left “to
pursue other opportunities,” according to the memo.  Scotiabank is realigning its financial-services coverage
based on regions. The firm’s New York-based analyst, Joanne Smith, will cover U.S. life companies, money center banks and
global peers, while Claudia Benavente, based in Santiago,
assumes responsibility for Latin American financial
institutions, according to the memo.  Malhotra’s move is the latest in a series of changes among
Canadian financial-services analysts. Earlier this month,
Desjardins Securities Inc. hired Doug Young, formerly of
Toronto-Dominion Bank, as veteran analyst Michael Goldberg took
on a new role in the firm.  Royal Bank of Canada hired Cormark Securities Inc.’s Darko Mihelic last month to cover financial-services firms for the
country’s largest lender after Andre-Philippe Hardy was promoted
to head of Canadian equity research. Cormark has since hired
Meny Grauman, an associate from Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, to cover banks and insurers, according to Susan
Streeter, the firm’s head of equity research.  In August, Toronto-Dominion hired Canaccord Genuity Group
Inc.’s  Mario Mendonca , replacing Young and Jason Bilodeau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  