-- Sears Loss Widens as Lampert Seeks Asset Sales
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-11-21T21:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sears-loss-widens-as-lampert-seeks-asset-sales.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  posted a wider
third-quarter loss as Chief Executive Officer  Edward Lampert 
works to sell more of the department-store chain’s assets to
drum up cash amid a six-year sales decline.  The net loss, the company’s  sixth  in a row, widened to $534
million, or $5.03 a share, from $498 million, or $4.70, a year
earlier,  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears said today in a
statement. Sears said last month it would report a loss of $532
million to $582 million for the 12 weeks ended Nov. 2. Sales
fell 6.6 percent to $8.27 billion.  Lampert, the hedge fund manager who also is Sears’s
chairman and majority shareholder, has been selling and spinning
off assets as Sears’s cash pile shrinks amid 27 straight
quarterly sales declines. The dwindling resources are making it
harder for Sears to improve the outdated stores that have
contributed to its loss of customers.  “The gross margins were really bad,” Matt McGinley, a
managing director at International Strategy & Investment Group
in  New York , said today in a telephone interview.“If there was
one silver lining in terms of what they did this quarter, it’s
that they delivered on what they said they would do with the
expense reductions and the inventory reductions.”  Sears  fell  2.9 percent to $59.93 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 45 percent this year,  compared  with a 26
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Digital Initiatives  Sears said last month it’s considering separating its
Lands’ End apparel and automotive service-centers units.
McGinley estimated that a Lands’ End spinoff and sale of the
auto centers may raise as much $2.5 billion. The company had
$607 million in cash as of Nov. 2.  The retailer said today that it expects to generate $2
billion of liquidity in the current fiscal year, up from an
earlier forecast of $500 million.  While analysts have pointed out that Sears spends less than
competitors on store upkeep, the retailer has been pouring money
into e-commerce initiatives. Lampert has highlighted Member
Assist, a mobile application that customers can use to text
message store associates. The retailer also recently created a
social network for the company’s Shop Your Way loyalty program,
which now generates 70 percent of sales.  Many of the company’s current leaders come from the
technology world. In 2011, Lampert hired Lou D’Ambrosio, a
veteran of International Business Machines Corp. and Avaya Inc.,
as CEO. Lampert himself took the reins after D’Ambrosio resigned
earlier this year for family-related reasons.  Asset Sales  “We have been investing hundreds of millions of dollars
annually in our transformation and will continue to invest in
the future of the Company,” Lampert said today in the
statement.  Separating businesses such as Sears Hometown and Outlet
Stores Inc., spun off last year, allows Sears to “become a more
focused company that is easier to understand and manage,” the
company said in an  online slide presentation  today.  Funds raised by the sale of assets including five store
leases in  Canada  for C$400 million ($383 million) and the
completion of a $1 billion five-year  term loan  will give Sears
liquidity through next year, McGinley said.  Comparable-store sales in the U.S., which exclude new
locations, fell 2.1 percent at Kmart stores, hurt by lower
demand for grocery and drugstore items. Sales fell 4 percent at
Sears locations, amid decreases in appliances, electronics and
clothing. Total domestic same-store sales dropped 3.1 percent.  Margins Shrink  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods, narrowed at all three divisions,
with a companywide decline of 2.1 percentage points.  Retailers are bracing for a slow holiday season, with
consumer sentiment falling to an almost two-year low this month,
according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. last week cut its annual profit forecast
for the second time since August, citing a slow economic growth.  Sears says it’s keeping costs under control and is on track
to cut fixed  expenses  by $200 million this year, and has
surpassed its goal to cut inventory levels by $500 million,
reducing its inventory position by $620 million as of Nov. 2.  A smaller inventory may hamper its ability to compete with
more aggressive promotions from Wal-Mart and Kohl’s Corp.,
McGinley said.  “The more you reduce your inventory, the more you put your
fourth-quarter sales at risk,” said McGinley, who recommends
selling the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  