-- Fiduciary Standard for Brokers Backed by SEC Advisory Panel
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-11-22T21:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sec-panel-to-propose-higher-standard-for-brokers-retail-advice.html
Investment brokers advising retail
customers would face a standard requiring them to recommend
products in the best interest of clients under a proposal from a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission advisory panel.  Members of the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee voted
today to recommend imposing a fiduciary duty on brokers who
provide personalized investment advice. Brokers now are required
only to steer clients toward trades or investments deemed
suitable, while investment advisers are obliged to put clients’
interests first.  “There is behavior that is permissible under a suitability
standard that isn’t in the best interest of the customer,”
 Barbara Roper , an advisory panel member who is director of the
 Consumer Federation of America , said before the vote.
“Investors end up squandering money to pay excessive fees for
mediocre investment options -- not in every case -- but it is
permissible under the existing standard for brokers.”  The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 called on the SEC to study the
existing standards for providing personalized advice after
customers lost millions of dollars on poorly understood
investments during the credit crisis. In a January 2011 staff
study, the agency said many retail investors are confused by the
different roles played by investment advisers and brokers and
recommended a uniform fiduciary standard apply to both.  As a first step toward new rulemaking, the SEC requested
information in March from the industry and public on the costs
and benefits of imposing a fiduciary duty.  $45 Trillion Managed  The SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
oversee 4,195 brokerage firms holding more than 113 million
retail and institutional accounts, according to Finra. The SEC
oversees more than 11,000 investment advisers managing more than
$45 trillion, according to a report by the Treasury Department’s
Office of Financial Research.  Brokers who give customers recommendations to buy, sell or
hold a security and don’t provide advice wouldn’t have a
fiduciary duty under the committee’s approach. Those who “hold
themselves out” as advisers, “based either on the titles they
use or the manner in which they market their services” should
have a fiduciary duty, the committee said in its recommendation.  Investment advisers, who work under a strict standard of
duty and loyalty, have pushed the SEC to impose equivalent rules
on brokers, who can wind up providing advice during the process
of executing orders for customers.  Uniform Standard  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
the main lobbying group for Wall Street firms, opposes the
recommendation because it seeks to apply to brokers laws written
for investment advisers, the group said in a comment letter.  Sifma supports a uniform fiduciary standard written under
the laws that apply to brokers, which takes into account their
business model, said Kevin M. Carroll, the group’s managing
director and associate general counsel.  “We see legal and practical problems with imposing that
existing regime on broker-dealers,” Carroll said in a telephone
interview.  The five-member SEC may be divided over the topic. While
Democratic Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar has said he supports
extending fiduciary duty to brokers providing investment advice,
Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher has said he isn’t
convinced new rules are needed.  The proposal “is a nudge, it’s a reminder this is an
important priority for investors,” Roper said in a telephone
interview. “It also puts down the markers of what a fiduciary
standard ought to include and ought to look like and how the
commission should approach it.”  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said last week that the SEC’s
effort has “real traction.” White hasn’t stated whether she
personally supports imposing a fiduciary duty on brokers.  “It’s a high priority for me to figure out where we are
going with respect to that,” White said Nov. 12 at Sifma’s
annual meeting in  New York . “You’ve got brokers and investment
advisers, particularly at the retail level who are providing the
same advice to retail investors. Retail investors are not
entirely sure who they’re dealing with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  