-- Sharp Said to Mull Exit From Mobile-Phone Deal With Foxconn
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-11-21T09:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sharp-said-to-consider-exit-from-mobile-phone-deal-with-foxconn.html
Sharp Corp. is considering ending a
contract with Foxconn Technology Group under which the Taiwanese
manufacturer makes Sharp-branded phones for sale in  China ,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  Sharp has had disappointing sales since the contract
started last year and is focusing on the domestic market, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The company is also considering reducing
its solar business in the U.K., the person said.  “It is not announced by the company,” said  Miyuki Nakayama , a spokeswoman for Osaka, Japan-based Sharp. “I cannot
comment on business with specific companies.”  Laura Liu, spokeswoman for Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
Foxconn’s Taipei-based flagship, declined to comment on the
company’s relationship with its contract-manufacturing
customers.  Kyodo News earlier reported Sharp has suspended
collaboration with Foxconn in mobile phones and is considering
halting its manufacturing operation of solar batteries in the
U.K.  “Foxconn has never had a mobile-phone partnership with
Sharp. We had discussions a long time ago and there was no
follow-up,” Liu said in response to reports that Foxconn ended
a mobile-phone cooperation with the Japanese company.  Sharp, which sells Aquos smartphones, fell 0.7 percent to
297 yen at the close in  Tokyo . Shares have declined 2 percent
this year. The company isn’t among the top five mobile vendors
in China, according to researcher Canalys.  Sharp is considering a photocopier-business partnership
with Hewlett-Packard Co., a person familiar with the situation
said yesterday. The companies are still discussing the terms,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  