-- Silk Road Cyber-Bazaar Suspect Denied Bail in New York
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-11-22T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/silk-road-online-drug-market-suspect-ulbricht-denied-bail-1-.html
Ross Ulbricht, the man accused by
the FBI of running Silk Road, a billion-dollar online market
that sold drugs and hacking services, was denied bail after
prosecutors accused him of trying to have six people murdered.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin Fox in  Manhattan  yesterday
declined to grant bail given the “powerful evidence” presented
by the government. Ulbricht’s lawyer had asked for $1 million
bail.  Ulbricht, 29, was accused by prosecutors yesterday of
spending $730,000 to kill the six people in an effort to protect
his business. He was officially charged by a federal grand jury
in  Maryland  for one of the attempted murders. Prosecutors said
they found no evidence that any murders took place.  Allegations about two of the murder plots were disclosed in
court filings last month. The first involved an undercover agent
working for the U.S Attorney in Maryland, who agreed to kill a
rogue Silk Road employee for $80,000, a sum that Ulbricht
allegedly wired to the undercover agent’s account.  The second allegation involves a Silk Road user named
“Friendly Chemist” who threatened to blackmail Ulbricht by
disclosing the identities of some of Silk Road’s vendors and
customers, according to the filing.  Drug Vendor  Ulbricht allegedly paid $150,000 to another drug vendor,
“redandwhite,” to murder Friendly Chemist.  In yesterday’s bail hearing, the U.S. said it retrieved e-mails showing that redandwhite told Ulbricht Friendly Chemist
had implicated yet another Silk Road dealer, “Tony76,” in the
blackmail plot.  Ulbricht asked redandwhite to learn more about Tony76 and
was told that Tony76 lived with three other people, according to
prosecutors.  For that reason, redandwhite said he would “prefer to do
all four,” according to a government memorandum. “Ok, I’ll
defer to your better judgment,” Ulbricht allegedly wrote,
agreeing to pay $500,000 in the digital currency Bitcoin for the
murder of all four, according to the memorandum.  A week later, redandwhite wrote to Ulbricht to tell him,
“That problem was dealt with,” according to the government.  Ulbricht saw himself “as basically the head of an online
cartel” where murder is “part of the job,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Serrin Turner told the judge yesterday in court.  Financial Means  “It’s not just a fantasy,” Turner said. Ulbricht had
already been living a “double life” and is “prepared to live
a life on the run,” he said.  Joshua Dratel, Ulbricht’s attorney, said his client doesn’t
have a criminal history, and he lacks the financial means or
ability to flee. Friends and family members sent the court
numerous letters attesting to his character, Dratel said.  “People have stolen billions of dollars and gotten bail in
this courthouse,” Dratel said.  Throughout yesterday’s hearing, which lasted about an hour,
Ulbricht sat at the defense table, remaining composed even as
Turner, the prosecutor, compared him to the boss of a Colombian
drug cartel.  Ulbricht’s mother, Lyn Ulbricht, sat in a row with several
relatives. After bail was denied, she let out an audible sigh.
As he was escorted from the courtroom, Ulbricht turned toward
her and waved.  Logged On  Outside the courtroom, his mother told reporters that her
son “is not a danger” and that the case against him “doesn’t
add up.”  At the time of Ulbricht’s arrest last month, the
government’s complaint cited circumstantial evidence indicating
that the Texas native was Dread Pirate Roberts, the mastermind
behind the Silk Road website who took the name after a character
in the movie “The Princess Bride.”  In court yesterday, the prosecutor told the judge that when
Ulbricht was arrested in a San Francisco public library on Oct.
1, the defendant had just logged on to his computer as Dread
Pirate Roberts.  As part of the government’s letter opposing bail,
prosecutors showed screengrabs taken from Ulbricht’s computer,
indicating that Ulbricht was the primary administrator of the
site. One Web page, titled “mastermind,” showed an overview of
the transactions and money moving through the site.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-mg-02328; a
related civil forfeiture case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-cv-06919,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan)
The murder-for-hire case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-00222, U.S.
District Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Manhattan at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in federal court in Manhattan at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  