-- Six Mortars Fall in Uninhabited Area Near Saudi Border
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-11-21T13:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/six-mortars-fall-in-uninhabited-area-near-saudi-border.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
oil exporter, said six mortar shells fell in an uninhabited
desert area where the kingdom’s border meets with those of  Iraq 
and  Kuwait .  The shells fell in an expanse near the city of Hafr Al-Baten in Saudi Arabia’s Eastern region, according to the state-run SPA news agency. The shells didn’t injure anyone or cause
any damage, SPA said, citing Border Guard Brigadier General
Mohammad Al-Ghamdi.  Jaysh al-Mokhtar, a Shiite Iraqi group whose name means
“the army of the chosen one,” claimed responsibility for the
attack, SkyNews Arabia reported, citing its own correspondent.
Saudi Arabian border guards have contacted their counterparts in
“neighboring countries” to “take necessary measures” and
determine the source of the attack, SPA said, citing Al-Ghamdi.  Al-Mokhtar’s leader, Wathiq Al-Battat, told  Iran ’s state-run Fars news agency two months ago that his group would  target 
Saudi Arabian oil installations and ports if the U.S. attacked
 Syria . He claimed to have 23,000 fighters who are ready to
attack U.S. interests in Iraq and the  Persian Gulf , according to
Fars.  Saudi Arabia is backing the Syrian opposition in its fight
to topple President Bashar al-Assad, whose Alawite sect is an
offshoot of Shiite Islam.  Proxy War  Saudi Arabia is the Gulf’s chief Sunni Muslim power, while
Shiite-ruled Iran is Assad’s most important ally in the region.
Hezbollah, a Shiite militant group supported by Iran, has said
it joined Assad’s forces in his war against mainly Sunni Muslim
rebels.  The proxy war between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shiite Iran is
one element of the conflict in Syria, which has left more than
100,000 dead and displaced 2 million Syrians, according to
United Nations estimates.  Suicide bomb blasts on Nov. 19 near the Iranian embassy in
 Beirut  killed at least 23 people. Riyadh’s ambassador to Lebanon
today urge Saudis to leave the country, the official Lebanese
National News Agency said.  West Texas Intermediate for January delivery rose as much
as 35 cents to $94.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $94.16 as of 12:40 p.m.
London time. Prices settled at $93.03 on Nov. 18, the lowest
settlement since May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  