-- Skadden, Simpson Advise on Devon Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/skadden-simpson-advise-on-devon-deal-business-of-law.html
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP advised  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , which will buy closely held
GeoSouthern Energy Corp.’s Eagle Ford assets for
$6 billion in cash, expanding its shale holdings in one of the
most prolific oil basins in the U.S.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP advised GeoSouthern.  The Skadden team includes partners Frank Bayouth, mergers
and acquisitions; Sal Guerrera and Lynn McGovern, banking; Neil Leff, executive compensation and benefits; John H. Lyons,
antitrust; Jose Esteves, intellectual property and technology;
Sally Thurston, tax; and Richard Aftanas, corporate finance.  The Simpson Thacher team is led by Houston mergers and
acquisitions partner Andy Calder, as well as partners Nancy Mehlman on tax and Andrea Wahlquist on ECEB.  The acquisition includes current production equivalent to
53,000 barrels a day and an estimated 400 million barrels of
reserves, Oklahoma City-based Devon said yesterday in a
statement. The purchase from The Woodlands, Texas-based
GeoSouthern covers 82,000 net acres of drilling leases in the
Eagle Ford in  Texas .  The deal is the largest acquisition of exploration and
production assets announced this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Firm News  IP Law Firm Finnegan Opens London Office With Two Partners  Washington-based intellectual-property law firm Finnegan,
Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP opened an office in
London with the relocation of two partners. The firm will  close
its Brussels office next year.  Anthony C. Tridico will be the London managing partner and
is joined by Martin D. Hyden, also a partner. The firm said
another partner will join in January and it plans to recruit
about 20 patent lawyers for the office.  “We are thrilled to announce the opening of our London
office,” Tridico said in a statement. “We are focused on the
expansion of our European patent practice and having a strong
presence in London is a definitive sign of our commitment to the
market.”  The firm said its major clients in  Europe  include
Schlumberger Ltd., ConocoPhilips, BTG Plc, Pronova BioPharma
Norge AS, Grünenthal GmbH, Swiss Post and Tetra Pak.  Tradico rejoined Finnegan in 2009 as managing partner of
the Brussels office. His practice involves biotechnology,
chemical and pharmaceutical sciences as well as medical devices,
diagnostic tools and instrumentation.  Hyden joined Finnegan in the Brussels office in 2010.  Finnegan has more than 350 lawyers at offices in London,
Shanghai, Tokyo and Taipei. The firm also has five U.S. offices.  Moves  Ex-Merrill’s Tabar Joins Schulte Roth to Advise Hedge Funds  Sam Tabar, former head of capital introductions for the
Asia-Pacific region at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. unit, joined Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP as an attorney
catering to  hedge funds .  Tabar joined mid-October as a senior lawyer and is
currently based in New York, he said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. He will be working with the New York-based law firm’s
existing clients as well as expanding relationships with Asia-based managers and investors, he said.  Schulte Roth, which has almost 100 lawyers focused on
representing alternative investment funds and their managers,
has seen increased interest from clients in Asia on issues such
as U.S. regulatory developments, Tabar said. Capital invested in
Asian hedge funds surged to $103.8 billion, the most in five
years, according to Chicago-based researcher Hedge Fund Research
Inc.  “The firm has no current plans or timetable for opening an
Asian office,” Tabar said.  For more, click here.  Patent and IP Litigator Jeremy Elman Joins DLA Piper in Miami  DLA Piper  LLP announced that Jeremy Elman joined the
intellectual property and technology practice and patent
litigation group as a partner in the Miami office. He was
previously at McDermott Will & Emery LLP.  Elman has experience litigating cases as well as
representing companies in the technology, consumer electronics,
gaming and media sectors on trade secret, trademark and
copyright matters.  “ South Florida  has become one of the nation’s top 10
jurisdictions for patent litigation in the U.S., and we look
forward to having Jeremy play an influential role as the
industry continues to grow in this region,” Craig Rasile,
managing partner of DLA Piper’s Miami office, said in a
statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries in
the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the  Middle East .  Litigation  Samsung Urges Mistrial Alleging Racism in Apple Lawyer’s Remark  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  accused Apple Inc.’s lawyer of
making a prejudiced remark during closing arguments in a retrial
over how much the South Korean company owes the iPhone maker for
patent infringement and asked the judge to halt the proceedings.  Harold McElhinny, Apple’s attorney and a partner at
 Morrison & Foerster LLP , spoke Nov. 19 of his memory as a child
of watching television on American-made sets, and how because
the manufacturers didn’t protect their intellectual property
their products no longer exist. “We all know what happened,”
he said at the conclusion of a damages retrial in San Jose,
 California , that started last week.  Bill Price , Samsung’s lawyer and a partner at Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, then asked U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh
to invalidate the trial just after she had sent the jury to a
separate room to begin deliberations in the case. Price said
McElhinny presented “absolutely no evidence” for his claim
that U.S. companies were driven out of business. Koh rejected
Samsung’s request for a mistrial, and Price told her he would
file another request under a different rule.  McElhinny was “appealing to race,” Price told the judge.
“I thought we were past that.”  The Apple lawyer told Koh that he used the same argument in
her courtroom previously when he argued for a court order to
block the sale of Samsung products.  “I did not say a word about race, and I did not say
Asian,” McElhinny told Koh.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, won a $1.05 billion
verdict against Samsung last year in the same court. Koh cut
$410.5 million, or 39 percent, of the award in March, citing a
miscalculation by the jury. The jury in the current case is
deciding how much of the trimmed amount should be reinstated.  During the discussion over Samsung’s request for a
mistrial, Price referred back to McElhinny’s remark.  “We all know what happened,” Price said, adding, “We all
thought the same thing.”  Bill Lee, another lawyer for Apple who is a partner at
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP, defended McElhinny.  “Actually, I’m Asian and I didn’t think the same thing,”
Lee told Koh, adding that he understood McElhinny to be
illustrating the importance of protecting intellectual property.  Koh concluded the dispute by bringing the jury back so she
should could re-read an instruction advising that the panel
“must not be influenced by any personal likes or dislikes,
opinions, prejudices, or sympathy.”  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  Video  Stealth Lawyer: Kirath Miller, Legal Recruiter  Kirath Miller, founder of JD Profiles, talks with Bloomberg
Law’s Spencer Mazyck about her transition from practicing law at
Shearman & Sterling LLP and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr
LLP to creating a legal job site that connects employers and job
candidates.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  News  Obama Appeals Court Picks Shut Out by Senate Republicans  Senate Republicans blocked the last of President  Barack Obama ’s three nominees to a federal appeals court that oversees
some of the nation’s biggest business cases.  The 53-38 roll call Nov. 19 was shy of the 60 votes needed
to advance the nomination of U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of
Columbia Circuit, often regarded as the nation’s second-highest
after the  Supreme Court .  Republicans have accused Obama of trying to fill the court
-- which often rules on challenges to government regulations --
with nominees sympathetic to his regulatory agenda. Democrats
argue that Republicans are trying to deny Obama the confirmation
votes they routinely gave to President  George W. Bush .  “This obstruction is completely unprecedented,” Obama
said in a statement Nov. 19, saying he’s “deeply disappointed
that Senate Republicans have once again refused to do their
job.” He urged the Senate again to take a yes-or-no vote on his
judicial nominees.  At stake is the future of a tribunal that has acted as a
steppingstone to the Supreme Court. Chief Justice  John Roberts 
served on the D.C. Circuit as did Justices Antonin Scalia,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg . Two other chief
justices, Warren Burger and Fred Vinson, served there as well.  Republicans argued Nov. 19 that the 11-member court’s
caseload is insufficient to justify filling three vacancies. In
a floor speech, Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said Democrats
were trying to “concoct a crisis” over the court so they can
“distract Americans from the failings of Obamacare.”  On Oct. 31, the Senate blocked consideration of Washington
lawyer Patricia Millett, a partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer
& Feld LLP, for another vacancy on the court. On Nov. 12,
Republicans blocked Georgetown University law professor Nina Pillard’s nomination to a vacancy on the same court.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  