-- Snai Plans Euro Bonds as Junk Borrowing Costs Fall Below 5%
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-21T11:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/snai-plans-euro-bonds-as-junk-borrowing-costs-fall-below-5-.html
Snai SpA (SNA) , an Italian betting website
operator, is meeting investors for the company’s debut sale of
high-yield bonds in euros as junk borrowing costs dropped to a
record 4.99 percent.  Snai is planning to sell 300 million euros ($403 million)
of senior secured notes and 160 million euros of senior
subordinated notes, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The average yield investors demand to hold junk-rated
debt fell 12 basis points this month, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Borrowers are benefiting from record low central bank
rates, which are encouraging investors to take on more risk as
default rates approach historic lows. Investors placed $19
billion in European high-yield credit funds this year, compared
with $771 million in investment grade, according to a Bank of
America Corp. report this month, citing EPFR Global data.  “There’s still a lot of money coming into high yield funds
as investors hunt for yield,” said Aengus McMahon, a credit
analyst at ING Groep NV in  London . “Investors are focusing more
on expectations of continued low default rates as the economy
grows. We expect spreads should stay tight and high-yield will
continue to be attractive in 2014.”  The cost of insuring the securities against losses held
within two basis points of the six-year low reached yesterday.
The Markit iTraxx Crossover index of credit-default swaps on 50
high-yield companies in  Europe  added 1.7 basis points to 332
basis points at 11:16 a.m in London.  Default Rate  Non-financial companies raised a record 65 billion euros
from junk bond sales in Europe this year, up from 31 billion
euros over the same period in 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The worldwide default rate fell to 2.8 percent in
October from 3.2 percent a year earlier, Moody’s Investors
Service reported Nov. 8.  Porcari, Italy-based Snai will use the proceeds from the
note sale to help refinance existing bank debt, the company said
in a statement yesterday.  In the sterling high-yield market,  Grainger Plc (GRI) , a
Newcastle-based residential landlord, is selling 200 million
pounds ($322 million) of seven-year secured notes to yield 5
percent. The proceeds will be used to refinance existing debt,
according to a person familiar with the deal.  The average yield on junk-rated bonds in pounds is 6.16
percent, up from a record low of 5.95 percent reached on May 9,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Investment-grade borrower  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state
oil company also known as Pemex, is selling bonds in euros for
the first time since 2009. The company is issuing seven-year
notes yielding about 190 basis points more than the benchmark
mid-swap rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  