-- SNB’s Zurbruegg Says Cap Needed for Foreseeable Future
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-22T08:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/snb-s-zurbruegg-says-cap-needed-for-foreseeable-future.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  will
maintain the cap on the franc as the global economic recovery
proceeds sluggishly, board member Fritz Zurbruegg said.  “The minimum exchange rate will remain a necessary
instrument for the foreseeable future,” the policy maker said
at a reception of money-market traders in Geneva yesterday.
“The monetary policy we have conducted to date will continue to
apply without any restrictions.”  Citing the risk of deflation and a recession, the Zurich-based central bank set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the haven franc
in September 2011, threatening unlimited currency interventions
to defend it. While consumer prices are falling, the economy has
escaped a recession, managing to stay relatively unscathed from
the debt crisis that has afflicted the neighboring euro area.  In  Switzerland , gross domestic product is now 5 percent
above its pre-crisis level. Even so, growth has been driven by
domestic consumption due to high immigration and annual output
in per capita terms has not yet returned to its pre-crisis
level, Zurbruegg said, adding that the output gap remains
negative.  The franc is still 10 percent above its long-term average,
in trade-weighted, inflation-adjusted terms, he said. Zurbruegg
reiterating that the central bank remains “prepared to enforce
the minimum  exchange rate  by buying foreign currency in
unlimited quantities if necessary, and to take further measures
as required.”  Sluggish Growth  The franc has depreciated 2 percent against the euro this
year. It traded at 1.2320 per euro at 9:28 a.m. in Zurich today,
little changed from yesterday. Against the dollar it stood at
91.30 centimes.  “Is a return to normal on the horizon?” Zurbruegg asked,
noting that the global recovery is “merely sluggish” and there
is still the risk of things worsening again. “Yes, but much
more slowly than expected.”  The SNB sees growth of between 1.5 percent and 2 percent
for this year, while it predicts consumer prices will fall 0.2
percent. There is no threat to  price stability  in the medium
term, Zurbruegg said.  The SNB has accumulated 434.7 billion Swiss francs ($475
billion) in foreign currency reserves due to its campaign to
defend the ceiling on the franc. The central bank hasn’t had to
intervene in  currency markets  for a year, Zurbruegg said,
reiterating comments by SNB President Thomas Jordan a month ago.  Because of extremely loose monetary policy, the Swiss real-estate market is in the throes of its biggest property market
boom in two decades. The SNB has repeatedly warned of
overheating.  “Since low  interest rates  can be expected to persist in
Switzerland for some time yet, we are keeping a very close watch
on developments in the mortgage and real-estate markets,”
Zurbruegg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  