-- Solar May Power Smartwatches and Smoke Alarms, Alta Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-11-21T17:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/solar-may-power-smartwatches-and-smoke-alarms-alta-says.html
Alta Devices Inc. , a supplier of
solar cells for military applications, is in talks to provide
its products for consumer electronics including mobile phones,
smoke detectors and security systems.  Solar cells can power wireless devices and systems that
operate remotely, Rich Kapusta, vice president of marketing for
Sunnyvale, California-based Alta, said yesterday in an
interview.  The market for connected devices, excluding smartphones and
computers, is expected to triple to $27 billion by 2016,
according to estimates from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Most of the major
consumer-electronics companies, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co., are developing products for the so-called
 Internet of Things , and all these gadgets will need power to
communicate with each other and with consumers, he said.  Alta is in talks with “all of those players,” and “has
good engagements with the guys whose names you would
recognize,” Kapusta said. “Products won’t show up in the
marketplace on Black Friday this year, but maybe next year.” He
wouldn’t identify any potential customers.  Solar cells may be incorporated into devices such as
temperature and occupancy sensors, door alarms, wearable
computing products and remote controls, he said.  Consumer electronics may become an important market for
solar power,  Scott Kessler , head of technology sector research
at S&P Capital IQ in New York, said today in an interview.  “There are tremendous opportunities for mobile devices,”
he said. “Inevitably you’re going to run out of power. When
that happens you might not be in a position to charge your phone
or your tablet.”  Solar Watches  Alta’s flexible, thin-film solar cells may be a good fit
for a watch that incorporates computing functions, Kapusta said.
Apple is said to be working on such a product, and has
trademarked the name iWatch in countries including  Japan .
Samsung already offers a $299 smartwatch. Kapusta wouldn’t say
whether the company will supply cells to Apple and the
electronics company wouldn’t comment on potential new products.  “The challenge for solar charging would be where to put
the solar cells,” Rob Stone, an analyst for Cowen & Co in
 Boston , said today in an interview.  Ascent Solar Technologies
Inc. (ASTI)  has a line of mobile-phone cases for Apple’s iPhone and
Samsung’s Galaxy products with thin-film solar cells to charge a
built-in battery that lets the phone go longer between charging.  “There is no question that the appropriate solar
technology for this form factor is some kind of thin film,”
Stone said. “It’s an interesting opportunity as people get more
and more dependent on portable electronics.”  Solar Costs  Adding about a watt of Alta’s solar cells to consumer
devices would add $2 to $4 to the total materials cost, Alta
Chief Executive Officer Christopher Norris said in an interview
in January. The company expects about 80 percent of its sales
this year to come from military applications including drones,
and 20 percent from consumer devices.  Alta’s gallium-arsenide cells produce more power in a
smaller area than competing products because they  convert  as
much as 28.8 percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity.
That’s more than the two biggest U.S. solar manufacturers, First
Solar Inc., which offers cells with  18.7 percent  efficiency
using a different type of thin film made from cadmium telluride,
and SunPower Corp.’s  24 percent , using standard polysilicon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  