-- Sony’s Hirai Plans $250 Million in Entertainment Cuts
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-11-22T07:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sony-s-hirai-makes-case-for-keeping-entertainment-units-intact.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will cut $250 million in
costs at its entertainment units over two years, part of Chief
Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai ’s plan to boost profit and keep
full ownership of the movie, TV and music businesses.  The company is reducing the number of films from  Columbia
Pictures , shifting investment to television production and media
networks, and identifying more savings, Sony told investors and
analysts yesterday at its Culver City, California, film studio.  Hirai is under pressure to prove his One Sony plan tying
entertainment to electronics can work, following a disastrous
second quarter that included a $181 million  operating loss  at
 Sony Pictures Entertainment . Six months after billionaire  Daniel Loeb  called for a partial sale of the entertainment assets,
Hirai outlined priorities for cutting costs while investing in
higher-growth areas, stressing ways entertainment can dovetail
with electronics from the Tokyo-based company.  “I know that the whole of Sony is greater than the sum of
its parts,” the 52-year-old Hirai said. “Sony Entertainment is
a core part of Sony and is crucial to our future growth.”  Invoking Sony co-founder Akio Morita, who acquired the film
studio in 1989, Hirai said the company is poised to make good on
the benefits of owning software and hardware together.  Content can help sell TV sets, tablets and mobile phones,
Hirai said, saying Sony’s leadership in the development of ultra
high-definition video called 4K was made possible by owning a
movie studio.  PlayStation Content  Sony fell 1 percent to close at 1,875 yen in  Tokyo  today.
The stock has almost doubled this year.  Hirai offered other examples where entertainment has helped
Sony’s electronics businesses: Blu-ray technology became a
standard for home-video and video games; Xperia phone buyers can
gain easy access to Sony’s movies, music and TV shows, and the
PlayStation 4 game console will have exclusive Sony content.  Sony’s film and television business will have operating
profit of $630 million next year on sales of $8.4 billion,  David
Hendler , the division’s chief financial officer, said at the
conference.  To improve profit margins, the company has identified $150
million of overhead and operational efficiencies, and $100
million in procurement savings, Hendler said. The division is
also working with consultants to find additional cuts, Michael Lynton, CEO of the entertainment unit, said from the stage.  “No cost is too sacred to cut,” Lynton said.  Fewer Films  Sony Pictures is shifting investments to television, where
profit margins are higher, Lynton said, and buying out partners
in its media networks outside the U.S. The company is looking
for cable-channel opportunities in the U.S., he said.  Columbia Pictures will release 18 films annually, down from
23 in past years, said Amy Pascal, co-chairman of the film
studio. She announced a third “Spider-Man” film for 2016 and a
fourth for 2018. The studio is also raising profit targets for
new movie projects, cutting marketing costs and negotiating
talent deals that provide financial rewards only in success, she
said.  “If we don’t make money, they don’t make money,” Pascal
said at the conference.  Sony hired Bain & Co. to identify more than $100 million in
entertainment expense reductions, a person with knowledge of the
matter said this week.  Loeb’s View  Sony’s 127 TV channels reach 950 million TV subscribers in
more than 150 countries, said Steve Mosko, president of the
television division. The company is buying out partners in  India 
and other countries and will sell stakes in channels where
growth is less robust, Mosko said.  “Sony Entertainment has tremendous unrecognized depth from
TV production of hits like ‘Breaking Bad’ and leadership in the
growth of networks in India,” said Daniel Ernst, an analyst at
Hudson Square Research who attended the meeting. “But that
depth only reinforces my view that those businesses would get
better recognition and unlock more value if they listed a stake
of the business separately.”  In May, Loeb’s Third Point LLC  proposed a partial sale of
the entertainment assets to improve management discipline,
capture higher valuations and free the unit from Sony’s
struggling electronics manufacturing -- a plan Hirai rejected in
August.  Loeb, who didn’t attend, has softened his criticism of
Sony, despite failing to secure a partial sale of the
entertainment assets. Speaking this month at an event sponsored
by the  New York  Times, the 51-year-old investor said he was
impressed with Hirai’s response to his concerns.  Segment Breakouts  “We wanted transparency, we wanted to highlight the
values. We wanted to focus on profitability and
accountability,” Loeb said. “They’ve basically said they’re
going to do all those things.”  Sony has started disclosing more financial results for its
entertainment operation. Film and TV posted $1.82 billion in
second-quarter sales. Revenue jumped more than 20 percent in
recorded music, the business of releasing albums, and music
publishing, which collects royalties. In music, operating profit
rose to $99 million on sales of $1.17 billion.  For the year ending in March 2015, Sony projects music
revenue of $4.8 billion and operating profit of $450 million,
executives said yesterday.  Hirai sees content growing in value, and said in an Aug. 6
 letter  that shareholders will benefit from full ownership as
more entertainment gets distributed to mobile devices.  ‘No Leverage’  The new PlayStation 4 console is part of Sony’s plan to
deliver its own content to consumers’ living rooms. Sony sold
more than 1 million consoles in  North America  during the first
24 hours of sales beginning Nov. 15, topping initial results for
the PlayStation 3 in 2006.  “We are looking at several opportunities beyond the
traditional game-related content,” Hirai said, declining to
offer more specifics.  Tying together content with electronic equipment isn’t
easy, said  Peter Guber , who was chairman of Sony Pictures
Entertainment from 1989 to 1995.  “There’s not a lot of leverage,” Guber said. “Just
because a Sony movie is good doesn’t mean you’re going out the
next day to buy a Sony TV or camcorder.”  There are few examples of Sony using content to sell
electronics and even fewer of devices resulting in sales of
films or TV shows, Hudson Square’s Ernst said this week in an
interview. To gain traction, Sony needs to show it can compete
against Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in mobile phones
and tablets, he said.  “They could close the businesses that are losing money,
like television sets,” said Ernst, who rates Sony hold. The
company could also sell a bigger stake in its insurance arm, he
said. “Splitting out a portion of entertainment the same way
would be equally positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  