-- Marcus Signals South African Interest Rates May Rise
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-11-21T16:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/south-african-reserve-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged.html
South Africa ’s  Reserve Bank  kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, while indicating it may move
borrowing costs higher as a weaker rand threatens to fuel
inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at 5
percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters in  Pretoria  today,
matching the forecasts of all 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Policy makers have kept borrowing costs at a three-decade
low for more than a year to help support an economy that’s set
to expand this year at the slowest pace since a 2009 recession.
While  inflation  slowed last month and the central bank lowered
its price projections, MPC members spent “considerable time”
discussing raising interest rates in the face of inflation
threats, Marcus said.  “The message coming from the Reserve Bank very clearly was
that they spent more time talking about an interest rate hike
rather than a cut,”  Kevin Lings , chief economist at
Johannesburg-based Stanlib Asset Management Ltd., said in a
phone interview. “Gill Marcus specifically said even though
inflation has done better, the risks to inflation are to the
upside.”  The MPC lowered its  inflation  forecast for this year to an
average of 5.8 percent compared to a previous estimate of 5.9
percent, and cut next year’s projection to 5.7 percent from 5.8
percent, Marcus said. Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in
October from a year ago, remaining inside the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target band.  Inflation Mandate  “The South African Reserve Bank’s mandate is to target
inflation and if we think inflation is rising and inflation
expectations are being unhinged, we certainly would have no
hesitation to hike rates,” committee member Kuben Naidoo said.  While the Reserve Bank lowered its inflation forecast, it
“retained caution with regard to inflationary pressures
stemming from exchange rate volatility, and so the risks to the
inflation projection continue to be assessed to the upside,”
Kamilla Kaplan, an economist at Johannesburg-based Investec
Ltd., said in an e-mailed note to clients.  Investors increased bets the bank will raise interest
rates, with the forward-rate agreements starting in 12 months,
used to lock in borrowing costs in the period, climbing as much
as 25 basis points to 6.25 percent after Marcus’s speech.  ’Uncomfortably Close’  “The inflation forecast remains uncomfortably close to the
upper level of the inflation target range but our central
forecast remains within the target,” Marcus said. “Given the
increased upside risks to the outlook, we do not see room for
further monetary accommodation. We will continue to monitor
developments carefully on an ongoing basis and remain committed
to act as required.”  The rand gained less than 0.1 percent to 10.1466 against
the dollar as of 5:53 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency’s 17
percent slide this year is the most of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The statement seemed more hawkish,” Adenaan Hardien,
chief economist at Cadiz Holdings Ltd. in  Cape Town , said in an
e-mailed note to clients. “The MPC statement spent considerable
time on the rand. The MPC remains worried about the potential
for significant further rand depreciation and its impact on
inflation.”  Outlook Revised  The central bank cut its  economic growth  forecast for this
year to 1.9 percent from 2 percent and predicted expansion of 3
percent in 2014 and 3.4 percent in 2015, Marcus said. The bank’s
projections for this year are more pessimistic than the 2.1
percent estimated by Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan .  The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
said on Nov. 19 the Reserve Bank should keep interest rates at
the current low levels as long as inflation allows it.  “The policy dilemma is underlined by the deterioration in
the growth outlook,” Marcus said. “The committee assesses the
risks to be on the downside, amid continued supply disruptions
and low business and  consumer confidence .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  