-- Biggest South African Power Users Challenge Eskom Cuts
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-11-21T12:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/south-african-power-supply-improving-as-user-curbs-remain.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.’s largest
clients said they’re under no obligation to heed the South
African power utility’s instruction that they curb use, raising
the risk of scheduled blackouts amid supply constraints.  Eskom, which generates 95 percent of the nation’s
electricity, yesterday asked its key industrial customers to cut
consumption by 10 percent until Nov. 29, according to Mike Rossouw, chairman of the Energy Intensive User Group of Southern
Africa, whose 32 members include local units of  Glencore Xstrata
Plc (GLEN)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Eskom first declared a supply
emergency on Nov. 19 after losing generating units.  “If there is no legal binding reason to do so, why would
we reduce by 10 percent if other consumers are not
contributing,” Rossouw said today by phone. “We cannot hold
production back until Nov. 29, it’s just not possible.”  Eskom is spending 500 billion rand ($49 billion) to replace
aging equipment and add plants to avoid a repeat of 2008
blackouts that halted mines, including those owned by companies
such as  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , for five
days and paralyzed factories in the continent’s biggest economy.  Large users were prepared to cut usage on request for a day
at most, Rossouw said.  “We do it because we know it is in nobody’s interest to
compromise the national system,” he said. “We also do it
because we assume it would be for a short duration only.”  Supply Margin  Eskom forecasts power supply to exceed demand by about
2,000 megawatts today, Andrew Etzinger, a company spokesman,
said by phone. The supply margin narrowed to as little as 400
megawatts on Nov. 19. One megawatt is enough capacity to provide
energy to 2,000 average European homes.  “The situation has certainly steadily improved,” Etzinger
said. “If we ignore the impact of industrial costumers cutting
back, then of course the reserve margin would not be that
good.”  The restrictions on industrial clients remain in force,
Etzinger said.  Spokesmen for  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  and  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  said power-usage reductions have not
yet curtailed production.  Eskom on Nov. 19 asked Gold Fields, whose South Deep
project will be the country’s largest gold mine, to reduce usage
by 25 percent, company spokesman Sven Lunsche said in an e-mailed response to questions.  User Choice  “A two-hour delay in the ore hoisting was the only
significant delay experienced over this period,” Lunsche said.
“South Deep has as yet not been asked for further
curtailments.”  It would be up to each industrial user whether they will
continue heeding Eskom’s instructions, the EIUG’s Rossouw said.  “It’s a difficult situation,” Rossouw said. “Once the
users start normalizing usage it may very well lead to load
shedding.”  South Africa’s Cabinet didn’t discuss the state of power
supply at its fortnightly meeting yesterday, Public Service and
Administration Minister Lindiwe Sisulu told reporters in
 Pretoria  today.  “We are confident that the minister of public enterprises
is seized with the matter,” Sisulu said, referring to Malusi Gigaba, whose department oversees state-owned companies like
Eskom. “We are confident he will deal with it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  