-- South Korea Military to Decide on $7.8 Billion Fighter Jet Order
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-11-21T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/south-korean-military-to-decide-on-7-8-billion-of-fighter-jets.html
South Korean military leaders are
set to announce their priorities for new fighter jets today,
signaling whether  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  will win a multi-billion-dollar arms deal.  The Joint Chiefs of Staff will decide on the amount and
capabilities of fighter jets needed, Defense Ministry spokesman
Kim Min Seok said yesterday. Kim declined to say whether
Lockheed’s F-35, which features advanced radar-evading
technology, is favored after the ministry rejected  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
F-15 Silent Eagle in the 8.3 trillion won ($7.8 billion) tender
in September.  “It’s no secret the JCS wants the F-35,” Kim Jong Dae, a
former defense official who publishes the Defense 21+ security
monthly, said by phone. “They won’t name the fighter, but will
stress they need stealth more than anything.”  A task force of senior defense officials has worked since
the end of the tender to identify fighter-jet capabilities South
Korea needs after the North conducted its third atomic test in
February. Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin said on Nov. 19 at a
parliamentary hearing that the North may now be capable of
creating bombs based on uranium in addition to plutonium.  ’Fifth Generation’  Defense Ministry spokesman Kim said after the tender was
suspended on Sept. 24 that South Korea needs a so-called fifth-generation fighter -- a term Lockheed uses to describe the F-35
-- to deal with the North’s threat.  Buying 60 F-35s could require a further 2.2 trillion won,
Kim Kwang Jin, a lawmaker who belongs to both the defense and
budget committees of parliament, said. The F-35 had initially
been excluded from the bidding due to price along with the
Eurofighter Typhoon of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EADSF)   The U.S.,  Australia ,  Japan  and  Israel  are among nations
that have placed orders for the F-35, the Pentagon’s costliest
weapon system that has been beset by rising costs and technical
troubles, including jittery images in the pilot’s helmet.  “Having more F-35s acquired by foreign allies and partners
is helpful to us in keeping the costs lower for our own
acquisition of the fighters that will eventually be the backbone
of our fleet,” Bruce Lemkin, a former senior U.S. Air Force
official who now heads Lemkin International LLC, a consulting
firm, said by e-mail.  First Strikes  Boeing contends its F-15SE would be more effective as the
jet could hit underground North Korean nuclear targets harder
than the F-35. The company, which has previously supplied F-15s
to South Korea, is open to a mixed purchase, James Armington,
vice president for East Asia-Pacific business development at
Boeing’s defense unit, said in an Oct. 29 interview.  The growing tensions between the Koreas have contributed to
the South revising its defense strategy to include the
possibility of first strikes. South Korean President Park Geun Hye said Oct. 1 her government would hasten development of
stepped-up surveillance and improved offensive arms. The
government has budgeted 1 trillion won next year for the plan.  South Korea risks being left behind with “legacy
equipment” without the F-35, George Standridge, a Lockheed vice
president for aeronautics strategy and business development,
said in an Oct. 31 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  