-- South African Politician Phosa to Get 120 Million Rand RCL Stock
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-11-21T15:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/south-african-politician-phosa-to-get-120-million-rand-rcl-stock.html
The family trust of Mathews Phosa,
the former treasurer general of  South Africa ’s ruling party,
will be issued stock in  RCL Foods Ltd. (RCFL)  worth 120 million rand
($12 million) as part of a takeover of TSB Sugar RSA.  RCL, South Africa’s largest poultry producer, today bid 4
billion rand for TSB, a unit of  Remgro Ltd (REM) , it said in a
statement. As part of that agreement Phosa’s MTM Family Trust
will be issued 6.93 million RCL shares valued at 17.32 rand each
by the company, a total of 120 million rand. The trust will have
eight years to pay for the stock, according to RCL.  Phosa “is a director of TSB Sugar Holdings and has been a
key participant in driving its strategic initiatives,” RCL
said. His family controlled about 3 percent of TSB.  The African National Congress-run government is pushing
South African companies to boost black ownership to help up make
up for discrimination during the apartheid era, which ended in
1994. The policy has been criticized for boosting the wealth of
a limited group of black South Africans rather than benefiting
the majority.  “Black economic empowerment, although a work in progress,
did not make any meaningful or substantial contribution towards
addressing the twin ills of poverty and unemployment,” Phosa
said in a  speech  in October last year. “What it did do is
create an upper class of wealthy black investors who initially
funded their wealth with debt through the acquisition of
shareholdings in successful white or international businesses.”  Phosa is a board member at 10 companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. He has benefited from black empowerment
initiatives at  Value Group Ltd. (VLE)  and  Alliance Mining Corp. (ALM)   RCL closed trade at 18.30 rand in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  