-- Stevens Says RBA ‘Open Minded’ on FX Intervention
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-22T03:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/stevens-says-rba-open-minded-on-fx-intervention-after-inaction.html
Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor
Glenn Stevens said that while the central bank has been
unconvinced about the effectiveness of trying to drive down the
Aussie, he remains “open-minded” on currency intervention.  “In this episode so far, the bank has not been convinced
that large-scale intervention clearly passed the test of
effectiveness versus cost,” Stevens said late yesterday in a
 speech  to a forum of market economists to mark the approaching
30th anniversary of the free float of the exchange rate. “But
that doesn’t mean we will always eschew intervention. In fact we
remain open-minded on the issue.”  The Aussie is on track to match its longest run of weekly
declines in seven years, fueled by Stevens’s remarks. The
governor has sought to exert pressure on it by maintaining an
easing bias, even as evidence mounts that  record-low interest
rates  are stimulating housing.  It’s “an important declaration,” said  Sally Auld , a
Sydney-based interest-rate strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The speech “suggests markets should probably give further
consideration to the set of conditions that might push the RBA
to reach deeper into its toolbox.”  The Aussie traded at 92.10 U.S. cents at 2:24 p.m. in
Sydney, from 92.90 cents before the text of the speech was
released late yesterday. It’s not far from the level it began
trading at 30 years ago, as Stevens noted in the speech.  ‘Right Circumstances’  In testimony in February, Stevens said the exchange rate
would need to be “seriously overvalued” before considering
moves to weaken it. He said yesterday, “our position has long
been, and remains, that foreign exchange intervention can,
judiciously used in the right circumstances, be effective.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia has cut  rates  by 2.25
percentage points in the past two years to 2.5 percent as it
aims to boost industries outside resources that have been
squeezed by the currency’s strength. Policy makers are trying to
extend the nation’s 22-year stretch of economic expansion as a
transition from mining investment to growth led by areas such as
manufacturing is hampered by the currency’s resilience.  The RBA “could be leaning” against the Aussie already,
 Gareth Berry , a Singapore-based currency strategist at UBS AG,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday, citing central bank
foreign exchange transactions for October. They showed the bank
had sold a net A$330 million ($295 million) worth of Australian
dollars, “highly unusual” and the biggest unbalance in over
four years, Berry said.  Currency Leaning  “This latest evidence now suggests that the RBA’s patience
may be running out, and that the central bank may have finally
begun to lean against the wind -- albeit very gently,” Berry
wrote in the note, which was sent before Stevens’s speech.  Australia’s currency is about 10 percent overvalued, the
International Monetary Fund said in a preliminary statement
after reviewing the nation’s economy. While the RBA “has done a
lot” with rate cuts since late 2011, it can’t engineer a
depreciation of the currency, Brian Aitken, IMF mission chief,
Asia and the Pacific Department, said in response to questions
in Sydney on Nov. 20.  “In the end it is not possible to come to a definitive
assessment on the extent of currency misalignment at the moment,
on the basis of standard metrics,” Stevens said in yesterday’s
speech. “Having said that, my judgment is that the Australian
dollar is currently above levels we would expect to see in the
medium term.”  The Aussie climbed almost 50 percent in the four years
ended Dec. 31 as the nation escaped the 2009 global recession
and a China-led mining investment boom spurred growth. That
squeezed manufacturers and tourism operators in Australia’s
southeast, spurring job cuts at companies such as Ford Motor Co.  Powerful Forces  “In evaluating the merits of intervention, the bank has
been cognizant that the current episode is unlike the experience
of the first twenty or twenty-five years of the float,” Stevens
said yesterday. “Some very powerful forces have been at work.”  Those forces include the Federal Reserve’s unprecedented
accommodation to stimulate the U.S. economy. The Aussie dropped
Nov. 20 by the most in three months after minutes of the
American central bank’s latest meeting signaled that $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases could be reduced in the coming months.  ‘Quite Irrational’  Stevens discussed the merits of intervention in testimony
to Australian lawmakers early this year. “You need to be pretty
confident that it’s seriously overvalued or that the market’s
behaving in some quite irrational way before you would launch a
large-scale intervention,” he said Feb. 22. “It’s somewhat too
high, but we’re not talking 50 percent or something like that.”  The governor indicated in yesterday’s speech that the past
might not serve as an accurate guide to future currency levels.  “Notwithstanding that, in my view, the Australian dollar
is probably above its longer run equilibrium at present, it is
far from clear that we can assume that the mean level we saw in
the 1980s to the early 2000s will be the relevant one in the
future,” he said.  The local dollar traded as low as 48 U.S. cents in 2001 and
as high as $1.10 ten years later.  “For most of the floating era, until recently at least, a
currency that seemed prone to weakness seemed more frequently a
problem than the reverse,” Stevens said yesterday.  Elsewhere in the world, Malaysian inflation probably
accelerated to 2.7 percent in October from 2.6 percent in the
month prior, economists predicted before data today.  German business confidence probably advanced in November,
with the Ifo institute’s index, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, rising to 107.7 from 107.4, economists projected.  In the U.S., job openings probably dropped to 3.84 million
in September from 3.88 million a month earlier, a Bloomberg
survey showed before a Labor Department report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  