-- Stocks in Switzerland Drop for Third Day as Swatch Slides
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-21T08:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/stocks-in-switzerland-drop-for-third-day-as-swatch-slides.html
     Nov. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Swiss stocks  fell for a third day
after minutes from the Federal Reserve’s last meeting signaled
the U.S. may reduce stimulus in coming months and a gauge of
Chinese manufacturing dropped more than predicted.  Swatch Group AG and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA each
declined 1 percent after data from the Federation of the Swiss
Watch Industry showed exports to  China  dropped. Credit Suisse
Group AG, the country’s second-biggest bank, lost 0.9 percent.
Carlo Gavazzi Holding AG, a maker of electronic equipment
including sensors, slid 3.4 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  retreated 0.3 percent to 8,254.19 at
9:48 a.m. in Zurich. The measure has still surged 21 percent
this year, heading for the biggest annual rally since 2005, as
central banks around the world pledged to leave interest rates
low for a prolonged period. The Swiss Performance Index also
lost 0.3 percent.  Fed officials signaled they may taper their $85 billion in
monthly bond buying “in coming months” if the economy improves
as anticipated.  Policy makers “generally expected that the data would
prove consistent with the committee’s outlook for ongoing
improvement in labor market conditions and would thus warrant
trimming the pace of purchases in coming months,” according to
the record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 29-30
gathering, released yesterday in  Washington .  In China, a manufacturing gauge declined for the first time
in four months. The preliminary 50.4 reading for the November
 Purchasing Managers’ Index (EC11FLAS)  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics compared with a 50.8 median estimate from
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The final number for
October was 50.9. Levels above 50 indicate expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  