-- Stock Funds Lure Most Cash in 13 Years as Market Rallies
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-11-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/stock-funds-lure-most-cash-in-13-years-as-market-rallies.html
Investors are pouring more money
into stock mutual funds in the U.S. than they have in 13 years,
attracted by a market near record highs and stung by bond losses
that would deepen if  interest rates  keep rising.  Stock funds won $172 billion in the year’s first 10 months,
the largest amount since they got $272 billion in all of 2000,
according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  estimates. Even with most of the
cash going to international funds, domestic equity deposits are
the highest since 2004.  The move marks a reversal from the four years through 2012,
when investors put $1 trillion into fixed income as the
financial crisis drove many to redeem from stocks and miss out
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  almost tripled  from its low.
Rare losses this year in core bond portfolios, coupled with a 25
percent gain in the S&P 500, spurred the switch back to equities
that some professionals call risky performance chasing.  “The timing of retail investors tends to be terrible,”
said Jonathan Pond, an independent financial adviser in Newton,
 Massachusetts , who oversees $200 million. The deposits may be a
contrarian indicator of a market near a top, he said.  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Boston-based money manager Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., told
clients in a letter this week, “We will have the third in the
series of serious market busts since 1999.” BlackRock Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said this month that
stocks may decline as much as 15 percent because of political
risks in China, Japan, France and the U.S.  Equity Allocations  The market run-up has left investors as a group with an
unusually high allocation to equities, at 57 percent, said
Francis Kinniry, a principal at  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
 Vanguard Group  Inc., the world’s largest mutual-fund company.  Equity allocations were higher only twice in the past 20
years, Kinniry said: in the late 1990s leading up to the
technology stock crash of 2000, and prior to the 2007-2009
global financial crisis. He based his calculations on the total
amounts of money in mutual funds and exchange-traded funds
across asset classes at U.S. firms.  People shifting into equities “are jumping from one frying
pan to another,” Eric Cinnamond, manager of the $694 million
Aston/River Road Independent Value Fund, said in an interview
from Louisville,  Kentucky .  Intermediate-term bond funds, a category often used for
primary fixed-income holdings, declined 0.9 percent in 2013
through Nov. 19, according to Chicago-based Morningstar. Fixed-income funds had net redemptions of $11.2 billion in this year’s
first 10 months, the firm estimated.  Statement Shock  Bonds have lost value since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in May raised the possibility of the U.S. central bank
scaling back its asset-buying program. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose to 2.79 percent as of 4:15 p.m. yesterday in
 New York  from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before Bernanke
first mentioned the idea of reducing monetary stimulus. Bond
prices fall as rates rise. Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the biggest manager of bond funds, lost $39 billion to net
withdrawals in the third quarter.  “People are rotating into stocks because they opened up
their statements and saw losses in their bond funds for the
first time in god knows how long,” Michael Mullaney, who
oversees $10.7 billion as Boston-based chief investment officer
for Fiduciary Trust Co., said in a telephone interview.  Investors added $13.6 billion to stock mutual funds in the
week ended Oct. 23, the most since early January, according to
the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade
group. The $9.2 billion they put into funds that buy U.S. stocks
that week was the highest total since weekly records began in
2007.  Bullishness Readings  Sentiment among individual investors grew increasingly
positive as the S&P 500 set new highs. Bullishness in the
 American Association  of Individual Investors’ weekly survey has
averaged 43 percent this quarter, up from 29 percent in August
and a long-term average of 39 percent.  Money managers have noticed the change.  “There is no doubt that people are moving further out the
risk curve and it’s manifesting in the equity side of the
house,” Henry Herrmann, CEO of Overland, Kansas-based  Waddell &
Reed Financial Inc. (WDR) , said on an Oct. 29 conference call for
investors.  Greg Johnson , CEO of  San Mateo , California-based  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN) , told investors on a conference call last month
that he was “encouraged by the improved flows to equity and
hybrid strategies,” which saw their strongest deposits in three
years. Hybrid funds buy both stocks and bonds.  Even so, some firms say the return to stocks is still
modest.  Not 1990s  “It doesn’t feel like the 1990s,” said Douglas Orton,
vice president of Boston-based  MFS Investment Management (SLF) , which
oversaw $398 billion as of Oct. 31. In that decade, mutual-fund
assets soared from less than $1 trillion to almost $7 trillion,
according to the ICI, as rising prices fueled demand from
households and retirement savers.  Orton, whose firm regularly surveys individual investors to
gauge risk appetites, said 38 percent of respondents to the
latest questionnaire, taken in May, called asset growth their
top priority, an increase from 30 percent in October 2012 while
below the 60 percent level from before the financial crisis.  As a percentage of assets in stock funds, this year’s
deposits are on par with those made in 2005 to 2006,
Morningstar’s data show.  Past Reversals  Investors returning to stock funds may not be a bearish
signal, based on historic patterns. In ICI data going back to
1984, annual mutual-fund flows turned positive twice before: in
1989, preceding market gains in eight of the next 10 years, and
in 2003, when the  S&P 500  kept rallying until October 2007.  The money hasn’t flowed to all equity-fund managers. Los
Angeles-based Capital Group Cos.’  American Funds , the third-largest mutual fund firm in the U.S., had redemptions of $9.4
billion from its equity lineup in the first 10 months of 2013,
Morningstar estimates.  Among the beneficiaries, MFS drew $14.5 billion to its
stock funds, Chicago-based Harris Associates LP’s Oakmark Funds
attracted $13.6 billion and Springfield, Massachusetts-based
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.’s Oppenheimer Funds got
$13 billion, Morningstar’s estimates show. Vanguard Group, whose
$2.4 trillion in assets make it the largest mutual-fund company,
won equity deposits of $61 billion.  Technology Crash  In the past, investors returned more quickly to stocks
after market declines. When the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  plunged almost 50
percent from March 2000 to October 2002 following the collapse
of the technology bubble, retail investors shook off the damage
and added $140 billion to stock funds in 2003.  The 38 percent drop for stocks in 2008, the worst year for
the U.S. benchmark since World War II, had a deeper impact on
psychology because the losses were so widespread, said Burton Greenwald, a mutual-fund consultant based in Philadelphia.  “The public was beaten down,” he said in a telephone
interview. “It took a long time for confidence to return.”  The S&P 500 Index has risen from 676.53 in March 2009 to
1,781.37 at yesterday’s close, lifting equity-fund returns.  “A lot of people may regret not getting in earlier,”
Michael Rawson, a Morningstar analyst, said in a telephone
interview.  Bond Losses  For now, the gap between stock and bond returns is
widening. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, a common bond-fund
benchmark, declined 1.4 percent this year through Nov. 19,
headed toward its first loss since 1999.  Dismal fixed-income returns, and the potential for worse,
are on clients’ minds, said Theresa Wan, a financial planner who
advises individual investors in Dumont,  New Jersey .  “People seem to realize that if they want their money to
grow they have to be willing to take more risk,” Wan said in a
telephone interview.  One of her clients, retired doctor Michael Resnick of
Suffern, New York, in July agreed with her suggestion to
increase his allocation to stock funds to 35 percent from 30
percent.  Resnick, 77, said he was wary because he has a low
tolerance for absorbing losses.  “But expectations for bonds are very low, maybe 2 percent
or less,” he said in a telephone interview.  So far, Resnick is comfortable with the change.  “I’m sleeping all right,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  