-- Straits Trading Seeks to Emulate Blackstone for Property Funds
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-11-21T23:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/straits-trading-seeks-to-emulate-blackstone-for-property-funds.html
Straits Trading Co. (STRTR) , an investor in
Singapore’s biggest publicly traded property trust manager, is
planning “Blackstone-like” funds as  Asia ’s appetite for real
estate investments increases.  Straits Trading last month invested in  ARA Asset Management
Ltd. (ARA) , the property trust manager partly owned by billionaire  Li
Ka-shing , and set up a joint venture with ARA’s Chief Executive
Officer, John Lim, to invest in the property funds. The funds,
with an eight-to-10-year time frame, will seek to follow the
model of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest manager of
alternative assets including real estate, according to Chew Gek
Khim, executive chairman of Straits Trading.  “Why can’t we have the equivalent of a Blackstone in Asia?
You have the money, you buy the real estate, you REIT it, you
exit,” she said in a Singapore interview yesterday. “We have
not seen this done in Asia before. There’s a market for it.”  Plans for the funds come as cross-border property
transactions in the Asia-Pacific region climbed 5.5 percent in
the third quarter to $5.2 billion, according to CBRE Research.
Commercial real estate transactions in the region rose 11
percent to $21.6 billion from the June quarter, the property
brokerage said.  REITS have raised $2.7 billion through initial public
offerings in Singapore, about a third of all REIT IPOs in Asia-Pacific this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust, which raised $1.4
billion in its February IPO, was the second-biggest fundraiser
in Asia-Pacific this year after Nomura REIT in  Japan .  More Properties  Blackstone Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  is
stepping up real estate investment in Asia, tapping the market
for $4 billion for Blackstone’s maiden property fund focused on
the region. Blackstone, which has been among the biggest buyers
of property in  Australia  and India, is seeking more investment
in China as rising income and urbanization drive demand.  Under the agreement with ARA, Singapore-based Straits
Trading will buy a 20.1 percent stake in the trust manager for
S$294.4 million ($235 million) in cash and shares from Li’s
Cheung Kong Investment Co. and Lim. The transaction will make
Straits Trading the biggest shareholder of ARA.  The Blackstone-style funds will be created through the new
company formed with Lim, and the venture will have capital
commitment of as much as S$950 million, according to the
announcement last month. Straits Trading, a landlord in
 Singapore ’s financial district, has real estate assets worth
S$830 million, Chew said.  Increased Competition  “The key will be on execution,” Singapore-based Terence Khi at UOB Kay Hian Pte said. “ARA’s focus is shifting away
from launching new REITs towards private funds due to the impact
of tapering and increased competition.”  The creation of new REITs comes as the number of retirees
increase in the region, boosting demand for investments that
offer a stable dividend. The number of people who will exceed 60
years old will reach 463.1 million by 2017, up from 391.3
million last year, according data compiled by Ageing Asia Pte.  “Logically, there should be a demand for REITs in Asia,”
she said. “We have an aging population and REITs are a very
steady form of income.”  The joint venture is still deciding on where the new
properties will be located. Other than Singapore, the funds may
seek investments in properties in  Europe ,  Malaysia  and
Australia, Chew said.  Under the agreement with ARA, Straits Trading’s investment
property portfolio will be managed as a separate account,
according to the statement.  Straits Trading shares have fallen 2.7 percent this year,
compared with the 8 percent slump in the  measure  tracking
property stocks in Singapore.  The company had cash proceeds of S$508.8 million after
accepting  United Engineers Ltd. (UEM) ’s higher offer for its 44.58
percent stake in  WBL Corp. (WBL) , giving Straits Trading more access
to capital for its property funds.  “What we’re trying to do is create a whole ecosystem and a
platform for monetizing real estate,” she said. “The
environment is in our favor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  