-- Sugar Mills Seek State Aid to End Worst Impasse: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-11-22T10:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/sugar-mills-seek-state-aid-to-end-worst-impasse-corporate-india.html
Sugar mills in India, the world’s
largest producer after  Brazil , are betting on government
subsidies to end the biggest industry shutdown in the nation’s
history and stem losses at companies.  Mills in  Uttar Pradesh , the state that is India’s biggest
cane producer, will call off the shutdown only if the government
agrees to pay part of the cane price to growers, M. Srinivaasan,
president of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH)  and  Balrampur Chini
Mills Ltd. (BRCM)  are among those that want the state to bear about 20
percent of the cane costs, he said.  The mills, including India’s biggest producer Bajaj
Hindusthan, which announced an indefinite shutdown in Uttar
Pradesh this week, say the suspension is necessary to prevent
their  losses  from widening. The factories are squeezed by a rule
that allows states to fix cane rates to help about 50 million
farmers, a powerful voting bloc, to earn more as political
parties face national elections by May 2014.  “How can the government force the mills to lose money
unless they give some incentives,” said  Michael McDougall , head
of the Brazil desk at Newedge Group in  New York . “The
government has to do something. It’s not an easy situation.”  Viable Price  The shutdown may delay cane crushing and reduce output from
the 25 million metric-ton Indian crop projected by the Indian
Sugar Mills Association, Director General Abinash Verma said
Nov. 20. Local prices have tumbled to almost a 17-month low,
prompting factories in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, which
account for 62 percent of the nation’s output, to sell below
cost.  It cost mills an average of 36 rupees to produce 1 kilogram
of sugar in Uttar Pradesh, while their average selling price at
the factory gate averaged about 31 rupees in 2012-2013,
according to ISMA.  Producers can pay a maximum of 225 rupees ($3.60) per 100
kilograms (220 pounds) of cane, compared with the state-set
price of 280 rupees in Uttar Pradesh, Srinivaasan said.  The state government should pay the difference to allow
companies to start processing, he said. Bajaj,  Dhampur Sugar
Mills Ltd. (DSM)  and  Triveni Engineering & Industries Ltd. (TRE)  will
suspend crushing until a viable cane price is fixed, the
companies said in separate exchange filings this week.  “With this kind of adverse pricing, no mill can start and
even if they start, they don’t have the money to pay,”
Srinivaasan said. “Most countries have market intervention
programs. Some kind of system needs to be put in place for the
long run.”  Tax Breaks?  Mills in Uttar Pradesh owed farmers as much as 24 billion
rupees for cane supplied last season and that figure may jump to
as much as 130 billion rupees if they were to be paid at the
280-rupee rate in 2013-2014, Verma said.  The government will not give any subsidy to mills, though
it’s open to considering requests for tax concessions, Rahul
Bhatnagar, principal secretary for sugar in the Uttar Pradesh
state government, said yesterday.  Bajaj reported a record loss in the three months to Sept.
30, while Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd., the second-largest sugar
producer, posted its second straight quarterly loss. Bajaj,
which slumped 42 percent in Mumbai trading this year, climbed 1
percent to 14.70 rupees today. Balrampur fell 0.9 percent to
45.95 rupees, extending losses this year to 6.9 percent. The
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  has advanced 4.1 percent this year.  Frozen Finance  “No investor would like to touch sugar shares,” said U.R. Bhat, Mumbai-based managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors
India Pvt., a unit of U.K.-based Dalton Strategic Partnership
LLP that has about $2 billion in assets globally. “Finance is
frozen, and banks won’t lend them more. Unless they crush more
they cannot make profit.”  India should consider a flexible ethanol blending program
to reduce the volatility in sweetener prices and link cane
prices to market rates of sugar, mills association’s Srinivaasan
said. The government could buy sugar from the mills to absorb
the surplus that’s damped prices, he said.  Inventories in  India  surged to a five-year high of 8.85
million tons at the start of this season, enough to meet demand
for four months, according to the mills’ association. The
reserve may expand to 10 million tons by the close of the season
on Sept. 30, 2014 if the nation fails to export any sugar, it
estimates.  Delayed crushing may cut Indian crop, reducing a global
glut and potentially boosting futures traded in New York that
have plunged 52 percent from the 30-year high reached in
February 2011.  “A subsidy will be a temporary phenomena, and it will be
like a first aid,” Chanchal Biswas, an analyst with Dalmia
Securities Pvt., said by phone from Kolkata. “For a longer term
solution, the cane price should be linked with the sugar price.
Without this, the losses will continue and the survival of the
sugar companies will be a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  