-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed After Fed Minutes
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-11-21T16:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-k-stocks-drop-on-fed-stimulus-cut-concern-china-data.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed as
minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting signaled policy
makers may slow the pace of bond purchases in coming months and
as Chinese manufacturing expanded slower than forecast.  Vodafone Group Plc rose after Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao  said the company is open to potential bidders.
 Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  gained 3.8 percent after posting better-than-forecast profit and raising its dividend.  British American
Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  lost at least 2
percent as American peer  Philip Morris  International Inc.
forecast 2014 profit growth below its long-term target.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 0.25 point, less than 0.1 percent,
to 6,681.33 at the close in London. The benchmark gauge has
dropped 0.2 percent this week, heading for a third week of
losses. It has climbed 13 percent this year as central banks
maintained stimulus measures to support the global economy. The
broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  and Ireland’s ISEQ Index were also
little changed today.  “The minutes from the FOMC were more hawkish than people
had imagined they would be,” Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool,  England , said by phone.
“Markets are doing relatively well, considering the negative
tone of the FOMC. Traditionally, markets go up going into
Christmas. Unless we get tapering in December to upset the apple
cart, markets may carry on going up.”  In the U.S., minutes from the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s Oct. 29-30 meeting released late yesterday showed
policy makers may slow the pace of the $85 billion monthly asset
purchases if the economy improves as anticipated. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey calls for the Fed
to pare stimulus to $70 billion at the March 18-19 meeting.  FOMC Minutes  FOMC members “generally expected that the data would prove
consistent with the Committee’s outlook for ongoing improvement
in labor market conditions and would thus warrant trimming the
pace of purchases in coming months,” according to the minutes.  In  China , the preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
 index  of manufacturing for November was 50.4, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. That missed the 50.8 median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and compares with a
final reading of 50.9 for October. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  Vodafone, which has a 6.5 percent weighting on the FTSE
100, gained 1.2 percent to 229.95 pence as CEO Colao said
Europe’s biggest wireless carrier is open to potential buyers.
AT&T Inc. executives are discussing internally a possible
acquisition of Vodafone, people familiar with the matter told
 Bloomberg News  this month.  “We have a strategy and we are putting a lot of money into
it, but if somebody comes and says, ‘You have really beautiful
assets,’ then I will agree,” Colao said yesterday at an
investor conference in Barcelona.  More Bullish  Johnson Matthey climbed 3.8 percent to 3,210 pence, the
highest price since at least 1989, after reporting first-half
pretax profit of 212.9 million pounds, exceeding the 206.7
million-pound prediction of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
producer of a third of the world’s auto-catalysts increased its
half-year dividend to 17 pence per share, from 15.5 pence a year
earlier.  “There are signs of the European car market bottoming
out,” Finance Director Robert Macleod said. “It’s hard not to
be more bullish than we have for many, many years because the
car market has been dropping like a stone for the last four or
five years.”  AstraZeneca Gains  AstraZeneca Plc advanced 2.8 percent to 3,400.5 pence after
Citigroup Inc. said the drugmaker may focus on mergers and
acquisitions in 2014. A purchase of Actelion Ltd. and a
restructuring of its joint venture with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
could increase earnings per share by as much as 24 percent
without a risk to dividend, analysts led by  Andrew Baum  wrote in
a note.  BAT declined 2.4 percent to 3,281 pence and Imperial fell
2.6 percent to 2,367 pence. Philip Morris, the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, said yesterday its per-share
profit excluding currency swings will rise 6 percent to 8
percent in 2014, lower than its long-term target of 10 percent
to 12 percent. The forecast suggests the cost of competing may
increase for BAT and Imperial, Citigroup wrote in a note.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slipped 2.9 percent to 923 pence and
Fresnillo Plc lost 4.5 percent to 863.5 pence. A gauge of mining
companies on the FTSE 350 Index declined 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  