-- U.K. Defense Specialist Qinetiq Tests Water for Sale of U.S. Arm
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-21T10:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-k-defense-specialist-qinetiq-tests-water-for-sale-of-u-s-arm.html
Qinetiq Group Plc (QQ/) , the former U.K.
defense-research laboratory, said it’s evaluating the level of
demand for a potential sale of its U.S. services unit.  The McLean, Virginia-based business, which provides
services including ground support, lab operations and flight
systems engineering at the Kennedy Space Center, is being
subjected to market testing as part of a viability review.  “What we want to make sure is that we understand what the
potential maximum value of that business is,” Leo Quinn,
London-based Qinetiq’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview. “The strategic review is considering what
is going on in the market. We have no preconceived outcomes.”  The U.S. government-services sector has been in a state of
flux as spending is cut, with underlying operating profit at the
Qinetiq unit down 30 percent to 9.4 million pounds ($15 million)
in the fiscal first half, according to a statement today.  Shares of Qinetiq, which said net income in the six months
to Sept. 30 was little changed at 62.1 million pounds, advanced
as much as 9 percent and were trading 6.8 percent higher at 210
pence as of 9:58 a.m. in  London . The stock has added 14 percent
this year for a market value of 1.4 billion pounds.  The business review is due to be completed this fiscal year
and may or may not lead to a transaction, Quinn said, adding
that the U.S. unit’s profitable Cyveillance business, which
alerts clients to cyber attacks, is not part of the appraisal.  U.K. defense-services company  Babcock International Group
Plc (BAB)  sold U.S. operations last year after a similar study.  U.S. markets are also becoming more competitive, impacting
margins and delaying contract awards, Quinn said. The company is
seeking growth from the Middle East, where he said there’s a
good order flow despite booking delays,  Canada  and  Australia .  Qinetiq, whose main activities include evaluation of
military aircraft and development of unmanned drones, would
retain a U.S. reach even if it sold the services division after
splitting off defense and intelligence operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  