-- U.K. Officials Lobbied to Blame Ministers for Welfare Mistakes
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-11-21T10:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-k-officials-lobbied-to-blame-ministers-for-welfare-mistakes.html
U.K. ministers and their politically
neutral officials both lobbied a parliamentary committee to
shift the blame to each other for mistakes on a flagship welfare
policy, according to the panel’s chairwoman.  A Nov. 7  Public Accounts Committee report  on the Department
for Work & Pensions’ Universal Credit program described “a
shocking absence of financial and other internal controls” and
“extraordinarily poor” management. Its chairwoman,  Margaret Hodge , told students Nov. 11 that officials tried to blame
ministers including Work & Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith,
while ministers put the blame on officials, including the
department’s most senior civil servant,  Robert Devereux .  “I can’t tell you how much inappropriate talking there was
to me and other members of the committee, by both ministers and
civil servants, either to get me to blame the permanent
secretary in the DWP and therefore transfer blame away from Iain
Duncan Smith or to put the blame on Mr. Devereux and to ensure
ministers escaped blame,” Hodge said at the Birkbeck College,
London seminar. Her remarks, which recorded and  published
online , were confirmed by a spokesman for the committee.  Hodge’s comments expose tensions within the DWP over one of
the government’s highest-profile projects. They also suggest a
breakdown in trust between ministers and officials. U.K.
ministers are members of Parliament, and almost all government
staff are part of the permanent civil service, which is supposed
to serve whoever is in power without bias.  ‘Publicly Backed’  Duncan Smith “has publicly backed the permanent secretary
throughout this process,” the DWP said in an e-mailed
statement, using Devereux’s official title. “He never asked for
anyone to be named in the report.”  Under the British system, ministers are in theory
accountable for the actions of civil servants, even if they’re
unaware of them. Hodge cited the maneuvering over the Universal
Credit report as evidence for her view that this system is
“complete nonsense.”  She also raised doubts about the reliability of Devereux’s
testimony to her committee, saying she still didn’t know what
ministers or civil servants had known and when. “I’d much
rather Devereux had given us an honest discussion about how on
earth these ridiculous decisions were taken,” she told the
students.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  