-- U.K. Budget Deficit Narrows as Sales Taxes, Stamp Duty Increase
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-11-21T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-as-sales-taxes-stamp-duty-increase.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  narrowed in
October from a year earlier as accelerating economic growth
boosted sales taxes and stamp duty on property purchases.  Net borrowing excluding temporary support for banks was 8.1
billion pounds ($13 billion) compared with 8.2 billion pounds a
year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London .
Tax receipts increased 3.2 percent, with value-added tax rising
6.4 percent and stamp duty soaring 46 percent. Spending
increased 1.2 percent.  The figures pave the way for Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  to cut his borrowing projections next month, with
a resurgent economy putting Britain on course for its smallest
 budget deficit  in five years. That may allow the Treasury to
scale back the amount of gilts it needs to sell to finance its
spending.  The deficit in October compared with median forecast of 21
economists in a Bloomberg News survey for a figure of 7.5
billion pounds. The gifting of Royal Mail Plc shares to eligible
employees last month added 331 million pounds to net borrowing,
meaning underlying borrowing was about 7.8 billion pounds.  In the first seven months of the fiscal year, the deficit
was 64.8 billion pounds compared with 70.6 billion pounds in the
same period a year ago.  If the momentum is kept up, the 2013-14 shortfall could
narrow to about 106 billion pounds, the least since 2008-09 and
down from 115 billion pounds a year earlier. In March, the 
Office for Budget Responsibility  predicted a deficit of 120
billion pounds, or 7.5 percent of gross domestic product.  Osborne will announce new forecasts from the OBR in his
Autumn Statement on Dec. 5.  Company Taxes  The public finances typically get a boost in October, when
onshore companies and oil and gas firms pay installments of tax
on their profits. Corporation-tax receipts fell 8.2 percent last
month from a year earlier, the ONS said.  The sale of 2 billion pounds of  Royal Mail Plc (RMG)  shares by
the government last month did not count toward net borrowing,
though it reduced the cash measure of the deficit that
determines how much debt the government needs to sell in
financial markets. In October, the Treasury also received 4.1
billion pounds of coupon income from the Bank of England’s gilt
holdings under its asset-purchase program.  Central government, which excludes state-owned banks,
posted a cash surplus of 7.7 billion pounds last month, the
largest for an October since 2006. The deficit in the year to
date fell to 32 billion pounds from 54.8 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  