-- U.S. Bancorp CEO Cites ‘Dangerous’ Retroactive Deal Risks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-11-22T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-s-bancorp-ceo-cites-dangerous-retroactive-deal-risks.html
Banks should avoid large
acquisitions “until the dust settles” from deals done during
the financial crisis, U.S. Bancorp Chief Executive Officer
Richard Davis said, citing costs that can come years later.  “It’s a very dangerous thing to do,” Davis said yesterday
in an industry-sponsored panel in  New York . “You better do it
with the understanding that you might be surprised.”  The six biggest U.S. banks have been pummeled with
lawsuits, regulatory claims and fines of more than $100 billion
since the credit crisis. Much of the sum was tied to actions of
firms bought five years ago or more, and Davis said bankers
should be wary of consequences from future takeovers.  “You have to take a limited view of what the risk is
worth,” said Davis, 55. “It’s a buyer-beware environment for
sure.” Deals done to acquire scale or efficiency should be
shunned, he said. “Forget it; you better do it for a real
 revenue expectation ,” Davis said.  While U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s largest regional lender,
is not “out of the market” for some deals, the firm will only
consider opportunities where “we can really understand what
we’re getting,” Davis said. The Minneapolis-based lender agreed
this week to buy Quintillion Ltd., a Dublin-based hedge-fund
administrator, to expand its trust business and increase its
presence in  Europe .  BofA’s Lesson  Brian Moynihan, CEO of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said in
response to Davis’s comments that his firm is an example of a
company that has “learned a lot” about what can be
“unpredictable” about an acquisition. Moynihan said the bank
isn’t planning any more takeovers.  Under Moynihan’s predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company bought mortgage lender
Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co., the
brokerage and investment bank, as the financial crisis unfolded
in 2008. The lawsuits and settlements that followed have cost
the bank more than $50 billion, and Lewis’s 2006 takeover of
credit-card issuer MBNA Corp. ultimately saddled the bank in
2011 with a $20.3 billion writedown as new regulations made the
business less valuable.  Earlier this week, JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $13
billion to settle government probes stemming in part from faulty
home loans and mortgage-backed bonds sold by Bear Stearns Cos.
and Washington Mutual Inc.’s banking unit. JPMorgan, now the
biggest U.S. bank, bought both of them in 2008 as they collapsed
amid the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  