-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Fall for First Time in Three Weeks
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-11-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-s-mortgage-rates-fall-for-first-time-in-three-weeks.html
U.S. mortgage rates fell for the
first time in three weeks as investors speculated that the
Federal Reserve will hold off on tapering bond  purchases (ETSLTOTL)  that
are bolstering the economy.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.22 percent from an eight-week high of 4.35 percent, Freddie
Mac said in a statement today. The average 15-year rate slipped
to 3.27 percent from 3.35 percent.  Mortgage rates have retreated from a two-year high in
August as  bond investors  bet that the Fed will press on with
asset purchases aimed at keeping down borrowing costs. Janet Yellen, nominated to be the central bank’s next chairman,
affirmed her support for the stimulus efforts at her Nov. 14
confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee.  “Because the communication strategy of the Fed has been
somewhat garbled, it’s only natural for investors in the bond
market to look at what the Fed is saying for clues,” Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC
in New York, said in an interview.  Policy makers said they might reduce their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases “in coming months” as the economy
improves, according to minutes of the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Oct. 29-30 meeting, released yesterday.  The jump in borrowing costs from near-record lows in May
has slowed the housing recovery by restraining buyer demand.
Purchases of previously owned U.S. homes fell in October to the
lowest level since June, the National Association of Realtors
said yesterday. The  median price  increased 12.8 percent from a
year earlier, reflecting a limited  supply .  An index of purchase-loan  applications  rose 5.8 percent
last week to the highest level since September, the Mortgage
Bankers Association reported yesterday. The gauge is down about
13 percent from early May. The group’s  refinancing  measure fell
to a two-month low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  