-- U.S. Should Watch Australia Dark Pool Laws, Schapiro Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-11-21T07:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-s-should-watch-australia-dark-pool-laws-schapiro-says.html
U.S. regulators seeking to increase
the efficiency of anonymous trading platforms should monitor the
progress of counterparts in  Australia  and Canada, the former
chairman of the  Securities and Exchange Commission  said.  “The Australians are moving ahead on issues around dark
pools, as well as the Canadians,”  Mary Schapiro , who is now a
managing director at consulting firm Promontory Financial Group
LLC, said in an interview in Hong Kong today. “It’s really
important for the U.S. to look at what’s happening in those
markets.”  Almost 40 percent of U.S. stock trading takes place
privately on alternative venues such as dark pools, venues that
don’t display prices until after trades take place. The rise of
alternative platforms has spurred requests from public exchanges
to curb the trading and new disclosure requirements from the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Dark equity trading has slumped in Australia after the
nation implemented a rule in May requiring all trading done in
dark pools to beat the best price offered by the main exchange.
Anonymous venues accounted for 23 percent of total trading last
week, down from 34 percent in the last week of April, according
to  data  from ASX Ltd., the country’s main exchange operator.  U.S. exchanges want the SEC to pass a similar rule, which
would require brokers to route an order to an exchange unless
they can improve on the best public quote by a defined amount.
Since  Canada  imposed such a rule last year, quoted spreads and
volatility have fallen, the chief executive officers of NYSE
Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. told current SEC Chairman
Mary Jo White on May 1.  Less Complex  Asia ’s less complex market structures mean regulators have
been better able to regulate the growth of electronic trading
and alternative venues during their nascent stages. While U.S.
stock trading is spread across more than 50 venues, Japan and
Australia are the only Asia-Pacific developed markets that allow
public platforms to compete with the main exchanges.  Ashley Alder, chief executive officer of the Hong Kong
Securities and Futures Commission, said in August that the city
had a “last-mover advantage” when it came to writing
regulations around dark pools and high-frequency trading, which
both account for less than 2 percent of equities trading in the
jurisdiction.  “There’s an opportunity to learn from the U.S. experience
and some of the issues we’ve had,” Schapiro said. “It’s
resulted in a fair amount of fragmentation, a significant amount
of volume being executed in dark pools without as much
transparency as one would hope and as much contribution to price
discovery as one would hope.”  Corporate Governance  Schapiro helmed the SEC from 2009 to 2012, taking over
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos.
collapsed. She was given the task of implementing much of the
sweeping financial reform mandated by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act.  Having previously also served as chairman of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and chief executive officer of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Schapiro joined
Washington-based Promontory in April as a managing director
advising clients on risk management and  corporate governance .  Electronic trading and exchange technology have drawn
regulators’ focus after market disruptions including a May 2010
incident that saw the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fall almost
1,000 points in minutes before rebounding.  China  had its own
version when faulty trading software used by Everbright
Securities Co.’s proprietary-trading desk sent unintended buy
orders that caused the Shanghai Composite Index to swing more
than 6 percent on Aug. 16.  Market Disruptions  “Having data about what the impact is of dark pool
trading, or algorithmic trading or high frequency trading on the
quality of our markets is really critical,” Schapiro said.
“Armed with that kind of data, it would become much more clear
what, if any, steps regulators need to take to take with respect
to the market structure.”  The SEC’s White told U.S. exchanges on Sept. 12 to
collaborate on making markets more resilient to prevent further
disruptions such as the one caused by  Nasdaq  and gave the
bourses 60 days to respond. The operators said Nov. 13 that
they’ve identified potential improvements in five areas,
including the stock market’s main public data feeds.  System Malfunctions  Nasdaq’s data system failed on Aug. 22, forcing it to halt
transactions in all of its shares for about three hours. That
came two days after a glitch at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
computer flooded options markets with orders.  Knight Capital Group Inc., based in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , bombarded exchanges with mistaken orders on Aug. 1,
2012. The firm, renamed KCG after being purchased by Getco LLC,
almost went bankrupt following the software malfunction that
caused more than $450 million in trading losses.  Regulators can “require more rigorous testing of
algorithms, better understanding of what can go wrong and what’s
the impact of things that go wrong,” Schapiro said. “Whether
it’s the actual trading mechanisms at the exchanges or important
infrastructure like the consolidated tape, all of these things
have to be tested and backed up and have seamless  fail-over to
alternative systems, so there is a lot of work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  