-- U.S. Drone Kills Six in Pakistan as Khan Vows to Thwart NATO
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-11-21T10:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-s-drone-kills-six-in-pakistan-as-khan-vows-to-thwart-nato.html
A U.S. drone strike killed six
people in a Pakistani province where local leaders opposing such
attacks are threatening to block a key supply route for American
forces in  Afghanistan .  The drone fired two to three missiles at an Islamic
seminary in the Tal area of Hangu district in northwestern
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province near Afghanistan, Deputy
Commissioner Ahmed Jan said by telephone. Jan, who also gave the
death toll, said all those killed were Afghans.  U.S. drones have usually targeted the lawless tribal belt
closer to the Afghan border, making the latest attack unusual.
The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, which controls the province,
plans to block on Nov. 23 a key supply route for foreign troops
in Afghanistan after a drone strike killed the leader of the
Pakistani Taliban earlier this month, disrupting peace talks.  “We will announce at the protest on Saturday that we will
permanently block supply route until they stop drone attacks,”
 Imran Khan , the party’s leader and a former cricketer, said
today in a televised press conference. “If it’s in our hand we
will block it today. Our powers are that we can tell them that
NATO supply can’t pass through our province.”  The government “strongly condemns” today’s drone strike
as a violation of Pakistan’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity, the  foreign ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
from Islamabad. “There is an across the board consensus in
Pakistan that these drone strikes must end.”  ‘More Imperative’  The latest attack has made this weekend’s protest “even
more imperative,” said Shireen Mazari, central information
secretary of PTI, which emerged as the third-largest political
party in this year’s general elections won by the party of Prime
Minister  Nawaz Sharif .  “The attack in Hangu means that the Americans have
declared war against all of Pakistan,” Mazari said. “We want
to ask whether our government and military were sleeping while
Pakistan was attacked or are they complicit in these attacks?”  There are two supply routes in Pakistan used for trucking
non-lethal supplies for the American-led forces in Afghanistan.
The second route runs through the southwestern province of
Baluchistan.  Any prolonged disruption of the key route in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province could inhibit the U.S.’s ability to remove
troops, weapons and equipment as part of the plan to withdraw
most of its forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  ‘Largely Symbolic’  “This protest will be largely symbolic and likely not last
more than one day,” the ISAF joint command said in an e-mailed
response today. “It should have minimal to no impact on ISAF’s
supply mission.”  The U.S. has faced difficulties in transporting military
equipment into and out of Afghanistan in the last two years. In
November 2011,  Pakistan  shut down the two supply routes for
seven months after an American helicopter attack accidentally
killed 24 Pakistani soldiers.  The latest drone strike risks further inflaming anti-U.S.
public sentiment in Pakistan, where such attacks are seen as a
violation of the country’s sovereignty and have strained ties
between the government and the Obama administration.  After a Nov. 1 drone attack that killed Hakimullah Mehsud,
the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, the Pakistan government
said it would review “every aspect” of cooperation with the
Obama administration.  While the U.S. trumpeted the death of Mehsud, indicted in
the U.S. three years ago for his alleged role in a suicide
bombing that killed seven CIA employees in Afghanistan in 2009,
Pakistan said it scuttled efforts to bring militants to the
negotiating table to end more than a decade of violence.  The U.S. conveyed to Pakistan after Mehsud’s death that
there would be no drone attacks on Taliban militants while they
were talking to the Pakistan government, Sartaj Aziz, Sharif’s
adviser on security and foreign affairs, was quoted as telling a
parliamentary panel on Wednesday,  the News reported today.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  