-- U.S.-Afghan Officials Extend Dispute on Signing Accord
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-11-22T18:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/u-s-wants-afghan-accord-this-year-to-plan-troop-presence.html
The U.S. and Afghanistan extended
their dispute over the deadline for concluding a security pact
that would pave the way for a continued American military
presence after 2014.  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman.  Jay Carney , said today
that the U.S. needs the agreement “done by the end of the
year.” He said the text now being weighed by a council of
tribal elders in Kabul was the “final offer” on the agreement
for some U.S. forces to remain after combat troops depart at the
end of next year.  Aimal Faizi, the spokesman for Afghan President  Hamid
Karzai , repeated today Karzai’s comment to the council, known as
a loya jirga, that the accord shouldn’t be signed until after
his country’s presidential election in April.  “No U.S. deadline” is acceptable, Faizi said in an
interview. Afghanistan needs “peace, guaranteed security and
good elections,” and all are “essentials” in signing the
accord, he said.  The loya jirga, a gathering of more than 2,500 Afghan
tribal elders, political leaders and intellectuals, is due to
make its recommendation on Nov. 24.  After that, the agreement would have to be signed by both
countries before it’s ratified by Afghanistan’s parliament and
signed into law by Karzai, according to two U.S. officials who
briefed reporters yesterday on condition of not being identified
discussing the process.  While the U.S. doesn’t want to set a hard deadline, the
officials said, waiting several months wouldn’t leave enough
time for military planning.  ‘Timely Conclusion’  “We need a timely conclusion of this in order to plan for
any potential post-2014 presence -- which means signing it by
the end of the year,”  Jen Psaki , a State Department
spokeswoman, told reporters yesterday in Washington.  The agreement would let some U.S. forces stay to train
Afghan soldiers and conduct counterterrorism operations. At
stake is billions of dollars in annual aid money.  Within weeks of the bilateral agreement being concluded,
Obama would decide how many troops to keep in Afghanistan beyond
2014, according to one of the U.S. officials. The American
administration foresees completing the mission in Afghanistan
well before the security accord expires in 2024, the official
said.  As many as 15,000 troops from the U.S.,  Turkey , the  United
Arab Emirates  and other countries would remain in Afghanistan,
Karzai said at the opening of the loya jirga.  Karzai’s Praise  The deal will “help strengthen our Afghan forces, bolster
our economy and boost stability,” Karzai said. “Pulling out
international forces after 2014 without an agreement signed with
the U.S. is not beneficial for us.”  Tribal elders “may ask for some wordsmithing, but I
imagine the draft is largely final, absent an external shock,”
Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow and  Afghanistan  specialist at
the Center for American Progress, said in an e-mail. “At this
point, I don’t believe the loya jirga will add further demands
or conditions for the U.S. government.”  The U.S. now has 48,000 troops in the country, and its
allies an additional 27,000, according to the U.S. Defense
Department. Since the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, the U.S. has
lost 2,155 troops in the war and an additional 19,475 have been
wounded in action, according to Pentagon data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Obama’s Letter  “America’s role in Afghanistan will be one of a supporting
partner,” Obama wrote in a Nov. 20 letter to Karzai. The number
of U.S. forces would be “much reduced” after 2014, Obama
wrote, without citing a figure.  Talks about a long-term U.S. troop presence began after
Karzai and Obama signed an accord in May 2012 that committed the
U.S. to supporting and training the Afghan military. Sticking
points have included U.S. insistence on immunity for its troops
from prosecution under local laws and Afghan demands for a
guarantee that the U.S. would defend it against external
threats, mostly from militants based in neighboring  Pakistan .  Afghanistan has conceded the U.S. right to prosecute its
troops under American law, according to the text of the
agreement, which listed 26 articles that cover issues from
prosecution to registration of vehicles.  The agreement says the U.S. will conduct counterterrorism
operations against al-Qaeda and its affiliates in which Afghan
security forces will take the lead. It promised  “full respect
for Afghan sovereignty and full regard for the safety and
security of the Afghan people, including in their homes.”  Obama said in the letter that U.S. troops will conduct
raids on Afghan homes only “under extraordinary circumstances
involving urgent risk to life and limb of U.S. nationals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  