-- UBP Losing Fondness for Gold Sees Bull Market for Stocks
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-11-21T09:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ubp-losing-fondness-for-gold-sees-bull-market-for-stocks.html
Union Bancaire Privee, the Swiss
private bank and asset manager founded by Edgar de Picciotto in
1969, said it’s investing more in developed-country equity
markets, which will continue to rally next year.  Companies in  Europe  are expected to boost earnings and buy
back shares as the continent’s economy recovers from the
sovereign debt crisis, boosting investor confidence, according
to Jean-Sylvain Perrig, who rejoined UBP this month as head of
 asset allocation  and chief investment officer for private
banking, after two years working at Banque Privee Edmond de
Rothschild SA in Geneva.  “Equities should be the best-performing asset class in the
healing process,” Perrig, 48, said in an interview at the
bank’s offices on Geneva’s priciest shopping street, Rue du
Rhone. “We are in the midst of a great  bull market .”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has more than doubled since the
benchmark dropped to 157.97 in March 2009. The measure exceeded
400 in June 2007 and is at about 320 today. European equities
will continue to advance next year along with an improving
outlook for the economy and expectations for stable inflation,
said Perrig, adding that emerging markets will face slower
growth and higher inflation.  UBP, which described gold as “the ultimate protection”
against  currency devaluation  and inflation, and printed images
of the Temple of the Golden Pavilion in Kyoto,  Japan  built in
1397 and the gold-painted  Acido Dorado  house near  Los Angeles  in
its last  annual report  in April, is buying stocks after the
precious metal slumped about 25 percent this year.  ‘A Bonanza’  Even with rising ratios of share prices to earnings, UBP
expects money to continue flowing into developed-country equity
markets from  emerging markets  and from sales of debt securities.  “Even if a small amount of money comes out of developed
bond markets, you will have a bonanza” in equities, he said.  The proportion of stocks in a UBP balanced discretionary
mandate portfolio has increased to about 40 percent. Debt
accounts for 40 percent, with gold at 5 percent versus more than
14 percent at the end of 2011. Clients who choose a
discretionary mandate, which gives the bank responsibility for
investment decisions, can also expect about 10 percent to be
allocated to hedge-fund managers and 5 percent to cash.  UBP Acquisitions  UBP, which boosted total client assets under management to
81.1 billion Swiss francs ($88 billion) from 80 billion francs
in the first half of the year, is recovering through
acquisitions after assets slumped 55 percent in the four years
through 2011. The bank acquired the Swiss unit of ABN Amro Bank
NV in that year and integrated the international private banking
business of British lender  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  earlier this
year. UBP also bought Nexar Capital Group, an alternative
investment manager, in 2012.  UBP’s equity research analysts’ stock recommendations have
outperformed the MSCI AC World Index’s total return every year
from 2005, according to the bank.  For 2014, UBP is advising clients to own companies that
embrace the latest trends in technology, including additive
manufacturing, cloud computing and social networks. Mobile
payments, e-commerce and robotics businesses are also
recommended, Perrig said.  As of last month some clients of UBP’s discretionary
mandate service can invest in a basket of 39 companies in those
industries, which the bank declined to name for this article.
Additive manufacturing, or 3D printing, is used in medical
technology, car racing and aerospace industries and “will grow
tremendously,” Perrig said. “It’s still in its infancy.”  Facebook, Twitter  Social-networking companies include  Facebook Inc. (FB) , LinkedIn
Corp. and Twitter Inc. They have the advantage of accumulating
new clients quickly and cheaply, said Perrig. With equity
markets rallying, investments in gold are no more than an
“insurance” policy against systemic economic risks and a means
to diversify portfolios from other asset classes, he said.  UBP, once the world’s largest investor in  hedge funds , sees
event-driven alternative investment strategies prospering next
year with more corporate acquisitions and share buybacks. For
debt, the bank favors short-term investments in bonds, including
high-yield corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  