-- UBS Targets African Wealthy as Credit Suisse Takes Step Back
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-11-22T14:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ubs-targets-african-wealthy-after-credit-suisse-takes-step-back.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the world’s biggest wealth
manager, is targeting millionaire clients in oil-rich Nigeria
and  Angola  as Swiss rival  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  withdraws from
some African markets.  “The amount of people on the continent that fall within
our wealth-management bracket is increasing every day,” Sean
Bennett, the Johannesburg-based managing director of UBS in sub-Saharan  Africa , said in a Nov. 20 interview. “There’s still
tons of opportunities still relatively untapped.”  UBS is vying with Swiss banks from Julius Baer Group Ltd.
to Pictet & Cie. for emerging market millionaires as a global
crackdown on  tax evasion  forces European and American clients to
withdraw funds. While Bennett sees potential to woo super-rich
customers in Ghana,  Kenya ,  Ethiopia ,  Uganda  and Botswana, Credit
Suisse is planning to withdraw from 83 markets, including Angola
and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, to cut costs.  “The UBS strategy has been that you win market share by
being onshore and for a long time,” said Sebastian Dovey,
managing partner at London-based research company Scorpio
Partnership. “Credit Suisse is a smaller operation than UBS and
is looking to pick its markets.”  UBS Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  is prioritizing
boosting profit at the Zurich-based bank’s wealth-management
unit as he cuts 10,000 jobs and shrinks the investment bank by
exiting most debt trading. UBS, which tops Scorpio’s 2012
ranking of wealth managers with double the $855 billion of
assets of fifth-placed Credit Suisse, wants that business to
contribute half of pretax profit by 2015.  African Potential  Africa, where Nigeria’s Aliko Dangote ranks 35th on a
global rich list, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index,
may provide part of the answer. The industries contributing most
to wealth creation on the continent include telecommunications,
consumer, agriculture and resources, said Bennett, 44, who
rejoined UBS from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in 2011.  The number of Africans with at least $1 million of
investable assets climbed 9.9 percent to 140,000 in 2012,
according to a  report  published on June 18 by  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and
Royal Bank of  Canada . That was the fastest rate of increase
outside North America as the economies of countries such as
Nigeria and Ghana grew at more than 5 percent last year.  “There are a lot of countries that have become
increasingly interesting investment opportunities,” said
Bennett, who is targeting Africans with $3 million of investable
assets. “They’ve all got challenges, but they’re all on the
right trajectory.”  Net Inflows  UBS said last month that net inflows from wealthy clients
in its emerging markets division, which includes Russia, eastern
Europe, the  Middle East , Africa and India, slowed in the third
quarter. Net new money from those regions was 600 million francs
($660 million) in the period compared with 2.4 billion francs a
year earlier, the bank said.  UBS fell 0.3 percent to 16.54 Swiss francs as of 3:27 p.m.
in Zurich trading, paring this year’s gain to 16 percent. Credit
Suisse rose 0.8 percent to 26.32 francs, taking the stock’s
advance over the same period to 18 percent.  Credit Suisse, which is scaling back its securities
division at a slower pace than UBS, is ending relationships with
offshore private banking clients from 83 countries with total
assets under management of about 3 billion Swiss francs, Chief
Financial Officer  David Mathers  said last month. The bank didn’t
disclose specific countries, which have an average of 40 million
francs to 45 million francs of assets.  Compliance Costs  “Given the height and complexity -- and compliance costs
associated with the numerous regulatory regimes in each country
-- we have reassessed the viability of doing business in these
small markets and believe these resources will be better
allocated to other growth areas with higher potential,” Mathers
said.  Vanessa Neill, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in  London ,
declined to comment.  The bank will service sub-Saharan Africa ultra-high-net-worth clients, who have more than 50 million Swiss francs of
investable assets, from Johannesburg. Credit Suisse also has a
representative office in Cairo.  “Credit Suisse seems to have taken the view that some of
the smaller African countries are not materially advancing the
company’s position,” said Dovey of Scorpio. “It’s refreshing
that there are two separate strategies between UBS and Credit
Suisse because historically the industry has taken a follow my
leader approach and that didn’t always work.”  Selective Growth  For the moment, Bennett sees Credit Suisse providing
competition in Africa, along with banks, such as HSBC.  Wealthy African clients usually book assets in London and
Switzerland, David Bruegger, a Zurich-based spokesman for HSBC’s
private bank, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “We reckon that there is potential for selective growth in
the African  emerging markets , primarily  South Africa , Nigeria
and Kenya, for international banking, subject to local cross-border regulatory requirements,” said Bruegger. HSBC declined
to provide figures on net inflows or client numbers.  Nigeria, the continent’s biggest oil producer and second-largest economy after South Africa, may expand 6.75 percent next
year, the country’s Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said
last month.  “Nigeria is obviously the hot market, but Kenya is also
producing a lot of wealth, although it’s still a relatively
small market by comparison,” Bennett said.  Opportunities Overlooked  Kenya’s growth may accelerate to 5.6 percent this year, the
fastest pace in six years, according to Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich. Angola, Africa’s second-largest oil producer after a
civil war ended in 2002, will probably grow 5.1 percent this
year, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos said last month.  “There is very strong wealth-management business, onshore
and offshore, emanating from the likes of  Nigeria , Kenya and
Ghana,” said Dovey. “The two market regions we’re surprised
that the wealth-management industry has overlooked are Africa,
in parts, and Latin America, in parts, and they’ve all been
drawn to  Asia  in spades.”  Wealth-management assets will increase with the next
generation of the continent’s rich, said Bennett.  “Because a lot of the growth is more recent, Africa’s
entrepreneurs still have a lot of their wealth tied up in their
businesses,” he said. “The second wave, where they start to
monetize their wealth, is still relatively nascent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  