-- Ukraine Parliament Fails to Adopt Tymoshenko Law for EU Pact
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-21T10:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ukrainian-parliament-fails-to-adopt-tymoshenko-law-for-eu-accord.html
Ukrainian lawmakers failed to pass a
bill allowing jailed ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  to get
medical treatment abroad, a key demand in talks to sign a trade
pact with the European Union.  Parliament in the capital, Kiev, today rejected six drafts
of a bill on Tymoshenko, who’s serving a seven-year sentence
following an abuse-of-office conviction the 28-member EU sees as
selective justice. Opposition lawmakers requested  Ukraine ’s
pardoning commission meet to seal her release, though President
 Viktor Yanukovych  has said in the past that he can’t pardon her.  European governments are urging the former Soviet republic
to meet EU demands so it can finalize an association agreement
at a Nov. 28-29 summit in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius. The
chance of Ukraine signing the accord is less than 50 percent,
Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski said yesterday.  “We’re more and more convinced that Yanukovych is
sabotaging the association agreement, that he’s decided not to
sign it for reasons that are unknown to the top European
politicians that communicate with him,” Tymoshenko’s daughter,
Eugenia, said yesterday in an interview at the headquarters of
her mother’s opposition party in Kiev.  Yields Rise  The yield on the government’s 2023 dollar bond was up 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 9.779 percent at
12:07 p.m. in Kiev, erasing earlier gains. The cost to insure
Ukrainian debt against non-payment for five years with credit-default swaps rose 4 basis point to 964 percent, the world’s
fourth-highest,  according to data complied by Bloomberg.  Eugenia Tymoshenko, 33, a graduate of the  London School of
Economics , sees her mother twice a week and spoke with her Nov.
18. Yesterday she met with ex-European Parliament President Pat
Cox and former Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski, the EU’s
main negotiators with Ukraine.  The opposition will “vote for any law, any option that Cox
and Kwasniewski confirm and the EU agreed with,” Eugenia
Tymoshenko said. Ruling-party lawmakers have sought to include
in the Tymoshenko law a fine of as much as $200 million for
damage caused when Ukraine signed an energy-supply contract with
 Russia  in 2009 during her stint as premier, she said.  ‘Unthinkable’ Deal  Lawmakers in Kiev today approved an election law that was
also required by the EU for signing the trade deal. Still,
Ukraine’s pact is “unthinkable” without a resolution in the
Tymoshenko case, Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite said
yesterday in an interview in Vilnius.  Ukrainian officials, who’ve faced criticism from Russia for
their country’s westward trajectory, say they’re still working
toward signing the agreement next week as planned. Preparations
are being carried out and the necessary documents are being
drawn up, Premier Mykola Azarov said yesterday in  St.
Petersburg , Russia.  Party of Regions’ lawmaker Volodymyr Oliynyk today urged
more work on the Tymoshenko bill, telling parliament not to
“put an end to European integration.” Tymoshenko wants to
travel to  Germany  to get treatment for chronic back pain.  Opposition parties called on Ukrainians to march in Kiev on
Nov. 24 to show their support for the EU agreement. Backing for
membership of the 28-nation bloc is 58 percent, according to a
poll of 1,000 people this month by researcher IFAK Institut GmbH
& Co. It gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  