-- Ukraine Pivots to Russia With Last-Minute Freeze of EU Plan
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-11-22T10:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/ukraine-pivots-to-russia-with-last-minute-freeze-of-eu-deal-plan.html
Ukraine  opted to seek stronger ties
with  Russia , cutting off preparations for a  European Union  trade
agreement a week before its scheduled signing would have capped
almost six years of negotiations.  President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s government will focus on
reviving trade with Russia and other former Soviet republics, it
said yesterday. The decision is probably final, said Linas Linkevicius, the foreign minister of  Lithuania , which holds the
EU’s rotating presidency. Postponing the signature of the
agreement “is not realistic,” he said by phone.  The EU and Russia, buyers of about a quarter of Ukrainian
exports each, are jostling over relations with the country of 45
million people that’s an essential transit route for east-west
energy shipments. The second-most populous ex-Soviet country is
also crucial to the ambition of Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
to set up a trading area to emulate the Brussels-centered bloc.  “There’s always a possibility to go back to negotiations
but it will be more difficult to do so in the future,” Joerg Forbrig, senior program officer for Central and Eastern Europe
at the Berlin bureau of the  German Marshall Fund  of the  United
States , said by phone yesterday. “The momentum was there and
this has been lost now. The political momentum has been lost and
it will be hard to recreate this.”  Ukraine’s Creditworthiness  The cost to insure Ukrainian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose 78 basis points, or
0.78 percentage point, to 1,003, the third-highest in the world
after Argentina and  Venezuela , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the Ukrainian dollar bond due 2023 rose
8 basis points to 9.905 percent at 12:24 p.m. in  Kiev .  The decision exposed a growing divide in the country over
economic and political priorities. In a reflection of mounting
tensions, thousands of protesters took to the streets in near-freezing temperatures in Kiev last night over the government’s
move, with opposition parties calling on Ukrainians to march in
the capital on Nov. 24 to show their support for the EU
agreement.  Backing for membership of the 28-nation bloc is at 58
percent, according to a poll of 1,000 people this month by
researcher IFAK Institut GmbH & Co. It gave no margin of error.  Revolutionary Anniversary  Opposition leaders including world heavyweight boxing
champion Vitaly Klitschko spoke and bands performed songs at the
rally in Kiev last night, which was attended by about 2,000
people, private television broadcaster Channel 5 reported.
People plan to gather for another rally tonight. Today marks the
ninth anniversary of the start of the Orange Revolution, which
was led by jailed ex-Premier Yulia Tymoshenko and helped
overturn Yanukovych’s presidential victory in 2004.  “The European bloc has been facing a rival in Russia all
along this process,” Lilit Gevorgyan, an analyst at IHS Global
Insight in  London , said by e-mail. “From a geopolitical
perspective, any delay of the agreement with Ukraine will be a
serious setback for the EU’s diplomacy.”  European governments had urged Ukraine to sign association
and free-trade agreements at a Nov. 28-29 summit in the
Lithuanian capital of Vilnius. Russia, which supplies 60 percent
of Ukraine’s natural gas, threatened trade measures if the deal
went ahead, offering membership of its customs union as an
alternative.  U.S. Disappointment  The U.S. is “disappointed” in the decision, State
Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters yesterday.  “We believe there was ample time to resolve all remaining
obstacles to signing the association agreement in Vilnius with
sufficient effort and commitment,” Psaki  said .  While Yanukovych reiterated yesterday that his country’s
goal is European integration, lawmakers repeatedly failed to
pass a bill to allow Tymoshenko to travel abroad for medical
treatment, a key EU condition for the trade accord to proceed as
the bloc deems her imprisonment a case of selective justice.  The Ukrainian leader “can take leadership and take a
decision at any time -- but really, it’s maybe more
theoretical,” Linkevicius said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  “Time is not on our side due to many reasons. To
postpone a decision, I’m afraid, could mean no decision at all,
no signature at all.”  If EU officials sounded subdued, the Russian reaction was
more exuberant. Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , told reporters
in Moscow that the decision was the demonstration of a “desire
to improve and develop economic cooperation.” Putin earlier
denied opposing Ukraine’s trade deal, though he said trilateral
talks must come before a decision is made, the Interfax news
service reported.  Ukraine’s Motives  Ukraine’s motivation for suspending preparations for the EU
treaty was “purely economic,” with the government making the
“only possible” choice in the situation, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  told lawmakers in Kiev today. A decline in trade with
Russia has led to falling industrial production, “pushing
Ukraine to the edge of huge social and economic troubles,” he
said.  Speaking over chants of “Shame!” by opposition lawmakers,
who attempted to keep him from speaking, Azarov said a Nov. 20
letter from the  International Monetary Fund  tipped the balance
for Ukraine.  “The last straw that broke the camel’s back was the IMF’s
position,” Azarov said. “They offered to provide us with a
loan equal to what we have to repay them. At the same time they
demanded to double utility prices, freeze salaries, and cut
budget spending.”  Third Recession  Ukraine entered its third recession since 2008 in the
second quarter as demand for its steel exports shriveled, while
reserves have plummeted. Joining Russia’s customs union would
shrink its current-account gap by cutting energy costs.  The reasons may have been more complex, according to former
Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski, one of the EU’s main
negotiators with Ukraine. While economic difficulties
contributed to yesterday’s decision, “unprecedented pressure”
from Russia also played a part, he said.  “Russians tapped the whole arsenal of possibilities they
have in Ukraine,” he told Poland’s TVN24. “All Ukrainian
presidents will want to balance between their big eastern
neighbor and the West.”  Yanukovych told his Lithuanian counterpart Dalia Grybauskaite that Russia threatened to suspend imports from
industries in eastern Ukraine, potentially causing massive
losses and affecting hundreds of thousands people, the  Baltic
News Service  reported, citing Grybauskaite’s adviser, Jovita
Neliupsiene.  Darka Chepak, Yanukovych’s spokeswoman, didn’t answer her
mobile phone when  Bloomberg News  called for comment.  ‘Brazen Pressure’  Similar accusations were leveled at the EU in Moscow, where
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said this week it was the trading
bloc that put Ukraine under “brazen pressure” to choose
between Russia and the 28-member bloc.  Kwasniewski and his co-negotiator Pat Cox, a former head of
the European Parliament, urged EU leaders to reassure Ukrainians
that “the door will not be shut,” according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday. They also recommended to “maintain active
vigilance” over Tymoshenko’s conditions.  Yanukovych, whose 2004 victory in a presidential ballot was
overturned amid the Orange Revolution that Tymoshenko helped
lead, has accused her of involvement in crimes including a
murder, claims she denies. He defeated Tymoshenko to become
president in 2010 after serving two stints as premier.  Yanukovych’s Fears  “Yanukovych clearly fears releasing Tymoshenko” before
presidential elections in 2015,  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said by e-mail. “It’s
time to partially take profits in Ukrainian bonds for those who
bought at the lows a couple of months ago.”  That means the EU’s ambitions to cement Ukraine’s place in
its orbit fell victim to the trading bloc’s maneuvering, said
Alexei Pushkov, head of the foreign-affairs committee in
Russia’s lower house of parliament. Ukraine halting preparations
to sign the pact is “logical,” with the Tymoshenko demand
representing “a mine the EU laid itself,” he said.  “Setting Tymoshenko free would have given the EU a chance
to work against Yanukovych in 2015 elections, and ‘‘for a
political leader, this is suicide,’’ he said by phone.  Yanukovych trails Klitschko in polls for the presidency.
Opposition parties are organizing a demonstration for Nov. 24 to
back stronger EU ties.  Negotiating Ploy?  Regardless of the political backdrop, Ukraine’s actions may
be a negotiating ploy to help garner financial aid, according to
Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets analyst at London-based
Capital Economics Ltd.  ‘‘There have been some suggestions in the media that policy
makers are just trying to raise the stakes,’’ she said by e-mail. ‘‘The key in all this is that until the summit next week
there’s not much point trying to guess what Ukraine is going to
do.’’  Still, time may be running out. EU Enlargement Commissioner
Stefan Fule canceled a planned trip to Kiev yesterday, the DPA
news service reported, citing his office.  Yesterday’s decision ‘‘puts a large question mark over the
general direction of Ukraine’s foreign policy,” Tatiana Orlova,
an economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in London, said
by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  