-- Lundin Favors Norwegian Contractors for Johan Sverdrup
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-11-21T11:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/lundin-favors-norwegian-contractors-for-johan-sverdrup.html
Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  favors Norwegian
suppliers to develop the Johan Sverdrup oilfield, the country’s
biggest find in decades, after saving money employing a local
contractor at its Edvard Grieg project.  “If they deliver on Grieg, they’re in a good position,”
Torstein Sanness, Lundin’s managing director for  Norway , said
today in an interview. The company will discuss the matter with
partners  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  and Petoro AS.  Lundin awarded topside-installation and steel-jacket work
at the North Sea Grieg platform to Norway’s  Kvaerner ASA (KVAER)  at a
time when several local offshore contracts were given to Asian
companies, raising concern that the Nordic country’s oil-industry suppliers weren’t competitive.  Lundin may save more than 1 billion kroner ($163 million)
at Grieg by contracting a Norwegian supplier, Sanness said in
Stavanger. Timely delivery and higher quality can make up for
lower prices at Asian competitors, he said.  The partners at Johan Sverdrup will announce their
“concept” for the field by the end of the year. That can
include decisions on platforms, fuel transportation and
timeframes, as well as an updated resource estimate. Statoil has
already indicated the platforms will have steel jackets and the
oil will be processed at sea before being piped to shore.  The North Sea field, which may be biggest oil discovery off
Norway since 1974 with as many as 3.6 billion barrels of crude,
has helped revive interest in the country’s energy industry
after a decade of falling production from aging fields.  Phased Development  Sverdrup will probably be developed in three phases, with
production platforms installed one by one, according to Sanness.
The start of output, scheduled for the end of 2018, may be
pushed to early 2019, he said.  While Statoil, which holds stakes in the three licenses
containing the field, is the project operator, Stockholm-based
Lundin may end up operating the production phase, Sanness said.  Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO) , a Norwegian oil-service company
controlled by billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke, said this month it
expects the Sverdrup partners to award engineering work by early
next year. Securing the order would be its most important future
contract win, Executive Chairman Oeyvind Eriksen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  