-- United Studies Boeing 777x Jets to Blunt Emirates
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-11-21T22:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/united-studying-boeing-777x-jets-for-long-range-fleet-cfo-says.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  is
interested in  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 777 planes to bolster long-range
flying as it braces for increased competition from Middle
Eastern carriers such as Emirates, said Chief Financial Officer
John Rainey.  “We’re going to look at it. We haven’t made a decision,”
Rainey said yesterday in an interview at The Year Ahead: 2014, a
two-day conference in  Chicago  hosted by Bloomberg LP.  The three biggest Gulf carriers, including Qatar Airways
Ltd. and Etihad Airways PJSC, underscored their ambition to
dominate long-haul flying by ordering 225 of Boeing’s 777X jets
at this week’s Dubai Airshow. United’s Star Alliance partner
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is buying another 34 of the jets, the
largest twin-engine aircraft designed by Chicago-based Boeing.  United, the largest U.S. operator of Boeing’s 787
Dreamliner, is studying the benefits it would gain with the
newest 777, Rainey said. The 777-9X is set to begin flying in
2020, burning 12 percent less fuel than comparable Airbus SAS
models and hauling a jumbo-sized payload of 400 or more
passengers.  Capital Demands  An order isn’t assured as Chicago-based United carefully
manages its capital demands given the 292 jets already on order,
Rainey said. United has ruled out Airbus’s A380, a double-decker
capable of seating more than 500 passengers, as “really too
big” for its needs, he said.  United and Lufthansa are strengthening a long-standing
partnership to better compete with Emirates, the biggest long-haul carrier in the world,  Qatar Airways  and Etihad, Rainey
said. They are studying ways to lower costs, including sharing
catering and maintenance capabilities through their North
Atlantic joint venture, he said.  United  fell  0.4 percent to $37.11 at the close of trading
in  New York . The largest global carrier’s shares have risen 59
percent this year, more than double the 26 percent increase of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Fuel Expenses  Rainey made the comments two days after United unveiled
plans to cut spending by $2 billion through 2017. Half the
savings will come from a 7 percent cut in fuel consumption as
the carrier adds new planes such as Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner.  Since combining with Continental Airlines in 2010, United
has struggled to control costs that are growing faster for each
seat flown a mile than  revenue  on the same basis.  Profit growth 
trailed competitors in the last quarter and the carrier is
counting on an overhaul of its fleet designed to swap gas-guzzlers with more fuel-efficient models.  Merger integration “has been a tough slog,” Rainey said.
“The last three years we basically ran a merger. Now we’re
running an airline.”  United’s cost-saving plan, which includes an unspecified
return of cash to shareholders in 2015, was outlined to
investors Nov. 19 as the airline works to fix operational issues
that have snarled flights and alienated customers.  Cost Improvements  “Some of the company’s cost improvements should also be
achieved by delivering a better product to the consumer,”
 Helane Becker , a New York-based managing director with Cowen &
Co., wrote in a Nov. 20 research note. “If United’s reliability
in on-time performance improves, the company will save at least
$150 million in avoided costs.” She rates United the equivalent
of a buy.  United has firm commitments for 292 aircraft from Airbus,
Boeing and  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  through 2025 at a cost of $24 billion,
according to an Oct. 24 regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  