-- URS CEO Says ‘Majority’ of 3,000 Furloughed Workers Are Back
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2013-11-21T18:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/urs-ceo-says-majority-of-3-000-workers-furloughed-are-back.html
Martin Koffel, chief executive
officer of  URS Corp. (URS) , said the “majority” of about 3,000
workers furloughed during last month’s government shutdown have
returned to work.  Closing down the government “creates uncertainty,” Koffel
said in an interview after he spoke on a panel at  The Year
Ahead: 2014 , a two-day conference in Chicago hosted by Bloomberg
LP. “If the business community feels the government can just
autonomously stop, when might it do it again?”  URS, a San Francisco-based provider of engineering and
construction services, is one of the largest U.S. government
contractors and was among the companies most affected by the
federal shutdown. The standstill, which lasted for more than two
weeks amid disagreements between the  U.S. Congress  and President
 Barack Obama , raised concerns that slowed government spending
would crimp economic growth.  “There needs to be a pledge to the country by people of
all political persuasions, that no matter what disagreements
they have they’ll never ever let that happen again,” Koffel
said.  URS employees furloughed during the period included those
idled by the closing of a government facility where they work,
or where URS received directives from U.S. officials to halt
operations or cut staffing, the company said at the time.  During a second panel to discuss the future of
manufacturing, Koffel said a U.S. manufacturing renaissance is
already under way as industry jobs have increased from their low
point in 2009. Activity will be further spurred by cheap energy.  Energy Advantage  “We’re going to have this huge energy advantage,” Koffel
said. “It’s already attracting foreign manufacturing because
manufacturers, people who make steel and cable and everything
else, want to cluster around cheap energy.”  Koffel also cited the U.S.’s gains in productivity and
improvement in its cost structure as making it more competitive
for manufacturing. Companies are also centralizing their supply
chain to reduce risk, which lowers the amount of outsourcing.  “We suffered for years on our wage-cost disadvantage
versus  China  and so on,” he said. “It’s reversing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Trish Regan  in  New York  at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  