-- Hutchison Sells House for Second-Highest Hong Kong Price
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-11-21T07:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/hutchison-whampoa-sells-house-for-second-highest-hong-kong-price.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , controlled
by  Li Ka-shing ,  Asia ’s richest man, sold a house in Hong Kong’s
Victoria Peak area for HK$740 million ($95 million), the second-highest paid for such property in the city.  The 6,863 square-foot (638 square-meter) house at the
seven-home, 28 Barker Road project was sold to an unidentified
buyer, according to the project’s  website . The price is the
second-highest paid in the city after a house on Pollock’s Path
in The Peak area sold for HK$800 million in 2011, according to
broker Colliers International.  The city’s government has since 2010 imposed various extra
property transaction taxes and tightened mortgage lending to
curb  home prices  that are now the world’s highest. Prices of
 Hong Kong ’s luxury residential properties will drop about 3
percent in the fourth quarter, extending a decline since the
start of the year, as transactions decline to the lowest in
almost two decades, according to broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  “In this market, whoever’s willing to pay such high price
for a property is buying it for their own use,” said Simon Lo,
Hong Kong-based executive director, research and advisory, at
Colliers. “With all these extra taxes, there’s very little
chance you can make money by investing in them.”  Hong Kong in February doubled stamp duty on all property
deals over HK$2 million to as high as 8.5 percent. In October
2012, it slapped a 15 percent extra tax on home purchases by all
non-Hong Kong residents and corporate buyers.  Pollock’s Path  The Peak is one of the city’s most-expensive residential
areas where global banks and companies such as HSBC Holdings Plc
house their top executives. Swire Properties Ltd. last year sold
a unit in a Frank Gehry-designed building for HK$455 million, a
record for Hong Kong apartments.  Hutchison Whampoa has put another house in the 28 Barker
Road project up for sale, according to the website.  Hong Kong  home prices  are the world’s highest in a Savills
Plc survey of 10 cities, including  London ,  New York  and  Tokyo .
The value of luxury properties will drop as much as 5 percent in
the second half after a 3.2 percent decline in the first three
months of the year, according to Savills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  