-- Vivendi Takes M&A Pause to Decide How to Spend $14 Bln
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-22T08:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/vivendi-takes-m-a-pause-to-decide-how-to-spend-14-billion-cash.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , debating how to spend
what remains of the $14 billion from asset sales after cutting
debt, is done with big acquisitions for now as the board favors
returning surplus cash to investors in the next six months.  Share buybacks and dividends are options being studied by
the board, Chief Finance Officer Philippe Capron said at an
investor conference in Barcelona yesterday. Last month, Vivendi
sold a stake in  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  for $8.2 billion. It
will get another $5.7 billion when it completes the disposal of
the Maroc Telecom SA division next year.  “Acquisitions aren’t part of our priorities for now,”
said the 55-year-old, who will join water company  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE)  in January, in an interview.  As Vivendi moves toward a promised separate listing for the
SFR French wireless unit in the first half of 2014, the Paris-based company is nearing the end of a two-year restructuring.
Returning cash to shareholders would be a parting gift from
executives including Capron, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Dubos and Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou, all due to step
down.  “A CEO has to be recruited very quickly so he can in the
spring also be on the road selling the equity story of the new
Vivendi,” Capron said. Vivendi is also seeking a replacement
for himself, he said.  Vivendi has scaled back since former CEO Jean-Marie Messier
nearly bankrupted the company with a $77 billion acquisition
spree before he was ousted in 2002.  ‘Significant Headroom’  The recent asset sales which allow the company, whose
remaining assets include Universal Music Group and pay-TV
provider Canal Plus, to pare its  debt  to about 7 billion euros
($9.4 billion) from 13.4 billion euros at the end of last year.  Asked whether Vivendi is seeking acquisitions in the
digital space as part if its media strategy, Capron said:
“No.” Vivendi will focus on growing Brazilian Internet
provider GVT without takeovers and has no plan to add mobile
services to its offering, Capron said during the conference
organized by Morgan Stanley.  “Once Vivendi has the cash from Maroc Telecom, it will be
left with very significant headroom,” Capron said.  Vivendi has promised to complete a split of its businesses
by its annual general meeting, due to take place in the spring
of 2014. Vivendi first announced its intention to study a revamp
of its company structure in 2012, when its stock was trading at
a nine-year low.  Media Focus  Jean-Bernard Levy , CEO at the time, was removed in June the
same year and Fourtou retook oversight of the company. The
shares have gained 9.4 percent this year through yesterday.  Today, they rose 0.9 percent to 18.70 euros at 9:08 a.m. in
Paris, giving Vivendi a market value of 25 billion euros.  With SFR split off, Vivendi plans to assemble Universal
Music Group, Canal Plus, and GVT into a new media company with a
tighter focus, allowing it to aim for a valuation comparable to
large U.S. media companies, or about 10 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Capron said.  Vivendi’s UMG, Canal Plus and GVT units are valued by
analysts at between three and six times Ebitda, Capron said.  “I’m not saying by magic the value of the company will
double through the split, but at least it gives us an ambition
of what the group can reach,” Capron said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in  Barcelona  at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  