-- Wal-Mart to H&M Agree on Bangladesh Work Safety Standards
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-11-21T07:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wal-mart-to-h-m-agree-on-bangladesh-safety-inspection-standards.html
Two groups led by the U.S. and
European retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB)  agreed to improve work safety inspection standards in
Bangladesh.  The Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, led by a group
of North American apparel companies, and the Accord on Fire and
Building Safety whose members mainly are European retailers,
have agreed on a “common, minimum criterion for fire and
structural inspection safety standards, pending a few final
modifications” the group  said  in a statement posted on its
website yesterday.  “The challenges in Bangladesh are many and complex, and
the solution requires collaboration across all interested
parties,” Jeffrey Krilla, president of the alliance, said in
the statement that didn’t disclose details of the agreement.  International retailers have been under pressure to help
improve conditions across Bangladesh’s apparel industry.
Clothing makers in the country are trying to rebuild their image
after the April collapse of the Rana Plaza factory complex
killed more than 1,100 people in the country’s worst industrial
disaster.  The agreement was made with the retailer groups as well as
the Switzerland-based International Labour Organization and the
Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, according
to the statement. Phone calls to ILO, the Alliance and the
Accord on Fire and Building Safety weren’t answered outside
business hours.  The Alliance also said it has added 66 more factories into
the supplier database, bringing the total to 686 Alliance member
factories. The Alliance’s members include  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , Gap
Inc., Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc. The Accord has members
including  Inditex SA (ITX) , Carrefour SA and Marks & Spencer Group
Plc.  Wage Increase  Unsafe factories and wages higher than only Myanmar in Asia
have sparked labor tensions in Bangladesh’s $20 billion garment
industry. A series of protests by workers demanding higher wages
have taken place in the past several months in the industrial
zones of Gazipur and Ashulia on the outskirts of the capital
Dhaka. Some workers clashed with the police in demonstrations
that forced the shutdown of factories.  Two workers died and 30 others injured in a protest this
week as thousands took to the streets demanding a higher monthly
salary of 8,000 taka ($103). The government last week increased
the minimum wage to 5,300 taka, below the amount unions are
demanding.  Production Resumed  Except for one or two factories, most that had been shut by
labor unrest have resumed production, Abdus Salam Murshedy,
president of Exporters Association of  Bangladesh , said via phone
today. “Workers have joined work,” he said. “We expect that
the government will issue a formal, written notice on the new
wage structure today. The situation is returning to normal.”  Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina yesterday urged
workers to accept the wage increase and to end violence, she
said in a speech broadcast by Bangladesh Television.  Bangladesh police arrested five union leaders over charges
of instigating violence in the garment industry, Mostafizur
Rahman, additional superintendent of police in Gazipur district
said yesterday, without naming those arrested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  