-- Walgreen CEO Says Employers Want to Offer Health Benefits
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-21T20:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/walgreen-ceo-says-employers-want-to-offer-health-benefits.html
Employers want to provide quality
health care to attract top talent regardless of the bumpy ride
so far for Obamacare,  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  Chief Executive Officer
Gregory Wasson, said.  Walgreen, the biggest U.S. drugstore chain, will move its
workers into a private health insurance exchange run by  Aon Plc. (AON) 
for company-subsidized coverage, the Deerfield, Illinois-based
company said in September. Consumers are increasingly empowered
to make choices about their health care and are focused on
wellness programs, Wasson said today at  The Year Ahead: 2014 , a
two-day conference in  Chicago  hosted by Bloomberg LP.  “We’re going to continue to see large employers want to
offer high-quality health insurance,” Wasson said. “The
private sector is advancing health care in this country.”  The full effects of the U.S. health overhaul will drive up
insurance premiums, spurring smaller employers to give up
company-sponsored coverage for their workers and turn to
alternatives, former Senator Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican,
said at the conference. The use of private exchanges may explode
as a result, he said.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed into
law in 2010 created public marketplaces, called exchanges, where
Americans can buy insurance. The law seeks to expand health
coverage to uninsured Americans and requires everyone have
insurance or pay a fine. The debut of a federal website to help
people shop for health insurance in 36 states has been riddled
with errors, making it difficult for people to sign up.  A private exchange offers a limited number of coverage
choices to workers in a similar fashion to the online public
marketplaces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  