-- Weidmann Says ECB Liquidity Shouldn’t Be Too Generous
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-21T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/weidmann-says-ecb-liquidity-shouldn-t-be-too-generous.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said liquidity tenders for banks
shouldn’t interfere with the functioning of  capital markets .  “The terms should not be too generous in comparison with
market conditions,” Weidmann said during an event in Berlin
today. “Refinancing from the central bank should therefore not
lead to the situation that structural problems in the banking
sector remain unsolved.”  Euro-area lenders face a year of balance-sheet checks and a
 stress test  conducted by the ECB before it takes over
supervision duties next year. The Frankfurt-based central bank
 pumped  more than one trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the
financial system from the end of 2011 into early 2012 in the
form of three-year loans to ward off a credit crunch loomed.
Now, as banks have begun to repay those funds, policy makers
have debated whether more such operations are needed.  “Refinancing in the euro area is also taking place over
very long maturities,” said Weidmann, who leads  Germany ’s
Bundesbank. “We therefore have to watch out that liquidity is
made available to the banks and not that the capital markets are
usurped.”  The ECB this month cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a
record low of 0.25 percent and extended until the middle of 2015
a policy of giving banks as much cash as they need.  “The goal of liquidity provision should be also to make
credit available to the private sector,” Weidmann said. Warning
of a situation where banks are too closely entwined with
national governments, he added that central-bank funds shouldn’t
be used to stock up on government debt.  In the euro-area’s crisis countries, these stocks “have
constantly risen over the past two years, instead of being
reduced,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  