-- Wells Fargo Drops Canada From List of Favorite Sovereign
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-21T21:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wells-fargo-drops-canada-from-list-of-favorite-sovereign.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, dropped Canada from its list of favorite sovereign-debt markets as slower growth and a more dovish central bank
limit chances for currency gains.  Investors shouldn’t take new positions in Canadian-government debt, the bank said in a note to clients Nov. 18.
They should wait instead for a weaker currency and lower prices,
it said. Investors who currently hold the debt should maintain
their positions, as the economy and currency should perform well
long term, the note said.  “The Bank of Canada seems a little bit unsure, or
noncommittal, on rates going forward,” Paul Christoper, chief
international-investment strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors and
author of the note, said by phone from St. Louis. “We’ve lost
some money being invested in Canadian sovereigns, so we just
thought it was a good time to pull the plug on that one and take
a look another time.”  Norway is the only country left on Wells Fargo’s list of
favorite sovereign bonds, and it’s underweight in developed-market sovereign debt generally, Christopher said.  Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz surprised investors
last month when he dropped language about the need for higher
interest rates that had been in every policy statement for more
than a year. He cited the need to protect against slow
inflation. The Canadian economy is projected to grow 1.6 percent
this year, after expanding 1.7 percent last year, according to
the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists.  While the survey forecasts Canadian growth will pick up in
2014, Christopher said he expects the economy to be weak for
much of next year, weighed down by low oil and gold prices. A
sharp correction in housing prices in Toronto and  Vancouver 
damaging the finances of over-indebted consumers is another
risk, Christopher said.  The danger to Canadian bond values will be a declining
currency, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  