-- Whitman Misled Shareholders About Autonomy, Lawyer Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-11-21T21:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/whitman-misled-shareholders-about-autonomy-lawyer-says-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  misled shareholders when she said Autonomy
Corp. would be “very profitable” after its acquisition while
knowing a whistle-blower has warned of the company’s accounting
irregularities, a lawyer for investors said.  Ramzi Abadou, who represents shareholders suing HP, its
executives and ex-Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch, said that during a
media interview Whitman blamed Autonomy’s disappointing results
on integration issues while failing to disclose an audit was
ordered after the whistle-blower came forward. In November 2012
HP, citing fraud, said it would take an $8.8 billion charge on
the value of Autonomy, which it bought for $11 billion in 2010.  “It’s almost as if she is dying to reveal what she
knows,” Abadou told U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer at a
hearing today in federal court in San Francisco. “She chooses
instead to mislead investors.”  Breyer is weighing requests by  Palo Alto , California-based
HP, Whitman and the other defendants to dismiss the case. He
said his decision will depend on whether there’s sufficient
evidence Whitman knew Autonomy was performing poorly because of
accounting issues and withheld the information.  “It turns on what did she know and, given what she knew,
was she reckless in omitting the alternative that had been
presented to her,” Breyer said. He didn’t say when he would
issue a ruling.  John Dwyer, Whitman’s attorney, said Abadou hasn’t shown
that anyone at HP knew before June 2012 that there was another
credible explanation for Autonomy’s poor performance or that
Whitman made any false statements.  “I believe that in order to state a claim they need a
allege that this is false statement,” he said during the
hearing. “I don’t think they have.”  The case is Nicolow v. HP, 12-cv-05980, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  