-- Wikipedia-Using Professor Riles Corporate Spying Defense
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-11-21T18:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wikipedia-using-professor-riles-corporate-spying-defense.html
The U.S. government’s  China  expert
for an economic espionage criminal trial copied verbatim from
Wikipedia large portions of a report summarizing his proposed
testimony and should be disqualified, defense attorneys said.  The expert is James Feinerman, an Asian law scholar and
associate dean for transnational programs at Georgetown
University Law Center. He allegedly copied parts of 13 pages of
his 19-page report from Wikipedia entries on China’s economy,
high-technology development plan and Communist party, according
to Stuart Gasner, a lawyer for a California businessman indicted
last year in a trade secrets case. The report, which was filed
in San Francisco federal court, doesn’t mention Wikipedia.  “Feinerman’s pervasive plagiarism from this unreliable and
error-prone source, which has been rejected by federal courts
all over the country, casts serious doubt on the reliability of
his entire testimony,” Gasner said in a court filing.  Feinerman declined to comment on the dispute. Prosecutors
said the professor “used” Wikipedia, while asserting that
doesn’t make his opinions unreliable.  The U.S. hired Feinerman, who said in court papers he
charges $350 an hour, to testify at the January trial of Walter
Liew, who was indicted for conspiring to steal trade secrets
from  DuPont Co. (DD)  for China’s Pangang Group Co. A hearing on the
defense request to disqualify the professor had been scheduled
for Nov. 14 and was canceled by U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White, who may rule any time in coming weeks based on written
submissions.  Chinese Government  Excluding the witness may be another setback for federal
prosecutors, who have failed to meet legal requirements for
summoning Pangang to face conspiracy charges in the case, a
prerequisite for bringing the company to trial.  Feinerman’s role in the case is to provide an overview of
the Chinese government’s attempts to persuade its citizens
overseas to steal trade secrets, according to his report.  Prosecutors said that while the professor’s report uses
language that “tracks various Wikipedia entries,” he relied on
a host of sources, both in English and Chinese, including
material gathered during the investigation of Liew, books,
articles, websites and reports, to support his opinions and
conclusions. His education and experience make him “extremely
qualified” as an expert, according to the government’s court
filing.  Feinerman “utilized language from Wikipedia as a concise
English-language summary of his opinions on certain topics,”
assistant U.S. attorneys Peter Axelrod and John Hemann said in a
court filing.  MacArthur Fellowship  A Georgetown faculty member for more than 25 years,
Feinerman has studied in Hong Kong and China, and has taught law
at two Chinese universities, speaks fluent Mandarin and
Cantonese, co-edited two books about China and testified about
China’s information control practices before Congress. He was
awarded a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in 1989.  Marisa Kashino, a spokeswoman for Washington-based
Georgetown Law, declined to comment on the Wikipedia-copying
allegations.  Josh Eaton, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in
San Francisco, didn’t respond to e-mail or voicemail messages
seeking comment on the matter.  Online Encyclopedia  Courts have wrestled for years with whether material culled
from the  collaborative online encyclopedia , to which anyone with
Internet access can anonymously contribute, is reliable as
evidence.  While an expert witness’s qualifications matter, judges
must determine whether the methods and principles underlying
their opinions are reliable and valid, said David Faigman, a
 University of California Hastings College of the Law  professor
who specializes in constitutional law and scientific evidence.  “I can’t just rely on the expert’s qualifications,”
Faigman said in a phone interview. “I have to rely on what has
been provided to me, and what has been provided is cut and
pasted Wikipedia pages.”  The judge may look at whether the Wikipedia entries
Feinerman used are based on credible sources, said Ashish Arun,
an attorney who writes a blog about expert witness rulings.  “The least an expert can do is rely on sources that cannot
be questioned,” Arun said in a phone interview. “A lot will
depend on how the judge feels about the expert using Wikipedia
as a source.”  ‘Leninist Party’  In one passage, Feinerman’s report states that the
Organization Department of the Communist Party of China Central
Committee “is a secretive and highly trusted agency, and it is
at the heart of China’s Leninist party system. It controls the
more than 70 million party personnel assignments throughout the
national system, and compiles detailed and confidential reports
on future potential leaders of the Party.”  The Wikipedia page on the Organization Department has an
almost identical passage that uses the phrasing  “institutional
heart of the Leninist party system.”  Liew, of Orinda,  California , about 17 miles (27.4
kilometers) east of San Francisco, was charged with two former
DuPont employees with selling the secrets to Pangang Group so it
could develop a large-scale factory to make a white pigment used
in paint, plastics and paper, prosecutors said.  The government obtained documents that it alleges show Liew
was directed by a Chinese government official to acquire
technology needed to build the pigment manufacturing factories,
according to court filings.  Hard Drive  In one document the Federal Bureau of Investigation says it
found on a computer hard drive Liew kept in a safe deposit box,
he allegedly said he was a guest of a communist party official
at a banquet held to thank him for providing technologies
important to national security and said he was told by the
official of a “key task project” involving the pigment
manufacturing process.  Federal prosecutors are seeking to have an expert witness
selected by the defense to testify about this matter excluded
from the case.  Stanford Law School research fellow and lecturer Donald
Lewis, hired by Liew’s attorney to rebut Feinerman’s testimony,
said in a report that Liew was engaged in “Chinese puffery” in
a bid to enhance his professional profile with a prospective
client.  Liew, an American citizen of Chinese descent, tried to use
cultural traditions such as guanxi, in which business people
establish relationships and are expected to exchange favors,
Lewis said in a report summarizing his testimony.  ‘Rank Speculation’  “Lewis’s attempts to explain the mindset of the defendant
as he drafted a letter in 2004 is based on nothing but rank
speculation,” prosecutors said in a court filing. “His
apparent contention that ethnic Chinese engage, culturally, in
‘puffery’ is nothing more than ethnic stereotyping.”  Lewis, who taught law in Hong Kong and lived in China,
called the government’s allegations “outrageous.”  “I’m discussing Chinese culture and I was a part of
Chinese culture for 25 years,” he said today in a phone
interview. “I’m not just speculating, I lived it,” he added.
“I’m in a position to say something about it.”  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 11-cr-00573, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  