-- Wildfire Risk Seen High or Extreme at 4.5 Million Homes
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-11-21T18:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wildfire-risk-seen-high-or-extreme-at-4-5-million-homes.html
More than 4.5 million U.S. homes are
at high or extreme risk from wildfires, led by properties in
California, according to  Verisk Analytics Inc. (VRSK) , the supplier of
actuarial data to insurers and banks.  California has 2 million properties meeting those risk
designations, followed by Texas with 1.3 million and  Colorado 
with almost 374,000, Verisk Insurance Solutions said today in a
 report .  Higher temperatures and increased development near forested
areas have increased costs from U.S. wildfires. This year 19
firefighters known as the Granite Mountain Hotshots died
battling a blaze in Arizona. Colorado wildfires have cost
insurers more than $1 billion since 2010, including the Black
Forest fire this year, Verisk said.  “As losses continue to mount, managing wildfire risk needs
to remain a top priority for property insurers,” Verisk
Underwriting President Neil Spector said in a statement.  Homeowners insurance covers the cost of rebuilding a house
if it’s damaged or destroyed by fire, according to the Insurance
Information Institute. Policies can also cover losses to
personal property and hotel bills, meals and other living
expenses if a home is uninhabitable. Policyholder-owned State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  are the
largest home insurers in the U.S.  Idaho  had the greatest percentage of households at high or
extreme risk at 24 percent, followed by Colorado at 17 percent,
according to Verisk.  More than 42,000 wildland blazes were reported in the U.S.
through Nov. 7, burning about 4.1 million acres (1.7 million
hectares), according to the U.S. National Interagency  Fire
Center . Alaska and  Idaho , two of the U.S. states with the lowest
population density, had the most acres burned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  