-- Women Break Gender Barrier in Marine Infantry Training
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-21T16:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/women-break-gender-barrier-in-marine-infantry-training.html
Women in the U.S. Marine Corps for
the first time graduated alongside their male counterparts today
after successfully completing the grueling infantry training
course at Camp Geiger, North Carolina.  Of 15 women who started in September after boot camp, three
made it through the 59-day infantry training program that
required meeting the same combat skills and physical
requirements as the men -- including a five-hour, 20-kilometer
(12.4-mile) march carrying about 90 pounds of gear. Of the 266
men who started, 221 are graduating today, according to Captain
Geraldine Carey, a Marine Corps spokeswoman.  “For these first female enlisted Marines to complete this
training, that’s quite an accomplishment,” Arnold Punaro, a
retired Marine Corps major general and a former staff director
of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a phone
interview. “It certainly is a milestone and certainly is
something for the commandant and the Marine leadership at all
levels to be very proud of.”  The women’s achievement isn’t likely to end the running
political and military debate over whether women should be
permitted to serve in combat even if they’ve met the same
standards as their male counterparts. Some opponents also argue
that, given the women’s lower graduation rate, the extra expense
of training them isn’t cost-effective.  The female Marines’ training follows the action by then-Defense Secretary Leon Panetta in January rescinding the rule
that banned women serving in direct combat roles. That change
will open as many as 200,000 positions to women by January 2016,
the date set for final implementation.  Marine Milestone  Women, who make up about 15 percent of all active-duty
troops, have increasingly been exposed to combat as the
traditional front lines of battle have become blurred in an age
of terrorism and unconventional warfare. The Marines already
have deployed women into combat situations, such as those who
were part of the female engagement teams in  Afghanistan .
 The three women are Privates First Class Julia Carroll,
Christina Fuentes Montenegro and Katie Gorz. Their
accomplishment marks a milestone for the Marine Corps, which
opened the enlisted infantry training to women volunteers.  The women were required to meet the same physical standards
as the men and show competence through written exams, leadership
skills, and combined arms exercises.  Drop Outs  Seven women remained before the 20-kilometer hike, and
three were among a group of 29 Marines who fell out while
hiking. A fourth woman, Private First Class Harlee Bradford, was
injured late in the training and is expected to graduate in
December, according to the Marines.  Unlike the men, the three female Marines who graduated
today won’t receive the “0311 rifleman” combat specialty
designation nor be assigned to infantry while the service
studies how to integrate women into combat arms jobs such as
infantry, artillery and special operations. Their accomplishment
will be noted in their personnel files and they will move on for
training in their occupational specialties.  Carroll, 18, of  Idaho  Falls, Idaho, will be trained in
signals intelligence. Montenegro, 25, of Coral Springs,  Florida ,
will receive aviation mechanic training. Gorz, 19, of St. Paul,
 Minnesota , will be trained in logistics, according to Carey.  Womens’ Roles  More women are following them into the program. About two
dozen are currently in the infantry training battalion at the
Marine Corps  School of Infantry-East  at Camp Geiger, a satellite
facility of Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune near Jacksonville,
North Carolina. The Marines have had less success so far in
seeing women get through the 13-week infantry officer course at
Quantico, Virginia, which none have completed.  Congress has directed the services to fully integrate women
into combat positions -- or seek exception from certain military
occupation designations -- by the start of 2016.  “Our military could not succeed today without the
tremendous females we have in military service -- whether
they’re jet fighter pilots, or helicopter pilots, or
intelligence officers, or these new young infantry-trained
Marines,” said Punaro.  Even so, beyond the physical, intellectual and leadership
capabilities of women, the Marine Corps also needs to consider
issues such as unit cohesion and morale under the difficult
conditions and close quarters of small-unit operations, he said.  Training Standards  While the training standards weren’t altered, the Marine
Corps doesn’t permit gender-integrated sleeping facilities.
Women in the training are “billeted under the same conditions
but separated from male students,” Carey said in an e-mail.
They have separate, dedicated female sleeping areas and toilets.  The Marines operate School of Infantry training battalions
at Camp Geiger and at Camp Pendleton, California. Marines who
have recently completed recruit training are instructed in
skills such as marksmanship, patrolling, land navigation,
grenade usage, and identifying and countering improvised
explosive devices, according to the infantry school website.  The success of the women is important “particularly
because the Marines are the service branch that has by far the
lowest percentage of women” at about 7 percent, said Laura
Browder, a professor of American studies at the University of
Richmond,  Virginia , who has studied women at war. Women make up
about 16 percent of the active-duty Army.  Research Phase  “Part of the Marine identity is that if you are a real
Marine, you are in combat, you are part of the infantry,”
Browder said. “I think that is more true of the Marines than
other service branches.”  The Marine Corps seeks to gain information from the
experiences of the women going through the infantry training
battalion program, said another spokeswoman, Captain Maureen
Krebs.  “Their experiences and feedback have been documented
throughout training using various surveys,” she said in an e-mail. “That information will be included as part of our data
collection during this research phase of our implementation plan
and will assist in making an informed recommendation” about
integrating women into combat designations.  “Any force-wide changes to be made will occur only after
we have conducted our research, determined a way ahead and set
conditions to implement our recommendations,” she said.  ‘Combat Effectiveness’  Representative Duncan Hunter, a  California  Republican, has
pressed the military services not to lower standards in their
efforts to expand the role of women.  “If you lower standards for anybody for any reason, it
lowers the combat effectiveness, and that cannot happen,” he
said.  While applauding the successful Marine women, he said he
opposes the “arbitrary” 2016 deadline for decisions about
putting women into direct combat jobs. It takes time to develop
a training record and to develop female infantry officers, he
said, adding that about 10 women have failed to make it through
the Marines’ infantry officers training.  “You can’t have one or two females in an all-male unit
with all male superiors; I think you’re asking for trouble
there,” said Hunter, served as a Marine officer in Iraq and
Afghanistan. “So you have to have female leadership and that
hasn’t happened yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  