-- WPP CEO Says Revenue Growth Rate Next Year Will Beat 2013 Figure
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r ,   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-21T17:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wpp-ceo-says-revenue-growth-rate-next-year-will-beat-2013-figure.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer
Martin Sorrell said organic revenue growth at the world’s
largest advertising company in 2014 will beat this year’s gain
of more than 3 percent in a “tough, but manageable” market.  The U.K. is showing a strong advance even as fast-growing
markets are slowing, Sorrell said at an investor conference in
Barcelona. Organic revenue, which strips out effects including
currency fluctuations and acquisitions, is the key figure used
by the ad industry to track growth.  WPP is spending as much as 400 million pounds ($646
million) this year acquiring digital-ad assets and operations in
countries such as  Turkey , Brazil,  Vietnam  and India to counter
slower growth in much of Europe. The London-based company faces
losing its top spot in the industry as rivals  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) 
and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  forge ahead with a planned merger.  Sorrell forecast a “considerable move of executives to our
company” because of the merger. “There’s a lot of movement in
the industry and this sort of movement stimulates it further,”
he said in an interview earlier in the day.  There has been speculation that WPP won’t be content to
play second fiddle and will buy a large competitor such as
Interpublic Group of Cos. or French peer Havas SA.  Sorrell today called IPG and Havas “significantly
overvalued” and reiterated he wasn’t interested in buying
either.  When asked about the logic behind the Publicis-Omnicom
merger, Sorrell said it may offer tax and financial advantages.  “Maybe the benefits are just getting out of  France ,
getting the fiscal benefits of being in Amsterdam,” where the
combined company will be based, he said. The deal “certainly
has disturbed the client base and certainly has disturbed
staff.”  WPP may benefit from the merger as some accounts are
expected to shift, according to a note from Jefferies last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  