-- WPP, Dentsu Circle for Business From Publicis-Omnicom Merger
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-22T08:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wpp-dentsu-circle-for-new-business-from-publicis-omnicom-merger.html
As  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and  Omnicom
Group Inc. (OMC)  work through regulatory delays to their plan to
create a new leader in advertising, rivals say they’re picking
up disgruntled customers and ad executives who fail to see how
the merger helps them.  “Clients don’t understand the benefit for them,”  Dentsu
Inc. (4324)  Executive Vice President Tim Andree said at an investor
conference in  Barcelona  yesterday. “That’s a dangerous position
to be in.” Tokyo-based Dentsu said it’s won new businesses from
the pending deal.  Publicis Omnicom Group co-Chief Executive Officers  Maurice Levy  and John Wren, also in Barcelona, said completion of the
merger may slip into the second quarter of next year, pushing
back the first-quarter timeframe announced in July. Competitors
including current market leader  WPP Plc (WPP)  and Dentsu are taking
advantage of the delay to circle for clients and talent.  WPP CEO  Martin Sorrell  forecast a “considerable move of
executives to our company.”  “There’s a lot of movement in the industry and this sort
of movement stimulates it further,” he said in an interview at
the conference, organized by Morgan Stanley.  Wren downplayed the risk, saying he didn’t see “a great
threat coming from client conflicts. People have tried to
promote that but it’s not real.”  ‘Emotional Aspect’  Publicis clients’ reaction to the merger -- an all-stock
transaction that will create a company with $23 billion in
revenue -- “has been absolutely fantastic,” Levy said. Still,
there’s an “emotional aspect” that Publicis must handle
“carefully,” he said.  Interpublic Group of Cos. CEO  Michael Roth , also at the
conference yesterday, said customers he’s spoken with have also
questioned the merger.  “Clients say, ‘We’re not sure what this transaction means
to us, we’ll wait and see,’” he said. “When you have companies
of that size coming together there’s bound to be disruption.
We’ve got to make sure we position ourselves because that
creates opportunities for our competitors also.”  WPP, which owns the Ogilvy & Mather and Grey ad agencies,
has denied reports it’s considering buying a large competitor to
hold onto the No. 1 position. Still, speculation persists that
WPP or Dentsu, which has bought Aegis Group Plc for $4.9
billion, will acquire a company such as IPG or  Havas (HAV)  SA.  WPP Plans  Sorrell dismissed IPG and Havas as “significantly
overvalued” and reiterated he wasn’t interested in buying
either. He said WPP will continue focusing on small to mid-sized
targets, primarily in Asia, Brazil and Africa, and predicted
WPP’s acquisition spending could rise to as high as 600 million
pounds ($969 million) in 2014 “if we find some really
interesting ones.”  WPP rose 1.6 percent to 1,370 pence at 8:35 a.m. in London.
Publicis climbed less than 1 percent to 64.49 euros and Havas
added 0.8 percent to 5.90 euros in Paris.  Dentsu also has targets in mind, with Andree saying there
are as many as 60 deals in the pipeline, though none as large as
this year’s Aegis deal. “We have the flexibility to do another
acquisition, but I want to make sure we remain disciplined with
our strategy,” he said.  Levy said he doesn’t anticipate “any major issue” to come
up in the regulatory reviews in  Europe ,  China  and the U.S.
Publicis and Omnicom have said that by merging, they’ll be able
to offer clients integrated campaigns and advanced technology
while containing costs.  “The target for synergies announced by Publicis and
Omnicom has the potential for destabilizing talent,” said
Dentsu’s Andree. “That of course is bad news for clients.”  When asked during the conference about the logic behind the
Publicis-Omnicom combination, Sorrell said it may just be about
tax and financial benefits.  “Maybe the benefits are just getting out of  France ,
getting the fiscal benefits of being in Amsterdam,” he said,
adding the merger “certainly has disturbed the client base and
certainly has disturbed staff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  