-- WTI Rebounds Amid Draghi Comments, Saudi Mortar Attacks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-11-21T13:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/wti-drops-a-second-day-as-investors-weigh-fed-stimulus-taper.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
rebounded from near its lowest closing level in five months as
the dollar weakened against the euro following comments by
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  Futures advanced as much as 0.4 percent, reversing an
earlier loss of 0.5 percent, after Draghi’s comments on
inflation in Berlin. A weaker dollar typically makes oil more
attractive for protecting against inflation. Prices also rose
after Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, said six
mortar shells fell in an uninhabited area where the kingdom’s
border meets with those of Iraq and  Kuwait . The correlation
between WTI and Brent is near its weakest in nine months.  “At the moment I don’t think it’s too much to worry about,
but obviously if it is repeated and/or retaliations take place,
it would directly spill over into  oil prices ,” Michael Poulsen,
an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark ,
said of the mortar attacks.  WTI for January delivery rose as much as 35 cents to $94.20
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $94.07 as of 1:23 p.m.  London  time. Prices
settled at $93.03 on Nov. 18, the lowest settlement since May
31. The December contract ended 1 cent lower at $93.33 when it
expired yesterday. The volume of all futures traded was 49
percent less than the 100-day average.  Interest Rates  Brent for January settlement gained as much as 52 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $108.58 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $14.37 to WTI, compared with $14.21 yesterday.  Draghi said keeping  interest rates  low for an extended
period carries risks that policy makers weighed carefully before
they reduced the benchmark rate to a record low on Nov. 7. The
euro rose a third of a cent after his remarks and traded at
$1.3465 at 1:24 p.m. in London.  “I am of course aware that our rate cut raised some
concerns,” Draghi said today in a speech in Berlin. “A
protracted period of time of low rates creates the scene for
risks in financial stability.”  Six shells landed in an area close to the city of Hafr Al-Baten in  Saudi Arabia ’s Eastern region, according to the state-run SPA news agency. The mortars didn’t injure anyone or cause
any damage, SPA said, citing Border Guard Brigadier General
Mohammad Al-Ghamdi.  WTI’s 22-day correlation coefficient to Brent fell to 0.47
on Nov. 19, compared with an average of 0.77 over the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A figure of 1 means the
two move in lockstep. U.S. prices fell 17 percent from this
year’s peak in August as inventories expanded while the European
benchmark declined 9.2 percent amid protests in  Libya , attacks
in Iraq and damage to pipelines in  Nigeria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  