-- Yale Students Urge University to Sell Fossil-Fuel Stakes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-21T18:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-21/yale-students-urge-university-to-sell-fossil-fuel-investments.html
Yale University undergraduates voted
overwhelmingly to urge the school to sell its holdings of
fossil-fuel companies that are “contributing the most to
climate change and associated social ills.”  The Yale College Council referendum concluded yesterday,
with more than half of undergraduates casting ballots and 83
percent voting for divestment from major oil, gas and coal
companies, according to a statement. The council, representing
5,300 undergraduates at the New Haven, Connecticut-based school,
said it will present a position paper to the administration
supporting the divestment proposal.  Students at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
backed a similar referendum last year as a campaign targeting
divestment from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and about 200 other
companies with the largest reserves of oil, gas and coal spread
across colleges. Harvard, with the biggest university endowment
in the world at $32.7 billion, rejected the proposal from
students, as have other schools such as  Brown University  in
Providence, Rhode Island.  Harvard students linked to the divestment campaign this
week disrupted a Bank of America Corp. recruiting event in
Cambridge to protest the bank’s investments in coal companies.
Students at  New York  University are holding an event tomorrow
where alumni will call in to President John Sexton’s office to
pressure the school to divest.  Yale has the second-largest college endowment, with assets
of $20.8 billion, and has generated above-average returns over
the past 20 years by expanding in alternative assets such as
 hedge funds .  Tom Conroy , a spokesman for Yale, said in an e-mail that
the Advisory Committee on Investor Responsibility, which
includes faculty and students, is “working on the question of
fossil fuels” and could make a recommendation that would be
considered by trustees overseeing the university.  Jonathan Macey, a law professor who chairs the advisory
committee,  wrote  in the Yale Daily News on Nov. 15 that it “is
our policy to recommend divestment only as a last resort, and
then only if we thought that divesting has the prospect of
producing something of benefit in the struggle against climate
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  