-- Abe’s Defense Spending Goals Hampered by Japan’s Debt
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-01-11T06:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/abe-s-defense-spending-goals-hampered-by-japan-budget-restraints.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
plan to raise defense spending in response to  China ’s
increasingly aggressive claims to disputed islands is running
into budgetary restrictions.  In his first major policy initiative since taking office on
Dec. 26, Abe today announced a 10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion)
economic stimulus package. While defense figures weren’t
detailed in the initial release, security outlays are part of
800 billion yen that includes spending on health care and child
welfare, or less than 8 percent of the total.  Abe has pledged to reverse a decade of defense budget cuts,
citing repeated Chinese incursions into Japanese-controlled
waters. At the same time, he is hampered by the world’s largest
debt, a pacifist constitution, and an informal spending limit of
1 percent of gross domestic product, in contrast to China’s
annual double-digit increases in military outlays.  “ Japan  realizes that it cannot hope to match China, but it
needs to do something to improve its capabilities,” said Thomas
Berger, Associate Professor of International Relations at  Boston
University , in e-mailed comments. “Unpopular as it is, Japan
probably should be spending a lot more.”  The Defense Ministry requested 212 billion yen as part of
Abe’s stimulus, saying the money would be used for additional
PAC-3 missile interceptors and upgrades for F-15 fighter planes.
The budget for this year is 4.6 trillion yen.  Military Outlays  Japan’s 2011 defense spending was the world’s sixth largest
at $59.3 billion, according to the Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute. China came in second behind the U.S. at $143
billion, and as a percentage of GDP spent 2 percent, compared
with Japan’s 1 percent.  Military outlays account for about 5 percent of Japan’s
budget, while almost a quarter goes to servicing debt and almost
30 percent goes to social security spending in the world’s most
rapidly-aging society, according to Finance Ministry data.  Japan deployed eight F-15 fighters in response to an
incursion last month by a Chinese plane into Japanese-controlled
airspace around the East China Sea islands, known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Chinese government ships have
repeatedly entered Japanese waters in recent months and been
warned off by the Coast Guard, and Japan summoned China’s
ambassador to Tokyo to protest an incursion this week.  ‘Turning Point’  “China and Japan may stand at a  turning point  that leads
to confrontation,” China’s state-run Global Times newspaper
said in an editorial today. “The resentment toward each other
has come to the highest level since World War II.”  The dispute over the uninhabited islands was reignited in
September when the Japanese government bought three of them from
a private Japanese landowner. The move sparking violent
demonstrations outside Japanese restaurants and  car dealerships 
in China, and damaged a $340 billion trade relationship between
 Asia ’s two biggest economies.  In a press conference today, Abe said it was “wrong” for
China to allow Japanese businesses to be damaged for political
reasons. He added he wanted to restore a “mutually beneficial
strategic partnership” with China while reiterating his stance
on the islands’ sovereignty.  “There is not the slightest change to our resolve to
defend the Senkaku Islands and our territorial waters,” Abe
told reporters. “There is no room for negotiation on this.”  2007 Levels  The  Defense Ministry  is also requesting the budget for the
fiscal year starting in April be increased by about 2.6 percent
to 4.76 trillion yen, to allow it to buy more patrol aircraft,
as well as a destroyer and a submarine. The increase would take
spending back to about 2007 levels.  The Coast Guard will also request funds to build six ships
and plans to form a dedicated unit of 400 personnel to patrol
the islands, the Asahi newspaper said today. A spokesman for the
Coast Guard said plans were still under consideration.  Japan, whose U.S.-written pacifist  constitution  restricts
the activities of its armed forces, relies on its alliance with
the U.S. as the mainstay of its security policy. Abe has said he
wants to strengthen that relationship to bolster Japan’s
position as the standoff with China continues.  He has also called for revising the constitution, which
renounces war as a right of the nation. Japan maintains a Self-
Defense Force over the objections of pacifist groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  