-- Accused Aurora Theater Shooter Ordered to Face Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/accused-aurora-theater-shooter-ordered-to-face-murder-trial-1-.html
James Holmes, accused of the July
shooting rampage in a  Colorado  movie theater that left 12 dead,
must stand trial on all 166 counts against him, including first-
degree murder and attempted murder charges, a judge said.  Arapahoe County District Court Judge William Sylvester said
in a ruling yesterday that prosecutors established probable
cause that Holmes committed the alleged crimes, and ordered him
held without bail.  Prosecutors provided sufficient evidence that Holmes’s
mental state was one of “universal malice” and that he
demonstrated an “extreme indifference to the value of human
life inside the Century 16 Theater” in Aurora, Colorado,
Sylvester said.  Before yesterday’s ruling, lawyers for Holmes told the
judge they weren’t prepared to enter a plea at a hearing
scheduled for today.  “The defense has notified the district attorney that it is
not prepared to proceed to arraignment in this case by Friday,
and therefore request that the hearing on Friday serve only as a
status hearing and not arraignment,” according to a filing in
Colorado state court in Centennial.  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado-Denver, could face the death penalty if convicted of
first-degree murder.  Preliminary Hearing  The preliminary hearing began Jan. 7, with prosecutors
presenting eyewitnesses and experts in weapons and explosives to
describe the July 20 attack and how Holmes allegedly prepared
for it. They also played calls to 911 and showed the judge
pictures Holmes allegedly took of himself before the shooting
spree during a midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises.”
While the defense didn’t call any witnesses, Holmes’s lawyers
repeatedly raised the issue of mental illness.  Defense lawyers anticipated Sylvester’s ruling, and
indicated they weren’t prepared to enter a plea to put the judge
and media on notice, said Karen Steinhauser, a former Denver
prosecutor now in private practice.  Based on questions Holmes’s lawyers raised during the
preliminary hearing about his mental state, they probably will
eventually enter a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity,
Steinhauser said. She also said the defense team may be
concerned that Holmes isn’t competent to stand trial or able to
assist his lawyers.  Competency Examination  “If there’s an issue of competency, everything stops until
an examination and a finding can be made about whether he’s
able,” Steinhauser said. If Holmes is found incompetent, he
will be held in custody at a state hospital until he’s restored
to a state in which he can understand the legal proceedings, she
said.  Media companies, including the Denver Post newspaper and
KUSA, a television channel and unit of Gannett Co. Inc., asked
Sylvester to permit video and audio recording and still
photographs in the courtroom. Holmes’s lawyers objected to the
request, arguing the coverage threatens the defendant’s
constitutional due process and fair trial rights.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  