-- Accused Aurora Shooter’s Arraignment Delayed Until March
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   B a r r y   B o r t n i c k
-- 2013-01-11T21:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/accused-aurora-shooter-s-arraignment-delayed-until-march.html
The arraignment of James Holmes, who
faces trial on first-degree murder charges for the July shooting
rampage in a  Colorado  movie theater that left 12 people dead,
was delayed until March 12.  Arapahoe County District Court Judge William Sylvester
today postponed the arraignment at the request of Holmes’s
lawyers. Tamara Brady, one of the attorneys, told the judge
today that the defense needs more time to determine the
appropriate plea.  Sylvester ruled yesterday that the government established
probable cause that Holmes committed the crimes he’s accused of.
Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the  University of Colorado ,
Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder and
attempted murder. He might face the death penalty if convicted
of first-degree murder.  Prosecutors provided sufficient evidence that Holmes’s
mental state was one of “universal malice” and that he
demonstrated an “extreme indifference to the value of human
life inside the Century 16 Theater” in Aurora, Sylvester said,
ordering Holmes held without bail.  At a three-day preliminary hearing that started Jan. 7,
prosecutors presented eyewitnesses and experts in weapons and
explosives to describe the July 20 attack and how Holmes
allegedly prepared for it.  911 Calls  They also played calls to 911 and showed pictures Holmes
allegedly took of himself before the shootings during a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises.” The defense didn’t call
any witnesses. Holmes’s lawyers repeatedly raised the issue of
mental illness.  Before yesterday’s ruling, lawyers for Holmes told the
judge in a filing in state court in Centennial that they weren’t
prepared to enter a plea at the arraignment scheduled for today.  Defense lawyers anticipated Sylvester’s ruling sending the
case to trial, and indicated they weren’t prepared to enter a
plea to put the judge and news media on notice, said Karen
Steinhauser, a former Denver prosecutor now in private practice.  Likely Plea  Based on questions Holmes’s lawyers raised during the
preliminary hearing about his mental state, they probably will
eventually enter a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity,
said Steinhauser, who isn’t involved in the case. She said the
defense team may argue that Holmes isn’t competent to stand
trial or able to assist his lawyers.  “If there’s an issue of competency, everything stops until
an examination and a finding can be made about whether he’s
able,” Steinhauser said.  If Holmes is found incompetent, he will be held in custody
at a state hospital until he’s restored to a state in which he
can understand the legal proceedings, she said.  Before Holmes left the courtroom today, Steve Hernandez,
whose daughter, Rebecca Wingo, died in the mass shooting,
shouted, “Rot in hell, Holmes!” Holmes didn’t appear to react
to the outburst.  The comment led to a brief second hearing on court
behavior. Sylvester told Hernandez that while he understood what
drove him to speak up, he wanted him to refrain from commenting
again.  Judge’s Comments  “I can only begin to understand the emotions,” Sylvester
said. The judge asked Hernandez if he could “count on him,” to
behave in the future? Hernandez promised no further outbursts.  Media companies, including the Denver Post newspaper and
KUSA television, a  Gannett Co. (GCI)  unit, asked Sylvester to permit
video and audio recording and still photographs in the
courtroom. Holmes’s lawyers objected, arguing the coverage
threatens the defendant’s constitutional due process and fair
trial rights.  The judge rejected the request for today’s hearing because
under state law such coverage isn’t permitted. The media
companies have renewed their request for expanded coverage at
the March arraignment, according to court filings.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 