-- Macklem Says Fading Growth to Accelerate Later This Year
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/macklem-says-fading-growth-to-accelerate-later-this-year.html
Bank of Canada  Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem, who may be promoted to lead the central
bank later this year, said economic growth is slower than
expected and will accelerate later this year.  There are early signs of a “gradual correction” of
imbalances in household finances such as record debt loads while
exports continue to have the slowest recovery since World War
II, Macklem said yesterday in  a lecture  at Queen’s University,
his alma mater, in Kingston, Ontario.  “Near-term momentum now appears to be slightly softer than
previously anticipated,” Macklem, 51, said in the last
scheduled public remarks from a Bank of Canada policy maker
before a Jan. 23 interest rate decision. “We continue to expect
economic activity to pick up through 2013.”  The central bank’s  key interest rate  has been at 1 percent
since September 2010 with a strong currency and inconsistent
global demand blunting exports, and policy makers have signaled
since April they may raise borrowing costs as the economy moves
to full output. Macklem’s household-finance comments suggest the
language about  interest rates  will be retained this month to
limit further growth in  consumer debt , said  Michael Gregory ,
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  The wording “will be retained even though the Bank’s
economic projection will be downgraded,” Gregory said. “More
work is obviously needed” on consumer debt, he said.  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict a rate
increase in the fourth quarter of 2013, a time frame that may
put the decision in Macklem’s hands with Governor  Mark Carney 
leaving in June to lead the  Bank of England .  Formal Process  The Bank of Canada’s board of directors this week started
the formal process to replace Carney by placing newspaper ads
and hiring a recruitment company. Economists including Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s  Craig Alexander  say Macklem is Carney’s most
likely successor.  “Housing activity is beginning to decline broadly in line
with our expectations,” Macklem said. The rise in consumer debt
to a record 165 percent of disposable income isn’t
“sustainable,” Macklem said.  Canada’s housing market faces “more headwinds than
tailwinds,” and therefore the central bank is unlikely to raise
borrowing costs, according to Scotiabank analysts  Derek Holt  and
Dov Zigler.  “The Bank of Canada is unlikely to hike rates in order to
address household imbalances under circumstances of a slowdown
in consumer credit growth and softer home resales,” the
Toronto-based analysts said in a research report yesterday.  ‘Effective’ Policy  Macklem defended the central bank’s prolonged period of low
interest  rates  during a question-and-answer session after his
lecture, saying they were justified by the global financial
crisis and have been “effective.”  “Very low interest rates were the right thing to do,” he
said.  Macklem didn’t address his prospects for becoming the next
governor in the speech and his remarks also left out any
reference to raising interest rates.  On exports, Macklem reiterated the bank’s view that they
are restrained by the Canadian dollar’s persistent strength,
adding that companies need to regain competitiveness and not
rely on a weaker currency to spur growth.  The economy’s expansion slowed in the third quarter because
of “transitory disruptions” in the energy sector, Macklem
said.  Gross domestic product growth slowed to a 0.6 percent
annualized  pace  in the third quarter and the Bank of Canada’s
October forecast predicted a rebound to a 2.5 percent pace at
the end of last year.  The period of global economic turmoil may not end soon and
companies will need to keep making new investments to adapt,
Macklem said.  “We can’t be frozen by global uncertainties,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Kingston, Ontario at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  