-- Thailand’s Exchange Chief Says Foreign Selling Caused Stock Drop
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-01-11T09:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/thailand-s-exchange-chief-says-foreign-selling-caused-stock-drop.html
Thailand ’s stock exchange said sales
by overseas investors triggered the benchmark index’s biggest
one-day  drop  in almost five months yesterday, and signaled that
shares aren’t expected to decline much further.  The  SET Index (SET)  slumped 1.2 percent yesterday as foreign
investors sold a net 4.6 billion baht ($152 million) of shares,
the most since Oct. 10, according to  exchange data . The gauge
rose 0.2 percent as of 4:24 p.m. in Bangkok.  Yesterday’s drop “may be partly because of profit taking”
by overseas investors, Charamporn Jotikasthira, president of the
Stock Exchange of Thailand, told reporters today. “We don’t
think these sales are because of capital outflows, they may be
portfolio adjustments. We haven’t seen much selling today.”  The SET Index rallied 36 percent in the 12 months to Jan.
9,  driving it to the highest level since July 1995. Before
yesterday’s drop, the measure traded at 17.7 times reported
profit, the highest level since Sept. 28, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The index is valued at an 18 percent premium to
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)  Thai companies begin reporting
fourth-quarter results today.  Overseas investors bought $2.5 billion more of Thai shares
than they sold last year, after net sales of $167 million in
2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The baht reached a 10-month high today after funds bought
$174 million more local shares than they sold this month through
yesterday and pumped a net $1.4 billion into sovereign debt,
data from the stock exchange and the Thai Bond Market
Association showed.  Charamporn said yesterday’s stock decline “isn’t
concerning,” because the SET index moved in line with regional
peers. The Philippine benchmark index sank 1.2 percent
yesterday, while the Jakarta Composite Index lost 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  