-- Airbus in Talks With Turkish Air for 150 Jets, Minister Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-11T16:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/airbus-in-talks-with-turkish-air-for-150-jets-minister-says.html
Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  is considering the
purchase of about 150 Airbus SAS aircraft, in an order that
would include some A380 superjumbos, as the carrier pursues an
expansion by connecting traffic between  Europe  and Asia.  The talks between the carrier, officially known as Turk
Hava Yollari AO, and Toulouse, France-based Airbus were
disclosed by French Trade Minister Nicole Bricq today in a
statement ahead of her planned visit Istanbul next week, where
she will meet  Turkey ’s economics minister and executives,
including the head of Turkish Airlines. The airline confirmed
the planned meeting.  Turkish Airlines is emulating Emirates and other carriers
in the Gulf region, who are benefiting from their geographic
position to build a hub connecting traffic from the U.S. via
Europe to Asia. The Turkish airline has a mixed fleet of Airbus
A320 family single-aisle planes and the competing 737 by  Boeing
Co. (BA) , in what is the most hotly contested market between the
duopoly.  “Turkish is already one of the fastest-expanding airlines
worldwide,” said Tim Coombs, managing editor of London-based
Aviation Economics. “They’ve got the natural advantages of
geography, placed between Europe and Asia, and an extremely
large home population.”  Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose
as much as 59 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 32.63 euros in Paris and
traded at 32.28 euros as of of 5 p.m. in the French capital.  Lionel Messi  The Turkish carrier has sought to upgrade its service and
has been on a marketing spree in recent years, enlisting
sporting icons including soccer player Lionel Messi and
basketball star Kobe Bryant for television adverts.  Officials at the airline’s public relations office had no
immediate comment today except to confirm the planned meeting
with the French minister. Airbus declined to comment, saying all
discussions with potential customers are private.  Next week’s meeting between the minister and the airline
chief comes ahead of a Jan. 17 press briefing by Airbus to
review last year’s performance and present plans for 2013.
Airbus gave up the lead in aircraft deliveries to Boeing last
year, after holding advantage for almost a decade.  Fewer Orders  Airbus also likely finished 2012 with fewer new aircraft
orders than Boeing, which won 1,023 contracts. Airbus had been
targeting 650 for 2012 following a windfall a year earlier, when
the European manufacturer was first to offer a more fuel-
efficient variant of its single-aisle jet, the A320neo.  Airbus last month won an order for 75 A320 neo planes from
Pegasus Airlines, a low-fare Turkish carrier that until now has
been flying 737s.  Turkish Airlines had previously said it was considering the
purchase of as many as six A380 superjumbos from Airbus. It had
also said it was looking at jets bigger than Boeing’s 330-seat
777, currently the carrier’s largest model, to lure transfer
traffic between Europe and Asia away from  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and British Airways-parent International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  In November, the company said it was close to ordering 100
planes to provide short-haul links from Istanbul, saying then it
would scrap plans to buy the biggest jumbo jets in favor of more
modestly sized wide-body planes.  The airline’s fleet is already set to expand to about 206
planes through 2013, when an expansion program originally slated
to end in 2015 will be completed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  