-- Albright Calls Anti-Israel Hagel Criticism ‘Ridiculous’
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-12T05:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/albright-calls-anti-israel-hagel-criticism-ridiculous-.html
Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright dismissed as “ridiculous” the accusations by
Republican critics that President  Barack Obama ’s choice for
defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, is anti- Israel .  “Senator Hagel has been somebody that has voted for help
for Israel over the years, has made very clear his support for
Israel, and has talked about the historic bond,” Albright said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “I think that is
just a charge that doesn’t make any sense at all.”  Hagel, a Republican former senator from  Nebraska , has come
under attack from Republicans, including Senators Lindsey Graham
of South Carolina and John Cornyn of  Texas , who serve on the
Senate Armed Services Committee that will vote on the
confirmation of Hagel to head the Pentagon. Hagel would be “the
most antagonistic secretary of defense toward the state of
Israel in our nation’s history,” Graham said on Jan. 6 on CNN’s
“ State of the Union .”  Albright, who worked with Hagel when he was on the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee and she was secretary of state and
who serves with him now on Obama’s Defense Advisory Board, said
she believes some detractors “just decided they weren’t going
to like whomever” the president chose to lead the Pentagon.  At least one prominent Democratic lawmaker and supporter of
Israel also has been lukewarm toward the nomination.  New York 
Senator Charles Schumer said he wants to review Hagel’s
positions before making a decision.  Israel Issue  Hagel’s opponents point to a reference he once made to the
influence of the “Jewish lobby,” and they criticize his past
positions on Iran and the militant Palestinian organization
Hamas, which is viewed as a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  The Republican Jewish Coalition, a  group  headed by  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of the  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , opposes Hagel
because he “was not a reliable friend of Israel while in the
Senate or since.”  The Jewish advocacy group J Street, which calls itself
“pro-Israel, pro-peace,” has endorsed Hagel, saying he is a
defender of Israel and the victim of a smear campaign.  Albright also dismissed the notion that Iran may interpret
Obama’s choice of Hagel as a softening of the U.S. position and
a signal that the U.S. would let Iran acquire a nuclear weapon.
Iranian state-run Press TV has praised Hagel, a decorated
Vietnam War veteran who opposed unilateral sanctions against
Iran when he was a senator and has advocated negotiations over
Iran’s disputed nuclear program and caution before engaging in
military actions.  “The president has made very clear what his message is on
 Iran ,” that “containment is not a policy and that all options
are on the table,” Albright said, referring to Obama’s repeated
insistence that the U.S. will never permit Iran to build an
atomic bomb.  Iran Strike  Asked whether the U.S. might need to launch a military
strike on Iran this year to stop its suspected nuclear weapons
ambitions, Albright said she believes “one always needs to
leave all options on the table.” At the same time, “there’s a
real question as to whether a strike or a use of force would
accomplish what is necessary. And when you’re choosing a tool,
you need to choose one that you know will work and doesn’t have
unintended consequences,” she said.  While defending Hagel as a “really, really great
nominee,” Albright suggested Obama’s second-term cabinet would
benefit from more diversity. Obama hasn’t yet named a woman or a
minority to fill cabinet posts that are being vacated. Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. Jackson
have said they are stepping down. Obama has so far named four
white men to fill the top positions at the Departments of State,
Treasury and Defense and the CIA.  Cabinet Diversity  “The cabinet isn’t complete,” Albright said. “And I
think we have to see what will happen. I do think that a cabinet
benefits and a president benefits with a diversity, not just a
diversity in the way people look or their gender, but also in
diversity of views. And I have admired President Obama for his
confidence in listening to diverse views.”  Asked if the U.S. should be taking stronger action to stop
the bloodshed in  Syria , where the United Nations last week
raised its estimated of the death toll to at least 60,000 in the
almost two-year-old-long conflict, Albright said “we’re doing
the right thing there” by providing “non-lethal assistance,
humanitarian support.”  While she said more support for the provisional opposition
group is important, “we have to be careful about the unintended
consequences of getting involved with boots on the ground.”  Afghanistan’s Future  Asked about Afghanistan, whose President Hamid Karzai has
been in  Washington  for talks with Obama administration
officials, Albright said she believes that beyond whatever
decision may be made about residual troop levels after U.S.
combat forces are withdrawn by the end of 2014, the White House
is likely to support the government in Kabul with “non-military
means.”  “It’s my sense that we’re not just going to walk out of
 Afghanistan , that there will be a variety of programs,” she
said. “Many people are concerned about what happens to the
women’s issues” to ensure that any future government doesn’t
roll back rights for women, who were oppressed under the Taliban
regime that was ousted by the U.S. in 2001.  Asked about the depiction of the use of torture to find
Osama bin Laden in the film “Zero Dark Thirty,” which she
hasn’t yet seen, Albright said that “what I understand is that
torture is not the way to get information and is often
counterproductive.”  “It is not something that fits with American values,” she
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  