-- Albright Rejects Anti-Israel Criticism of Hagel (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-01-11T21:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/albright-rejects-anti-israel-criticism-of-hagel-transcript-.html
Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
it’s “ridiculous” for Republican critics to accuse former
Senator Chuck Hagel, President  Barack Obama ’s choice for defense
secretary, of being anti-Israel.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with former Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright. Madam Secretary, thank you so much for being
with us.  MADELEINE ALBRIGHT: Good to be with you, Al.  HUNT: Let’s start with Chuck Hagel, who you support.
Senator Lindsey Graham says that he would be the most anti-
Israel defense secretary in history.  ALBRIGHT: I think that’s ridiculous. I think that Senator
Hagel has been somebody that has voted for help for  Israel  over
the years, has made very clear his support for Israel, and has
talked about the historic bond. And so I think that is just a
charge that doesn’t make any sense at all.  HUNT: So why are the neocons so upset about him?  ALBRIGHT: I don’t know. I think that they just decided they
weren’t going to like whomever. And I think it’s totally
unjustified. I know Senator Hagel very well. I worked with him
when I was secretary and he was on the Foreign Relations
Committee. I have since -- we serve on the Defense Advisory
Board together. We actually teach together at Georgetown. And I
think he has really the most kind of well-thought-out views and
is a very careful analyst and student of foreign affairs and
understands it. So I think he’s a really, really great nominee.  HUNT: The other issue they picked up on and one of the
other issues is that he’s soft on  Iran . And the appointment -the
Hagel appointment got good reviews in the state-run press over
in Iran. Is there a danger that Tehran will misread this
appointment?  ALBRIGHT: No, I don’t think so, because I think that the
president has made very clear what his message is on Iran, as
have others, with senator and about-to-be Secretary of State
Kerry, if confirmed. And generally the American position and our
position in the P5-plus-one talks is that containment is not a
policy and that all options are on the table. So I think that
the president has made very clear what our policy is on Iran.  HUNT: What are the probabilities that we’ll have to take
action in 2013?  ALBRIGHT: I know people ask that. I’m not really good at
those kind of probabilities. I do think that we are very
concerned about how things are evolving in Iran and have to
maintain a tough position in conjunction with our friends and
allies.  And I think that the issue here is, I happen to believe
that one always needs to leave all options on the table. That
is, in a decision-making process, it’s very important to do
that. And obviously, as the president has said, they have not
taken any option off the table.  But there’s a real question as to whether a strike or a use
of force would accomplish what is necessary. And when you’re
choosing a tool, you need to choose one that you know will work
and doesn’t have unintended consequences.  HUNT: Let’s talk about what tools could or couldn’t be used
in  Syria . The Assad brutality continues. Is it time now to
aggressively arm the opposition or even take out the Syrian air
force, which would be the vehicle for any use of chemical
weapons?  ALBRIGHT: Well, I think that every day brings some kind of
new development in the Syria story. I thought President Assad’s
speech really was delusional, as Victoria Nuland at State said,
and that it is very clear that President Assad cannot be part of
any transitional government or provisional government.  I think we’re doing the right thing there, also, in terms
of providing a variety of different kind of assistance, non-
lethal assistance, humanitarian support. Also, I think in terms
of now providing assistance for Patriot missiles in  Turkey ,
because people are afraid of the spread of things.  HUNT: We have found out in other countries -- Iraq and
Libya -- that when dictators are toppled, that Jeffersonian
democrats don’t necessarily take over. What are your worries
about a post-Assad Syria?  ALBRIGHT: Well, I think that just in an analysis of it, one
is concerned about sectarian fighting, and Syria is a country
composed of a number of different groupings, that those that
would be the majority, that they would in some way inflict
punishment on the minority, and in the worst of all possible
worlds, that there would be some kind of more civil war
fighting.  And then also what I’m concerned about is the spread into
other parts of the region. So we talked about Turkey, but mostly
problems in Lebanon and Jordan, the neighboring parts, and that
there would really be kind of an unsettled situation in Syria,
where there wouldn’t be immediate resolution.  I think there is a question always about arming various
elements within a provisional group. And I think people are very
concerned and looking at that.  HUNT: We’re moving just to another trouble spot,
 Afghanistan . General Stanley McChrystal, the former U.S.
commander there, warned that too sharp and too precipitous a
withdrawal might enable the Taliban to take over much of the
country, destabilize  Pakistan , women’s rights would be lost. Is
that a legitimate concern?  ALBRIGHT: Well, I think there is a concern about what
happens. Our - as I understand the American position - combat
troops will be out by the end of 2014. But, again, as I
understand this, the -- President Obama and his team are looking
at what the options are. And there are a number of options, in
terms of all troops out, some kind of median number, a larger
number. One of the things you do learn always in decision-making
at the White House, there are always three options.  And -- but what you really need to do is look at them and
see what needs to be done, but also there are other ways to
support Afghanistan and the kind of structure with non-military
means. And I -- and it’s my sense that we’re not just going to
walk out of Afghanistan, that there will be a variety of
programs, and I do think many people are concerned about what
happens to the women’s issues and that the Taliban does not kind
of really re-impose the terrible life that they had about women
at the time.  HUNT: Madam Secretary, a striking quality about the
emerging second Obama term or the people they’ve appointed so
far is that there’s a bunch of middle-aged white guys. Are you
bothered by the lack of women being appointed to new positions?  ALBRIGHT: Well, the Cabinet isn’t complete. And I think we
have to see what will happen. I do think that a Cabinet benefits
and a president benefits with a diversity, not just a diversity
in the way people look or their gender, but also in diversity of
views. And I have admired President Obama for his confidence in
listening to diverse views.  HUNT: So you think there will be more -- a more diverse
Cabinet?  ALBRIGHT: I do. I mean, I don’t know, but I do think the
Cabinet is not complete, and there are many different positions,
and - and I respect the people that have been named, so - as
individuals. I’ve worked with all of them. But I do think that a
diversity of ideas is important.  HUNT: Let me ask you a final question. You’ve - you have
deep experience in national security and intelligence. The new
movie, “Zero Dark Thirty,” which is coming out, clearly
suggests that torture was the key to getting bin Laden. I don’t
know if you’ve seen the movie or not, but what’s your take on
that -- on that --  ALBRIGHT: I have not seen the movie. And I don’t know
whether that’s really the conclusion. But from what I understand
is that torture is not the way to get information and often
counterproductive. And somebody that I really respect on this is
Senator McCain, who happens to know in personal terms.  And so -- and I also -- that it’s not something that fits
with American values. And as one goes back and look at the kind
of things that took place, it would not be something that I
would favor. And I don’t think, from what evidence, is that it
doesn’t actually bring the kind of information that you want.
But I am going to see the movie. I did see “Argo,” which I
thought was a very good movie.  HUNT: You remember -  ALBRIGHT: I do. I do remember that, yes.  HUNT: Madam Secretary, as always, it’s really terrific to
talk to you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 