-- Talisman Plummeting Seen as Best Takeover Bet: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-11T21:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/talisman-plummeting-seen-as-best-takeover-bet-real-m-a.html
A sale is becoming  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM) ’s best bet as analysts turn more bearish on the Canadian
oil and gas producer than at any time in almost eight years.  After  plunging  48 percent in two years, the C$12 billion
($12 billion) company with projects worldwide is valued at a
lower multiple of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization than 92 percent of North American explorers and
producers of its size, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Analysts  project  that the stock will trade at C$14.05 a year
from now, the lowest average estimate since 2005 and below its
52-week high, the data show.  “There’s very little confidence from the Street now and
very little patience left among investors,”  Lanny Pendill , a
St. Louis-based analyst with Edward Jones & Co., said in a
telephone interview. If the outlook for Talisman doesn’t
improve, “the likelihood of a takeout or a sale certainly
increases. It’s time to put up or shut up,” he said.  Hal Kvisle, who took over as chief executive officer in
September, has pledged to make Talisman a “better performer.”
Still, its low price creates an opportunity for buyers because
the  assets  spanning from western  Canada ’s gas-rich Montney Shale
formation to Southeast Asia are still worth C$26 a share, more
than double yesterday’s price, according to Canaccord Financial
Inc. Oil companies in regions overlapping with Talisman, such as
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , could be logical
suitors, Edward Jones said.  Talisman produces from five gas regions in North America,
including the Montney and Duvernay formations, and operates
internationally, with projects in the North Sea off the U.K. and
Norway as well as in  Indonesia .  Stock Drop  Shareholders lost more than C$10 billion in the last two
years as a rise in the use of so-called hydraulic fracturing
techniques, used to extract gas trapped in shale rock, caused a
gas glut and North American prices of the heating fuel to
collapse. Talisman also has been spending more money than it’s
been bringing in and struggled with its North Sea operations,
where production slid and it was forced to evacuate a platform
at a new project off  Norway .  Even after Kvisle replaced John Manzoni as CEO four months
ago and promised to boost shareholder returns, the outlook has
never been so bleak. Analysts project that the shares will sell
for C$14.05 in the next 12 months. While that’s 21 percent
higher than yesterday’s price, it’s still the lowest average
 estimate  since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Talisman already commands a lower  valuation  than 92 percent
of explorers and producers in North America larger than $1
billion. Its enterprise value yesterday was  4.2 times  its
trailing 12-month Ebitda, compared with the industry’s median
multiple of 8, the data show.  ‘Opportunity Here’  The company also is valued at about 4.9 times its debt-
adjusted cash flow for 2013, compared with 6.1 times on average
for Talisman’s peers, according to an estimate by Philip Skolnick, a New York-based analyst for Canaccord. The low
valuation could attract suitors, he said.  “The stock had deserved to be cheap for a while, but now
there’s an opportunity here,” Skolnick said in a phone
interview. “Everyone is bearish in terms of their targets and
very cautious, but that’s the opportunity, too. It has great
assets and somebody can get those for a cheap valuation.”  Talisman isn’t pursuing a sale, said Phoebe Buckland, a
spokeswoman.  Growth Strategy  “Of course, we can’t rule out a sale because we can’t
predict the actions of others, but we do recognize what we need
to do to build a stronger company and to build shareholder
value,” Buckland said in a phone interview yesterday. “This
will take time, but we’re on the right track to position the
company to deliver long-term shareholder value.”  Talisman  plans  to outline its capital spending plans for
2013 at an investor open house on March 6.  Skolnick at Canaccord estimates the sum of Talisman’s parts
is worth C$26 a share, versus the C$11.60 investors bought it
for yesterday. Still, even he projects Talisman’s  stock  will
climb to only C$14.10 this year as a standalone company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Typically when you have assets that are attractive within
a company that can’t execute and whose stock price is completely
beaten down and cheap, you see M&A pick up,” said Edward
Jones’s Pendill.  Today, Talisman’s shares rose 4.3 percent to C$12.10, the
biggest gain since Aug. 1.  The desire to ship a liquefied form of natural gas to Asia
is driving interest in assets similar to Talisman’s in the
Montney and Duvernay basins. Deals were announced last year for
Progress Energy Resources Corp. and Nexen Inc. after the stock
prices languished.  Attractive Acreage  Talisman’s Montney acreage is “Progress-esque,” Robert Cooper, an analyst at Haywood Securities Inc. in Calgary,  said
in a phone interview. “It’s big enough, it’s underdeveloped, so
there’s lots of scale there.”  Talisman also has holdings in  Alberta ’s Duvernay formation
where companies are drilling gas that’s rich in petroleum
liquids, which sells for higher prices.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
world’s largest energy company by market value, agreed to buy
Duvernay holder Celtic Exploration Ltd. in October, and Chinese
state-owned PetroChina Co. is purchasing a 49.9 percent stake in
 Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s Duvernay acreage.  “We’ve seen the entire industry refocus on North America,
whether it’s shale gas or shale oil,” Pendill said. “With 50
percent of Talisman’s production coming from North America, that
alone would probably be appealing to some.”  Logical Suitors  Shell might be among logical suitors, he said.  Europe ’s
biggest oil company has a 40 percent stake in a liquefied
natural gas project in Canada’s British Columbia province, where
Talisman operates, and will export gas from fields including the
Montney. Like Talisman, it also has fields in the North Sea.  ConocoPhillips, the largest U.S. independent oil producer,
also could make sense given its interest in North American
projects, Pendill said. ConocoPhillips has been increasing
output at its shale operations on the continent, with its Bakken
and Eagle Ford production doubling in the third quarter from a
year earlier.  “Shell has got operations in all the areas that Talisman
does,” he said. “We haven’t really seen them do a big deal.
Conoco is kind of refocusing on North America and it would fit
pretty darn well with Talisman, too.”  Jonathan French, a spokesman for The Hague-based Shell,
declined to comment on the company’s potential interest in
Talisman. Daren Beaudo, a spokesman for Houston-based
ConocoPhillips, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Staying Solo  While Talisman has been speculated as a takeover target
since at least last year, David Neuhauser of Livermore Partners
Inc. said the company still might resist a sale to give Kvisle
time to improve the  operations  and take steps to better develop
and exploit the company’s assets. That could include entering
into partnerships with other companies, rather than agreeing to
a full takeover, he said.  “It’s been talked about for so long and it’s gone nowhere
in the last year,” said Neuhauser, who manages about $100
million for the firm in Northbrook,  Illinois . “The new CEO has
shown investors that he’s looking at strengthening the company
and positioning it for growth. He’s going to get the value out
of the company and he’s going to do that through some joint
ventures and not through an outright sale of the company.”  Kvisle promised to boost shareholder returns by slashing
capital spending to “live within our means” on a conference
call Oct. 30. Talisman will focus on projects that will deliver
sustainable cash flow more quickly, recoiling from “high-risk
exploration” in multiple areas around the world, he said.  Kvisle also said in a separate interview the same day that
while Talisman wasn’t ruling out a sale of the company, it
wasn’t an option the board was considering.  “Everybody’s for sale at a price,” Canaccord’s Skolnick
said. “The company has to do something different, obviously,
than what they’ve done in the past. Of all the seniors in
Canada, this is one that still is sellable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  