-- ANA’s Cracked 787 Window, Oil Leak Add to Boeing Woes
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-11T11:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/all-nippon-s-cracked-787-window-oil-leak-add-to-boeing-woes.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , the biggest
operator of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 planes, said a Dreamliner cockpit
window cracked during a flight today and another jet leaked oil,
adding to a series of glitches the aircraft suffered this week.  ANA, as the Tokyo-based carrier is known, canceled a
domestic flight from Matsuyama in western Japan to  Tokyo  after
the plane’s window cracked during the previous flight, airline
spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said by telephone today. An oil leak
was found when another 787 landed at Miyazaki airport, she said.  The U.S. is investigating a fire on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) 
787 in  Boston  this week that the  National Transportation Safety
Board  said caused severe damage to the battery pack area of the
plane. Another JAL Dreamliner flight was delayed the next day
after fuel leaked from the jet, denting the plane’s image in a
year when Boeing is set to double 787 production.  India ’s aviation regulator is concerned about the problems
being reported on the 787 and is waiting for the U.S. report, a
civil aviation ministry official, who asked not to be identified
citing government rules, said in New Delhi today. State-owned
 Air India  Ltd. has six Dreamliners, the world’s first jet with a
fuselage made chiefly of composite materials.  Air India is having the electrical system on one of the
planes modified by Boeing, after the planemaker provided an
“interim solution” to a fault detected in September. The
planemaker has said it is “absolutely confident” in the
reliability and performance of the Dreamliner.  Window Replaced  A call to Boeing’s Tokyo office outside regular hours
wasn’t answered.  ANA, which earlier had two cases of window cracks on 787s,
is replacing the cockpit window after today’s incident, Tezuka
said. The Dreamliner that had the oil leak at Miyazaki in
southern Japan returned to Tokyo after inspections, she said.  Japan Airlines also had a cracked window on a 787 flight to
Tokyo from  New Delhi  in October, Sze Hunn Yap, a spokeswoman at
the carrier, said by telephone today. The flight returned to New
Delhi to replace the window, she said.  ANA replaced windows on domestic Dreamliner flights on Dec.
18 and Dec. 24 after the previous two incidents, Tezuka said.
The carrier also canceled a regional Dreamliner flight on Jan.
9, due to a glitch in the computer controlling the brakes.  The carrier has encountered four issues with the 787 that
are specific to the Dreamliner since starting scheduled
operations with the plane in November 2011, Tezuka said. The
airline had cockpit computer error messages in the first six
months of flying that led to delays and cancellations before
being fixed by a Boeing software update in May, she said.  On-Time Performance  In March, the carrier had to check the tail wing, which
revealed no problems. In July, an engine gearbox issue led to
some delays and cancellations, according to Tezuka. The fourth
main problem occurred in October with a leaking fuel pipe, which
was replaced, she said.  Still, ANA’s 787 had a 93.8 percent on-time performance in
its first year of operations, even with the glitches, matching
the performance for the whole fleet, according to the airline.
ANA ranked as the world’s  most on-time  international airline in
2011, according to FlightStats.  U.S. regulators plan to review the power system Boeing
created for its 787 Dreamliner after the  Japan  Airlines fire on
Jan. 7, a person familiar with the matter said. The 787’s design
and manufacturing, which the FAA approved in 2011, will be part
of the evaluation, the person said.  Flames about two feet (0.6 meter) high shot out of an
avionics bay in the jet’s belly as the plane sat at a Logan
International Airport gate before its next departure, and there
was a small explosion, Massachusetts Port Authority Fire Chief
Robert Donahue said.  This is a crucial year for the 787 as Chicago-based Boeing
increases deliveries, trying to get out from under the weight of
seven delays to the jet’s introduction that spanned more than
three years. Boeing is set to double 787 production this year to
help fill remaining orders for about 800.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  