-- Halla Gains on Plan to Buy Visteon’s Climate Units: Seoul Mover
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-01-11T06:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/halla-gains-on-plan-to-buy-visteon-s-climate-units-seoul-mover.html
Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  rose in
Seoul trading after deciding to buy majority shareholder  Visteon
Corp. (VC) ’s automotive climate units to combine the businesses and
make them more competitive.  Halla Climate, a maker of car air-control systems and
components, climbed 2.3 percent to 22,400 won at the close on
the Korea Exchange, the highest level since Jan. 2. The Kospi
index fell 0.5 percent.  The auto components maker will purchase Visteon’s climate
businesses in countries including China, India,  France ,
 Netherlands , Mexico, and the U.S., for a total of at least 410
billion won ($388 million), according to regulatory filings by
the Daejon, South Korea-based company. The deal will create the
second-biggest supplier of auto climate components and systems
in the industry, Visteon said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  “The price of the deal seems reasonable and shouldn’t be a
burden to Halla Climate’s financial structure,” Yim Eun Young,
an analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. wrote in a report today.
“The deal will lead to customer diversification, global network
establishment, and improvements in the company’s efficiency.”  ‘Predator not Prey’  Visteon plans to sell its climate businesses to Halla
Climate for cash, creating a combined entity called Halla-
Visteon Climate Group that will be “predator not prey” in the
industry, Tim Leuliette, Visteon’s chief executive officer, said
at an investor conference in  Boston  in September.  Customers have wanted the businesses of Visteon and Halla
Climate put together for more than a decade, and the transaction
won’t be subject to a shareholder vote, he said.  “Approval of the agreement by Visteon’s board of directors
and entry into the final agreement are expected soon,”  Van
Buren Township , Michigan-based Visteon said in a statement on
its website. The auto parts maker, which will continue to own 70
percent of the company created by the deal, said the transaction
is on track to be completed in the first quarter of 2013.  Visteon failed in July to buy the remaining 30 percent of
Halla Climate after South Korea’s National Pension Service,
which owns 8.1 percent, rejected its bid. The U.S. company, spun
off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, has tried to shed lower-margin
units to focus on faster-growing Asian operations.  Halla Climate’s acquisition announcement clouds Halla Group
Chairman Chung Mong Won’s ambitions to rebuild the group, which
sold units after going bankrupt in 1997.  Mando Corp. (060980) , the
group’s biggest unit, had said in August it may offer to buy
Visteon’s 70 percent stake in Halla Climate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  