-- Mallya’s Diageo Deal Said to Face India Regulator Concern
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-01-11T13:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/mallya-s-diageo-deal-said-to-face-india-regulator-concern.html
Vijay Mallya, the Indian liquor
tycoon seeking cash to revive his  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , is
encountering opposition from the country’s stock-market
regulator to his plan to sell control of  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)   The Securities and Exchange Board of  India  has raised
objections to a clause in  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s 111.7 billion-rupee
($2.04 billion) takeover of the whiskey maker, according to a
person involved in the discussions.  The deal, announced in November, includes an option for
Mallya’s  United Breweries Holdings Ltd. (UB)  to sell some or all of
its stake in United Spirits to Diageo within seven years at a
price of 1,440 rupees a share. Such a clause constitutes a
forward contract, which may not meet takeover rules, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  The regulator’s objection comes as Mallya, 57, looks to
restart flights by Kingfisher Airlines using funds from his
United Breweries Group investment vehicle, which controls his
stake in the carrier along with his Kingfisher beer brand and
whiskey assets. Bangalore, India-based Kingfisher Airlines lost
its operating license on Jan. 1 after failing to convince
authorities it has enough cash to restart operations.  Purchase Terms  Diageo, the world’s biggest distiller, agreed in November
to buy a majority stake in United Spirits, the producer of
McDowell’s and Bagpiper whiskey. The transaction would involve
United Breweries selling a 19.3 percent stake in the spirits
maker. United Spirits shareholders have voted in favor of a
further share allotment to London-based Diageo, which would
result in the distiller having a 27.4 percent stake. Diageo
would also make a mandatory open offer to acquire another 26
percent of the stock at 1,440 rupees a share.  United Spirits declined 1.3 percent to 1,879.45 rupees at
the close in Mumbai. United Breweries Holdings  fell  5.1 percent
to 101.6 rupees, its lowest level in more than three months.
Diageo rose as much as 0.8 percent and was trading up 0.5
percent at 1,797.5 pence at 1:46 p.m. in  London . The stock has
 gained  28 percent in the past 12 months, valuing the U.K.
distiller at 45.1 billion pounds ($73 billion).  “We continue to cooperate with Sebi as we address their
questions during this review period,” Diageo said in an e-
mailed statement. Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for United
Breweries, declined to comment.  India’s Economic Times newspaper reported earlier today
that the  Securities and Exchange Board of India  may raise
objections to the purchase. The airline’s revival plan, which
included a 6.5 billion-rupee pledge from its parent, received
another setback today as an Indian Civil Aviation Ministry
official said it lacked funds for payments due to airports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  