-- Almunia Says EU Probe on Google Patents Differs From U.S.
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-11T17:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/almunia-says-eu-probe-on-google-patents-differs-from-u-s-1-.html
European Union regulators continue
to probe  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s use
of injunctions to prevent rivals using key patents, despite the
end of a similar U.S. case, EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said today.  “The situation in the European market and in the cases we
are dealing with in  Europe  is not the same,” Almunia told
reporters after an event in  London .  Google is being investigated by the EU for seeking and
enforcing injunctions for standards-essential patents against
 Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating
system and Xbox gaming console, following complaints by the two
companies. In a separate probe into allegations that Google
discriminates against rivals in its search results, the EU last
month asked the company to submit concessions that may lead to a
settlement.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business and earlier this month when the Mountain View,
California-based company agreed to lift court injunctions for
patents it inherited from Motorola Mobility when it acquired the
company last year.  EU regulators are also investigating Google’s Android
operating system, Almunia said last year. That probe won’t be
covered by a settlement in the search case, Almunia told the
Financial Times in an interview published yesterday.  Almunia said in December that regulators are
“dissatisfied” every time they see companies request court
injunctions to block the use of patents that are part of an
industry standard.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  received antitrust objections from
the EU last month, days after it said it would withdraw such
injunctions that sought to block sales of Apple products. The EU
is probing whether Samsung violated agreements to license key
patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers on fair terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 