-- UPS Takeover Probe Seeks TNT Replacement, Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-11T15:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/almunia-says-tnt-would-need-to-be-substituted-in-the-market-1-.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s
proposed 5.16 billion-euro ($6.9 billion) takeover of  TNT
Express NV (TNTE)  would require another company to fill the void with
similar market power, the European Union’s antitrust chief said.  “We need to substitute the TNT role as integrator with an
equivalent player one way or another,”  Joaquin Almunia  told
reporters on the sidelines of a conference in  London  today. So-
called integrators, such as  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, are parcel-
delivery firms that offer air-freight services.  Regulators sent formal objections over the takeover in
October, saying TNT and DHL, the market-share leader, are UPS’s
main competitors for next-day express deliveries within Europe,
according to a person familiar with the EU complaint. UPS’s plan
requires “substantial remedies” to eliminate EU antitrust
concerns, Almunia said in November.  The EU is currently reviewing UPS’s concessions, such as
selling assets and offering air-network access to rivals, as the
company seeks antitrust approval for the biggest acquisition in
its 105-year history.  “We are looking into the remedies that the parties have
proposed,” and “to what extent those remedies can provide the
same kind of competitive pressure in this market,” Almunia said
today. He said ongoing talks between UPS and regulators are
“friendly” and that the EU’s review covered “every one of the
markets in the member states including in eastern  Europe .”  The EU’s antitrust regulator set a formal Feb. 5 deadline
to rule on the deal.  “Under some conditions in merger cases the clock can be
stopped, but so far I don’t see these conditions in this case,”
Almunia said on the possibility of suspending the regulatory
review of the deal to finalize details.  UPS didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
reaction to Almunia’s comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 