-- Apple, Google Deal for Kodak Patents Approved by Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-11T18:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/apple-google-deal-for-kodak-patents-approved-by-judge.html
Technology companies including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  won court approval of a $527 million deal
for  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  patents that are being sold as part of
Kodak’s bid to exit  bankruptcy protection .  The agreement, approved at a hearing today by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan , is worth less than
the more than $2 billion value of the patents estimated by a
Kodak advisory firm. Gropper acknowledged that the company was
“disappointed” in the price.  “But we’re moving the case forward, so we should be
optimistic,” he said.  The group, which also includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)   Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , and Samsung
Electronics Co., came together after Kodak won bankruptcy court
approval last year to auction more than 1,000 patents related to
the capture, manipulation and sharing of digital images.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , filed for bankruptcy
in January last year and began the auction in August. The
company said in court papers that a previous estimate of as much
$2.6 billion for the patents “was not achievable.”  Michael Torkin, an attorney for Kodak, said the sale
agreement is the best deal the company could get and that it
achieves “patent peace” by settling litigation. Kodak has said
it will receive about $525 million from the transaction.  Competing Groups  Before joining forces, Apple and Google had led competing
groups bidding for Kodak’s patents, people familiar with the
situation previously said. Combining allowed each company to
only pay for the patents and protection it needed.  Partnerships are formed in patent sales because they allow
competitors to neutralize potential infringement litigation. A
group including Apple, Microsoft and RIM bought Nortel Networks
Corp.’s more than 6,000 patents for $4.5 billion out of
bankruptcy. Google lost the auction for those patents after
making an initial offer of $900 million.  A ruling against Kodak by the U.S. International Trade
Commission dealt a blow to the company’s pursuit of a higher
price for its patents. The decision was the result of a two-year
legal fight against Apple and RIM over a patent for previewing
digital images on cameras. It dashed Kodak’s plans to pursue
royalty payments from Apple and RIM it once estimated at more
than $1 billion.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  