-- Hartford CEO Has Chemotherapy After Brain Tumor Removed
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-12T18:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/hartford-s-mcgee-having-chemotherapy-after-brain-tumor-removed.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  said Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  had a tumor removed
from his brain and will return to work Jan. 14.  McGee, 58, will have low-dose chemotherapy and radiation
treatment “in an abundance of caution,” he said yesterday in a
statement sent by Hartford. Post-surgical tests showed McGee is
free of cancer, said Shannon LaPierre, a spokeswoman for the
company. The tumor was precancerous, she said.  “The good news is that the procedure went well and I am
feeling great,” McGee said in a letter to employees yesterday.
“I was surprised to learn of the tumor, since I had not had any
symptoms.”  The CEO remained in charge during the period in which he
had the surgery, and has been working from home, LaPierre said.
He underwent the surgery “over the holidays,” according to the
letter.  McGee, a former executive at Bank of America Corp., took
over Hartford in 2009 and repaid a $3.4 billion bailout the next
year. He’s been selling life units to increase the Hartford,
Connecticut-based company’s focus on property-casualty
insurance.  Hartford has climbed about  34 percent  in the past year in
New York trading, and fell 17 cents to $23.90 yesterday. The
stock traded as low as $14.56 in 2011 as McGee grappled with
liabilities on annuity contracts.  Early Treatment  Tumors can harm brain cells, both directly and by producing
damaging inflammation, placing pressure on other areas of the
brain, and by changing the pressure inside the skull, according
to the  National Institutes of Health .  Brain tumors can occur at any age. They are classified
based on their location, what kind of tissue is infected and
whether they are benign or cancerous. They may be symptom-less
until they’re sizable. Symptoms may include headaches, changes
in cognition and seizures, according to the NIH.  Benign tumors don’t contain cancer cells and grow slowly.
Cancerous tumors grow quickly and invade healthy brain areas.  The earlier a brain tumor is treated, the better the
patient’s prognosis. Radiation therapy may be used to treat the
tumor, as well as chemotherapy. The radiation kills cancer cells
and shrinks tumors, and chemotherapy slows or kills rapidly
dividing cells. After surgery, chemotherapy drugs may help
prevent tumor cells from returning.  McGee said he and his doctors expect “minimal side
effects” from chemotherapy and radiation treatment. Thomas Renyi, a Hartford director, said in the statement that McGee
kept the board informed before and after the surgery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  