-- Asia Currencies Rally a Third Week on Japan Stimulus, China Data
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-11T21:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/asia-currencies-rally-a-third-week-on-japan-stimulus-china-data.html
Asian currencies completed a third
weekly advance as  Japan ’s 10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion)
stimulus spending and a rebound in China’s exports improved the
outlook for a global economic recovery.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose to a 16-month
high as overseas sales from China,  Taiwan  and Malaysia grew more
than analysts forecast, according to official figures released
this week. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s fiscal package
will increase gross domestic product by about 2 percentage
points and create about 600,000 jobs, according to a statement
released by the Cabinet Office yesterday.  “The global outlook is continuing to improve and we remain
constructive on  emerging markets  for the year as external risks
diminish,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “The mood was boosted by the
Japanese fiscal stimulus plan. We expect most regional
currencies to do well.”  Malaysia ’s ringgit climbed 1 percent in the past five days
to 3.0218 per dollar in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. South Korea’s won appreciated 0.9 percent to
1,054.69,  Thailand ’s baht gained 0.8 percent to 30.27 and the
Philippine peso rose 0.7 percent to 40.605.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.28 percent this
week. The gauge touched 118.70 yesterday, the strongest level
since September 2011.  Record Inflows  Emerging-market equity funds attracted their biggest-ever
weekly inflows of $7.4 billion in the seven days ended Jan. 9,
Jonathan Garner and Pankaj Mataney, Morgan Stanley analysts,
wrote in a report yesterday. Developing-nation debt lured the
second-largest inflows of $2 billion, according to the report,
citing data from EPFR Global.  China , the top destination for exports from South Korea,
Taiwan, Malaysia and Thailand, reported a 6 percent increase in
imports for December this week, the fastest growth in six
months. Exports climbed 14 percent, the most since May.  The ringgit gained for a fifth day, its longest winning
streak since September, after government reports showed factory
production and exports improved. Industrial output in Southeast
Asia’s third-largest economy rose 7.5 percent in November from a
year earlier, while overseas shipments grew 3.3 percent, both
beating economists’ estimates.  New Optimism  “China trade numbers are fueling optimism global growth is
picking up,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist in  Singapore 
at ABN Amro Bank NV. “There is new optimism and new money
coming into financial markets. Risk-on may persist till the end
of the month.”  South  Korea ’s won rose to a 17-month high after the central
bank kept borrowing costs unchanged.  The Bank of Korea left its seven-day repurchase rate at
2.75 percent in a decision predicted by all but one of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Governor Kim Choong Soo said he
will closely monitor the movements of the won, the best
performer of the past year among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “There are some signs the Korean and the global economies
may have bottomed, reducing the need for an interest-rate cut,”
said Kong Dong Rak, fixed-income analyst at Hanwha Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The Bank of Korea already cut rates
last year to help the economy and too many rate reductions could
weaken the impact of a cut.”  Elsewhere in Asia,  India ’s rupee strengthened 0.7 percent
this week to 54.6825 per dollar, according data compiled by
Bloomberg. Taiwan’s currency advanced 0.3 percent to NT$29.039,
while the Chinese  yuan  gained 0.23 percent to 6.2161.
 Indonesia ’s rupiah rose 0.3 percent to 9,636.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  