-- Australia Faces Soaring Temperatures as Fire Bans Enforced
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-11T06:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/australia-faces-soaring-temperatures-as-fire-bans-enforced.html
Total fire bans are being enforced
in  Australia ’s two most-populous states today as high
temperatures bring the return of severe conditions.  Temperatures in Sydney, which reached 42.3 degrees Celsius
(108.1 degrees Fahrenheit) earlier this week, are forecast to
soar to 39 degrees tomorrow after hitting 29 degrees today,
according to the  Bureau of Meteorology . National capital
Canberra is expected to hit a maximum of 37 degrees tomorrow.  Firefighters in New South Wales and Victoria states
received a reprieve yesterday when cooler temperatures gave them
a chance to contain wildfires that spread in searing heat
earlier this week. The continent registered a national average
of 40.33 degrees Celsius on Jan. 7, the hottest day in more than
100 years of records.  In New South  Wales , more than 80 fires are still burning,
according to emergency services. Livestock losses are estimated
at more than 21,000, mostly sheep, at the cost of A$2.5 million
($2.6 million) to A$3 million, Matt Linnegar, the National
Farmers’ Federation’s chief executive officer, told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. The losses are unlikely to
impact lamb prices, he said.  Australia’s hot, dry climate makes bushfires a major risk
in the southern hemisphere’s summer. The worst fires in the
nation’s history, the so-called Black Saturday blazes, killed
173 people as they swept through rural Victoria in February
2009.  Forecasters are also watching Severe Tropical  Cyclone
Narelle , which has strengthened to a category 4 storm off
Australia’s resource-rich northwest coast. The storm has
triggered the evacuation of off-shore natural-gas workers for
 Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and seen Rio Tinto Group suspend
iron-ore loading on to ships due to port closures.  Narelle is likely to trigger wind gusts of more than 140
kilometers (97 miles) an hour on Jan. 13 that may affect the
town of Exmouth, the bureau said. It’s not forecast to make
landfall within the next two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  