-- Taymor’s ‘Spider-Man’ Royalties Lawsuit Set for May Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/taymor-s-spider-man-royalties-lawsuit-set-for-may-trial.html
A lawsuit between the producers of
the Broadway musical “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” and the
show’s fired director, Julie Taymor, is scheduled to go to trial
May 27 if they fail to reach a settlement.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in New York yesterday
said that while both sides informed her in August that they had
agreed to settle the lawsuit over royalties and creative
control, they have yet to reach an agreement.  Charles Spada, a lawyer for Taymor, wrote to the court
yesterday saying both sides had made “significant progress”
toward an agreement.  In the letter, Spada also asked the judge to refer the
litigation to U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger for a
settlement conference, “in the event the parties are unable to
finalize a settlement in the next few days.”  Spada had also written to the court last month requesting
an extension until Jan. 9 to finalize the settlement.  Spada said in the Dec. 19 letter that the parties believed
that putting the case back on the judge’s calendar “may well
jeopardize the settlement-in-principle that they have reached.”  “We fear that the negative publicity that would be
generated by a reinstatement of the litigation could jeopardize
future settlement of this case,” he said in that letter.  Extension Granted  Forrest granted Spada’s request in December with a comment
on the Dec. 19 letter that read, “Extension to Jan. 9, 2013
granted. But really, truly, I mean it. This is the last
extension, the final one; there won’t be another extension -- no
more.”  Taymor was removed from the $75 million show in March 2011,
after critics lambasted it during an extended 182-performance
preview period. She sued the producers in November 2011, saying
they violated her intellectual-property rights by making changes
without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her as a co-
book writer.  In 2003, producers began negotiating with Marvel
Entertainment, a unit of  The Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  that owns the
rights to the character, about staging “Spider-Man” on
Broadway, according to Taymor’s suit. The original producing
team asked Bono and The Edge of the band U2 to write a score and
Taymor to direct. In 2004, she wrote a three-page treatment for
the show and the following year she registered it with the U.S.
Copyright Office, according to her suit.  Minimum Royalties  In her complaint, Taymor said that as the musical’s co-
author she was owed guaranteed minimum royalties of $2,917.50 a
week.  The producers agreed in February to pay her director’s
royalties as part of a settlement with the Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society.  Forrest had originally scheduled a Jan. 7 trial. At a June
hearing, lawyers debated how much of Taymor’s treatment for the
show was original and how much was derived from the “Spider-
Man” comics introduced in 1962. Comic book excerpts, scripts
and financial papers were filed in court.  In August, the parties filed court papers notifying the
judge that they had reached an accord. Terms of the agreement in
principle weren’t disclosed.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 11-
cv-08002, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  