-- Bank of Korea Holds Rate as Park Vows Effort to Boost Growth
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-01-11T04:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bank-of-korea-holds-rates-as-park-vows-measures-to-boost-growth.html
The Bank of  Korea  held borrowing
costs unchanged for a third month amid promises from incoming
President Park Geun Hye to increase efforts to support economic
growth and create jobs.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.75 percent after a 25 basis-point
cut in October, the central bank said in a statement in Seoul
today. Thirteen of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted the move, which Kim said was not unanimous, and one
forecast a cut.  The central bank decision follows plans from Park’s
government to spend 72 percent of the budget in the first half
of the year to aid a recovery. At the same time, the BOK today
reduced its forecast for 2013 growth to 2.8 percent from 3.2
percent, highlighting obstacles to a rebound that include the
won’s 27 percent rise against the Japanese yen in the last year.  “The non-unanimous decision opens the door for a rate cut
soon,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “They may cut it as early as next
month to curb the won’s gain.”  The won, the best performer of the past year among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, advanced 0.4 percent to
1,056.03 per dollar as of 12:45 p.m. in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi index of stocks fell 0.7
percent.  Won Volatility  Kim said today he will closely monitor the won’s movements
and that the central bank’s role is to control volatility in the
currency through “smoothing” operations. The economy will
expand 3.8 percent in 2014 and the central bank sees inflation
for this year at 2.5 percent and 2.8 percent in 2014, he said.  The yen has weakened amid Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s calls
for unlimited easing, boosting South Korea’s export rival. At
the same time, South Korea’s  overseas sales  unexpectedly
declined in December for the first time in three months.  Automaker  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  is among South Korean companies
that may be hit by gains in the won and weakness in the yen
because of their competition with Japanese counterparts, Daiwa
Capital Markets said in a report last month.  The nation’s  economic growth rate  will probably gradually
increase from the middle of this year as the global economy
recovers, the central bank said on Dec. 27. Gross domestic
product expanded 1.5 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since 2009.  Welfare Boost  Park, who takes office next month, in addition to the
stimulus boost from the budget has promised to increase spending
on welfare and unveil a 18 trillion won fund to help avoid
defaults on loans. Park said in a New Year’s speech that her top
priorities will be “improving people’s livelihoods and
resolving the difficulties of the poor and the needy.”  “Greater fiscal stimulus reduces pressure from the Bank of
Korea to support growth via cutting policy rates,” said Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. Price
pressures are also likely to rise over the year as demand
increases, he said.  The central bank this year adopted a narrower target range
for inflation through 2015, of between 2.5 percent and 3.5
percent. Consumer prices increased 1.4 percent from a year
earlier in December, the slowest pace in four months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  