-- Bank of America Agrees to Settlement of Merrill Claims
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-12T00:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bank-of-america-agrees-to-settlement-of-merrill-claims.html
Bank of America Corp.  agreed to pay
$62.5 million to resolve investor claims that the bank’s
directors mishandled the acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co.,
company officials said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  New York  today approved
Bank of America’s offer to add $42.5 million to a $20 million
settlement of shareholder lawsuits alleging the bank’s board
allowed executives to overpay for Merrill Lynch in 2009. Castel
indicated in a Jan. 4 order he had questions about the
“fairness, reasonableness and adequacy” of the original
accord, according to court filings.  “We supported the terms of the settlement and we are
gratified that the matter has been resolved,” Lawrence Grayson,
a Bank of America spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today.  Resolution of the claims against Bank of America’s board
clears the way for Castel to focus on whether to bless a more
than $2.4 billion settlement of other investors’ securities-
fraud claims over the Merrill Lynch deal.  The shareholders claimed former Chief Executive Officer
 Kenneth D. Lewis  and other board members misled them about the
losses Merrill Lynch incurred before the $18.5 billion buyout
and should have pulled the plug on the deal.  New York-based Merrill Lynch, founded by Charles E. Merrill
in 1914, suffered at least $50 billion in losses and writedowns
linked to the collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market
before agreeing to the sale.  Accord Challenged  Castel raised questions about the original $20 million
settlement of Bank of America shareholders’ claims against Lewis
and other directors after investors who’d sued in Delaware over
the handling of the Merrill Lynch deal challenged it.  They argued that the accord amounted to just 4 percent of
the $500 million in insurance Bank of America bought to cover
directors and less than 1 percent of the more than $2.4 billion
it agreed to resolve securities-fraud claims over the Merrill
buyout. The settlement also would wipe out the  Delaware  claims,
they said.  The $20 million settlement also amounted to about 13
percent of the $150 million fine the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission levied against Bank of America in 2010 over
the Merrill Lynch purchase.  The SEC accused Bank of America in August 2009 of failing
to disclose to investors it had agreed to let Merrill Lynch pay
as much as $5.8 billion in employee bonuses and incentives.  ‘Grossly Inadequate’  “The grossly inadequate $20 million value of the proposed
settlement cannot be justified under any circumstances,”  Paul
Paradis , a lawyer for Bank of America investors who sued in
Delaware, said in a court filing.  “The Delaware objectors were pleased to be able to
negotiate a three-fold increase in the settlement,” Paradis
said today in a telephone interview.  Given the questions about adequacy of the original
settlement, Castel ordered attorneys for Bank of America and
lawyers for competing groups of investors to meet earlier this
week “to discuss revisions to the proposed settlements,”
according to court filings.  The case is In re Bank of America Securities, Derivative
and Employee Retirement Income Securities Act litigation,
09-02058, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan .) The Delaware case is Nancy Rothbaum v. Kenneth D.
Lewis, CA4307, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  