-- Bank Indonesia Pledges to Counter Market Concerns on Deficit
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-01-11T10:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bank-indonesia-pledges-to-counter-market-concerns-on-deficit.html
Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution said the central bank will take steps to respond to
concerns about the country’s current-account deficit and balance
of payments, which has led to a slump in the rupiah.  Policy makers will use market operations instead of issuing
new rules to ease worries that are “out of proportion,”
Nasution told reporters in Jakarta today. Exporters aren’t
converting their revenue into rupiah, contributing to a lack of
dollar supply in the market, he said.  The rupiah dropped 5.9 percent against the dollar last year,
the worst performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen, as rising imports and declining exports led
to a widening current-account deficit. The weakening currency
risks exacerbating price pressures in a nation where growth has
exceeded 6 percent for eight quarters, and the central bank has
intervened to support its  exchange rate .  “With exports starting to improve but with imports still
growing high, the market sees there’s concern over a weakening
balance of payments,” Nasution said. “This analysis isn’t
wrong, but our balance of payments actually isn’t bad because in
terms of balance of payments, we can’t look at only the current-
account deficit but we must also look at capital and financial
transactions which are still positive.”  The rupiah rose 0.3 percent to 9,635 per dollar as of 5:39
p.m. in Jakarta today after declining as much as 1.3 percent
earlier. It reached the lowest level since September 2009
yesterday.  Fuel Subsidies  The  current-account shortfall  last year was probably 2.4
percent of gross domestic product, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said Jan. 7. That would be the largest since 1996.
Indonesia has recorded a current-account deficit for the four
quarters through September 2012.  Policy makers have been unwilling to allow the rupiah to
adjust appropriately to the shortfall,  Paul Mackel , HSBC
Holdings Plc’s head of Asian currency research in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a report released yesterday.  “The natural adjustment of a weaker currency to a current-
account deficit is not being allowed to filter through, which
could help the deficit to stabilize,” Mackel said. “The other
issue for the deficit is that due to onshore fuel subsidies,
demand remains high even when prices push higher.”  While policy makers have left the  benchmark rate  unchanged
since a cut in February 2011, the central bank has raised the
lower end of its interest-rate corridor, known as the deposit
facility rate. The rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits
was increased in August to 4 percent from 3.75 percent.  ‘Cautious Approach’  “We are aware Bank  Indonesia  tends to take a more cautious
approach and it is likely in the coming months that it will only
narrow the interest-rate corridor, while providing some U.S.
dollar liquidity via the swap and spot markets,” Mackel wrote.
“In our view, monetary tightening will have only a small impact
on the current-account deficit, and this would be better
addressed with fuel subsidy reform. As such, the path of Bank
Indonesia is unlikely to ease the pressures being faced by the
Indonesia rupiah”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Berni Moestafa at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net  