-- Bats Blaming Market Rules as Calls of Overhaul Grow
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-01-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bats-blaming-market-rules-for-mishaps-as-calls-of-overhaul-grow.html
Bats Global Markets Inc., the stock
exchange operator that acknowledged four years of trading
errors, blamed the mistakes on regulations it says are too
complex.  The rule violations at Bats, which canceled its initial
public offering last year after its own computer systems kept
the stock from trading, threaten to further erode confidence in
U.S. stock exchanges. Operators including  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  have
called for an overhaul of regulations that boosted high-speed
trading and the fragmentation of equity markets to 13 stock
exchanges and about 50 private broker-run dark pools from three
dominant venues in the 1990s.  “The challenge facing a lot of the exchange providers is
that the market structure in America has become far too
complex,”  Thomas Caldwell , who oversees about $1 billion as
chairman and chief executive officer of Toronto-based Caldwell
Securities Ltd., said in a phone interview. “It’s very easy in
the complex market structure for minor errors to occur and not
be detected because of the multiplicity of the exchanges that
the SEC has created.”  The order types that produced the error at Bats are used to
comply with regulations the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission implemented in 2007 to ensure all investors get the
best prices for equities, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Ratterman said in a phone interview yesterday. Simpler rules
would limit such technical mishaps, he said. The Lenexa, Kansas-
based company intends to reimburse clients for the $420,360 lost
because of its errors since 2008.  Rule Violations  The SEC is investigating the rule violations and government
officials are concerned about similar order types at other
 exchanges , according to a person familiar with the situation.
Still, Bats’s errors are probably specific to the company’s
trading processes, said the person who asked not to be named
because the matter is confidential.  “We routinely review these matters with the exchanges as
part of our oversight,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday. Ratterman declined to comment on a
potential regulatory response.  Exchanges shouldn’t rely on regulators to catch errors and
need to be more vigilant about checking and testing their
systems, said Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at  Santa Fe ,
New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc. The
mishaps at Bats raise concern about the possibility of other
software breakdowns in the industry, he said.  High Speeds  “The exchanges and these guys that are trading at really
high speeds, they need to make sure their systems are good
before they start,” Garcia said by telephone. His firm oversees
more than $80 billion. “It falls on the exchanges. The
regulators are there to help regulate and facilitate that sort
of thing. They can only look at so many trades.”  The errors don’t suggest the industry is incapable of
overseeing itself, Ratterman said. Among the approximately 250
members affected by the breakdown, five firms lost more than
$10,000 and 74 lost less than $100, Stacie Fleming, a
spokeswoman for Bats, wrote in an e-mail.  Inspection of operating systems is an ongoing practice,
said  Rich Adamonis , an NYSE Euronext spokesman. Jim Gorman, a
spokesman for  Jersey City , New Jersey-based exchange operator
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, declined to comment on the status of
its computer systems. Rob Madden, a spokesman for  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) , also declined to comment.  Regulatory Review  Executives at NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX, the owners of
the largest U.S. equity exchanges, called for a regulatory
review last year. Joseph Mecane, head of U.S. equities at NYSE
Euronext, said in September that the increase in venues,
advances in technology and the use of increasingly complex
orders warrant a coordinated assessment.  Eric Noll , executive
vice president and head of transaction services at Nasdaq OMX,
told a U.S. Senate subcommittee last month that more testing and
more coordination are needed.  Increased competition has improved technology and benefited
investors, Direct Edge Chief Executive Officer  William O’Brien 
said in June.  Bats’s error involved software written to handle the myriad
order types that exchanges provide to automated-trading clients.
The orders offer ways for them to optimize executions amid
split-second price changes and within the strictures imposed by
regulators. Among other responsibilities, venues must seek to
prevent trades at prices inferior to the best levels available
anywhere in the country.  Locked Market  Operators must prevent other violations, including a
phenomenon known as a locked market, when a bid on one venue is
the same price as the ask on another, rather than separated by a
spread. Normally, a stock will be available for sale at a level
a penny or more than the bid price. The maintenance of the gap,
codified in rules adopted in the last decade as venues
multiplied, has traditionally been viewed by regulators as a way
to facilitate orderly trading.  Bats offers its users order types with price-sliding
features designed to adjust to changes in the best national bid
and offer while preventing markets from locking. The trades that
shouldn’t have been permitted involved this type of order,
Ratterman said. The company has no plans to eliminate the
orders, which are often used by brokers and professionals to get
the executions they seek, he said.  “The price-sliding is predominantly a reaction to the
prohibition on locked markets,” Ratterman said. “It creates
complexity in everybody’s systems. We’ve been advocating for
some time we need an industry review of some elements” of
Regulation NMS that govern locked markets, he said.  Inferior Prices  The violations also occurred in situations that programmers
describe as a “race condition,” in which computers are
communicating with each other in real time while adjusting to
new information in the market. Computers that match orders for
two Bats equity exchanges and an options venue allowed some
trades to occur at prices inferior to the best available bid or
offer and enabled others to violate rules for  short sales , or
bearish bets, the company said.  “We will most likely see more of these types of errors
before investors’ disdain produces a government push to overhaul
the marketplace,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity trader at
Cabrera Capital Markets LLC in  Boston , wrote in an e-mail.
“Maybe the old methods and dealing with people wasn’t so bad
after all.”  Bats discovered the problem that involved almost 450,000
transactions on Jan. 4 through data inspections by its
operations department looking for anomalies in transactions and
how the exchange handles orders, Ratterman said. It informed the
SEC and member firms on Jan. 9, he said.  Bats’s Origins  Bats was founded by a high-frequency trader in 2005 after
the SEC approved rules that spurred competition with the then-
dominant  New York  Stock Exchange. The company, whose acronym
stands for Better Alternative Trading System, became an exchange
in 2008.  Venues run by Bats execute about 12 percent of American
share volume, compared with about 10 percent at the end 0f 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Customers of the all-electronic
exchange company range from retail brokers and securities firms
to professional traders and institutional investors.  “My concern would be not really with Bats’s own reputation
as a result of this, but the potential negative impact on the
electronic market overall,” Sang Lee, managing partner at Aite
Group LLC in Boston, said in an e-mail. “If one of the best
technically driven exchanges is having issues, what does that
say about the potential issues with the rest of the
marketplace?”  Rule Violations  NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange operator, agreed
to pay $5 million in September to resolve regulatory claims that
the Big Board violated rules by giving certain customers a head
start on trading information. The NYSE sent data through two
proprietary feeds to paying customers before relaying the
information to the so-called consolidated feed, which
distributes trade and quote data to the public, the SEC said.  Nasdaq Stock Market mishandled Facebook Inc.’s IPO on May
18 when an auction to set the first traded price for the shares
failed. The exchange’s systems were overwhelmed by order updates
and cancellations before the stock began trading, causing the
exchange to make technology changes that prevented confirmations
of orders and trades from being disseminated for hours, and
leading to confusion among investors, brokers and market makers.  Investor Confidence  Bats’s error follows market breakdowns that have weighed on
investor confidence. Trading for companies listed on U.S.  stock
exchanges  has declined to an average 6.2 billion shares a day
since the  Facebook IPO , 17 percent lower than the previous 12
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors pulled money
from mutual funds that invest in American stocks, with $377
billion in outflows since the May 2010 flash crash, according to
data from Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  “It highlights why people don’t trust the market,” Rick Fier, director of equity trading at Conifer Securities LLC in
New York, said in a phone interview. “Although it was not a
very large problem, meaning it didn’t effect that many trades as
a percentage, people at home will only hear that the market is
not working properly still, and that no one is doing anything to
correct it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  