-- Beijing Warns Residents to Stay Indoors as Air Turns Hazardous
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/beijing-warns-residents-to-stay-indoors-as-air-turns-hazardous.html
Beijing warned people to stay
indoors as air pollution in  China ’s capital hit its highest
level in at least a month.  Air quality measured at all Beijing’s monitoring sites
“reached serious pollution levels this morning” and people
should “avoid outdoor activities,” the Beijing Municipal
Environmental Monitoring Center said on its  official account  on
Sina Corp.’s Weibo microblog service. It was the city’s fifth
health warning since Jan. 1, when China adopted more stringent
monitoring standards in 74 cities.  The  U.S. Embassy  said on its Twitter feed that pollutants
reached  “hazardous”  levels and were at their worst since at
least Dec. 1. The U.S. monitors Beijing’s air quality from a
station atop the embassy building in east Beijing.  Before hosting the 2008 Olympics, Beijing imposed driving
limits, suspended work at construction sites and moved factories
out of the city to clean up the capital’s air. Beijing has
targeted transforming all its heating plants to burning natural
gas instead of coal by the end of 2015.  An  online map  published by the Beijing center showed all of
its city monitoring stations colored deep purple, the worst of
six air pollution levels. When pollution hits that level, “the
healthy population will have decreased tolerance for exercise”
and are at greater risk of falling sick.  The U.S. embassy’s sensor measures air pollutants and
assembles a 500-point  air quality  index. At 11 a.m, it reached
419, down from with 492 at 11 p.m. yesterday. The number passed
500, or “beyond index,” on Oct. 9 last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  