-- Berkadia CEO Says Bet on Property in Right-to-Work States
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-11T19:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/berkadia-ceo-says-bet-on-property-in-right-to-work-states.html
Hugh Frater, who leads a commercial
mortgage venture backed by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , said apartments in states that have passed right-to-work
laws may fare better than property in other regions.  Almost half of U.S. states, including  North Carolina  and
 Alabama  in the Southeast, have enacted the legislation, which
bans labor unions from collecting mandatory dues. A revival of
U.S. manufacturing may be stronger in areas that have the
restrictions, increasing demand for apartments, Frater said.  “I would tend to bet on right-to-work states in the
southeast as compared to the old industrial hub,” the chief
executive officer of Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC said in a
phone interview this week. “It’s not a political statement.”  Organized labor has clashed with legislators and groups
advocating for the laws in states such as  Michigan . Americans
For Prosperity, backed by billionaires Charles and  David Koch ,
say the restrictions give workers the option of withholding
support from unions they view as ineffective or politically
questionable. Labor groups say the measures lower wages and hurt
the ability to negotiate with management.  Frater cited Toyota Motor Corp.’s decision to make  North
America  a bigger source of vehicle exports as an indication of
the manufacturing rebound. The Japanese automaker has plants in
right-to-work states including Mississippi and  Indiana .  Apartment owners may also benefit in  North Dakota , which
has gained jobs from a boom in oil and natural gas exploration,
he said.  Of the ten metro markets with the largest declines in
apartment vacancy rates during the fourth quarter, nine were in
right-to-work states, according to data from Reis Inc., a New
York-based real-estate research firm.  Job Driven  Half of the ten states with the highest unemployment rates
had right-to-work laws, according to November data from the
Department of Labor.  “Demand for apartments is very job-driven,” said Jeff Langbaum, a senior real estate investment trust analyst for
Bloomberg Industries. It makes sense “if the thesis is ‘I want
to own apartments where you’re going to have above-average job
growth.’”  The risk in those markets is that, unlike cities such as
New York and  San Francisco , there are fewer barriers to new
construction, and rising rents can prompt competitors to add new
units to the market, he said.  Dan Fasulo , managing director of research firm Real Capital
Analytics Inc., said apartment prices have already been rising
faster in the U.S. South than in other regions as investors take
note of job growth. The value of apartment buildings climbed 17
percent last year in the Southwest, 7 percent in the Southeast
and 5 percent in the Midwest, according to data from his firm.  “The market is not ignorant to that thesis,” he said.  Down Payment  Many of the jobs being created last year were low-wage or
part-time, preventing workers from building up enough savings
for a down payment on a home, Reis said in a report this month.
The addition of jobs is enough to spur demand for apartments,
the company said.  Berkadia has been expanding its bet on the apartment market
and this week said that it agreed to buy closely held Hendricks
& Partners, a company that advises clients on the sale, purchase
and financing of multifamily real estate. The deal adds to
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Berkadia’s loan servicing, mortgage-
origination and proprietary lending operations.  Buffett and  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  formed Berkadia in
2009, betting that the U.S. real estate market would rebound.
Multifamily properties have been the strongest segment of
commercial property because demand is outstripping supply,
Frater said. Millions of people forced out of their houses by
foreclosure since the housing bubble burst have switched to
renting.  Mortgage Lenders  Rebounding home prices probably won’t damp demand for
apartments, Frater said. Mortgage lenders have tightened
standards in the wake of the largest housing crash since the
Great Depression, keeping some potential buyers in apartments.  “Some of those people shouldn’t have been in the ownership
market in the first place,” he said. The effect of a recovery
in single-family housing on the apartment market “will take a
while to play out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  