-- Berlusconi Denies Responsibility for Italy Crisis
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-11T00:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/berlusconi-denies-responsibility-for-italy-crisis-in-tv-showdown.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, the country’s longest-serving elected head of
government, refused to accept responsibility for the deepening
recession in a televised debate last night with a long-time
critic.  Berlusconi blamed Prime Minister Mario Monti and
politicians he said had communist sympathies in the two-and-a-
half hour interview. The host, Michele Santoro, periodically
interrupted to show reports highlighting Italians’ economic
desperation and a video of the ex-premier making a gaffe when
meeting German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Berlusconi, who
resigned in November 2011, was asked at the start of the
discussion to apologize for  Italy ’s crisis.  “I will not admit any responsibility,” Berlusconi said.  The appearance on TV station La 7 was part of a media blitz
the 76-year-old billionaire is seeking to use to regain public
support ahead of elections at the end of February. Santoro and a
team of journalists, with questions and a series of monologues,
accused Berlusconi of mishandling the economy, collaborating
with the Mafia and paying for sex. The media mogul, dressed in a
blue double-breasted suit, rejected the charges.  Berlusconi blamed his legal troubles, which include a tax
fraud conviction and a pending trial on charges of engaging a
minor in prostitution, on politically motivated judges and
prosecutors. He said left-leaning politicians with communist
mindsets are responsible for Italy’s economic woes and that he
never paid for sex.  “The envy of the left is in the communist ideology, and
that is the most inhuman and criminal ideology in the history of
man,” Berlusconi said.  Belly-to-Belly  The two sides drew applause and laughter from the studio
audience, reaching a crescendo more than two hours into the show
when Santoro interrupted Berlusconi and the two men began
shouting at each other. Berlusconi stood up with a smile to
shake hands, and when Santoro refused the gesture, the ex-
premier drew belly-to-belly with the journalist and gave him a
shove in the arm.  Berlusconi said he considered himself “a good and
righteous man.”  “Anyway the impression we have of ourselves isn’t
important,” Santoro said.  There has been bad blood between Berlusconi and Santoro
since at least 2002, when the journalist was ousted from state
broadcaster RAI by the then-premier. Santoro’s show was canceled
after Berlusconi accused him and two other presenters of making
criminal use of state television. He did not broadcast again for
four years and was elected with a center-left party to the
European Parliament. In the 1990s, Santoro worked for Berlusconi
at the billionaire’s Milan-based  Mediaset SpA. (MS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  