-- Berlusconi Economy Chief Says Italy Firms Vulnerable to Takeover
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-11T12:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/berlusconi-economy-chief-says-italy-firms-vulnerable-to-takeover.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s economic adviser said the  European debt crisis  has
left his country’s companies vulnerable to takeovers by foreign
rivals and urged the government to prepare defences.  “We wouldn’t want some predator with a AAA-rating to shop
at a discount price in our country while the spread holds us at
gunpoint,” ex-Innovation Minister Renato Brunetta said today in
a Bloomberg Television interview at his office in Berlusconi’s
Rome headquarters. “We won’t let it happen.”  Berlusconi is seeking a comeback and portraying himself as
the best candidate in next month’s general election to defend
Italian interests in the European Union. Brunetta said the
country is weakened by the premium Italian companies pay for
debt compared to rivals in  France  and Germany. EU rules allow
Italy to block takeovers of companies deemed strategic, he said.  “France, for example, knows how to defend its national
champions well,” said Brunetta. “The Netherlands knows how to
defend too, even Germany knows how to defend. I don’t see why
Italy shouldn’t do that too.”  Brunetta declined to comment on  Alitalia  SpA, the Italian
airline reported by newspaper Messaggero on Jan. 6 to be a
target of  Air France-KLM. (AF)  On Jan. 7, the French carrier said it
is not in talks to buy all or part of the shares in Alitalia it
doesn’t own. The Italian government owns 49.9 percent of
Alitalia, according to Bloomberg data.  Germany  and the Netherlands have the top AAA credit rating
at Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. France is AAA rated by Moody’s and Fitch and has a AA+,
the second-highest grade, at S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  