-- Bersani Aide Sees Monti Alliance If Democrats Fall Short
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-11T15:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bersani-aide-sees-monti-alliance-if-democrats-fall-short.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, the frontunner
in  Italy ’s election campaign, will probably turn to caretaker
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  for support should he fail to win a
Senate majority, said the candidate’s economic-policy spokesman.  “Given the coherence with the coalition led by Premier
Monti, I think the right way should be that of building an
alliance” with him, Stefano Fassina said in an interview in his
office in  Rome  today.  Italian bonds rallied on optimism a government led by a
former Communist would maintain the policies that have eased the
market mayhem that drove  Silvio Berlusconi  from office 14 months
ago. The  risk premium  on Italian 10-year debt compared to German
bunds fell to the lowest since July 2011.  Fassina’s remarks “show once again that the lack of a
strong majority will force parties to form some alliance,” said
Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King
Asset Management in  London . “All the parties are leaving doors
open to every possible solution.”  Opinion polls show that while the coalition led by Bersani
is headed for a majority in the lower house, it may fall short
in the Senate. That would force Bersani’s  Democratic Party  to
strike a deal with a partner after the Feb. 24-25 vote. Joining
Monti risks straining ties with Bersani’s main ally, Nichi Vendola, head of the Left Ecology Freedom party, who has called
for reversing some of Monti’s austerity policies.  Fassina said he’s confident there won’t be defections in
the coalition should Bersani align with Monti.  ‘Political Profile’  “We can talk to other political forces without losing the
center-left coalition’s cultural and political profile,” said
Fassina, 46, a former International Monetary Fund economist.  Bersani said in a Jan. 9 with SkyTG24 that his bloc was
open to the “moderates and pro-Europe” forces that oppose
Berlusconi and would seek Monti’s support after the vote.  Monti, who earlier this month branded Fassina and Vendola
as opposed to change and called on the Democratic Party “to
silence” extreme positions within its ranks, has until now said
it’s premature to talk about possible post-vote alliances.  Bersani’s coalition would get support of 34.9 percent
should a vote be held today, while the center-right bloc,
including Berlusconi’s People of Libery party, is now at 25.3
percent, according to a SWG poll released today. Monti’s
coalition, which is running with a single list of candidates at
the Senate, would get 13.8 percent, according to the same poll.  Tax Policies  If elected, a government led by Bersani would reduce the
tax burden for businesses and lower the maximum allowed cash
payment to 100 euros to fight  tax evasion , Fassina said.  While Italy is committed to respect European Union budget
rules, the Democratic Party would lobby to relax fiscal policy,
he added.  There are “no shortcuts” to reducing Italy’s 2 trillion
euros ($2.7 trillion) of public debt apart from keeping a
primary surplus and boosting growth, the Democratic Party’s
economic policy spokesman said. “It would be easier to tell
fairy tales, but this is the reality,” he said.  A Bersani-led government wouldn’t sell stakes in  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
 Enel SpA (ENEL)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  as “the benefit in terms of debt
reduction would be little, while the state would lose control of
valuable pieces of industry,” Fassina said, adding that the
Treasury’s target of assets sales worth 15 billion euros a year
is “unrealistic.”  Italy, which is mired in its fourth recession since 2001,
may have missed its target of a nominal shortfall of 2.6 percent
of gross domestic product last year, Fassina said. The nominal
deficit-GDP ratio for 2012 will “certainly result to be above”
3 percent, he said.  Italian daily MF reported today Italy may need as much as 7
billion euros of austerity measures in spring as  tax revenue  are
lower than expected, citing unnamed government officials. “A
budget adjustment at a time of extended recession would make the
recession worse and as a consequence would push the public
finance target further away,” Fassina said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  