-- Bersani Pairs Lobbyist With Ally Who Invokes Hell for Rich
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-11T17:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bersani-pairs-lobbyist-with-ally-who-invokes-hell-for-super-rich.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, the former
communist and frontrunner for the Italian premiership, is
expanding his constituency as he assembles a parliamentary list
that he hopes will win him next month’s election.  Bersani added Giampaolo Galli, a former director general of
business lobby Confindustria, and McKinsey & Co. executive Yoram
Gutgeld to his list. Bersani also reinforced his ties to
organized labor by tapping Guglielmo Epifani, ex-head of Italy’s
biggest union, CGIL.  The additions of Galli and Gutgeld may reassure investors
and conservative voters that Bersani would maintain budget rigor
and refrain from punitive taxes on the wealthy. One of his
allies, Puglia Governor Nichi Vendola, made headlines this week
answering a question about  Gerard Depardieu , the actor who got a
Russian passport to escape taxes in  France , by saying “the
super-rich should to go to the devil.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  “resembles the devil, so
Depardieu went in the right direction,” Vendola, whose support
helped Bersani overcome a primary challenge, said Jan. 7 on
state broadcaster RAI 1’s Unomattina program. “I think a very
elevated  tax rate  for the super-rich won’t change their
lifestyles.”  Bersani, 61, is seeking to turn his lead in opinion polls
into a reliable parliamentary majority. In a country where left-
leaning politicians are labeled communists by adversaries,
Bersani is seeking to demonstrate his credibility with markets
and avoid alienating his base.  Bersani’s Seat  Galli will run for a seat in the lower house of parliament,
the Chamber of Deputies, in Lombardy, where he is second on the
 Democratic Party ticket  to Bersani himself. Third is Barbara Pollastrini, a career politician. Gutgeld, a   specialist  in
retail and fashion as a director at McKinsey in Milan, is
seeking a Chamber seat from the central region of Abruzzo, where
he is fifth on the list.  “Bersani is trying to cover his right flank to some
extent,” said Peter Ceretti, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New
York . “Vendola is somebody who says hyperbolic things on a
regular basis. It’s election posturing. He has to play the role
of the left wing, or left flank.”  Gutgeld is on leave from McKinsey and will resign if
elected, said Yolande Daeninck, the company’s spokeswoman.
Gutgeld’s views during the campaign are his own, Daeninck said.  The  Democratic Party  has the support of about 34 percent of
voters and leads a coalition which, including Vendola’s Left,
Ecology and Liberty party, polls at 40 percent, according to a
Tecne survey published on Jan. 9. The next biggest coalition,
led by former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , had about 24
percent, according to the poll. Caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and his allies polled at 15 percent.  Bersani’s list was posted on the Democratic Party’s website
on Jan. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  