-- Best Buy U.S. Sales Halt Decline, Helping Schulze’s Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-01-11T21:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/best-buy-cuts-cash-flow-forecast-after-holiday-sales-fell.html
Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  sales stabilized in
the U.S. during the holiday season after three quarters of
declines, bolstering founder Richard Schulze’s bid to take over
the consumer-electronics retailer. The shares climbed.  Sales at domestic stores open at least 14 months were
unchanged in the nine weeks ended Jan. 5, the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company said today in a statement. Global
comparable sales fell 1.4 percent, less than the 2 percent
decline projected by analysts Mike Baker at Deutsche Bank AG and
Scott Tilghman of B. Riley & Co.  “The results make it more likely that Schulze can put a
deal on the table with domestic same-store sales stable,”  Erik
Gordon , a business and law professor at the  University of
Michigan , said today by telephone from  Ann Arbor . “It also
gives the board greater bargaining power now that they’ve got
the first glimmer of a turnaround. It was not the disaster that
people were fearing.”  Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly has cut prices and
matched online rivals’ prices to compete with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Best Buy rose 16 percent to $14.21 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since Dec. 16, 2008. The shares dropped
in four of the past five years, including a decline of 49
percent in 2012.  Cash Flow  The company cut its free cash flow forecast for fiscal 2013
because it bought and paid for inventory sooner than it
anticipated. Demand also increased for fast-selling products
such as mobile phones and tablet computers, which carried
shorter payment terms.  Free  cash flow , which Best Buy defines as cash from
operations minus additions to property and equipment, will be
about $500 million, down from a November projection of $850
million to $1.05 billion.  “It sounds like an accounting shift,” Gordon said.
“There’s also a chance that vendors just want to get paid more
quickly.”  Best Buy said in the statement that suppliers haven’t
altered their terms with the company.  “There have been no changes to vendor terms,” Matt
Furman, a company spokesman, said today by telephone.  It would be “hard to believe” that vendors are changing
payment terms on Best Buy, Scot Ciccarelli, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York, told clients in a note today.  “There is really no other place to go for the vendors to
achieve volume, except Amazon, Wal-Mart, etc., and we suspect
they would much prefer to sell through Best Buy,” said
Ciccarelli, who rates Best Buy the equivalent of hold.  Schulze Takeover  Schulze, the retailer’s former chairman, proposed offering
$24 to $26 a share for Best Buy in August and later that month
reached an agreement that let him conduct due diligence and
present a fully financed offer within 60 days.  Best Buy last month gave Schulze more time to study the
company and arrange financing to take it private. He can make an
offer between Feb. 1 and Feb. 28, allowing him to include full-
year results in his due diligence, the retailer said in a
statement Dec. 14. The board then has 30 days to review and
decide on an offer.  Schulze has been working with three private-equity firms,
including Cerberus Capital Management LP, on a takeover of the
electronics chain he founded more than four decades ago, people
familiar with the matter have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  