-- BlackRock Buys Riskier Developers as Yields Slump: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-01-11T05:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/blackrock-buys-riskier-developers-as-yields-slump-china-credit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, is buying more debt from lower-rated Chinese
property developers as a pick-up in the economy cuts junk-bond
yields to the lowest in almost eight years.  Speculative-grade notes sold by the nation’s companies pay
an average 7.63 percent, down 713 basis points over the past
year and the lowest since March 2005, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The country’s B rated issuers
offer 247 basis points more than their BB peers, the data show.
That exceeds the 147 basis-point spread between similar U.S.
 junk bonds , according to the indexes.  “The operating environment for property companies and
their ability to fund themselves has improved,” said Joel Kim,
head of Asia-Pacific fixed income in  Singapore  at BlackRock,
which managed $3.67 trillion as of Sept. 30. “We’re venturing
out a little bit more into single B rated companies within that
sector where we believe the fundamentals are good enough.”  Rising demand from global funds, encouraged by a seven-
month increase in new home prices in the world’s second-largest
economy, has helped developers in mainland  China  and Hong Kong
sell the most dollar bonds on record, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Unrated  CSI Properties Ltd. (497)  and Hopson Development
Holdings Ltd., graded B- by  Standard & Poor’s , both sold notes
this week.  Growing Appetite  More than $1 billion of cash flowed into emerging-market
bond funds in the week to Jan. 2, according to data provider
EPFR Global. Chinese and Hong Kong developers sold $2.8 billion
of bonds this week, making this month already the busiest-ever
for these borrowers, with $4.05 billion of sales. Country Garden
Holdings Co., the developer owned by  Yang Huiyan , China’s
richest woman, and Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. opened the dollar
market for Asian issuers in the new year.  Kaisa, which S&P rates four grades below investment at B+,
received almost $10 billion in orders for its $500 million sale,
a person familiar with the matter said.  Hopson’s notes were rated CCC+ by S&P, one notch below its
corporate rating due to concern that offshore noteholders would
be materially disadvantaged in the event of a default. The $300
million bond attracted $6 billion of demand from investors,
another person familiar with the matter said.  Market Expansion  “The reception is definitely an encouragement, especially
for smaller issuers,” Jacphanie Cheung, a director of corporate
credit research in  Hong Kong  at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a
phone interview on Jan. 9. “Investor interest in Chinese
property bonds remains strong because they offer relatively
better yields than other sectors.”  Offerings from Chinese developers this year may exceed the
record $10.2 billion of issuance in 2012, assuming debt maturing
in 2013 and 2014 is refinanced this year, she said.  Private banks and retail investors are becoming an
important group of buyers for Asian junk bonds, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Their allocations for high-yield primary
issues doubled to 30 percent between 2010 and 2012, Hong Kong-
based credit analysts at the lender including Soo Chong Lim
wrote in a Nov. 28 report.  ‘Early Stages’  Reallocation of funds from the U.S. and  Europe  into the
Asian credit market is “in the early stages,” according to a
 commentary  last week on the website of Pacific Investment
Management Co., which manages the world’s biggest bond fund.
Chinese corporate dollar debt performed better than notes sold
by the companies of any other Asian country in 2012, according
to Bloomberg-compiled data.  Economic growth in China may rebound to 8.1 percent in 2013
from an estimated 7.7 percent in 2012, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Exports last month rose the most since
May, the customs bureau said yesterday. Manufacturing expanded
at the fastest pace in 19 months, according to a statement from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Dec. 31.  New  home prices  climbed 0.23 percent last month from
November, a seventh-straight increase, and expectations for
further advances boosted sales, according to SouFun Holdings
Ltd. The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said
last month it would support demand for bigger homes, prompting
speculation that authorities won’t add to curbs including higher
down payments.  China’s benchmark 10-year government bond  yielded  3.6
percent as of yesterday, climbing from as low as 3.24 percent on
July 11, as the economy recovers. Top-rated corporate debt with
similar maturities  pays  5.28 percent, according to Chinabond
indexes. The  yuan  strengthened 0.13 percent to 6.2163 per dollar
as of 10:20 a.m. in  Shanghai  and touched 6.2155, the highest
level since the government unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  Remarkable Reception  The cost of insuring China’s debt against  non-payment  with
credit-default swaps has fallen 3.4 basis points this year to
62.9 basis points as of yesterday, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Investors offered to buy more than 24 times the amount of
notes that Country Garden sold last week, a person familiar with
the matter said. The yield on the 7.5 percent bonds due 2023
fell to 7.06 percent as of 9:18 a.m. today, according to prices
quoted by Credit Agricole SA.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd., whose billionaire chairman
was charged with indecent assault this week, is marketing
perpetual dollar notes, a person familiar with the matter said
today. Lai Sun Development Co. sold five-year securities, a
person with knowledge of the matter said, while Champion Real
Estate Investment Trust, whose investments include the Citibank
Plaza building and Langham Place in Hong Kong, priced 10-year
securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are putting new money to work and new issues
are the best way to stay invested,” said Raymond Chia, deputy
head of credit research for  Asia  fixed income in Singapore at
Schroder Investment Management, which oversees $7 billion of
fixed-income assets in Asia. “The reception to these new bond
issues has been remarkable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  