-- Boeing Offers Engineers’ Larger Raises in Contract Talks
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-01-11T21:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/boeing-offers-engineers-union-raises-in-revised-contract.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  offered its engineers
larger raises in a revised labor contract that attempts to
prevent a strike during record production increases for the
planemaker’s commercial airliners.  Under the new proposal, engineers would be eligible for
annual raises of 4 percent to 5 percent over the life of the
contract, with technical workers eligible for 4 percent and
lump-sum payments.  “We believe this offer is market-leading by every
definition,” Mike Delaney, vice president of engineering, said
on a conference call with reporters. “We want to get to an
agreement, but getting to a bad agreement isn’t good for the
company either.”  Keeping the engineers on the job is vital for Boeing, since
they work alongside machinists and are required to sign off on
assembly throughout a jet’s production. A strike would crimp
Boeing’s efforts to boost output 60 percent over the four years
through 2014, work through delays on the 787 Dreamliner and
develop new variants such as the 737 Max.  In November, the planemaker offered raises of between  3
percent  and  4.5 percent  a year over a four-year contract,
compared with the first offer of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent a
year. The last accord with the Society of Professional
Engineering Employees in Aerospace, or Speea, provided 5 percent
a year, and the union had asked to either extend that or lift it
to 7.5 percent this time.  Under the new proposal, engineers would receive an average
of $85,600 in additional pay and incentive compensation over the
four-year contract, while technical employees would get $62,100
more on average, Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman, said today.  Smaller Cuts  Speea negotiators, who haven’t seen the entire offer, said
its wage cuts were smaller than before, Bill Dugovich, a union
spokesman said in an e-mail. The union remained concerned that
Boeing still wanted to increase medical costs and eliminate a
pension for future hires.  “It was profoundly disappointing that Boeing corporate yet
again gave us mere pieces of an offer and refused to provide it
electronically” Ryan Rule, a member of Speea’s executive board,
said in the statement. “As members may recall, we found
numerous take-a ways in the last company offer which they hadn’t
bothered to flag as changes.”  The 23,000 engineers and technical workers represented by
Speea, largely in the Seattle area where Boeing’s commercial
headquarters are located, have been working without a contract
since Nov. 25. Talks resumed on Jan. 9.  Speea Strikes  Speea’s 15,000 engineers account for about 9 percent of
Boeing’s 175,000 employees worldwide and make an average of
$110,000 a year. The 8,000 technical workers covered by the same
contract earn an average $79,000.  Speea has only gone on strike at Boeing twice since it was
founded in 1946: for one day in 1993 and 40 days in 2000. The
Machinists, who have walked out a total of seven times since
1935, earn an average $56,000 a year.  Three years after a two-month strike by Machinists in 2008
delayed dozens of deliveries, Boeing reached a surprise
agreement with the group nine months before the expiration of an
existing contract.  Just one year later, amid contentious talks with Speea,
Boeing said negotiations had reached a “critical point” and
asked the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to help
resolve differences.  Delaney said Boeing has prepared for the possibility of a
strike.  “We have contingency plans for anything, and we have
contingency plans here,” he said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  