-- Boeing 787 Power System to be Focus of Special FAA Review
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-01-11T15:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/boeing-787-power-system-to-be-focus-of-special-faa-review.html
U.S. regulators said they will
perform a far-reaching review of the design, manufacturing and
assembly of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner after a fire on a  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201)  jet this week and several incidents last year.  “We are confident about the safety of this aircraft, but
we’re concerned about these incidents and will conduct a review
until we are completely satisfied,” Michael Huerta, head of the
 Federal Aviation Administration , said at a press conference
today in  Washington .  The review is in addition to a U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board probe of the Jan. 7 fire that the agency said
caused severe damage to the battery pack area of the 787 after
passengers disembarked in Boston following a flight from  Tokyo .
A couple of jets were grounded last month by a power fault which
Boeing said this week it had traced to flaws in power panels.  Regulators will place special emphasis on the electrical
systems, batteries and power distribution panels in the
Dreamliner and how the electrical and mechanical systems of the
airplane work together, Huerta said.  An agency review stops short of emergency actions such as
mandatory fixes or a fleet grounding that the Washington-based
FAA has imposed after some aviation accidents. The NTSB
classified the fire in  Boston  as an “incident,” not an
accident.  ‘No Reservations’  “I believe this plane is safe and I would have absolutely
no reservations of boarding one of these planes and taking a
flight,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said at the press
conference.  Boeing fell 2.5 percent to $75.13 at 10:38 a.m. in  New
York . The Chicago-based planemaker’s shares gained 2.8 percent
in the 12 months that ended yesterday.  This isn’t the first time that the FAA has reviewed a new
airplane model after its introduction, said Huerta, who didn’t
identify previous examples. The Dreamliner made its commercial
debut in late 2011, and there are now 50 in service, according
to the FAA.  “We have complete confidence in the 787 and so do our
customers,” Boeing Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner
said at the press conference.  The Dreamliner conserves fuel by using five times more
electricity than other similar jets and by saving weight with a
fuselage and wings made from composite materials, not aluminum.
Some existing FAA regulations didn’t cover the new technologies,
so the plane was certified with multiple “special conditions.”  New Routes  Boeing has marketed the twin-engine jet as a way to open
new routes between far-flung cities that don’t need the capacity
of larger wide-bodies such as the 777 and the 747 jumbo jet. The
FAA has approved the 787 for flights of as long as 180 minutes
away from landing strips, and Boeing said this week it’s in
final talks to extend that to 330 minutes.  The 787’s use of  lithium-ion batteries  sets it apart from
other models. Boeing got regulators’ permission to use the
batteries in the jet in 2007, three years after passenger planes
were barred from carrying non-rechargeable types as cargo
because of their flammability.  Only  lithium batteries  can provide a high-energy start and
be recharged quickly to meet the jet’s needs, Mike Sinnett, the
chief engineer for the Dreamliner, said this week. The battery
has “robust protection” against charging and discharging too
quickly, since both are dangerous, he said.  Oil Leak  All new jets have introductory pains the first year or two,
Sinnett said. The 787’s performance hasn’t been any worse than
that of the 777, which made its commercial debut in 1995 and is
one of Boeing’s most popular models, and has been better than
other wide-body jets, he said.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , first to start commercial
operations with the Dreamliner, is replacing a cockpit window on
a 787 that cracked during a flight between Tokyo and Matsuyama
in western  Japan , spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said today. An oil
leak was found when another 787 landed at Miyazaki in southern
Japan, she said. The plane returned to Tokyo after inspections.  The airline, the biggest operator of the Dreamliner, had
two previous cases of window cracks on the jet, Tezuka said.  India ’s government, owner of Air India Ltd., is concerned
about the problems reported elsewhere, an aviation ministry
official said today, asking not to be identified citing
government rules. The nation’s aviation regulator is awaiting
the U.S. reports on the aircraft.  Air India  received its sixth Dreamliner on Jan. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at   sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  