-- Bombs Kill 118 People in Pakistan as Sectarian Attacks Surge
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-11T10:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bombings-kill-114-people-in-pakistan-as-sectarian-attacks-spiral.html
Bomb blasts in Pakistan killed at
least 118 people yesterday, including a twin strike on the
country’s Shiite minority, in one of the worst series of attacks
in recent months as the country struggles to contain sectarian
and ethnic violence.  At least 96 people were killed and more than 100 injured in
three attacks in Quetta, the capital of southwestern  Baluchistan 
province, city police chief Mir Zubir said. “Militants are
looking for opportunities and unfortunately today they
succeeded,” he said in televised comments yesterday.  Of those killed in Quetta, 85 died in two nighttime blasts
10 minutes apart at a billiards club, attacks police said were
claimed by the  Lashkar-e-Jhangvi  Sunni militant group. The
Alamdar Road area where the attacks took place is heavily
populated with Shiites from the Afghan Hazara ethnic community.
Two journalists from a private television channel, Samma, and
six police officers were among the dead.  Attacks on Shiites are common in Pakistan, where the
community accounts for about 15 percent of the country’s 200
million people. This year, militants linked to  Pakistan ’s
Taliban movement have targeted Hazara Shiites, whom they
consider heretics. At least 400 Shiites died in attacks in 2012
in Pakistan, according to a statement yesterday from New York-
based Human Rights Watch. More than 120 were killed in
Baluchistan, most of them Hazara, it said.  Media Teams  “The Pakistani government’s persistent failure to protect
the minority Shia Muslim community in Pakistan from sectarian
attacks by Sunni militant groups, is reprehensible and amounts
to complicity in the barbaric slaughter of Pakistani citizens,”
the group said in yesterday’s statement.  Shiite religious processions and mosques have been attacked
in cities across the country, including a blast in Rawalpindi,
home to the nation’s military headquarters, that killed more
than 20 people in November.  Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, or the Army of Jhang, a city in Punjab
province, is an organization of Islam’s Sunni Deobandi sect and
has conducted scores of bombings and shootings against minority
Shiites in Pakistan. The U.S. State Department in 2003 listed it
as a terrorist group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda and was
involved with the 2002 kidnapping-murder of Wall Street Journal
correspondent Daniel Pearl in Pakistan.  Coordinated Strike  The first of the two blasts at the Quetta club yesterday
was a suicide attack, Muhammad Ramzan, staff officer to Deputy
Inspector General of Police Hamid Shakeel, said by phone. A more
powerful explosion ripped apart a car as media teams covered the
first incident and police and people helped victims from the
earlier detonation. Dozens of vehicles and shops were destroyed
by the bombs.  U.S. Ambassador to Islamabad Richard Olson condemned the
“senseless and inhumane acts” in a statement today. A bombing
earlier yesterday in Quetta, which no group has so far claimed,
killed 11 people.  The U.S. and  Afghanistan  have long alleged that the
remaining leadership of the Afghan Taliban, including its leader
Mullah Muhammad Omar, is based around Quetta, after fleeing
there following the U.S.-led invasion. Pakistan is also battling
an ethnic separatist insurgency in Baluchistan, an area rich in
natural resources.  Taliban fighters in the northwestern tribal region
bordering Afghanistan continue to strike security and civilian
targets, adding to a mounting series of security challenges
months ahead of a general election scheduled for mid-year.  Rising Toll  In the latest violence in the northwest, a bomb blast
killed 22 people attending a religious seminar in the Swat
valley yesterday, the English daily newspaper, The News,
reported, citing Akhtar Hayat, deputy inspector general of the
region.  Pakistan has faced a wave of suicide bombings and attacks
since it joined the so-called war on terror after the September,
2001, attacks in the U.S.  More than 3,000 soldiers have been killed and 9,681 wounded
in terrorist incidents since 2001, according to the official
website of the military’s media wing.  Most of the attacks have been in the country’s northwest
where troops are battling militants in the lawless tribal area
that borders Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  