-- Bovespa Index Posts Weekly Decline as Commodities Drop
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-11T20:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-on-china-concern.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index posted its biggest
weekly decline since November as a drop in commodities pushed
Brazilian producers lower after a report showed  China ’s
inflation accelerated more than forecast.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA, whose top export market is
China, was the biggest contributor to the gauge’s decline. The
MSCI  Brazil /Materials index fell the most among 10 industry
groups on concern China’s inflation will limit monetary easing
to support economic growth.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s biggest retailer, was the worst
performer on the Bovespa after reporting slower sales growth at
supermarkets open at least a year.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index slid 0.3 percent to
61,497.43 at close of trading in Sao Paulo, extending its drop
since Jan. 4 to 1.6 percent. Thirty-nine stocks fell today while
29 advanced. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 2.0339 per dollar.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials lost 0.4
percent.  “Faster inflation in China is negative because it means
less room for eventual stimulus measures that could strengthen
the economy,”  Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a phone interview. “It’s
pushing commodities lower, which has a big influence on the
Bovespa. Vale is falling because of China.”  China’s consumer price index rose 2.5 percent in December
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics reported
today. That compares with the 2.3 percent median  estimate  in a
survey by Bloomberg of 42 economists and a 2 percent gain in the
previous month.  Vale, Pao de Acucar  Vale lost 2.6 percent to 39.53 reais, the steepest drop
since Nov. 16.  Pao de Acucar sank 3.2 percent to 89 reais. Same-store
sales at supermarkets rose 5.6 percent in the three months
through December from the same period a year earlier, the Sao
Paulo-based company said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The
increase in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 8.7
percent.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker by output, advanced 0.4 percent to 12.09
reais. The producer is seeking to raise prices for its products
by as much as 7 percent, according to a person familiar with the
plan who asked not to be named because the increase hasn’t been
made public. A press official for Usiminas in  Belo Horizonte 
said yesterday that the company doesn’t comment on pricing.  While today’s session was affected by pessimism about
China, the outlook for stocks this year is positive, said
Alexandre Ghirghi, a portfolio manager at Metodo Investimentos
in Sao Paulo. Equities should gain as more local investors are
expected to seek higher returns after low  interest rates  made
fixed-income assets less attractive, he said.  Bull Market  “The Bovespa will surprise many people in a good way this
year,” Ghirghi said by phone. “People in Brazil were too used
to sky-high interest rates, but those days are over and won’t
come back. Little by little, people are realizing that the only
way to make more money in Brazil is by moving to the stock
market.”  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its gain
to 17 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index trades at 11.1 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 8.5 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a daily average of 7.25 billion reais in 2012, according to
data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  