-- BP Gulf Spill Judge Approves Medical Benefits Settlement
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-11T23:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/bp-gulf-spill-judge-approves-medical-benefits-settlement.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and the lead lawyers
representing victims of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill won
approval of the medical-benefits portion of a proposed $7.8
billion partial settlement of claims.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who is
overseeing litigation over the spill, today granted final
approval to the agreement, which provides compensation for
claimants’ possible physical injuries related to the spill or
the cleanup. He had granted preliminary approval of the accord
in May.  Without this settlement, “plaintiffs face significant
further expenses in time, money, and resources -- with no
assurance of recovery,” the judge wrote in his 91-page
decision.  Barbier previously approved the economic loss and property
damage portion of the settlement, which resolved most private
plaintiffs’ claims related to the explosion of the  Deepwater
Horizon  oil rig and subsequent spill. The settlement doesn’t
cover suits brought by the U.S. government and the states of
Alabama and  Louisiana  over the largest offshore oil spill in
U.S. history.  “We believe that this settlement and the economic loss and
property damage settlement, approved on December 21, 2012, are
good for the people, businesses and communities of the Gulf and
are in the best interests of BP’s stakeholders,” Geoff Morrell,
a spokesman for BP, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Stephen Herman and  James Roy , two of the lead lawyers
representing oil-spill claimants, said they were pleased with
the court’s ruling.  “Clean-up workers, coastal residents - and the Gulf Coast
region at-large will benefit greatly from the myriad programs
offered by the medical benefits settlement,” they said in an e-
mailed statement.  Rig Disaster  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and sent millions
of barrels of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident prompted
hundreds of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  The proposed partial settlement of private claims was
reached March 2, days before a trial on liability for the spill
was set to begin. While BP estimates the accord to be worth at
least $7.8 billion, it doesn’t have a cap on potential
settlement claims.  The medical benefits settlement resolves the claims of
clean-up workers and residents of certain Gulf Coast beachfront
and wetlands areas who contend they sustained personal injuries
related to exposure to oil spilled or to chemical dispersants
used during the clean-up efforts, according to court papers.  The agreement provides for medical monitoring of possible
effects from the exposure, as well as “preservation of class
members’ rights to sue BP for compensatory damages for physical
conditions that manifest at a later date,” the company said in
an Aug. 13 filing seeking approval of the pact.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  