-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Drop on China Growth Concern; Real Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-11T12:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/brazil-s-swap-rates-drop-on-china-growth-concern-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell for a third
day as economic growth concern in  China , the South American
nation’s biggest trading partner, bolstered bets that the
central bank will keep borrowing costs at record lows.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.71 percent at
10 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  and have fallen the same amount this week.
The real depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.0342 per dollar, leaving
it little changed since Jan. 4.  Traders speculated Brazil’s policy makers will leave the
benchmark Selic rate unchanged on Jan. 16 as concern China’s
economic recovery may falter overshadowed a report yesterday
showing Brazil’s consumer prices rose last month more than
forecast. China’s inflation accelerated in December, limiting
room for monetary easing to support the economic recovery.  “Economic data abroad is not good, and this is pushing
rate futures down,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “In Brazil, on one side economic activity is weak
and on the other inflation remains high, which should prompt the
central bank to keep the Selic stable.”  China’s consumer price index increased 2.5 percent in
December from a year earlier after a 2 percent gain in the prior
month, the National Bureau of Statistics reported today. The
median forecast of 42 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
2.3 percent advance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  