-- Brown With Surplus Proclaims California’s Crisis Is Over
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/brown-with-surplus-proclaims-california-s-crisis-is-over.html
Governor  Jerry Brown  declared an end
to California’s chronic fiscal crisis, projecting the first
surplus in a decade thanks to spending cuts and $6 billion in
new taxes approved by voters in the most populous U.S. state.  Brown’s budget predicts an $851 million surplus for the
fiscal year that begins July 1. The blueprint, including a $1
billion reserve, increases general-fund spending by 5 percent to
$97.6 billion. Schools will get an additional $2.7 billion.  The 74-year-old Democrat won office in 2010 on a pledge to
repair the crippled finances that plagued the world’s ninth-
biggest economy for the past 12 years with $213 billion in
combined deficits as political infighting prevented permanent
fixes.  “ California  today is poised to achieve something that has
eluded us for more than a decade -- a budget that lives within
its means, now and for many years to come,” Brown said
yesterday in a letter introducing his plan to lawmakers.  The general-fund budget, paying for most basic services,
would be the largest since 2008, when Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, and lawmakers spent $103 billion.
Brown is calling for total spending of $145.8 billion, including
special funds and bond proceeds, the most ever for California
and an 11 percent increase since his term began.  In addition to funding for public schools and community
colleges, universities will get an extra $250 million. Courts
will see their support cut by $200 million, while $350 million
is earmarked to pay for requirements under President  Barack
Obama ’s health-care law.  Growing Surplus  The governor estimates the state surplus will shrink to $47
million in 2015 before rising to as much as $994 million by
2017. When he took office, Brown faced a $25 billion deficit
with projected shortfalls of more than $18 billion a year
through 2015.  That changed when Californians in November granted Brown
the highest statewide  sales tax  in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and
boosted levies on income starting at $250,000 -- reaching 13.3
percent on those making $1 million or more, the most of any
state.  Under his plan, by 2017 the state would repay all but $4.3
billion of $35 billion of internal borrowing through transfers
between state accounts, which he calls the “wall of debt,”
accumulated in the last decade to fill previous shortfalls
absent permanent fixes.  ‘Fiscal Mess’  “I’m determined to avoid the fiscal mess that the last few
governors had to deal with,” Brown said. “The way you avoid it
is by holding the line, by exercising a common sense approach to
how we spend our money.”  Brown has $500 million extra to spend from a successful
voter initiative pushed by hedge-fund executive Thomas Steyer
that stripped out-of-state corporations of an option for
lowering their state income taxes. It’s projected to raise about
$1 billion annually, with half set aside for the state’s general
fund and half for energy-efficiency programs.  Brown warned that the surplus could be at risk from federal
deficit actions, a delay in the economic recovery or increasing
health-care costs.  Brown’s budget estimate differs from those made in November
by the state’s independent Legislative Analyst’s Office, which
projected a $1.9 billion deficit in the coming fiscal year even
with the new taxes, and a surplus by 2015.  The governor’s plan assumes the state will receive more
revenue from the elimination of redevelopment agencies than the
analyst’s office projected. Brown also estimated that he doesn’t
need to repay some internal borrowing from special funds in the
coming fiscal year that the analyst’s office had assumed would
be required.  Math ‘Off’  Republicans, with too few votes to block or amend
legislation backed by Democrats, were skeptical of Brown’s
numbers.  “Their math has always been off,” said Senate Republican
Minority Leader Bob Huff. “This is a little overly optimistic
on the part of the governor’s office. I believe the deficit will
re-emerge. The governor may have declared it over, but until we
get people back to work and we can sustain that, we are still
going to see  deficits .”  A surplus might have broad implications for the state’s
lagging credit rating, and thus its cost of borrowing.  Standard & Poor’s , which last upgraded California in 2006,
revised its outlook to positive in February. The rating company
said it would boost the level within two years if Brown resolved
the budget gaps. S&P grades the state A-, six steps below AAA
and the lowest in the U.S.  The  extra yield  investors demand for owning California
state and local bonds was 75 basis points yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference had declined to 53
basis points in November, the lowest in four years.  Credit Improving  “The market has recognized that the credit quality of
California has been improving,” Michael E. Johnson, managing
partner at Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC in Solana Beach,
California, which manages $4 billion in municipal debt, said
yesterday in a telephone call. “Seeing headlines like this may
make investors more willing to buy California paper, which may
compress the spreads a bit.”  The state’s finances were helped by a decision California
lawmakers made in 2009 to eliminate automatic inflation
adjustments that were built into most state programs.  With the  budget crisis  behind him, Brown said he wants to
overhaul education funding by changing formulas used to
calculate how much each school gets. The governor said his goal
is to see that low-income districts receive more, to improve the
education of impoverished students learning English.  School Mandates  Brown’s proposal would grant districts greater control over
how money is spent by eliminating many mandates, such as one
that requires schools to reduce class sizes.  He will revise his proposed budget for fiscal 2014 in May
with the latest revenue and spending estimates. Lawmakers have
until June 15 to pass a spending plan, or lose their pay until
they do.  The budget can be approved on a simple majority vote,
thanks to a 2010 initiative that lowered the requirement from
two-thirds. Any attempt to raise taxes needs approval by a
supermajority, a power Democrats will enjoy for parts of this
calendar year.  “We’ve been through the hardest of hard times,” said
Senator Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento .
“Governor Brown is right when he says fiscal discipline is not
the enemy of democratic governance. But I would add a little
addendum to that, which is that fiscal discipline is not the
enemy of governance by California Democrats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  