-- Cameron Saving Face at $11 Billion Linker Cost: Credit Markets
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-11T16:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/cameron-saving-face-at-11-billion-linker-cost-credit-markets.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
finding bond-market credibility doesn’t come cheaply.  The nation’s statistics agency decided yesterday to leave a
formula for calculating the  inflation rate  known as the retail
 price index  unchanged, meaning the government will have to pay
as much as 7 billion pounds ($11.3 billion) more a year to
investors by 2016-17, according to  Capital Economics  Ltd.  Investors from Pacific Investment Management Co. to Baring
Asset Management had said they were holding back on purchasing
inflation-protected gilts because of the proposals, which risked
undermining Britain’s credibility as a debt issuer and helped to
make 2012 the worst year for the bonds since 2001. Yields
tumbled to record lows yesterday after the decision.  “There was a risk that the U.K. would start to lose its
safe-haven status because you had a number of messages all
questioning how sacrosanct the U.K. bond market was,” said
Michael Amey, a London-based  money manager  at Pimco, which runs
the world’s biggest bond fund. “By leaving the RPI calculation
unchanged I think they’ve made a step towards reinforcing the
U.K.’s low-yield status.”  The 220 billion-pound market for inflation-protected gilts
surged, with the 10-year  yield  falling 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, to minus 0.96 percent, and touching an all-
time low of minus 0.99 percent.  Rally Extension  The rally extended to corporate bonds, with the price of
Network Rail’s 3.425 billion pounds of 1.125 percent inflation-
linked debt due 2047 jumping 7.29 to 124.48, a six-month high.  “A material change would have put pressure on U.K. assets
so with that cloud lifted I think it is moderately helpful,”
Pimco’s Amey said.  Britain’s Cameron, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , have sought credibility in the bond markets as  Europe ’s
debt crisis pushed  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
international aid and sent yields on Spanish and Italian
securities to euro-era highs.  The prime minister said as recently as Jan. 6 on  BBC
Television  that it was important to convince international
investors to keep buying gilts, after his government implemented
spending cuts to control the deficit in the deepest austerity
drive since World War II.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. climbed. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of
86.9 basis points as of 11:35 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark has climbed from
84.9 on Jan. 7, the least since Sept. 14.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.18 basis point to 13.87 basis
points as of 11:35 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are the most active dollar-
denominated corporate securities today, accounting for 6.8
percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as
of 11:36 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Price Changes  Yesterday’s gains in Britain’s so-called linkers mark a
turnaround after Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.K. Inflation-
Linked Gilt Index tumbled 3 percent this year through Jan. 9 on
concern the government would change the way it calculates the
retail price index in order to address a  gap  with its  consumer
price index . The Merrill Lynch gauge rose 0.8 percent in 2012.  The widening difference between RPI and the consumer-price
index is due to differences in the mathematical formulae used to
calculate price changes. This disparity, known as the formula
effect, was stable at about 0.5 percentage point until early
2010, CPAC said in its 2012 annual report. The gap widened to 1
percentage point after the ONS in February 2010 changed the way
it calculates clothing prices in the RPI.  ‘Significant Value’  The retail price index has “significant value” for
investors, National Statistician Jil Matheson said yesterday.
The government plans to continue selling new inflation-linked
gilts tied to the gauge following the decision, Treasury
minister Sajid Javid said.  “What is very noticeable is the opprobrium that fund
managers heaped on the whole process,”  Marc Ostwald , a rates
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London  said, in an e-
mailed note. “Osborne now needs to find somewhere else to
scrimp and save.”  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, or the difference in
yield between conventional gilts and inflation-protected
securities, had its biggest gain since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1992, widening 41 basis points to 306
basis points.  The decision taken by the  Office for National Statistics  on
the inflation measure may help the U.K. to maintain its Aaa
rating, according to Scott Phillips, an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service.  Outlook Changes  “While the ONS’s decision not to implement any of its
proposed changes is surprising, Moody’s views the development as
positive for the sector and reinforces its assessment of the
stability and predictability of the U.K. regulatory framework,
which includes the political environment in which companies
operate,” he said in a report yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook on Britain’s top
credit grade last month to “negative,” citing weak economic
growth and a worsening debt profile.  Rating cuts don’t always signal that bond prices will fall.
French  10-year yields  have dropped more than 100 basis points,
or 1 percentage point, in the past year despite the country
losing its top rating with S&P and Moody’s.  About half the time, government bond yields move in the
opposite direction suggested by new ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades, downgrades and
outlook changes going back to 1974.  Convincing investors to buy U.K. government debt is
ultimately more important than whether ratings companies
downgrade gilts, Cameron said on BBC Television’s “Andrew Marr
Show” on Jan. 6. “Britain needs low  interest rates .”  International investors added to holdings of gilts for a
10th-straight year in 2012, according to monthly data on the
Bank of England’s website.  “At least the Chancellor will avoid the risk of tarnishing
his credibility through another ‘fudge’ of the figures,”  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics in London, wrote in
an investor report. Still, without the savings that could have
been made by changing the RPI formula, “the government is
certainly the biggest loser from the decision,” she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  