-- Canada Stocks Erase Losses as RIM Rallies on BlackBerry Optimism
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-01-11T22:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/canadian-stocks-fall-from-10-month-high-as-trade-deficit-widens.html
Canadian  stocks  erased early losses
as  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  rallied the most in seven weeks amid
rising confidence for its BlackBerry 10 smartphones.  RIM surged 13 percent as it sent invitations to analysts
today for the formal unveiling of its new line of phones on Jan.
30. Teck Resources Ltd. declined 2.1 percent as China’s
inflation spiked.  TransGlobe Energy Corp. (TGL)  slumped 6.4 percent
after saying it will abandon a well in South Mariut,  Egypt .  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 2.44 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,602.18 in Toronto, erasing
earlier losses of as much as 0.4 percent. The index gained 0.5
percent for the week and reached the highest level since March
2. It , This is the highest close since Mar. 2. The S&P/TSX has
risen 2.6 percent during the past year, ranking the index the
worst performer among the 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  Canadian stocks will catch up this year as growth improves
from  China  to the U.S., according to Paul Vaillancourt, who
helps manage C$63 billion at Fiera Capital.  “We’re quite optimistic,” Vaillancourt, senior vice
president and managing director for Western  Canada  at Fiera in
Calgary, said in a phone interview. The “Canadian market is so
much leveraged to global growth. With any sort of uncertainty
subsiding and investors deciding to get back to equity markets
and risk assets, that would obviously benefit Canada even
more.”  Stocks fell through much of the day after China’s inflation
accelerated more than forecast to a seven-month high as the
nation’s coldest winter in 28 years pushed up vegetable prices,
a pickup that may limit room for easing to support an economic
recovery.  Teck, Suncor  Teck Resources, Canada’s largest diversified mining
company, dropped 2.1 percent to C$36.95. Suncor Energy Inc., the
country’s largest energy producer, slipped 0.2 percent to
C$33.52.  Canada recorded a C$1.96 billion trade deficit in November,
up from a revised C$552 million gap in October, Statistics
Canada said today in Ottawa. The shortfall was the fourth-
highest trade deficit on record and wider than all 21 forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “So much of the Canadian stock market is materials and
energy related, which is really dependent on the exports to
 emerging markets ,” Greg Taylor, fund manager with Aurion
Capital Management in Toronto, said in a phone interview. The
firm manages about C$8 billion. The higher inflation in China
“meant there is less chance they would keep more stimulus
activity going. If they were to stop, that would potentially
slow down some of the demand.”  RIM Surges  RIM surged 13 percent to C$13.31, the biggest gain in
Toronto since Nov. 22. The stock rose the most since April 2009
in New York trading. Invitations for the BlackBerry 10 lineup’s
unveiling are a sign the oft-delayed device is real and going to
be released on time, said Anil Doradla, an analyst at William
Blair & Co. in  Chicago .  RIM had fallen as much as 2.6 percent earlier, after
Vodafone Group Plc said BlackBerry customers in  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa  experienced connection problems this
morning. The mobile phone carrier said the problem was caused by
a router error and services were being restored.  Tim Long, analyst with BMO Capital Markets, also cut the
stock to underperform from market perform while trimming the
price target to $9 from $12.  First Quantum  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  climbed 1.6 percent to C$21.39.
The copper producer said it’s confident other investors will
follow the lead of Inmet Mining Corp.’s biggest shareholder and
back its C$5.1 billion ($5.2 billion) hostile bid.  TransGlobe tumbled 6.4 percent to C$8.85, the  most  in the
S&P/TSX, after reporting a dry hole at the first of three
planned exploration wells at its South Mariut project. The Al
Azayem No. 1 well will be plugged and abandoned after TransGlobe
found no hydrocarbons in what was expected to be the primary
reservoir, the company said today in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  