-- Canadian Heavy Oil Weakens to Four-Week Low on Enbridge Limits
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-01-11T17:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/canadian-heavy-oil-weakens-to-four-week-low-on-enbridge-limits.html
Western  Canada  Select heavy oil
weakened to a four-week low in the wake of cuts to the flow
rates on the largest pipeline system exporting crude to the U.S.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said yesterday it apportioned by 10 percent
Lines 4 and 67, which take heavy oil from  Alberta  to Superior,
 Wisconsin , after power outages and electrical equipment issues.
Combined, the lines can move as much as 1.25 million barrels of
heavy crude a day when they operate at full capacity.  Western Canada Select, an oil-sands bitumen blend, declined
by $4 to a $41-a-barrel discount to U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate oil at 11:29 a.m.  New York  time, according data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was the weakest price since a record
discount of $42.50 was reached on Dec. 14.  Pipelines out of Alberta have been filled to capacity in
recent months as Canada’s oil production has outgrown its
transportation infrastructure. Canada exported 2.3 million
barrels of oil a day during the third quarter of 2012, up 4.5
percent from the same period a year earlier, according to the
 National Energy Board .  Longer-dated spot contracts to deliver WCS also weakened,
indicating traders expected pipeline congestion to continue to
be a problem for Canadian oil in the coming months. WCS for
delivery in the second quarter fell by $1 to a $33.50 discount,
according to Net Energy Inc., an oil broker in Calgary.  Extra production from a new heavy oil project,  Imperial Oil
Ltd. (IMO) ’s 110,000-barrel-a-day Kearl mine in Alberta, is expected
to begin production early this year, adding to supply that will
have to travel through limited pipeline space.  Syncrude slipped $1.25 to a 75-cent discount to WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  